24 September 2020||New Delhi,||CAG: Rafale vendors yet to confirm tech transfer||French aerospace major Dassault Aviation and European missile maker MBDA have till date “not confirmed” the transfer of technology for the indigenous development of engine for the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), under the offset contract relating to the Rs. 60,000 crore deal for 36 Rafale fighter jets, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said in a report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday.  The report on offset clauses in defence deals observed that in October 2019, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) informed that the vendor had not yet been able to confirm their capability for doing the requisite upgradation. “Thus, it is not clear if this technology transfer will take place, and there is need for MoD/DRDO to identify and acquire the right technologies in order to comply with the directions of Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) given in September 2016,” the report said on the offsets in the Rafale deal. In September 2015, Dassault Aviation and MBDA initially proposed to discharge 30% of their offset obligation in the Rafale deal by offering high technology to the DRDO, and as per the contract, acquisition of technology by the DRDO is envisaged, subject to discussions between the vendor and the DRDO, the report said. Six new technologies In April 2016, the DRDO identified six new technologies to be obtained from the firms under the offset obligations, but the vendors “did not agree on transfer of five technologies as most of them were not within the vendor’s core competence”. The sixth proposal of the DRDO was to obtain technical assistance for the indigenous development of an engine (Kaveri) for the LCA, which also has not been confirmed so far. “In many cases, it was found that the foreign vendors made various offset commitments to qualify for the main supply contract but later were not earnest about fulfilling these commitments,” the CAG observed, giving the Rafale deal as an example.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC grants relief to Facebook official||The Delhi Legislative Assembly clarified in the Supreme Court on Wednesday that “no coercive steps” were intended against Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director of Facebook India Online Services Private Limited, when he was summoned to appear before it as a “witness” in connection with “allegations” linked to the Delhi riots. “The person was only called as a witness. No coercion was intended. We wanted to get some safeguard suggestions from Facebook. We wanted to find out how Facebook was misused and did not say Facebook misused,” senior advocate Abhishek Singhvi, for the Assembly, submitted in court. Justice S.K. Kaul, heading a three-judge Bench, pointed out that there is a disparity in what Mr. Singhvi is submitting in court about the nature of the summons and what is actually said in them. Issuing notice, the court asked Mr. Singhvi to file its counter, putting the clarifications on record. The clarification came in a petition filed jointly by Mr. Mohan and Facebook against the summons issued by the Committee of Peace and Harmony of the Assembly. Mr. Mohan was summoned to appear before the Committee on September 23. Mr. Singhvi told the court that the Committee had deferred the meeting. The court asked the Assembly to not fix any further meeting with the Facebook official for now as it is seized of the case. It scheduled the next hearing for October 15. In their petition, Mr. Mohan and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi respectively, accused the Assembly of threatening him with “breach of privilege” if he did not appear before the Committee and testify. They said the Committee had no authority to compel him to testify.
24 September 2020||KOCHI,||Residents want populated areas out of GIFT City site||Residents of Ayampuzha panchayat in Ernakulam district, where the government plans to acquire more than 200 acres for the proposed Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City, have demanded that residential areas be exempted from the proposed land acquisition, and transparency be ensured in the procedures. The panchayat should be taken into confidence, and details of the project proposals should be released to the public, said Roji John, MLA, on Wednesday. He added that the government appeared not to have provided sufficient information on the project either to the panchayat or people’s representatives. It looks like a “mystery”, he said, pointing out that people were quite confused about what the government wanted to do. “The lack of transparency is a big problem,” said Bijoy Cherian of Janakeeya Munnetta Samiti, an organisation floated to resist any attempt to acquire land in the panchayat against people’s will. The samiti has launched a public protest, besides setting up a venue to draw people to the protest action. He added that the government should release details of the project and take people’s views to prevent rumours from flying around. There are a lot of apprehensions about the project despite an assurance given by the District Collector early this week, he added. A senior member of the panchayat council, who did not want to be named, said there was a lot of misinformation being spread. They include a campaign against the project, claiming that it would hurt the environment. A panchayat member said over 250 families would be evicted, according to the plan. Eviction of people should be avoided as was evident from the bitter experience at Moolampilly, the member said. The highlight of the argument is that the people of Moolampilly had not been treated well by the government when their land and residences were taken over for the Vallarpadam container transshipment project. The district administration had clarified that the proposed GIFT City project would adhere to the standards of eco-friendly development based on the criteria fixed by the Indian Green Building Council. The Collector had said that the apprehensions of Ayyampuzha residents were unfounded, and that there was no plan to set up factories or units that pollute the environment. “The entire project will be eco-friendly,” he had said.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Farmers’ groups call for State bandh on September 28||A coalition of farmers groups, labour and Dalit organisations have called for a Karnataka bandh on September 28 to mark their opposition to the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The coalition has also called for a “mass protest and jail bharo ” on September 25 at Mysore Bank Circle in Bengaluru and other parts of the State. G.C. Bayya Reddy, State convener, All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKCC), said that over 30 farmer, labour and Dalit organisations will protest. “Our protest on Friday is a warning to the State government. If they do not take back the amendments, we will go ahead with the bandh. Our fight is also against the undemocratic ways these amendments and Bills have been introduced,” he said. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Karnataka Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Sangh, said that they will block roads even on Friday to support a national protest against two “anti-farmer” Bills. “We will block roads at the taluk and the district-levels and we will embark upon on jail bharo movement on Friday,” he said.  The bandh on September 28 is unlikely to hit life in the State, though various organisations have voiced their “moral support”. P.C. Rao, president of the Bangalore Hotels’ Association, said that hotels in the city and across the State will be functional. “Since the hotel industry is under financial stress, we cannot afford to be shut even for a day,” he said. Uday Shankar, secretary of Bangalore Onion and Potato Traders’ Association, said that even they would morally support the bandh. “Since we have perishable items, we cannot completely shut down trading. Hence, we are planning to symbolically protest against the new amendments,” he added.
24 September 2020||Vijayawada,||Jagan requests Amit Shah to release local body grants, GST compensation||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy submitted a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Wednesday seeking the release of local body grants of nearly Rs. 2,254 crore pending due to the postponement of elections to ensure uninterrupted delivery of essential services to the citizens, especially in view of the additional support required by the local bodies to battle the COVID-19 pandemic. Another appeal he made to Mr. Shah was to release GST compensation of Rs. 3,623 crore for 2017-18 and 2019-20. He said the GST compensation for the first quarter of 2020-21 amounting to Rs. 3,353 crore was also due to the State. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested the Home Minister to expedite the reimbursement of Rs. 4,007 crore out of a total expenditure of Rs. 12,016.07 crore incurred on the Polavaram project, and to get the funds released by NABARD through a direct line of credit. Further, the Chief Minister wanted the Centre to release Rs. 700 crore that was due towards development assistance to backward districts, and to consider the release of Rs. 18,831 crore approved by the Comptroller and Auditor General as revenue deficit grant for 2014-15. Further, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested Mr. Shah to give to the State Rs. 1,600 crore towards subsidy on PDS rice, Rs. 1,000 crore as capital city development grant of Rs. 2,500 crore announced, Rs. 3,741 crore under MGNREGS material and administrative component and Rs. 203 crore for land resurvey and modernisation of land records . Capital issue He reportedly apprised Mr. Shah of the passing of the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and the CRDA Repeal Bill, and the resolution adopted for the abolition of the Legislative Council, which was pending approval by the Centre.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon session ends in a flurry of protests||Opposition parties held three rounds of protests in Parliament on the last day of the monsoon session, and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad met President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him not to give his assent to the three farm Bills passed by both the Houses. At noon, in a silent protest, over 75 Rajya Sabha MPs belonging to the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party and Nationalist Congress Party marched from the Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar statue within the Parliament complex. A few hours later, another group of lawmakers from the TRS and Trinamool held a short dharna . In the evening, a set of Opposition MPs from the Lok Sabha took out a march. On Wednesday, Parliament passed three Bills — the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020; and the Social Security Code, 2020 — while the Opposition continued its boycott that started on Tuesday over the passage of the three agriculture Bills.  Last-ditch attempt Opposition parties made a last-ditch attempt, writing a joint letter to the Vice-President and Chairman of the Rajya Sabha M. Venkaiah Naidu. Naming the three labour Bills, the parties said the Bills were passed in the absence of the Opposition parties. “It will be a great blot on our democracy to have these Bills passed unilaterally today,” they said. Opposition parties also had two rounds of meetings to chalk out a strategy to continue the campaign against the three farms Bills aimed at liberalising the agriculture sector. According to sources, the Opposition parties are exploring the possibility of holding an all-party meeting in the next few days. The parties also decided that each of them, at their levels, would hold campaigns in their respective States.
24 September 2020||Bhopal,||Admission on farm loan waiver in House ‘incorrect’: M.P. Minister||Madhya Pradesh Urban Development and Housing Minister Bhupendra Singh on Wednesday said “incorrect” information was provided by Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel before the Vidhan Sabha about farm loan waivers during the 15-month Congress regime in the State. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Singh said: “Wrong information has been sent to the Vidhan Sabha. It will be inquired into and corrected.” Mr. Patel, during a single-day Assembly session on Monday, had made a written admission in reply to questions by former Congress Ministers Jaivardhan Singh and Bala Bachchan, stating that farm loans of nearly 27 lakh farmers had been waived since December 2018, effectively during the Congress government. The reply had embarrassed the BJP, which had often assailed the Congress claiming it had reneged on its election promise of waiving farm loans within 10 days of coming to power. In his replies the Agriculture Minister had stated that under the ‘Jai Kisan Crop Loan Waiver Scheme’, Rs. 7,10,896 lakh (Rs. 7,108.96 crore) for 20,23,136 cases had been approved in the first phase before December 17 last year, while Rs. 4,53,802 lakh (Rs. 4538.02 crore) had been approved for 6,72,245 cases in the second phase. ‘Truth has prevailed’ Reacting to Mr. Patel’s admission in the Assembly, State Congress working president Jitu Patwari said, “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has several times stated that the BJP toppled our government as we did not waive loans... Despite our clarifications with proof, their lies and hypocrisy didn’t stop. Now, the truth has prevailed, while the lies have been exposed.” Congress MP and former party president Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Congress - it fulfilled what it promised. BJP - only false promises.” Earlier, several BJP leaders, including Jyotiraditya Scindia, had flagged the reported non-fulfilment of loan waivers, while Mr. Patel had described it as a “fraud”. Calling upon both Mr. Chouhan and Mr. Scindia to apologise to the public as they had “betrayed farmers”, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath said Mr. Patel’s admission affirmed his avowal of keeping the election promise. “After this admission, the government should immediately begin waiving loans of the remaining farmers,” he said.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State registers new daily high of 5,376 cases||The COVID-19 case graph of Kerala surged when the State registered 5,376 new cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case burden to 1,48,132 cases. This is a new high with less than a week having passed after the State crossed 4,000 cases a day mark. The number of tests in a day also hit a new high, with 51,200 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries reported on the day is 2,951. With 1,04,682 recoveries till date, the number of active cases in the State at present has gone up to 42,786. The number of critically ill patients in ICUs in various hospitals has risen to 362, with 95 patients requiring ventilator support. With another 20 deaths, which occurred in the State between August 22 and September 19, entering the official list of COVID deaths, the cumulative toll stands at 592. Twelve of these deaths were reported from Kozhikode, three each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, and two deaths from Malappuram. A total of 5,192 cases, out of the 5,376 new cases – 96 % – are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 640 cases. These include infections reported in 99 health workers. Disease transmission is becoming intense across all districts, with Thiruvananthapuram reporting the highest number of cases at 852, of which all except five cases are a result of local transmission. Five more districts reported over 500 cases on Wednesday. Ernakulam has 624 cases, Malappuram 512, Kozhikode 504, Kollam 503 and Alappuzha 501, Thrissur 478, Kannur 365, Palakkad 278, Kottayam 262, Pathanamthitta 223, Kasaragod 136, Idukki 79, and Wayanad 59 cases. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 641.
24 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Cong. leaders detained at Panipat||Several Congress leaders, including party legislators from Haryana, were detained at Panipat on Wednesday after a clash with the police during a tractor rally heading towards Delhi against the farm Bills. The Panipat police used water cannons to disperse the protesters when they tried to break the barricades and move ahead. Several trade unions also took out a march in protest against the farm and labour Bills at Gurugram and submitted a memorandum to the local administration to be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. All-India Congress Committee joint secretary and national in-charge of Indian Youth Congress Krishna Allavaru and IYC national president B.V. Srinivas were among those detained, besides Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhoker and Israna MLA Balbir Singh. Mr. Chhoker told the The Hindu over phone that the protest rally was peaceful but the police tried to stop them near Samalkha around 2 p.m. and used water cannons and mild lathicharge to disperse them. He claimed hundreds of tractors were part of the rally organised by the IYC. Samalkha police station SHO Inspector Harvinder Singh said around 30 people were detained and later let-off. He denied allegations of baton charge and said that only water cannon was used. Leading the protest of the trade unions in the Millennium City, Centre of Indian Trade Unions Haryana vice-president Satvir Singh said they held demonstrations against the farm Bills across the State. He said the trade unions will also extend support to the nationwide bandh on September 25.
24 September 2020||Kolkata,||A Kolkata streetcar for book lovers||The Kolkata tram may be a pale shadow of its glorious days, but it is still an iconic image of the city. College Street happens to be the prestigious address of some of the oldest educational institutions in the country, and also boasts rows of bookshops on either side. Now, a tram is set to recreate the academic ambience. It is built like a library and will roll down College Street, giving passengers a glimpse of the University of Calcutta, Presidency University and the hundreds of book stalls. From Thursday, people can ride the tram library, an air-conditioned car converted into a library on wheels. It will make six trips on the recently restored Esplanade-Shyambazar route. West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), which oversees India’s only functional tramway, has introduced the service to rekindle the love for trams and reading. The initiative brings together unique aspects of the city’s cultural heritage: trams, which form an intrinsic part of the colonial legacy and its love for books on College Street, which is called ‘Boi Para’ (street of books) by many. While the first trams were launched in 1873, and were electrified in 1900, educational institutions on College Street like the Presidency University opened over 200 years ago in 1817. Attracting students “The idea is to make the tram the mode of choice for Kolkata’s students once again,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, MD of WBTC. In addition to the titles housed within, the tram library will provide readers access to online books. There will be no additional charge, the ticket provides passengers access. There will be 25 stops along the 5 km route, five of them on College Street. The library is just a beginning this winter, says an official. It could be the venue of book launches and book readings this season. Kolkata hosts a number of literary festivals and there is a search on for new venues. There are plans to have a Literary Festival around the tram library in the next two months, in November 2020. Cyclone Amphan, which battered the city on May 20 severely damaged tram infrastructure. After restoration, four routes have been opened. The library will be on the fifth route.
24 September 2020||MUMBAI,||NCB summons Deepika, five others in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) issued summons on Wednesday to actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh in the Bollywood drugs nexus case that emerged after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. The agency also summoned designer Simone Khambatta and Sushant’s manager Shruti Modi for questioning. “Ms. Modi, Ms. Khambatta and Ms. Singh have been summoned on September 24. Ms. Padukone has been summoned on September 25 and Ms. Kapoor and Ms. Khan on September 26,” said K.P.S. Malhotra, NCB Deputy Director (Operations).
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||HC initiates contempt action against schools||The Madras High Court on Wednesday initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against eight private schools across the State for having violated its July 17 order on collection of fees in instalments due to the difficulties faced by the parents during the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed the High Court Registry to issue notices to PSBB Millennium School in Coimbatore and Sri Shankara Vidya Kendriya Matriculation Higher Secondary School as well as Hussain Memorial Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tiruvallur district. Notices, returnable by October 14, were also ordered to P.S. Chidambara Nadar Senior Secondary School, Shatriya Vidyasala Matriculation Higher Secondary School and S.H.N.V. Matriculation Higher Secondary School, all in Virudhunagar district. The other two schools under the scanner are Muslim Higher Secondary School and Don Bosco Matriculation Higher Secondary School, both in Ramanathapuram district. All of them were directed to offer their explanation for having violated the order. The direction was issued after K. Jeyalalitha, Deputy Secretary, School Education Department, filed a report stating that initially show-cause notices were issued to 23 schools. All the schools submitted their replies, and the charge of violating the court order was established against four of them. Subsequently, the Department created exclusive e-mail IDs for filing complaints in every district. Though 116 complaints were received against schools through these e-mail IDs, only 78 were related to violation of the court order. An inquiry into those complaints led to the establishment of the charge against a few more schools. Five schools were yet to submit their replies to the show-cause notices, the court was told. This submission forced the judge to initiate contempt proceedings against the erring institutions. On July 17, Justice Venkatesh directed all schools and colleges in the State to collect only 40% of the fees in the first instalment and another 25% immediately after the government permits the institutions to reopen after the threat of COVID-19 subsides. However, even after the order was passed, there were complaints of some schools demanding payment of 100% fees. Taking a serious note of the complaint, the judge directed the School Education Department to inquire into the issue and submit a report. Another case While passing interim orders on another writ petition filed by SBOA School and Junior College Parents Association in Chennai to restrain the school management from enhancing the fees this year, the judge insisted upon cracking down on CBSE schools too. He directed the Regional Director of the CBSE to create an exclusive e-mail ID for filing complaints about violation of the court order, conduct an inquiry into those complaints and file a detailed report by October 14.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘BJP used Sushant’s death to defame Maharashtra’||The Maharashtra Congress on Wednesday alleged a ‘dirty conspiracy’ by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Maharashtra with the help of Bihar’s former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey by using the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “There was a big dirty conspiracy by the BJP to defame Maharashtra to reduce its national importance. The Bihar DGP who was used in this is being blatantly rewarded. His voluntary retirement and quick approval says it all. The BJP had no sympathy for Rajput but saw a political opportunity to use his death for the Bihar elections and now for a new film city,” Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said. The Congress has also raised questions over the ongoing investigation by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) headed by Rakesh Asthana, labelling him as the blue-eyed boy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
24 September 2020||Vijayawada,||‘Council did not decide to refer Capital Bills to panel’||Andhra Pradesh Legislature Secretary P. Balakrishnamacharyulu said in a counter-affidavit submitted to the High Court, in response to the petition filed by TDP MLC A.S. Ramakrishna against the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and the CRDA Repeal Bill, that neither a motion was made in the Legislative Council for referring the impugned pieces of legislation to a select committee nor voting took place on them. Mr. Balakrishnamacharyulu, in the counter-affidavit, contended that the power to constitute a select committee rested with the House, and the relevant rules did not confer discretionary power on anyone to refer the Bills to a select committee without a motion moved for it or to appoint such a committee.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Police officials suspended for helping accused||When the Central Crime Branch started probing into the drug racket, little did the investigating team know that pertinent information would be leaked from their own department. However, after they realised that some of their leads were being compromised, they launched a probe and identified an Assistant Commissioner of Police and a head constable attached to the CCB as the alleged moles. Both the ACP, M.R. Mudhavi, and the constable, Mallikarjuna were suspended on Wednesday. “The anti-narcotics cell team found that confidential information about the ongoing investigation had been leaked and initiated an internal probe,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). The probe revealed that the ACP passed on information to socialite and event manager Viren Khanna, who had been arrested.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Testing being ramped up to cover vulnerable people||Even while making extensive use of the 51 mobile testing units and ensuring the availability of RT-PCR test reports within 24 hours, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is getting an additional 60,000 rapid antigen testing kits to cover the vulnerable population. These are among the steps taken by the district administration as part of the efforts to bring down case fatality ratio from 2.5 % now. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu that RT-PCR test, the gold standard for detection of COVID-19, is being held at laboratories of the Government Wenlock Hospital and at eight private medical colleges. “Since the last one week, an average of 3,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted a day,” he said. A second round of survey of the vulnerable population is nearing completion with nearly 80 % of them having been already tested, he said. Senior physician Hansraj Alva from Vinaya Hospital in the city said: “Early detection of COVID-19 only can save patients from serious health effects.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre retained cess receipts’||The Centre retained in the Consolidated Fund of India more than Rs. 1.1 lakh crore out of the almost Rs. 2.75 lakh crore collected in 2018-19 through various cesses, instead of transferring the receipts to the specified Reserve Funds that Parliament had approved for such levies, the CAG said.page 12
24 September 2020||new delhi,||Priceless artefacts damaged: CAG||Renovation works at the Indian Museum in Kolkata were carried out without following the necessary conservation process, leading to priceless artefacts being damaged, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India has found. A CAG statement on Wednesday said it had tabled its report in Parliament on the compliance audit relating to 37 civil ministries and departments of the Union government for 2017-2018. The statement highlighted irregularities in the Indian Museum modernisation project.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Brakes on Mumbai||
24 September 2020||New Delhi/Belagavi,||Union Minister Suresh Angadi dies of COVID||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Channabasappa Angadi passed away at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, on Wednesday. He was admitted there earlier this month after he contracted COVID-19. He leaves behind his mother, wife, and two daughters. The 65-year-old BJP leader, a four-time MP, tested positive on September 11. A lawyer by training, he was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 2004 and won continuously from Belgaum.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||ACB files illegal assets case against Malkajgiri ACP||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Wednesday registered a case against Assistant Commissioner of Police of Malkajgiri in Rachakonda commissionerate, Y. Narasimha Reddy, on the charge of amassing wealth illegally. Simultaneous searches at different places in the State including his office and residence and houses of his relatives revealed that he acquired properties disproportionate to his known sources of income, ACB Deputy Director M. Ramana Kumar said. Searches, which were on till late in the night disclosed that he earned properties worth nearly Rs. 7.5 crore. Market value of these assets was close to Rs. 70 crore, a statement from the ACB said. ACB officials carried out searches at 25 places in Hyderabad city, Warangal, Janagaon, Nalgonda and Karimnagar districts along with Anantapur of Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. It was found that he possessed 55 acres of agricultural land in Anantapur. Mr. Narasimha Reddy had four plots admeasuring 1,960 square yards near Cyber Towers in Madhapur. He had two other house plots, the ACB statement said. A commercial building with ground plus three floors at Hafeezpet, and two houses were among his immovable properties. An amount of Rs. 15 lakh and documents suggesting that he had invested in real estate were also found. The police officer’s two bank lockers are yet to be opened.
24 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||Minister’s aide kidnapped||A five-member gang kidnapped a personal assistant of Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan at knife point from the MLA’s office in Udumalpet on Wednesday morning and later released him. The police said at 11.30 a.m., the gang came to the office of Mr. Radhakrishnan in a car. The Minister’s assistant, Mr. Karnan, and a woman staff were present in the office during the incident. The gang kidnapped Mr. Karnan without harming the woman. Surveillance camera visuals from the office showed four men coming out of white car parked outside the office, while the driver remained inside. Three of the men were seen forcibly taking Mr. Karnan in the car. Tiruppur SP Disha Mittal visited the spot.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Brakes on Maximum City||
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Maroon PBs for non-agriculture land holders||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that maroon colour pattadar passbooks will be issued to non-agriculture land holders in the State. Online mutation free of cost will be done for all kinds of non-agricultural properties, including houses, plots, apartments, farmhouses and residences in agricultural lands, Mr. Rao said at a meeting with officials officials to discuss new revenue law.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Gyms empty while maintenance costs surge||Three weeks after August 5, when gyms in the city were allowed to reopen, fitness trainers and gym owners say most customers haven’t returned. Their relief after the post-lockdown resumption was momentary.
24 September 2020||BENGALURU,||State govt. says ‘no’ to judicial probe||The Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (S) on Wednesday staged a walkout in the Legislative Assembly after the government turned down its demand for a judicial probe into the alleged scam in purchase of equipment for COVID-19 management.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||People still struggling to get ICU beds||Seven months into the pandemic, people in Karnataka are still struggling to get an ICU bed. With more and more patients in home isolation developing complications and turning critical, the demand for ICU beds went up in Karnataka, especially Bengaluru.
24 September 2020||Chennai,||Number of recoveries crosses 5-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu achieved a milestone on Wednesday, with the total number of patients discharged after treatment for COVID-19 crossing the five lakh mark. As many as 5,363 persons were discharged during the day. The total number of those discharged has gone up to 5,02,740. The State also recorded 5,325 fresh cases.
24 September 2020||Kolkata,||WB adds 3,189 COVID-19 infections in 24 hours, toll crosses 4,500||West Bengal on Wednesday added 3,189 COVID-19 cases taking the total to 2,34,673. It recorded 61 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 4,544. The active cases crossed the 25,000-mark and stood at 25,101. The discharge rate was 87.37%. Of the 61 deaths, Kolkata recorded the highest, 12, taking the COVID-19 toll in the metropolis to 1,619. The North 24 Parganas, the second-most affected area in the State, recorded 11 taking the mortalities in the district to 1,011. Howrah recorded nine deaths taking the toll in the district to 518. There was a spike in the number of daily infections in Kolkata, with 660 cases recorded and taking the total to 51,849. The North 24 Parganas recorded 632 infections taking the total to 46,866.    The situation in parts of north Bengal districts was grim because of heavy rainfall. Siliguri in Darjeeling district has been battling the outbreak of COVID-19. Parts of Darjeeling hills and Sikkim remained cut off due to landslips. The regional meteorological centre at Alipore has predicted widespread rainfall in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Coochbehar districts from September 23 to 25.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||3,714 new cases take Delhi’s tally to 2.56 lakh||As many as 3,714 new COVID-19 cases were repo-rted in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,56,789, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 36 fresh fatalities have been reported in a singe day, pushing the toll to 5,087.
24 September 2020||Srinagar,||Iltija files fresh plea in SC against Mufti’s detention||Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, on Wednesday filed a fresh plea before the Supreme Court, challenging her mother’s detention under the Public Safety Act. The plea argued that “several grounds of detention are vague and violate the provisions of Section 8(3)(b) of the PSA”.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Show-cause notice issued to Sudarshan TV||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that a show-cause notice had been issued to Sudarshan TV under the Cable TV Network Act against its programme ‘Bindas Bol’, which accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||Anurag Kashyap booked for rape||The Mumbai police have registered a first information report (FIR) against film-maker Anurag Kashyap after an actor accused him of raping her in 2013. The FIR was registered at the Versova police station under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code.
24 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally breaches 12.50 lakh||Maharashtra reported 21,029 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as its total case tally breached the 12.50 lakh mark to reach 12,63,799 of whom 2,73,477 are active. As many as 479 more deaths pushed the State’s fatality toll to 33,886. However, the case spike was nearly matched by the recoveries, with 19,476 patients being discharged. “Of a total 61,06,787 laboratory samples tested thus far, 12,63,799 have returned positive,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Road named after Mulky Sundar Ram Shetty||Mangaluru City Corporation on Wednesday officially named the road between Ambedkar Circle and the Catholic Club via Light House Hill here as Mulky Sundar Ram Shetty Road following a Government Order.
24 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Guest lecturers stage protest in Dharwad||In response to a call for a State-wide agitation seeking job security and release of pending salaries, scores of guest lecturers staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Wednesday. Staging the protest in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, the guest lecturers expressed their displeasure over not being paid for their work, and also, lack of job security.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CM objects to expert panel on culture||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Union Ministry of Culture to reconstitute an expert committee to include scholars from the State. The Ministry recently constituted the panel to conduct a holistic study of the origin and evolution of culture.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||5.38 lakh PM Kisan beneficiaries ineligible||A total of 5.38 lakh beneficiaries out of the 5.95 lakh accounts verified till date in the PM KISAN scam in Tamil Nadu have been found ineligible, and a total of Rs. 61 crore has been recovered so far from the illegal beneficiaries, Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Rajya Sabha.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Farm Bills evoke muted response in Tamil Nadu||The three Bills on agriculture reforms have evoked a relatively muted response from farmers in Tamil Nadu. But the Opposition parties have called for protests on September 28.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CMs can call lockdowns: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday told Chief Ministers of seven States most affected by COVID-19 that imposing local lockdowns for a day or two and their efficacy was entirely their call, while urging them to intensively monitor, at block level, 60 districts with the highest infection rates. The Chief Ministers of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, New Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh attended the video meet as did Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “The lockdown that was imposed across the country has helped in gaining some measure of control over infection rates and boosting capacity. But from now on, micro containment is the way to go, with minimum disruption to everyday activity. State governments should take a call on their own whether local lockdowns for a day or two have been efficacious,” said Prime Minister Modi. He also informed the Chief Ministers that the government had raised the amount that State governments can use out of the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) on combating COVID-19 from 35% to 50%. He said there was no shortage of oxygen in the country, but States needed to pool resources to make up for shortfalls in certain areas through supply from others. “Inter-State movement of goods and services needs to be streamlined further,” he said. “In all, there are 60 districts spread across these seven States that have a disproportionately high burden of the disease. I feel that if Chief Ministers, for a period of seven days, intensively track the strategy to deal with the disease from the block level upwards, it will go a long way in gaining the upper hand,” he said. He emphasised that the use of masks was very important and needed to be pushed through aggressive messaging. “I know it is difficult to make it a part of everyday living, but we must push this,” he said.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Session ends in a flurry of protests||Opposition parties held three rounds of protests in Parliament on the last day of the monsoon session, and the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad met President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him not to give his assent to the three farm Bills passed in Parliament. At noon, in a silent protest, over 75 Rajya Sabha MPs belonging to the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party and Nationalist Congress Party marched from the Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar statue, both a few metres apart within the Parliament complex. A few hours later, another group of lawmakers from the TRS and Trinamool held a short dharna . In the evening, a set of Opposition MPs from the Lok Sabha took out a march. On Wednesday, Parliament passed three Bills — the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020; and the Social Security Code, 2020 — while the Opposition continued its boycott that started on Tuesday over the passage of the three agriculture Bills. Last-ditch attempt Opposition parties made a last-ditch attempt, writing a joint letter to the Vice-President and Chairman of the Rajya Sabha M. Venkaiah Naidu. Naming the three labour Bills, the parties said that the Bills were passed in the absence of the Opposition parties. “It will be a great blot on our democracy to have these Bills passed unilaterally today,” they said. Opposition parties also had two rounds of meetings to chalk out a strategy to continue the campaign against the three farms Bills aimed at liberalising the agriculture sector. According to sources, the Opposition parties are exploring the possibility of holding an all-party meeting in the next few days. The parties also decided that each of them, at their levels, would hold campaigns in their respective States. The parties had sent a common memorandum to President Kovind, urging him to return the Bills, arguing that their passage in the Rajya Sabha was flawed. Sources said that Opposition parties were divided over whether to move the Supreme Court on the subject. After meeting with President Kovind, Mr. Azad told presspersons that it was wrong to blame the Opposition for the pandemonium witnessed on Sunday in the Upper House. “The government is to be blamed. They should have gone with the consensus,” he said, referring to demands from 18 parties to not extend the time of the Rajya Sabha beyond 1 p.m. Opposition parties’ floor leaders in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday morning had decided to nominate Mr. Azad alone to meet the President. The President House had conveyed that only five leaders could meet him, owing to the physical distancing norms because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition had moved five resolutions, two of which were asking to send the legislations — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — to a Select Committee, and three other resolutions rejecting the Bills. But none of this was considered in the din.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fresh cases surge past 5,000 mark in Kerala||Kerala’s COVID-19 incidence soared with 5,376 new cases reported on Wednesday, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 1,48,132 cases. This is a new high, coming less than a week after passing the 4,000 cases mark. The number of tests conducted also hit a new high at 51,200 samples in 24 hours. Active cases went up to 42,786. There were 362 critically ill patients in ICUs, 95 of them on ventilator support. The State added another 20 deaths, which occurred between August 22 and September 19, to its virus toll. Twelve of these deaths were reported from Kozhikode, three each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, and two deaths from Malappuram. A total of 5,192 cases were locally acquired infections, with no known source in 640 cases. This included 99 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of cases at 852. Ernakulam had 624 cases, Malappuram 512, Kozhikode 504, Kollam 503 and Alapuzha 501, Thrissur 478, Kannur 365, Palakkad 278, Kottayam 262, Pathanamthitta 223, Kasaragod 136, Idukki 79 and Wayanad 59 cases. Telangana’s fresh COVID-19 cases remained largely unchanged from recent trends on Tuesday at 2,296. Ten more patients died. While 55,892 people underwent tests, results of 1,388 were awaited. The new cases included 321 from Greater Hyderabad, 217 from Rangareddy, 173 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 155 from Nalgonda, 136 from Karimnagar, 99 from Warangal Urban and 92 from Siddipet. Of the total, 29,873 were active cases, the Health department said. It added that in 62 government hospitals, 4,548 oxygen beds, 333 ICU beds with ventilator, and 218 ICU beds without ventilator were available. In 222 private hospitals, the figures were 2,289 oxygen beds, 720 ICU beds with ventilator and 1,093 without ventilator. Karanataka on Wednesday reported 6,997 cases taking the total number of cases to 5,40,847. The number of cases have gone below 7,000 for the second consecutive day. The State had after reporting 6,974 cases a day earlier. The number of deaths also dropped to 38 deaths taking the toll to 8,266, This includes 19 non-COVID deaths. As many as 5,460 persons were discharged on Wednesday taking the recoveries to 4,37,910. Active cases continued to remain below lakh with 94,652 cases under treatment in various hospitals. Of these, 816 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,547 cases, taking the city tally to 2,04,275 and 23 deaths. Testing stood at 56,398 samples, including 21,394 rapid antigen tests. With this the total number of tests rose to 43,94,840.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Labour Bills passed amid boycott||Parliament on Wednesday passed three Bills that complete the government’s codification of 29 labour laws into four codes, with the Rajya Sabha passing the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 and the Social Security Code, 2020. The Upper House passed the three Bills after less than two hours of discussion, while the Opposition continued its boycott that started on Tuesday over the passage of two agriculture Bills. Four codes The three Bills that merge 25 laws were passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The first of the four codes, the Code on Wages, was passed by Parliament in 2019. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said the passage of the Bills would balance the needs of workers, industry and other stakeholders. Referring to the empty Opposition benches, Mr. Gangwar said it wasn’t a new thing that the Congress was absent, adding that the party had not worried about workers in the past. Responding to concern that the Industrial Relations Code had imposed a 14-day notice period for strikes, Mr. Gangwar said: “The government has not taken away the workers’ right to strike.” The notice period gave the two parties a chance to resolve the dispute, he added. The Minister said the changes in the labour laws were needed for the welfare of workers and promotion of industries. He said for the first time, 50 crore workers of the organised and unorganised sectors as well as the self-employed were covered under minimum wage and social security laws. Platform and gig workers were covered under the Social Security Code as well, giving the government the power to formulate social security schemes for them. The IR Code will allow companies with under 300 workers to decide on termination and other service conditions of employees without prior approval, as opposed to companies with less than 100 staff as of now.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Govt.’s intent and success in terms of delivering has to be taken on board’||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Shekhawat speaks on the three farm Bills that have elicited protests from the Opposition and farmers’ groups, and some reservations in bodies affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) . What was the spur for bringing in these farm Bills first as ordinances and later as Bills? These policies have been thought through. The National Farmers Commission was set up when Atal ji [former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee] was Prime Minister; the first report came around 2004; the fourth [report] in 2006. Not only the recommendations of this Commission but also that of the Swaminathan Commission were gone through threadbare and, since I was Minister of State for Agriculture in the last government, I can say this with responsibility that I myself went through all these recommendations. The recommendations were in multiple stages, to reflect the change in India’s status from a food deficit to a food surplus nation. Right from land reforms, which we worked on first with the Assured Income Purchase Bill and Farmer Producers Organisations, were all part of it. We have to plan ahead, what we can do today with conviction, tomorrow we may have to do under compulsion. The Bills are based on recommendations of Commissions set up by successive governments and I would advise the Opposition to read the Bill before stoking fears that farmers will suffer through these much-needed reforms. The assured income via contracts, the rationalisation of price if there is a spike in commodity rates, the time-bound redressal mechanism are all safeguards. It is not just the Opposition but the RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagaran Manch [SJM] and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh [BKS] also have reservations, especially with regard to not inscribing the continuation of minimum support price [MSP] in the law. The issue is not of guarantee, it is of trust. Not everything needs to be inscribed in law. The government’s intent and success in terms of delivering has to be taken on board. We have increased the number of procurement stations from 38,000 to 64,000, there has been an 85% growth in these. Procurement is up by 43% over previous years, therefore MSP cannot be seen in isolation. When I was the Agriculture Minister, the guarantee given by the government to NAFED [National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited] for the procurement of pulses was Rs. 9,000 crore, now it is up to Rs. 75,000 crore. The procurement was of Rs. 3,000 crore in 2013-14, now it is at Rs. 75,000 crore. The Congress is playing the same game it played during the Citizenship Amendment Act issue — which is to misguide our minority citizens that this Act had anything to do with them or their citizenship. But what about the reservations from SJM and BKS? I don’t think these are huge obstacles, the BKS has a few apprehensions but we have tried to resolve their issues. The system in the RSS verticals is that the feedback is filtered from the ground up, and when farmer groups were being roused by the Opposition parties, this is filtered to the leadership of the BKS. I myself have spoken to Dinesh Kulkarni and have said that I am ready to speak to everyone. Just now I spoke to the mandi representatives of entire Rajasthan and I can tell you that they are satisfied with what I have explained to them about the Bill. Why is this unrest mainly in Punjab? I can tell you of my personal experience as a farmer — I have some land in Jodhpur and some in Ganganagar bordering Punjab. The land in Ganganagar gives a better yield obviously due to assured irrigation, better practices etc., but the homestead there is always in some debt, whereas with less yield my lands in Jodhpur are debt free. This is the situation in entire Punjab. This is because of the ecosystem of the adhatiya [trader] attached to the mandi , he is both the financier of farmers and also the facilitator — there is a circle of soft credit, settled against these high-yield crops, which the adhatiya extends to you for not just farm related but non-farm related expenses at interest rates as high as 24%. Credit is extended because the land is fertile, for things not strictly farm-related either, and binds the farmer to one adhatiya for decades. The protests reflect the anxieties of the adhatiyas rather than the farmers. The farm Bills will break such circles of credit, of farmers being indebted to one adhatiya in the area, and the ecosystem of being chained to one market, one trader or one area. It will mean liberation for not just the farmers but also the traders, who can now look beyond local mandi s. But why not send the Bills to a Select Committee to build consensus? Let me tell you my experience. I brought the Dam Safety Bill and the Inter River Water Dispute Bill — these were earlier in process for 20 years — it was tabled thrice in Parliament, it went once to the Departmental Committee, once to a Select Committee, and the third time the Lok Sabha term had ended. It was cleared unanimously in the Lok Sabha, but just before it was to be taken up by the Rajya Sabha, Punjab objected. Till now, it’s hanging fire. There are some things that require a lot of deliberations and discussions, there are some that [have] proven to be good measures. When the National Farmers Commission with such a vast consultation has come up with recommendations, to ask for it to go Select Committee, etc., is nothing but a time-killing exercise. Lastly, the Modi government backtracked and scrapped the Land Acquisition Ordinance in its first term after push back. Do you see that happening this time? No way. No way.  What can be done with conviction today, tomorrow we may have to do under compulsion
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||40% toilets in govt. schools non-existent, unused: CAG||Public sector units claimed to have constructed 1.4 lakh toilets in government schools as part of a Right to Education project, but almost 40% of those surveyed by the Comptroller and Auditor-General were found to be non-existent, partially constructed, or unused. In an audit report presented in Parliament on Wednesday, the CAG said over 70% did not have running water facilities in the toilets, while 75% were not being maintained hygienically. The Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan was launched by the Human Resource Development Ministry in September 2014 to meet the Right to Education Act’s mandate that all schools must have separate toilets for boys and girls. Lack of dedicated funds, poor maintenance and poor water availability in toilets were identified as major challenges, and central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) were roped in to bridge the gap over a one-year period. Physical survey There are 10.8 lakh government schools in the country. Overall, more than 1.4 lakh toilets were built by 53 CPSEs, with significant support coming from power, coal and oil companies. The CAG audit conducted a physical survey of a sample of 2,695 toilets built by these companies in 15 States. Out of that sample, CPSEs identified but did not construct 83. Another 200 toilets were reported to be constructed, but were non-existent, while 86 toilets were only partially constructed. Another 691 toilets “were found not in use mainly due to lack of running water, lack of cleaning arrangements, damages to the toilets and other reasons like use of toilets for other purposes, toilets locked up, etc,” said the audit report. Thus, almost 40% of toilets were non-existent, partially completed or unused. No functional toilets Out of the 1,967 coeducational schools surveyed, 99 schools had no functional toilets while 436 had only one functional toilet, meaning that the objective of providing separate toilets for boys and girls was not fulfilled in 27% of the schools, said the CAG.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Show-cause notice issued to Sudarshan TV||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that a show-cause notice had been issued to Sudarshan TV under the Cable TV Network Act against the content of its programme ‘Bindas Bol’, which accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. On September 15, a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud stayed the further telecast of the programme episodes. Four episodes had been telecast by the time the court issued the injunction. “Had the court not intervened, the programme would have been over by now,” Justice Chandrachud told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who informed the court about the notice issued to the Hindi channel on September 23. Mr. Mehta said the court’s intervention is usually seen as a last resort. The court agreed to the law officer’s submission to defer further hearings in the case. The channel has been given time till September 28 to respond to the show cause notice. The court directed the government to submit a report on the outcome of the notice. However, it said "further steps in pursuance of the notice shall be subject to the result of proceedings and orders of this court". Meanwhile, the September 15 injunction on the telecast of the programme would continue. The Bench is examining questions, including the point beyond which free speech in the media crosses the Rubicon to breach the dignity of a community. The court is also examining the larger aspect of strengthening the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media. It had observed that the manner of portrayal of the Muslim community in ‘Bindas Bol’ was “plainly hurtful”. In a recent hearing in the case, the court observed that a message should go out to the media that it cannot make a religious minority the target of its attacks. The dignity of a community was as important as journalistic freedom. “We want a cohesive nation. We as citizens and judges are concerned about national security but we are also equally concerned about protecting human dignity... We as a court know what happened in the Emergency. So, we want a free flow of ideas. But we are also equally conscious about the right to dignity of a community”, Justice Chandrachud had observed orally.  Had the court not intervened, the programme would have been over by now   D.Y. Chandrachud Supreme Court judge
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quality containers to move liquid oxygen||With oxygen shortage reported from several parts of the country in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, the government has allowed the domestic movement of liquid oxygen through tank containers conforming to international quality standards. While asserting that the country has no oxygen shortage overall, the Health Ministry has been taking steps to deal with regional disparities in availability. On September 11, it advised the States to refrain from posing restrictions on inter-State movement of liquid oxygen and last week, a virtual control room was set up to coordinate with the State governments on oxygen supplies. Citing the urgent need to move sufficient oxygen at short notice from surplus areas to deficit areas, the Commerce and Industry Ministry on Wednesday allowed the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation to grant online permits for deploying ISO tank containers to move liquid oxygen. ISO tank containers are built to standards specified by the International Organisation for Standardisation, and are designed to carry liquids in bulk. The stainless steel tankers have several protective layers and an ISO tanker can carry 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen. “This permission has been given for one year initially to expeditiously deal with the emergent situation. Amid the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the movement of oxygen within the country through the ISO containers shall greatly enhance the translocation of safe and fast movement of oxygen through road network,” the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala govt. orders probe into foreign-funded housing scheme||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced an anti-corruption inquiry into the allegations surrounding the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent agreement to construct 140 dwellings for the poor in Thrissur entirely on foreign aid pegged at Rs. 20 crore. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) would conduct a preliminary inquiry to find out if the facts of the case revealed a cognisable offence. It would also probe whether the public exchequer suffered any loss and examine if the LIFE Mission had violated any laws that govern the award of contract and transaction with a foreign entity. The deal had come under a cloud after a court filing revealed that the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh had received Rs. 1 crore as brokerage for nudging the contract in the direction of a particular builder. Later, two Ministers and a mediaperson alleged that the builder had paid the smuggling case suspects bribe for getting the building contract. The LIFE Mission had said the UAE Red Crescent had contracted the builder. The government had no say in the matter. CBI probe sought Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala rejected the Vigilance inquiry. He said the VACB had no competency to inquire a case that involved a foreign charity and spanned international borders. He demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Mr. Vijayan had repeatedly turned down his request for a copy of the agreement struck by the LIFE Mission with the UAE Red Crescent. Hence, he said, he had resigned from LIFE Mission Task Force where he was a special invitee. Sabotage bid: BJP BJP State president K. Surendran said the government wanted to sabotage the investigation by three Central agencies into the deal. Hence, it had ordered the Vigilance probe. He alleged that the move came against the backdrop of the allegation that Mr. Vijayan’s family had illegally benefited from the deal. At his COVID-19 press conference, Mr. Vijayan appeared irate by the question whether a probe by the VACB would expose any wrongdoing. . “Some [journalists] seem to have a particular mindset,” he said.
24 September 2020||New Delhi/Belagavi,||Union Minister Suresh Angadi dies of COVID-19 at AIIMS||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Channabasappa Angadi passed away at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, on Wednesday. He was hospitalised there earlier this month after he contracted COVID-19. He is survived by his mother, wife, and two daughters. The 65-year-old BJP leader, a four-time MP, tested positive on September 11. A lawyer by training, he was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 2004 and won continuously from Belgaum constituency. “He passed away at 8 p.m. on Wednesday. He was under medical care at AIIMS Trauma Centre,” said a senior AIIMS official. Earlier this month, the Minister announced on Twitter that he had contracted COVID-19. “I have tested COVID-19 positive. I am doing fine,” he had said. In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Mr. Angadi as “an exceptional karyakartha who worked hard to make the party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening.” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa described him as a “soft and gentle politician”. Hailing from Kanavi Koravina Koppa village, a stone’s throw away from the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, Mr. Angadi was among the senior-most leaders of the BJP in north Karnataka. He was among the earliest Lingayat leaders from non-Sangh Parivar background to join the saffron party in the State. He was part of the team that organised L.K. Advani’s Rath Yatra in the region. He had the image of a soft-spoken, non-controversial leader. Mr. Angadi had set up a number of colleges in Belagavi.
24 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Three Maoists killed in exchange of fire in Telangana||Maoists suffered yet another blow in Bhadrachalam Agency as three Maoists including two women cadres were killed in an alleged exchange of fire with the police at Chennapuram forest area in Charla mandal on Wednesday night. The incident coincided with the ongoing CPI (Maoist) Foundation Week. Two separate incidents of “ exchange of fire” between the Maoists and the police took place one in Palvancha mandal and another in Charla mandal in a span of less than five hours on Wednesday, sparking tension in Telangana’s tribal dominated district. The outlawed outfit had suffered major setback earlier this month when three of its cadres were killed in separate “exchange of fire” incidents in the district. Meanwhile, police said Maoists opened fire on a police team during an anti-Maoist operation in the reserve forest area in Palvancha mandal at about 1.45 p.m. on Wednesday. After a brief exchange of fire, the ultras escaped into the forest area leaving one SBBL gun, kit bags, a solar plate and other materials at the spot, police added. In the second incident, an exchange of fire occurred between the Maoists and personnel of an anti-naxal squad of the district police at a hillock in Chennapuram forest area in Charla mandal at about 7 p.m. The police found the bodies of one male and two female Maoists, whose identity unconfirmed, at the site of encounter, police sources added. In a statement, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said three bodies of Maoists, one 8 mm rifle, material used for explosion, and one kit bag were found at the scene of exchange of fire. An intensive search is underway to nab the Maoists, who escaped from the scene.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Eight Bills passed on last day of Rajya Sabha||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, clocking a productivity rate of over 100%, even though it was one of the shortest monsoon sessions with only 10 sittings held. On Wednesday, the House passed eight Bills in less than four hours as the Opposition boycotted the proceedings over the manner in which two farm Bills were passed on Sunday. Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu said the session was being concluded eight sittings ahead of the 18 planned sittings, as the COVID-19 pandemic continued. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was present in the House when Mr. Naidu made the concluding remarks. “In the 10 sittings, 25 bills were passed and six bills introduced. The productivity of the House during this session has been 100.47%. As against the scheduled available time of 38 hours and 30 minutes, the actual functional time of the House has been 38 hours and 41 minutes,” Mr. Naidu said. There were some areas of concern, Mr. Naidu said. He appealed to all members, “from the depth of his heart”, to ensure that such unseemly behaviour was not repeated. “To protest is the right of the Opposition... The floor of the House is the most effective way, and not through boycott”. During the day, the House passed the following legislation — the Foreign Contribution Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020; the Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 2020; the Occupational Safety Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020; the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Code on Social Security, 2020; the Appropriation (No.3) Bill, 2020; and the Appropriation (No.4) Bill, 2020.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priceless artefacts damaged in Indian Museum renovation: CAG||Renovation works at the Indian Museum in Kolkata were carried out without following the necessary conservation process, leading to priceless artefacts being damaged, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India has found. A CAG statement on Wednesday said it had tabled its report in Parliament on the compliance audit relating to 37 civil ministries and departments of the Union government for 2017-2018.  Irregularities noted On the Indian Museum, which functions under the Union Culture Ministry, the CAG statement highlighted irregularities in the modernisation project. “Indian Museum, Kolkata awarded the modernisation work on nomination basis and executed the work without any conservation plan or preparation of Detailed Project Report and proper planning. Major works pertaining to providing modern storage system, fire-fighting, fire-detection and prevention and HVAC were not taken up though sanctioned,” it said. The museum failed to ensure financial safeguards and monitoring of quality of work during the initial phases of the project. Over Rs. 105 crore spent “Works sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 83.66 crore were executed for Rs. 105.70 crore, with works estimated to cost Rs. 25.76 crore not awarded at all. Proper conservation processes were also not followed during renovation resulting in damage to priceless artefacts,” it said. The Indian Museum, founded in 1814, is the oldest museum on the sub-continent and houses a range of antiquities, including an Egyptian mummy.
24 September 2020||Srinagar,||‘Mehbooba denied access to leaders, phone’||Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, on Wednesday filed a fresh plea before the Supreme Court, challenging her mother’s detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) and its extension. The plea argued that “several grounds of detention, including the dossier, are stale, vague and that they suffer from non-application of mind, malice in law and violate the provisions of Section 8(3)(b) of the PSA”. Booked under PSA “We have decided to challenge both the PSA order and the extensions. My mother’s detention is illegal and questionable in a democracy. A key Opposition leader has been jailed for over a year without recourse to trial,” Ms. Iltija told The Hindu . Ms. Mufti was arrested on August 5 last year and booked under the PSA in February this year. On the SC’s earlier notice to the J&K administration on Ms. Mufti’s detention, Ms. Iltija said the J&K government “is yet to even file a reply and shows the respect it has for the courts and the SC”. The plea highlighted the treatment meted out to Ms. Mufti. “She has been deliberately kept out of bounds for party people,” Ms. Iltija said. The plea said Ms. Mufti’s Gupkar Road residence has been converted into a subsidiary jail and “she has not been allowed any visits by her close relatives barring a solitary visit by her brother and her sister’s husband on August 19 this year despite multiple requests”. It also claimed that Ms Mufti’s sister Rubiya Sayeed “has been treated like an anti-social element, in being disallowed to stay at the residence of Ms. Mufti and her mother”. “Ms. Mufti has not been accorded a chance to attend to her duties as the president of the PDP. Even party officials and cadre who had applied to visit her on several occasions have not been granted permission.” A letter was written by four members of the PDP to the district administration in August “but there has been no acknowledgement or action from the administration”. The plea also claimed that Ms. Mufti continued “to have little access to the world outside and even her access to the landline telephone and Internet has been illegally and unreasonably disconnected”.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books former Visva-Bharati Vice-Chancellor on graft charges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati University, Santiniketan, in West Bengal’s Birbhum on multiple charges of corruption. The FIR was registered following a preliminary inquiry into three complaints, lodged with the Central Vigilance Commission in 2012-13, alleging financial irregularities by Professor Sushanta Dattagupta, the then Vice-Chancellor of Visva-Bharati University. He was removed from the post in 2016. The CBI inquiry, which started in July 2018, revealed that Prof. Dattagupta allegedly received excess payment of more than Rs. 13.38 lakh by suppressing the information that he was receiving pension from Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, his previous employer. The executive committee headed by him wrongly fixed his basic pay at Rs. 80,000 per month and he was, therefore, paid an excess amount of over Rs. 2.38 lakh. A private law firm in the name of Sinha & Co. was engaged to handle the university’s legal matters. It charged “excessive” legal fees in comparison to the firm/counsel engaged earlier. The subordinate hierarchy of the university brought it on record again and again that the rates quoted by the firm were very high and the university did not have the commensurate budget allocation. However, it is alleged, the rates quoted were ultimately approved by Prof. Dattagupta. From April 2012 to February 2015, the university paid over Rs. 77.93 lakh as legal fees, about five times higher than the payment to the previous law firm, said the agency.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||May move SC against farm Bills: Pinarayi||The Kerala government is exploring the possibility of moving the Supreme Court against the controversial farm Bills introduced by the Centre, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. The matter had come up in the Cabinet and the Law Department was looking into it, Mr. Vijayan said. Kerala had opposed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, cleared by Parliament, calling it detrimental to the interests of farmers. The State has also objected to the manner in which the Centre moved to enact them. On Sunday, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar indicated that Kerala would associate with other like-minded States to oppose the Centre’s decision. Meanwhile, several farmer outfits in the State have announced support for the September 25 nationwide stir against the Bills.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Husband, wife all set to be elevated as HC judges||The Supreme Court collegium on Wednesday cleared the names of 10 judicial officers to be elevated as judges of the Madras High Court but what made the news sweeter for the legal fraternity in the State is that two among the 10 officers are a married couple. Tiruchi Principal District and Sessions Judge Murali Shankar Kuppuraju and the Registrar (Judicial) of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Thamilselvi T. Valayapalayam had tied the knot in 1996 and are now the proud parents of two college going children. Once the collegium recommendation passes through the Union Ministry of Law and Justice as well as the Prime Minister’s Office and culminates into issuance of a warrant by the President, the couple would be sworn in judges of the Madras High Court. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Kuppuraju, hailing from Coimbatore, said he had obtained his degree in law from the government law college in his native in 1990 and joined Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in the entry level as a District Munsif-cum-Judicial Magistrate in 1995. Ms. Valayapalayam, hailing from Perundurai in Erode district, had completed her law in Puducherry and joined judicial service in the same post along with him in 1995. They fell in love and tied the knot in 1996. Since then, they have sailed together both professionally and personally. The couple got promoted to the cadres of sub judge, district judge and then principal district judge at the same time though they ended up being posted in different stations. Their elder daughter too had completed law recently from Sastra University in Thanjavur. What’s more interesting is that both Mr. Kuppuraju and Ms. Valayapalayam were born in 1968. After elevation, they would also retire from service in the same year though the months may differ. Apart from the couple, the other eight names that had been cleared for elevation were Kannammal Shanmugasundaram, Sathikumar Sukumara Kurup, Manjula Ramaraju Nalliah, G. Chandrasekharan, A.A. Nakkiran, Sivagnanam Veerasamy, Ilangovan Ganesan and Ananthi Subramanian.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon session ends in a flurry of protests||The parties had sent a common memorandum to President Kovind, urging him to return the Bills, arguing that their passage in the Rajya Sabha was flawed. Sources said that Opposition parties were divided over whether to move the Supreme Court on the subject.  ‘Govt. to be blamed’ After meeting with President Kovind, Mr. Azad told presspersons that it was wrong to blame the Opposition for the pandemonium witnessed on Sunday in the Upper House. “The government is to be blamed. They should have gone with the consensus,” he said, referring to demands from 18 parties to not extend the time of the Rajya Sabha beyond 1 p.m. Opposition parties’ floor leaders in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday morning had decided to nominate Mr. Azad alone to meet the President. The President House had conveyed that only five leaders could meet him, owing to the physical distancing norms because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition had moved five resolutions, two of which were asking to send the legislations — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — to a Select Committee, and three other resolutions rejecting the Bills. But none of this was considered in the din.
24 September 2020||Srinagar,||Sarpanch shot dead by militants in Budgam||A Block Development Council Chairman, also an independent sarpanch, was shot dead in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Wednesday evening. “Around 7.45 p.m., terrorists fired upon the BDC chairman, Khag, in Budgam. He died on the spot,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . The deceased sarpanch was identified as Bhupinder Singh. He was shot in the head from a close range by the attackers. “Mr. Singh was provided with two Personal Security Officers from the District Police Line, Budgam. He had dropped the PSOs in the police station Khag and had proceeded towards his residence in Aloochibagh, Srinagar,” Mr. Kumar said. IGP Kumar said the BDC Chairman, without informing the police, moved to Dalwash village, his ancestral home, where he was attacked by the gunmen.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Flight suspension hits NoRKs in Saudi Arabia||Hundreds of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) in Saudi Arabia have been hit with the the country’s civil aviation regulator General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA) suspending flights to and from India citing the spurt in COVID-19 cases. With this, the NoRKs held up in the kingdom and those stranded in Kerala and other States will be able to fly back only after the GACA withdraws the suspension. No time frame According to the GACA, any person who has been in India, Brazil, and Argentina in the last 14 days prior to arrival in Saudi Arabia will not be allowed in, except for persons with government invitations to travel to these countries. However, no time frame has been set for the suspension of flights from these three countries that came into effect from the midnight of September 22. The chartered flight from Jeddah to the Cochin international airport that was to land at 10 p.m. on Wednesday was cancelled following the GACA order. Sources in Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) said hundreds who had booked seats on the return flight at 11 p.m. to Jeddah had got stranded. The GACA action comes within days after the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority suspended the flights of Air India Express (AIE). Talks at the highest level led to the withdrawal of the move.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||CAG: Rafale vendors yet to confirm tech transfer||To develop the Indian defence industry and bring in high technologies, the offset policy was adopted in 2005 for all defence capital imports above Rs. 300 crore under which the foreign vendor is required to invest at least 30% of the value of the contract in India. The Rafale deal signed in September 2016 has a 50% offset clause to be discharged by the four French partners — Dassault Aviation, MBDA, Safran and Thales. Dassault Aviation has set up a joint venture with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Defence — Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited — in Nagpur to manufacture components for the former’s civil jets. The MoD informed the CAG that the offset obligations of the vendor are to start from September 23, 2019 and the first annual commitment would have to be completed by September 23, 2020. Auditing the offset policy in defence deals, the CAG said that from 2005 till March 2018, 46 offset contracts were signed with foreign vendors, valued at Rs. 66,427 crore, of which, by December 2018, Rs. 19,223 crore worth of offsets should have been discharged by the vendors. “However, the offsets claimed to have been discharged by them was only Rs. 11,396 crore, which was only 59% of the commitment,” the report said. Further, only 48%, or Rs. 5,457 crore, of these offset claims submitted by the vendors were accepted by the Ministry. “The rest were largely rejected as they were not compliant to the contractual conditions and the Defence Procurement Procedure,” the CAG said. The remaining offset commitments of about Rs. 55,000 crore would be due to be completed by 2024 but the rate at which the foreign vendors have been fulfilling their offset commitments was about Rs. 1,300 crore per year. “Given this situation, fulfilling the commitment of Rs. 55,000 crore by the vendors in the next six years remains a major challenge,” the federal auditor stated.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lok Sabha adjourns after tumultuous session||The Lok Sabha adjourned sine die on Wednesday in what is being termed one of the shortest sessions in India’s parliamentary history, but which was packed with 25 Bills, an Opposition boycott, and the extraordinary situation of Lok Sabha MPs sitting in both Houses of Parliament to enforce COVID-19 social distancing rules. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla allowed a longer than usual Zero Hour for many MPs who may not have had the chance to speak in the session to raise their issues, prompting Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi to name him the “Hero of Zero Hour”. Mr. Birla took pride in the productivity figures. Lok Sabha productivity clocked at 167% with 25 Bills passed; 2,300 unstarred questions answered; 68% of the sittings dealing with legislative work; and 370 Zero Hour mentions.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Labour codes passed are anti-worker, say unions||Central trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), have said the three labour codes passed by Parliament on Wednesday are anti-worker, with the BMS saying the Industrial Relations (IR) Code could “adversely affect industrial peace”. BMS general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said none of the objections raised by it and other trade unions as well as the pro-worker recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour were taken on board. “It is further tilted in favour of the employers and bureaucrats; and the last-minute mutilations will adversely affect industrial peace,” he said. ‘No discussion’ Mr. Upadhyay said some important changes to labour laws were made without discussion, which was a violation of the International Labour Organization’s 144 convention ratified by India. Among the changes he mentioned was exempting companies with up to 300 workers from standing orders, increasing it from the current law of 100. This would allow companies with up to 300 workers flexibility to hire and fire. “There is a clear attempt to diminish the role of trade unions. The danger of bureaucrats replacing Parliament is very much apparent in the IR Code, which may lead to constitutional issues,” he said. The BMS national conference from October 2 to 4 would decide on the union’s “future course of action on the anti-worker provisions in the codes.” Meanwhile, 10 Central trade unions — the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress — held protests against the codes and other labour-related policies of the government. CITU general secretary Tapan Sen said the three codes had been taken up in Parliament in a hurry. “These codes, now passed, will throw more than 74% of the industrial workers and 70% of industrial establishments in ‘hire and fire regime’ at the will of the employers; even formation of a trade union will be difficult.” He said workers’ unions and farmers would protest on September 25 against the policies of the government.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||NCB summons Deepika, five others in drugs case||Some allegedly incriminating Whatsapp conversations involving Ms. Padukone and her manager and employee of Kwan talent management company, Karishma Prakash, had come in the public domain recently. On Tuesday, the agency summoned Ms. Prakash and Kwan’s CEO Dhruv Chitgopekar for questioning. Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s talent manager Jaya Saha was questioned by the NCB earlier on September 21. Ms. Saha is also an employee of Kwan. In a statement to the NCB, a boatman, Jagdish Das, had said that Sushant used to party at his Lonavla farmhouse with Ms. Chakraborty, Ms. Khan and others, where cannabis and alcohol were common. The NCB has so far arrested 16 accused in this case, including Ms. Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Sawant.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||APMC Bill tabled in Karnataka Assembly||The controversial Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday for removing restrictions on sale of farm produce outside APMCs. The changes in the Act would enable farmers to sell their produce at farms or anywhere without the intervention of APMCs. This would enable the food processing companies to directly procure commodities from the farmers without the role of APMCs. A debate on the Bill is expected in the House on Thursday, even as farmers are already up in arms against the Bill. The Bill would amend the APMC Act of 1966 for the market committee to regulate the marketing of notified agricultural produce only in the market yards, market sub-yards, and sub-market yards.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SC grants relief to Facebook official||“I have a right to remain silent. The right to free speech under [Article 19] includes the right to not speak. I work for an American company. I am an outsider and I do not interfere with your [Assembly’s] working... You cannot compel me to come. There is a serious threat here in breach of privilege,” Mr. Salve argued Mr. Mohan’s brief. Justice Aniruddha Bose, on the Bench, addressed Mr. Singhvi saying Mr. Mohan could raise his rights under Article 19 to keep silent “because you [Assembly] are compelling him to say something”. Mr. Mohan and Facebook have challenged the jurisdiction of the Assembly to summon him. The petition said the issue comes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union. It has asked whether the privileges of the Assembly “include the power to compel the appearance of non-members to express their views or subject them to examination”. The petition has said a larger Bench should hear and decide whether a Committee of the Delhi Assembly can compel testimonies in issues of public order and police which are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Centre under Articles 239 and 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution. It has contended that the Chairman of the Committee had held a press conference announcing that “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused” in the Delhi riots and that there was a “premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and anti-social elements” shortly before the first summons was issued.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airlines express discontent over fare refund policy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday witnessed rumblings of discontent from certain quarters of the “distressed” airline sector about the government’s airfare refund policy for flights cancelled during the pandemic lockdown. In a hearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate Pinaki Misra, for Vistara, submitted that the proposed policy was suggested without actually consulting the airlines. He said the framework of the policy was created in one or two meetings, the last of which was a “cursory” one. The proposed policy suggests immediate refund for air tickets booked during lockdown. For others, a credit shell would be opened in the names of passengers and operated till March 31, 2021. Passengers can fly any route using the credit, which is also transferable. If the credit is not used, airlines have to mandatorily refund the ticket money to the passengers by the end of March next year. Besides, there is a monthly 0.75% incentive if the credit is left untouched. Mr. Misra said the 0.75% monthly incentive would add up to 9% annually. “Why do we have to pay interest when every other distressed sector is getting a moratorium?” he asked. Senior advocate Aryama Sundaram, for Air Passengers Association, said there was no question of a moratorium as it was payment to individuals. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said this was only a “broad framework” and specific problems would be taken care of. The court scheduled the case for hearing on October 25.
24 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Mani group on the fast track to join LDF||Expediting its movement towards the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani is learned to have handed over to the coalition a list of local body wards from where it wished to contest in the upcoming local body elections. Sources say the faction has sought additional seats in its strongholds. For instance, in the Changanassery Assembly constituency, the party has demanded 74 wards as against 59 allotted by the United Democratic Front in 2015 .The list has been prepared on a directive from Mr. Mani to the party’s district presidents.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Road map to acquire land for Silver Line||A road map has been worked out to commence land acquisition for Silver Line, the 529.45-km semi-high speed rail (SHSR) corridor from Kochuveli to Kasaragod. At a high-level meeting chaired by Additional Chief Secretary Satyajeet Rajan, it has been decided that the Revenue Department would issue a notification and grant administrative nod within a month to set up 11 land acquisition cells and construct 10 SHSR stations. The line will traverse through 11 districts. The meeting has been held after steps for commencing acquisition of 1,383 hectares failed to take off.  Revenue dept. will issue notification within one month to set up 11 land acquisition cells.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA inspects C-APT||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) inspected the Kerala State Centre for Advanced Printing and Training (C-APT) here for the second day on Wednesday. The public sector entity under the Higher Education Department had come under the NIA scanner for receiving imported Koran and food kits from the UAE consulate here at the behest of its Minister K.T. Jaleel for distribution to needy families at his constituency in Malappuram last Id. The deal became controversial after a preliminary Customs probe revealed that Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, had mediated the arrangement when she was an executive secretary at the diplomatic mission.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Fish eye||
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala govt. to sue media for reports on fire||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the government had sought legal opinion to sue some television channels and newspapers for defamation. He said some sections of the media had insinuated that the Chief Minister and Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had conspired to set fire to a particular area in the Secretariat. The news outlets said the government wanted to sabotage the Central probe into the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. They implied that the government had attempted to erase evidence through a deliberate act of arson. The news outlets had attempted to tarnish the reputation of an elected government. They could not publish a shred of evidence to back their claim. The government would also move the Press Council of India against the media houses. Mr. Vijayan refused to identify the newspapers or channels. “If you insist, I will do so later,” he said. No investigation Mr. Vijayan dismissed reports that the government had ordered a criminal investigation against some journalists and their organisations. He said the media should self regulate. They should not sidestep their prime ethical responsibility, which was telling the truth. The mainstream media had a moral obligation to fact-check before they broadcast or publish news.
24 September 2020||Srinagar,||Constitution of J&K still in force, says MP||National Conference (NC) MP and former judge Hasnain Masoodi on Wednesday said the J&K Official Languages Bill, 2020 was against the constitutional propriety because it was a consequence of the J&K State Reorganisation Bill, which is under the scrutiny of the Supreme Court. “Parliament is not competent to abrogate the Constitution of the State by bifurcating it into UTs,” Mr. Masoodi said. The Constitution of J&K was still in force and Urdu, the official language under the Section 145, “is still the official language”. “The constitutional propriety demands that the J&K Official Languages Bill be taken back as a mark of respect for the country’s judiciary and principles of parliamentary democracy,” he stated. The Bill, which was passed by both Houses, has included Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages of J&K in addition to Urdu and English.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||E. Sreedharan to supervise flyover work||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday that Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Principal Adviser E. Sreedharan had agreed to supervise the reconstruction of the arterial flyover bridge at Palarvattom in Kochi. The government hoped to complete the project within eight months. "Palarivattom is just the tip of the iceberg," he said adding the anti-corruption inquiry into the construction fraud had neared its conclusion. “No corrupt person will escape. The government will bring them before the law. Those who robbed the exchequer will be made accountable to the people legally,” he said. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) had so far arrested four persons, including former Public Works Secretary T.O. Sooraj, in connection with the multi-crore bribery case. It had questioned former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju several times based on Mr. Sooraj's statement. The accusation against Mr. Kunju was that he had stacked the deck in favour of the builder. The previous United Democratic Front government had extended the aid at a nominal rate of interest “brazenly advantageous” to the private firm.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||FIR against director on rape charge||The Mumbai police have registered a first information report (FIR) against film-maker Anurag Kashyap after an actor accused him of raping her in 2013. The FIR was registered by the Versova police station under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code. The complaint alleges that the director raped her at her house on Yari Road in 2013. Advocate Nitin Satpute, the complainant’s lawyer, told The Hindu , “FIR has been lodged against accused for the offence of rape, wrongful restraint, wrongful confinement and outraging the modesty of woman.” On September 19, the actor had tweeted: “Mr Kashyap has forced himself on me and extremely badly. Narendra Modiji kindly take action and let the country see the demon behind this creative guy. I am aware that it can harm me and my security is at risk. Pls help!” In a Twitter statement put out by Mr. Kashyap’s lawyer Priyanka Khimani on September 21, the filmmaker said, “My client, Anurag Kashyap has been deeply pained by the false allegations of sexual misconduct that have recently surfaced against him. These allegations are completely false, malicious and dishonest. My client has been fully advised of his rights and remedies in law and intends to pursue them to the fullest extent.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Brakes on Mumbai||
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Saudi Arabia bans flights from India||Saudi Arabia on Wednesday banned all flights from and to India for14 days and South Korea imposed restrictions on certain categories of Indian visa-holders travelling on chartered flights due to the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases here. The decision will affect nearly 30 flights operated by the Air India Group — 28 of Air India Express and two of Air India — under the Vande Bharat Mission to Saudi Arabia over the next two weeks. IndiGo and SpiceJet will be cancelling their chartered flights. The Indian Embassy in Seoul issued a circular on the new guidelines of South Korea. It has imposed entry restrictions on certain categories of Indian visa-holders travelling on chartered flights but not on scheduled flights. There are no Vande Bharat flights scheduled to Seoul. Neither Saudi Arabia nor South Korea are among the countries with which India has a special agreement for limited number of scheduled flights. Last week, Dubai suspended Air India Express flights after the airline failed to screen two passengers carrying COVID-19 positive certificates. However, the decision was reversed within 24 hours. Hong Kong, which was the first country to ban Air India flights last month due to COVID-19 positive passengers travelling onboard, recently extended its suspension until October 3.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t allow hate speech in media, says Sashi Kumar||Hate speech in media should not be allowed to be disguised as free speech or religious freedom by majoritarian forces, veteran journalist Sashi Kumar said in an intervention application in the Supreme Court. Creating communal disharmony and hatred is an offence under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code. A crime cannot be camouflaged as the right to free speech, Mr. Kumar, represented by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, argued. Mr. Kumar said it was “important to guard against the State not only when it curtails the freedom of speech but also when it encourages hate speech in the guise of freedom of expression which is against the ideology of the Constitution”.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Posters for preschool children||The Women and Child Development Department will provide colour posters at the doorsteps of the nearly 4 lakh preschool children in Kerala. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja said activities were being taken to children from two to six years of age through ‘Kilikonchal’ on Victers Channel .
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Water storage in Singur crosses 20 tmcft||As heavy flood continues into most of the major reservoirs in the State, the increase in inflows into Singur, one of the two projects that have not received surplus water so far this season, the storage crossed 20 tmcft on Wednesday night against its capacity of 29.9 tmcft. The storage of the reservoir that has reached the present level after a gap of three years brings relief to people of nine Assembly constituencies, including Sangareddy town and parts of Hyderabad, who depend on the water of Singur for their drinking needs. The inflows into the reservoir picked up again on Wednesday and crossed 11,500 cusecs in the evening. According to officials, the drinking water needs of Hyderabad have an allocation of about 7 tmcft and Nizamsagar has allocation of another 8.35 tmcft in the Singur water. Besides, lower riparian rights have allocation of 4 tmcft and canal systems of Singur have an allocation of 2 tmcft and another 6 tmcft for drinking needs of the nine Assembly constituencies of Sangareddy and Medak districts. Similarly, the storage of Nizamsagar, another project that is yet to get sufficient water this season, has also crossed 6 tmcft on Wednesday evening against its capacity of 17.8 tmcft with the inflows from the rains in the local catchment area remaining around 4,000 cusecs. Other reservoirs in the Godavari Basin including Sriramsagar, Mid Maniar, Lower Manair, Kaddam, Yellampally and others continue to get surplus flows. On Wednesday evening, the inflows into Sriramsagar were nearly 1.6 lakh cusecs, over 11,000 cusecs into Mid Manair, nearly 33,000 cusecs into Lower Manair, over 2,200 cusecs into Kaddam and nearly 2.29 lakh cusecs into Yellampally barrage. As a result, the flow in Gadavari below Kaleshwaram, at Medigadda barrage, is expected to go up to 4.24 lakh cusecs by Thursday morning with supplementation from Pranahitha and from Yellampally (main river course).  Krishna Basin In spite of falling trend, heavy inflows continue to reach Jurala and Srisailam reservoirs with outflows from Krishna-Bhima and Tungabhdra rivers. At 9 p.m. on Wednesday, the inflows into Jurala were 1.44 lakh cusecs and the discharge into river was over 1.35 lakh cusecs. At Srisailam, it was 2.46 lakh cusecs, and release of flood to river was nearly 2.52 lakh cusecs with Tungabhadra flowing above warning level of 310 meters on Wednesday evening. At Nagarjunasagar, the inflows were around 2.29 lakh cusecs and discharge of flood to river was over 2.07 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m.
24 September 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Life does not end with one failed attempt, Collector tells students||The world is full of opportunities and failure in an examination will in no way determine the future of students, says Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna. She was speaking at a counselling programme organised for students of government and government aided schools, who had appeared in National Eligibility and Entrance Test, on Tuesday. According to her, there are numerous employment opportunities for candidates to make a mark in their professional career. Pursuing medicine is just one among hundreds of fields. There are many lucrative career options than medicine. Besides, there are avenues for low scorers to repeat NEET examination. “Life does not end with one failed attempt. You should not think that your chance has ended. Your dreams will come true if you work hard,” Ms. Rathna told the students, urging them to explore all options available before them. Former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam wanted to become a pilot. But he could not achieve his dream but went on to become a scientist and later the President of India, the Collector pointed out. Students and parents are given psychological counselling by experts in the programme on steps to be taken after publication of NEET results. Career guidances are also given to students.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fruit, vegetable traders demand tax waiver||Property and professional taxes must be waived for all shops for at least a year as the traders had suffered loss due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. This was one of the demands raised at the meeting organised by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu in the city on Tuesday. Members of the traders’ body demanded that wholesale fruit and flower shops and the vegetable retail section should be reopened along with the wholesale vegetable wing on September 28 at the Koyambedu market complex. At present, only the foodgrains section has been opened in the market after nearly four months. The shopkeepers sought an extension for renewal of traders’ licence till March next year. Complaining of harassment, the members wanted the State government to take steps against sealing of shops for violation of regulations. The charter of demands included allowing licence renewal by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India online and allowing goods vehicles to operate without hassle.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of recoveries crosses the 5 lakh mark in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu achieved a milestone on Wednesday, with the total number of patients discharged after treatment for COVID-19 crossing the five lakh mark. As many as 5,363 persons were discharged during the day. The total number of those discharged has gone up to 5,02,740. The State also recorded 5,325 fresh cases. The total number of cases now stands at 5,57,999. The number of deaths rose to 9,010, with 63 more deaths recorded in the State. In Chennai, 980 more people tested positive, while 1,118 people were discharged after treatment. As many as eight deaths were recorded at the city’s hospitals. As on Wednesday, 9,868 persons are under treatment, either at home or in hospitals. Western districts continued to see an increase in fresh cases. In Coimbatore, 587 more people were diagnosed with the infection. Salem reported 298 fresh cases and Tiruppur 247. Tiruppur and Coimbatore accounted for four deaths each, while Salem recorded nine deaths in the last 24 hours. In Chengalpattu district, 297 fresh cases were detected. Kancheepuram reported 205 cases and Tiruvallur 218. In Tiruvallur, seven persons died of the infection since Tuesday, whereas Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram recorded one death each. Among those who have been infected, 4,63,126 were in the age group of 13-60, 71,960 are aged above 60 and 22,913 are children, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. Four of those who died in the last 24 hours did not have any co-morbid conditions. As many as 59 patients whose death was recorded by the Health Department since Tuesday had one or several health issues that led to their death from the infection. A 31-year-old man from Kancheepuram with no co-morbid conditions, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on September 16, tested positive for COVID-19 the next day. He had complained of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for six days. He died on Tuesday morning. The Health Department recorded COVID-19 pneumonia as the reason for his death. A 34-year-old woman from the Nilgiris, who was admitted on September 17 to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, tested positive the next day. The patient died on Tuesday morning owing to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome/Bilateral Bronchopneumonia, health officials said. The Health Department has authorised a private laboratory in Tiruchi to test samples for COVID-19, taking the total number of testing facilities in the State to 177. As many as 66 are in the government sector and 111 are in the private sector.  In Chennai, 980 more people tested positive, while 1,118 people were discharged after treatment
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bills evoke muted response from Tamil Nadu farmers||The three Bills on agriculture reforms have evoked a relatively muted response from farmers of Tamil Nadu, which has, in recent years, acquired notoriety for being the most restive State. The Opposition, led by the DMK, has called State-wide demonstrations for September 28. Different reasons are cited for the response of farmers. Primarily, regulated markets, ‘mandis’ as they are called in northern States and one of the focus areas of the reforms, have a limited role to play in trading operations in the State. There are 283 regulated markets in the State under 26 market committees. “Generally, about 10% of the overall volume of produce is being traded through regulated markets in the State. At times, it may go up to 25%, but not more than that,” says K. Shanmugam, a member of the Namakkal Farmer Producer Company, which has about 1,000 farmers under its fold. Two, there is neither any compulsion on farmers, unlike in the north, to sell their produce through the regulated markets nor the strong dose of disincentive for transactions outside these markets. C. Ramasamy, former Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, says that though traders, who transact outside the markets, have to pay 1% of the value of the agricultural produce as market fee when they buy the produce from the farmers, the system of surveillance is quite weak. Thirdly, the State’s farm market has been functioning under virtually de-regulated conditions for nearly 30 years. Unlike in Punjab where the regulated markets allow commission agents to trade, Tamil Nadu has prohibited such agents by law. As the transactions outside the regulated markets are allowed anywhere in the State, farmers and traders can involve themselves in trading directly, subject to the latter paying the market fee, which has been kept low. In view of the prevalence of this system since 1991, the farmers do not feel exercised over the Bill to provide an alternative trading mechanism over and above the regulated markets, feels G. Ajeethan, technical secretary to the Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Associations. He adds that the farmers are accustomed to the system of prices being determined on the basis of market indicators. In 2017, the State government introduced unified licence for trading at all markets in the State, instead of getting a licence from each of the 26 market committees, and a single-point levy of market fee, instead of a multi-point levy by the panels, besides allowing e-trading. All these measures have prepared the farmers to face changes, says a veteran policy-maker. V. Sathyanarayanan and S. Venkatesan, farmers of Thiruvarur and Cuddalore districts, feel the agriculturists require more time to gather clarity on the Centre’s measures. Mr. Sathyanarayanan wants the authorities to ensure effective dissemination of the message that the proposed amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will have no bearing on grain procurement at minimum support prices for the public distribution system.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway land lease tender attracts several bids||A huge parcel of vacant land belonging to the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), adjacent to the Tambaram Sanatorium railway station, is set to be put to commercial use. The RLDA has received good response from builders to the ‘Request for Proposal’ floated recently for giving the land parcel on lease through e-bids, with a reserve price of Rs. 8 crore. A press statement said the RLDA land along Bharathamadha Street near the Tambaram-Sanatorium flyover is set to be monetised. Ideal location The site is well-connected to all public transport hubs on G.S.T. Road, including the airport, and could be used for institutional development. The Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) is located close to the site. The vacant land, falling under the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), has been allowed for ‘Institutional Land Area’ and would be given on lease for 45 years. Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice-chairman, RLDA, said Chennai, with a number of information technology companies and bolstered by good infrastructure, has immense potential for institutional development. The RLDA is a statutory body functioning under the Ministry of Railways created for the development of railway lands for commercial use, to generate revenue by non-tariff measures. At present, Indian Railways has 43,000 hectares of land across India. The RLDA has identified over 79 sites across India to be given on lease, and the eligible developers would be selected through an open and transparent bid process.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Use PM CARES to meet at least 50% of testing cost’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday reiterated the Tamil Nadu government's request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to meet at least 50% of the cost of RT-PCR tests through the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund as the State was facing financial difficulties as a result of incurring such expenses continuously. Speaking during a videoconference with the PM, Union Ministers and the Chief Ministers of six other States badly affected by COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami highlighted that Tamil Nadu was continuing with its strategy of aggressive, targeted testing and was conducting the maximum number of RT-PCR tests in the country, with an average capacity of 85,000 RT-PCR tests a day. “As of date, 66,40,058 samples have been tested for COVID-19. As many as 5,52,674 persons have tested positive, and there are only 46,350 active cases in the State. These tests cost nearly Rs. 6.8 crore a day,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He said he had visited and reviewed the performance of 26 districts, which have been effective in controlling the spread of the pandemic. Acknowledging the receipt of Rs. 511.64 crore from the Centre in two tranches under the Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness package, out of a total of Rs. 712.64 crore allotted to Tamil Nadu, he requested that the package for the State be enhanced to Rs. 3,000 crore. As Tamil Nadu had completely exhausted the State Disaster Response and Mitigation Fund, Mr. Palaniswami requested an immediate ad-hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from the NDRF to fight the pandemic. “Releasing pending CMR subsidy of Rs. 1,321 crore at this time will facilitate paddy procurement,” he said. “Tamil Nadu is providing effective medical treatment, which has helped the State maintain a low death rate, currently at 1.62% — among the lowest in the country,” he said. “As of date, 4,97,377 patients have recovered, which works out to a recovery rate of about 90%, one of the highest in the country,” he added. “As of date, no district has a positivity rate of over 10%,” the CM noted. Referring to the Bill that was passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly providing 7.5% internal reservation in UG medical courses from the current academic year for NEET-qualified students who had studied in State government schools, Mr. Palaniswami said the legislation had been sent to the Governor for his assent. “This is expected to bring equity and social justice to predominantly poor students,” he said. T.N. a role model: PM Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday commended the efforts put in by the Tamil Nadu government towards contact tracing of COVID-19 patients and containing the spread of the pandemic. A State government-issued press release quoted the PM as saying that Tamil Nadu was a role model for other States. He is also said to have expressed the hope that deaths would decline further due to the steps taken by the Tamil Nadu government.  Tamil Nadu has completely exhausted the State Disaster Response and Mitigation Fund
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity’s former director writes to Governor to retain its present name||Anna University’s first director has written to Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit appealing to him to retain the institution’s present name. This comes amid the ongoingprotests by current facultyas well as alumni of the University, following the Tamil Nadu government’s proposal to change its name to Anna Technological and Research University. The institution was built to create a world class university, the former faculty pointed out. In 1978, when the University was formed, its name was changed as people could not pronounce it, said T.R. Jagadeesan, the first director of Anna University. The first choice of name was Madras University of Science and Technology (MUST). Later, it was changed to Peraringar Anna University. The first part of the name had to be dropped, as people often wrongly spelled/pronounced it. Also, while initially the College of Engineering, Guindy, was considered for University status, the University Grants Commission returned the proposal to the State, advising it to include the School of Architecture and Planning, the Madras Institute of Technology and the Alagappa College of Technology. He pointed out that it was the then Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran’s aim to build a world class technical university. He, along with a few faculty members, began the onerous task of drafting the statutes, curriculum and syllabi for the institution, which is followed till date, said the octogenarian. The former director said the institution had built its reputation over several decades. The change in name would mean the institution would have to start from scratch as every research publication and the funding the university receives are provided on the strength of work done at the institution. “All the Memoranda of Understanding signed with industries and other universities as Anna University, by the four colleges, will become null and void. The recognition for research obtained by the faculty in the form of Scopus Index, QS ranking, H-index, i10 index will rest with only Anna University and thus will go out of the hands of those who toiled hard to obtain them,” he said in the letter. The faculty will not be able to apply for any funding or fellowship until such time as this university, under a new name, establishes itself. Students will pass with degrees from an unknown university. Leading industries that recruit students through campus placements will hesitate to come, he explained to the Governor. He pointed out that the University had been chosen for the Institute of Eminence status in August 2019 and since consent is still pending with the State government it is necessary to retain the name “to realise the IOE status in the near future”. Mr. Jagadeesan said: “We humbly request His Excellency to urge the Government to modify the bill suitably so that the Unitary University hitherto restored can retain its original name — Anna University.”
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Serial rapist, who posed as policeman, arrested in city||The Manali police have arrested a 37-year-old man who allegedly targeted several women and raped them after posing as a policeman. The suspect has been identified as Pichaimani of Rajasekaran Nagar, Tondiarpet. He owns five tanker lorries. The police said on September 19, he spotted a woman with her friend on an open ground in Vegetarian Nagar, Puzhal. Posing as a policeman, he questioned them and learnt that they were in a relationship. He asked them to accompany him to the “police station” but said they would be let off and he would not inform the woman’s husband if she met his demands. He then took the woman to a secluded place on his bike and raped her, and took away Rs. 15,000 and a mobile phone. The woman lodged a complaint with the Manali police. The police, after investigation, found that she was raped by the suspect in the presence of the man with whom she was in a relationship. Using the IMEI number of the cellphone which was snatched from her, police traced the suspect near Madhavaram Milk Depot and interrogated him.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency C-section performed to save COVID-19 positive woman, baby||The lives of a COVID-19 positive woman, who was in the 28th week of her pregnancy, and her baby were saved by the decision to perform an emergency Caesarian section. N. Ezhilan, consultant, general medicine, Kauvery hospital, who treated her first, said she had severe symptoms of COVID-19 and 30% to 40% of her lungs were affected. “The presence of the foetus in the uterus was making it difficult as her lungs could not expand to the full capacity,” he said. Sabeeha T.S., senior consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology, said a decision was made to perform a Caesarian section to deliver the baby though the woman had not completed her full term of pregnancy. Hemalatha Iyanar, consultant anaesthesiologist, said they had to opt for general anaesthesia. N. Sridhar, head, critical care, said that after the delivery, the woman had to be kept under a medically induced coma and on ventilator to facilitate aggressive, invasive treatment needed to fight COVID-19 and mainly to improve her lung capacity. “We kept her in a prone position to improve oxygen level. Her lungs started improving after two days.” Karthik Thiagarajan, neonatalogist, said that though the baby was doing fine initially, sepsis and related complications set in after a week, and it remained critical for about three days. “We provided a combination of treatment... Now, the baby is doing fine,” he said.  The presence of the foetus made it difficult as her lungs could not expand fully N. Ezhilan, consultant
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surat anaesthetist who was put on ECMO recovers||A Surat-based anaesthetist who was put on ECMO after he endangered his life to treat another patient has recovered, according to a release from MGM Healthcare in the city. Sanket Mehta risked his life to intubate a patient in the intensive care unit of a Surat hospital where he too had been admitted for complications from COVID-19. Dr. Mehta removed his oxygen support lines to intubate a patient who required ventilator care in the same ICU. Dr. Mehta was off oxygen support for 15-20 minutes, which led to his having to be put on ECMO because of respiratory failure. As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to MGM Healthcare. There were discussions about him having to undergo a lung transplant. The hospital was the first in Asia to perform a bilateral lung transplant in a COVID-19 patient. At the time of admission, Dr. Mehta’s lungs were stiff and did not contribute to oxygen exchange. His muscles were weak and he could only flick his fingers but not move his limbs. Slowly, he began to recover and his ventilation improved. The lungs cleared and X-rays showed he was able to maintain good oxygenation with 100% oxygen saturation. Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, said though doctors discussed lung transplant, it was not necessary as Dr. Mehta’s lung function recovered. On Tuesday, Dr. Mehta was taken off ECMO and his lungs with 40% oxygen support were able to sustain oxygenation at 100% oxygen saturation. As he has been undergoing intense physiotherapy, his muscle power has gone up from grade 0 to grade 2. His blood parameters are within normal range, his doctors said.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City to get one more weather radar at NIOT||Chennai will soon have a state-of-the-art indigenous weather radar that will help in surveillance and early warning of severe weather events. The city’s second radar will be installed on the premises of the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), Pallikaranai. The foundation stone for the dual polarised solid state X-Band weather radar was laid on Wednesday. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the instrument would capture weather events occurring within a radius of 80-100 km. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the new radar would help the Department to provide forecasts on urban flooding. With technical design provided by the Indian Space Research Organisation, it was manufactured by Data Patterns Ltd. under the “Make in India” programme.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wellness series webinar||A webinar on “cardiac emergencies” will be held as part of The Hindu Wellness Series, presented by Kauvery Hospital, on September 26. Experts from the field of cardiology will come together and speak about cardiac emergencies and how the public needs to be prepared to handle them. Dr. K.P. Suresh Kumar, chief cardiologist; Dr. C. Sundar, senior consultant cardiologist, both from Kauvery Hospital; and Dr. Giridhar Gyani, Director-General, Association of Healthcare Providers (India), will be part of the session. The webinar will be moderated by R. Sujatha, Deputy Editor (Reporting), The Hindu. The webinar will begin at 11.30 a.m. To register, log on tohttp://bit.ly/ THWSKor scan the QR code.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reconstitute culture committee: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi reconstitute the culture committee with experts from Tamil Nadu, other southern and north-eastern States and representatives from backward classes. “Even during the pandemic, when people are getting infected with COVID-19 on a large scale, when India’s economy is in doldrums, when there are no jobs, and the future of crores of youngsters has become a question mark, the BJP, using its majority in Parliament, is still spending all its time trying to force the Vedic period culture on the rest of the country,” Mr. Stalin charged. The committee’s current representation was an attempt to destroy the multi-cultural identity of the country.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient airlifted to Chennai with ECMO support||Doctors at Gleneagles Global Health City hospital (GGHC) are treating a 32-year-old man with post-COVID-19 lung infection after airlifting him from Lucknow with Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support. In a statement, the hospital said that though the man recovered from COVID-19, he developed a severe breathing difficulty two weeks later. He was kept on ventilator at a hospital in Lucknow, but his oxygen level was extremely low and the accumulation of carbon dioxide in his blood was alarmingly high. Further tests revealed his lungs had incurred 75% damage, necessitating either a transplant or ECMO support. The Lucknow hospital reached out to doctors at the GGHC. A decision was made to airlift the patient to Chennai, the statement said. Doctors from GGHC flew to Lucknow on September 16 and initiated ECMO support. After his condition was stabilised, the patient was shifted the next day in a chartered flight. Meticulous planning was required to keep the travel time to a minimum, the hospital said. This was the first time a patient in the country was airlifted with ECMO support.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘5.38 lakh people found ineligible for PM-Kisan scheme in T.N. so far’||So far, 5.38 lakh beneficiaries of the PM-Kisan scheme in Tamil Nadu have been found ineligible and a total of Rs. 61 crore has been recovered from them, Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. A total of 47, 41,932 farmers have enrolled in the scheme in Tamil Nadu as on September 20, 2020, Mr. Tomar said. Written reply In a written reply to DMK MP P. Wilson’s queries whether more such fake beneficiaries had benefitted from the scheme across the country, Mr. Tomar said that was not the case and reports of ineligible persons registered in the scheme was received from the government of Tamil Nadu. “Out of 5.95 lakh beneficiaries’ accounts verified till September 15, 5.38 lakh beneficiaries were found ineligible,” Mr. Tomar said. The Minister further said some unscrupulous elements had misused the login-ID and password credentials of district officials for bulk booking of ineligible persons. Contractual staff engaged by the agriculture department were found involved in this illegal activity, he added. Action taken  “The services of 96 contractual staff were terminated, departmental action initiated against 34 officers for enrolling ineligible beneficiaries and three block level officers and five assistant agricultural officers, who were found responsible for misuse of passwords, were suspended,” he said. The Minister further informed that first information reports had been filed in 13 districts and 52 persons, including contractual staff, were arrested. “Action has been initiated to recover the amount transferred to ineligible persons from their bank accounts through the respective banks and to refund the amount to Central Government account. So far, Rs. 61 crore has been recovered,” he added.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC brings about shift in accident compensation claim procedures||The Madras High Court has ordered a major shift in procedures adopted to claim and pay motor accident compensation in the State. It has directed all tribunals to treat detailed accident reports uploaded by the police on the Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) portal as claim petitions without waiting for the victims to file such petitions. Justice S.M. Subramaniam issued the directions to simplify procedures for obtaining compensation, avoid bogus claims and ensure speedy disposal of claims. The judge pointed out that Section 166(4) of the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988 empowers the tribunals to treat accident reports as an application for compensation but hardly any tribunal invokes the provision. Now making it mandatory for all motor accident claims tribunals to download the First Information Reports and other documents from the CCTNS portal, the judge held that they should be numbered as claim petitions within 15 days and notices issued to victims, insurance companies and the transport corporations or private vehicle owners. The judge asked the Director General of Police to ensure that FIRs were registered promptly in motor accident cases and uploaded along with documents on the CCTNS portal without any delay. Investigation should also be completed within 90 days in all accident cases.  The judge wanted the Transport Secretary, the DGP and the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services to report compliance of his orders by January 18, 2021.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Order today on breach of privilege proceedings||Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana of the Madras High Court on Wednesday reserved her verdict on a batch of new writ petitions filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs challenging fresh show cause notices issued to them on September 7 in connection with the 2017 breach of privilege proceedings. The judge told Advocate General (A-G) Vijay Narayan and senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, N.R. Elango and Amit Anand Tiwari, representing the petitioners, that she shall pronounce interim orders on the batch on Thursday itself since that was the day fixed by the Committee of Privileges for the MLAs to submit their replies. During the course of arguments, when the judge expressed her mind that she was inclined to stay all further proceedings, the A-G opposed any such move and sought grant of short period of time for filing of a counter affidavit. He said nothing adverse would happen since the Committee of Privileges had no power to take any action against the MLAs. He said the committee’s recommendations had to be placed before the House and only after deliberations, any action would be initiated. “It is not as if the Assembly is going to assemble tomorrow or the day after and take action against the petitioners. Therefore, there is no need for any interim orders in favour of them,” he argued.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kasimedu fisherman rescued in Myanmar goes missing||A fisherman from Kasimedu rescued in Myanmar a few days ago has reportedly gone missing. Second driver of the boat that drifted from Chennai to Myanmar for 55 days, the fisherman is said to have fallen off the boat while trying to drop anchor to safeguard it from strong cyclonic winds. Sources in the State Fisheries Department said as per information they were given, Babu, 42, had gone along with another fisherman to anchor their boat with the help of local fishers. During anchoring, both fell into the water and while one was rescued immediately, Babu drowned. Myanmar Navy team and Divers were immediately deployed to rescue him and search is still under way but he is yet to be traced, the official added. Balaji, owner of the boat that had left Kasimedu fishing harbour on August 23, said the fishermen were asked to wait since temporary passports had to be issued for their return to India. “We are also getting the boat repaired,” he said.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders meet on NEP today||The Higher Education Department will convene a meeting of stakeholders on Thursday to discuss the National Education Policy (NEP). The State universities have been divided into three groups, and stakeholders, including teachers, parents and students, can take part in the meeting. The decision follows a meeting of the members of the committee constituted to discuss the NEP, the Higher Education Secretary and the Vice-Chancellors of the universities on Tuesday. To get inputs from the stakeholders, online meetings have been organised on Thursday. The universities have been divided into three regions and the Vice-Chancellors will chair the meetings.  The schedule for the meetings, to be held from 9.30 a.m. to 4 p.m., is available on the website of all participating universities. The websites also provide a link to the NEP document.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Is CM really a farmer, asks DMK chief||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday yet again criticised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the AIADMK extending support to the three Agriculture Bills passed in Parliament. He asked whether Mr. Palaniswami, who claimed to be a farmer, would apologise to the farmers if he did not find the words ‘Minimum Support Price’ (MSP) in the Bills. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister had lost the moral compass to call himself a farmer. “The farmers’ fight is at least to get MSP for their produce. But the AIADMK supported the Bills, which do not even have these three words (Minimum Support Price), in both Houses of Parliament and the Chief Minister is giving speeches supporting these Bills. Is he really a farmer? No. Why is he trying to portray himself as an innocent man?” Mr. Stalin asked.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two robbed, 2 avert bid to snatch phones||Robbers targeted pedestrians in the city on Wednesday. While two persons were robbed, victims in two other cases thwarted attempts to rob them on Wednesday. The police said Mohammed Shab, 59, of Triplicane and working with a courier firm in Koyambedu, was walking to a bus stop on Dams Road around 5 p.m. A duo riding a bike attacked him with a sharp weapon and robbed him of his mobile phone. Mr. Shab was rushed to hospital. Similarly, Victor, a driver, was on a morning stroll near the DPI premises, Egmore, when a two-wheeler borne duo attempted to snatch his cellphone after hitting him on his head. However, Mr. Victor held on to the handset. A robbery attempt was made on Ezhumalai in Nungambakkam. He held on to his mobile phone. A bike-borne duo snatched the six sovereign gold chain from a woman in Royapettah police limits on Wednesday.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vintage car rally to mark Tourism Day||On September 27, a small group of vintage car owners will gather near the DGP’s office in Chennai to celebrate their love for the city and for their beloved classic cars. Nearly 8 to 10 cars, including Cadillac, Mustang and Mini Cooper, will be among the vintage vehicles to be brought out on Sunday for a small celebration. Ranjit Pratap, vice-president of the All India Federation for Vintage and Classic Cars, said: “On Sunday, it is World Tourism Day and Madras Day was celebrated last month. All of us have been through a lot in the last several months. So, we thought we can use this occasion to show our love for cars and our city this way. A small group, in our cars, will gather near the DGP’s office and just take a long ride. People of the city have always held vintage cars very dear to them and we have quite a few collectors here,” he said. New association He said a new association, Federation of Historic Automotive Clubs of India, was going to be formed with headquarters in Delhi and regional centres in Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata. “The idea of forming this is to make sure we are able to represent and place on record the requests of vintage car owners to the government,” he added.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients who had 90% lung involvement discharged||Two patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and had over 90% lung involvement, underwent intensive treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and were discharged on Tuesday. According to a release, a 58-year-old woman from Vyasarpadi in Chennai was admitted to the hospital on June 23 with COVID-19 pneumonia and more than 90% lung involvement. She was treated with remdesivir and tocilizumab, and was on ventilator support. After 90 days of intensive care treatment, she was discharged. A 48-year-old man from Kancheepuram was admitted on August 21 with oxygen saturation of less than 80%. He was in a very critical condition, and a CT scan showed 95% lung involvement due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He was treated with life-saving drugs and oxygen support. His lung involvement came down to 30% after a month of intensive treatment.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside order against Senthil Balaji||The Madras High Court set aside an order issued by the Karur Collector on March 31, refusing to release Rs. 60 lakh from the constituency development fund of Aravakurichi MLA V. Senthil Balaji for purchasing ventilators for the government district headquarters hospital in Karur to treat COVID-19 patients. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha refused to accept the argument that the hospital was not located in the MLA’s constituency. Pointing out that Aravakurichi falls under Karur district, the judges said the residents of the petitioner’s constituency also get treated at Karur GH.
24 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry urged to focus on productivity and innovation||The Indian textile and clothing industry should focus on innovation and technology and resolve to meet challenges successfully, Roop Rashi, Textile Commissioner, said at a virtual conference on Wednesday. The Southern India Mills' Association organised a virtual CEO conference on the theme 'Competitiveness of the Indian Textile Industry in the Global Market' as part of its annual general meeting. The Commissioner said that India was till recently the second largest producer and exporter of textiles globally. Now, it was in the fifth position. The industry should look at improving productivity and value addition. The government will provide policy-level support and has taken several initiatives to support the industry. The government and the industry should work jointly to generate investments, she said. Ashwin Chandran, chairman of SIMA, said the subsidy under the Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme, amounting to more than Rs. 10,000 crore, was blocked due to various procedural issues. The association sought release of a major portion of the TUF subsidy against bank guarantee. Special package needed Though the governments has announced several relief measures to mitigate COVID-19 challenges, the debt restructuring facilities for non-MSMEs were available only when the accounts were standard as on March 1, 2020. This should be addressed. There was also an urgent need to announce a special package to boost cotton consumption by including all the cotton textile products under government support schemes for textiles, he said. At the 61st annual meeting, Ashwin Chandran, chairman and managing director of Precot Meridien, was re-elected chairman of the association for 2020-2021. Ravi Sam, managing director of Adwaith Textiles, was re-elected as the deputy chairman and S.K. Sundararaman, managing director of Shiva Texyarn, the vice-chairman.
24 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s aide kidnapped, released||A five-member gang kidnapped a personal assistant of Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan at knife point from the MLA office at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district around on Wednesday morning. The gang later released the Minister’s aide at a place called Dhali, near Udumalpet. The police said that Karnan, one of the personal aides of the Minister, was kidnapped by men who came to the office in a car around 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday. While Mr. Radhakrishnan, also the chairman of the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation, was not at the MLA office, a woman staffer was present with Karnan at the office. The gang did not harm her. Surveillance camera visuals from the office showed four men coming out of white car parked outside the office while the driver remained at the wheel. Three men went inside the office and a youth stood outside. The video showed the three men, who went inside the office coming out with Karnan after a minute. The men forcibly took Karnan inside the car and left the spot. Tiruppur District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal and senior officers visited the MLA office soon after the incident. While the police were making efforts to trace the gang, the kidnappers left Karnan at Dhali, around 10 km away from Udumalpet. An official said special teams were on the efforts to trace the kidnappers.
24 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police get 3 days’ custody of murder case accused||The second judicial magistrate court here on Wednesday granted three days’ police custody of Arumugam, an accused in the murder of a Hindu Munnani supporter at Ram Nagar in Coimbatore on September 13. While the police had arrested six persons in connection with the murder of C. Biju, a day after the incident, Arumugam remained at large. He surrendered before a court in Sivakasi last week. Following his surrender, the Kattoor police sought the custody of the accused. According to police, Arumugam, an active member of Mukkulathor Pulipadai, a caste-based organisation, planned the murder while six others Raja, Karthik, Ilaiyaraja, Aravind, Vivek Prabhu and Praveen alias ‘Kili’ executed it. The police had said that personal enmity was the reason behind the murder of Biju, a resident of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam, who ran a soda shop and finance company at Ram Nagar. Man detained under NSA released A functionary of Hindu outfit Bharat Sena, who was detained by Coimbatore City Police under provisions of the National Security Act (NSA), was released from Coimbatore Central Prison on Wednesday. M. Arun Krishnan, 21, who allegedly desecrated the statue of Dravidar Kazhagam founder and social activist Periyar E.V. Ramasamy at Sundarapuram here on July 17, was detained under NSA on July 28. Bharat Sena workers, who welcomed Krishnan outside the prison, said that he was released after the provisions of the National Security Act invoked against him were quashed.
24 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former bank manager among three convicted in loan fraud||The special court for CBI cases here on Wednesday sentenced K. Sajeesh, former senior manager of Canara Bank’s Kavundampalayam branch, to undergo two year of rigorous imprisonment (RI) in a loan fraud that caused a loss of Rs. 1.31 crore to the bank. The court also sentenced Rakav Balaji and Jaishankar, both private persons, to undergo RI for three years in the case registered in 2008. A release issued by the Anti-Corruption Branch of CBI, Chennai, said special judge S. Nagarajan also imposed a total fine of Rs. 8 lakh on the three persons. CBI said in the release that the case relates to alleged sanction of 26 housing loans to the tune of Rs. 1.23 crore by Sajeesh to various borrowers in violation of bank norms without conducting pre and post sanction inspections. The loans were issued on the strength of forged and fabricated salary certificates produced and arranged by Balaji and Jaishankar, said the release.
24 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister flags off mobile fair price shop||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Wednesday flagged off a mobile fair price shop in Thondamuthur Town Panchayat, said a release from the district administration. After the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that the State government would launch 3,501 mobile fair prices shops at Rs. 9.66 crore, he launched seven such fair price shops on September 21. In keeping with the Chief Minister’s vision, Minister Mr. Velumani flagged off the vehicle, which he said would particularly help people in hilly areas as it would deliver essential commodities at their door step or closer home. Employees at neighbourhood fair price shops would use the vehicles to deliver goods twice a month at a place closer to the houses of the PDS card holders.
24 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 norm violators to pay hefty fine||Coimbatore Corporation will strictly view violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines and levy fine on individuals and establishments for violation, says a release from the civic body. Seeking cooperation from members of the public to ensure a COVID-19-free city, the release says people venturing out of their house should wear mask, observe physical distancing norms, and avoid spitting in public. The Corporation will seriously view any violation of the safety guidelines and will slap Rs. 200 in fine for not wearing mask, Rs. 500 for not observing physical distancing norms, and Rs. 500 for spitting in public. The release says physical distancing should strictly be followed particularly in hair dressing units, spas, gyms, vegetable and fruit shops, jewellery and garment showrooms, malls, markets and other commercial establish- ments. Any violation of the guidelines will result in the shop owner or manager paying Rs. 5,000 in fine, the release warns.
24 September 2020||CUDDALORE/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stiff opposition to textile park at Periyapattu||Opposition to the South Indian Mills Association’s (SIMA) plan to set up a textile processing park at Periyapattu in the district, is gaining momentum with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) halting work on laying pipelines due to stiff resistance from the locals. Over 10 textile companies under the aegis of SIMA have proposed to set up their processing units in the Phase III of the SIPCOT industrial park. Though the project was mooted way back in 2013 by SIMA, at an estimate of Rs. 600 crore, it has met with stiff opposition from the residents of Thyagavalli, Thiruchopuram, Andarmullipallam and Kayalpattu in Periyapattu panchayat. The move by the TWAD Board to lay pipelines for a distance of 18.5 km for the project ran into rough weather on September 21, after residents opposed the move strongly. The work was halted and the district administration elicited the views of the villagers, environmentalists and representatives of SIMA at a peace meeting chaired by the Collector, Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, on Tuesday. A senior official said that the work had neither begun nor stopped. “We have elicited suggestions and objections raised by the villagers. We will be sending a report to the government”, he said. Meanwhile, a group of environmentalists attached to the SIPCOT Area Community Environmental Monitors (SACEM) sent a petition to the Collector seeking to reconsider the permission granted to the project. M. Ramanathan of SACEM said that the textile park coming up at Periyapet would lead to severe pollution resulting in irreparable damage to the environment. Groundwater “Already, industries in SIPCOT Phase I and II were extracting groundwater indiscriminately through nine borewells sunk in the estates. While groundwater levels have severely depleted, SIPCOT has now proposed to supply water from Phases I and II to the units coming up in Phase III located at a distance of 10 km”, he said. S. Sivasankar, an environmentalist said that SIPCOT had failed to obtain groundwater clearance from the competent authority. Hence, SIPCOT should drop the move to lay pipelines, Mr. Sivasankar said. According to the chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry and chairman of the park T. Rajkumar, there are similar projects, using marine discharge system, in other States and countries too. "We will recycle and reuse 90 % of the water that we take once. So there will be no pollution. The TDS level will be monitored online," he said. There will be a desalination plant set up in two years. The Collector had held a public meeting. The public are unaware of the details of the project. The park will create 5,000 direct jobs. A senior official in SIPCOT on anonymity said that work on laying pipelines had been halted due to objections by the locals. Though a peace meeting was convened, no decision has been taken, he said. According to T. Arul Selvam of SACEM, the discharge of heavy metals in the effluents released by the industries had already affected groundwater quality in the region.  (With inputs from   M. Soundariya Preetha   in Coimbatore)
24 September 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions condemn dilution of labour codes||Trade unions affiliated to various parties staged a protest demonstration here over a slew of demands, while condemning the Centre and the State governments for dilution of labour codes and improvisation of workers. The protests led by the CITU, AITUC, LPF,INTUC, HMS, AICCTU condemned the non-payment of wages to workers and the lay-off during COVID-19. The unions demanded that the government call tripartite meetings with the trade unions and rollback the COVID-19 time dilution of labour codes. They also dubbed the insistence on phones by unorganised sector labourers for registration with the welfare boards through an OTP as “cruel” forcing digital consumption on those engaged in physical labour and eking out a living with bare minimum wages. The unions also demanded that the government provide Rs. 7,500 per family for the lockdown period. The government should ensure payment of relief of Rs. 22,500 for the three months of April, May and June for joblessness. The unions demanded registration of migration workers and creating a database for them in the light of the sufferings the workforce underwent during lockdown. The unions also slammed the disinvestment of Public Sector undertakings and called for protection of PSUs.
24 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Over 1 lakh habitations to get tap connections: Collector||By 2021 March, close to 1.29 lakh habitations across uncovered village panchayats would have drinking water tap connections, said Collector M. Vijayalakshmi here on Wednesday. After conducting an inspection at hamlets in and around Pallapatti in the district, she told reporters that under the Union government’s Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) project, the State government had proposed to provide tap connections to habitations in all village panchayats across the State. The Central government’s objective of the ambitious JJM project was to ensure all habitations have tap connections by 2024. Towards achieving this goal, the Collector said that they have identified 306 village panchayats and funds were earmarked which would be spent through the District Rural Development Agency. The officers from the rural and other departments were also roped in for execution of the project, she added. K. Kavitha, Project Director, DRDA, said that for the first phase they had Rs. 38.39 crore. Out of the 1.29 lakh tap connections taken up for execution now, 53,383 dwellings would be covered under the JJM and the rest of the tap connections would get funds from various other Central funds. The Rural Development department officials said that they have identified all the uncovered habitations falling under the village panchayats and panchayat unions and hoped to execute them by 2024. When asked about the source of water for distribution to these hamlets, the officials said that treated water would be sourced from waterbodies and tanks which would be stored in overhead tanks for supply, a TWAD Board engineer said and added that the kudimaramathu projects in the district should facilitate not only storage of water, but also help recharge the groundwater levels.
24 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sadayampalayam tank filled to the brim||The recent rain and seepage from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal has filled up the Sadayampalayam tank in Corporation limits, presenting a picturesque sight to the residents and road users. The tank, spread across seven acre, was beautified by the Corporation at Rs. 2.5 crore a few years ago and it helped in improving its storage capacity. Seepage from the canal is the main source of water for the tank as it usually holds maximum water from September to February when water is released for irrigation in the canal. Recent rain in and around the area also contributed to the increase in inflow to the tank. “The tank helps in recharging borewells and agricultural wells in over 15 km radius and ensures water availability for farmers and the people till summer,” said Raja, a resident of Sadayampalayam. The outer ring road from Kokkarayanpettai in Namakkal district to Thindal in Erode passes near the tank and motorists stop their vehicle to take pictures of the lake. Residents said that since adequate space was available near the tank, creation of a park, boating facility and other amenities would turn the tank into a tourism spot. “Once facilities are provided, it will attract tourists from nearby districts as water will be available in the tank for six months,” said another resident.
24 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles parked on Gandhiji Road in Erode cause congestion||Vehicles selling fruits on the Gandhiji Road stretch, opposite Fire Service Station, is a concern for the road users as they have encroached the road space causing frequent traffic congestion on the busy arterial road. As many as five to seven autorickshaws were parked throughout the day on the road and people stop their vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, on the road to purchase items. Unauthorised parking of vehicles on the road consumes half the road space as vehicle users from Panneerselvam Park that move towards Kalaimadu Statue face difficulty. Road widened The road was widened a few months ago during the COVID-19 lockdown and these vehicles started utilising the available road space disrupting the flow of vehicles in the busy stretch. Vehicle movement was hindered during peak hours in the morning and evening as road users wanted the mobile shops to be removed. “It is a busy stretch and people, too, risk their lives by parking their vehicles on the road and going for shopping”, said V. Anand of Kollampalayam. He said that hospitals, pharmacies, hotels, bakeries and other commercial establishments were present in the stretch where parking facility is not available. “The space should be allotted for two-wheeler parking so that vehicle movement is not disturbed in the road”, he added.
24 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works, power supply will be disrupted in the Muthampalayam electric line from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 25 at Muthampalayam Area 1 and 2, Sangandurai, Nallipalayam, Rail Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Rettapalivalasu, Odaimedu, Annai Nagar, Ambigai Nagar, Sudhanandhan Arch, Anicut Road, Balaji Garden and Sivasakthi Nagar.
24 September 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) stages protest demonstration||The friction between the local left party cadres in Denkanikottai was out in the open after the CPI(M) cadre staged a protest demonstration against the CPI, alleging latter’s involvement in attacks on the field functionaries of the CPI(M). CPI(M) cadre took to the streets on Wednesday alleging that there were concerted attacks on their partymen in the village by the CPI. Expressing dismay, the CPI men claimed that the attacks on CPI(M) members was in response to its pro-active presence and activism over a lot of issues affecting the rural poor.
24 September 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister tests positive||Former AIADMK Minister Pachaimal tested positive for covid-19 and was admitted to the isolation ward in Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. Health officials said that the district had so far conducted covid-19 tests on 1.56 lakh people. Over 12,000, who tested positive to the virus were treated and 11,108 discharged. The district had a total of 704 active cases till Tuesday.
24 September 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths case: CBI officials inspect Kovilpatti sub-jail||CBI officers inspected Kovilpatti sub-jail in connection with the father-son custodial deaths case. According to reliable sources, the team also visited the shop of Benix here and lifted some fingerprints and documents. They spent more time at the sub-jail cell where Jayaraj and his son were detained in June and subsequently shifted to the GH where they were declared dead. The State government had handed over the case to the CBI and also suspended police officers, including an Inspector Sridar, who was attached to the Sattankulam station in Thoothukudi district.
24 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sales yet to pick up in shops||Nearly 3,000 devotees visit Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple everyday since relaxation of the lockdown but there were very few visitors to the shops near the temple. Pudhu Mandapam near the temple has about 150 shopkeepers selling puja articles, trinkets, books and kitchenware. There are also tailors. They have opened their doors to customers a month ago but many people do not visit these shops. S. K. Siddiq, one of the traders there, says that there is no market value for trinkets or other ‘fancy items’ these days. ‘It is understandable if people do not step in to buy our ear rings and bangles but it is surprising that even shops selling puja articles and idols do not get customers. Though people visit the temple, there is no improvement in business for traders.’ Pudhu Mandapam Traders and Tailors Association president G. Muthupandi says that many traders come to Pudhu Mandapam and go back to home. ‘Because our major ‘customers’ were tourists. The complete lack of foreign tourists visiting our shops has deeply hurt our business. We consider the whole of 2020, a washout year for us.’ M. Mohammad Abdul Khader, who sells toys, handbags and wallets to customers on East Chithirai Street, says that people nowadays visit the temple only for the purpose of worship. ‘Earlier, it was an outing for the whole family and sales were good. Now, we are not sure when sales will pick up. According to S. Venkatesan, who owns a shop in the junction between East and South Chithirai Street, the Tamil month of Purattasi is usually a lean period for sales. ‘We are hopeful of bouncing back by Deepavali,’ he says. Traders at Pudu Mandapam say that it would be useful if the temple authorities extend a concession on rent paid by shopkeepers. It would ease the financial burden. ‘We have submitted a petition and we are awaiting a response,’ the association members said.
24 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Report on canal submitted to HC Bench||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was on Wednesday informed that primary treated water from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and discharge from storm water drains were being let into Uyyakondan canal in Tiruchi. The National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, submitted the report to the court after the institute was directed to carry out an inspection. The court wanted to know if untreated water was being let into the canal. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that prima facie it appeared that the Dean of the Medical College and the Corporation Commissioner were in violation of relevant statutory provisions, particularly the Water Act. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions seeking a direction to the State to ensure proper monitoring of COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi district. The case was adjourned by the court till October 14 for further hearing of the PIL petition.
24 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man who drew PM’s praise for relief work booked for usury||C. Mohan, a hair-dresser who drew Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention for his social activities during the COVID-19 lockdown, has been booked for charging an exorbitant interest rate. The police said that after the Anna Nagar police in the city booked him for criminal intimidation and under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, he had gone absconding. According to the complainant M. Gengairajan, 50, of Anbu Nagar, he had borrowed Rs. 30,000 from Mohan in December 2016 and paid Rs. 48,000 in interest — Rs. 3,000 a week for four months. However, due to his poor economic condition, he could not make further payments. In May 2017, he borrowed Rs. 15,000 from his brother-in-law and paid the sum to Mohan. He also handed over a cheque for Rs. 25,000. Thereafter, Mohan said his loan had been settled. When Mr. Gengairajan asked him to return the promissory note, Mohan said he would do so after two days. But he did not keep his word and started insisting since June that Mr. Gengairajan pay him interest for the loan. Mr. Gengairajan also accused Mohan of bringing four persons on Sunday and threatening him. Mohan had taken a loan of Rs. 30,000 in the name of Mr. Gengairajan from another person, the complainant said. After news emerged about Mohan spending Rs. 5 lakh on helping those affected by the lockdown, Mr. Modi appreciated him in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address to the nation. Subsequently, Mohan joined the BJP.
24 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to establish bone bank at GRH||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the governments to establish a bone bank at Government Rajaji Hospital here. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam summoned the Director of Medical Education to assist the court in the case. The court questioned why a proposal sent in this regard in 2017 was still pending. The petitioner, M. Vetri Selvan of Madurai, said he had sought a reply from the Dean regarding the establishment of a bone bank through an RTI application. He was informed that a proposal was sent to the DME in 2017 itself, the petitioner said. Apart from the establishment of the bone bank, the petitioner said, an advisory board comprising experts must be constituted to ensure its effective functioning. Latest equipment must be procured for the facility, he said. Awareness programmes on the Transplantation of the Human Organs Act must be conducted for the benefit of the public, the petitioner said. The case was adjourned till October 15.
24 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directive to State govt.||Taking note of the fact that it has been over nine years since a board of trustees was constituted for the Palani Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has asked the State government to take possible steps to constitute the same as early as possible. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took into account the fact that since 2011, the Executive Officer/ Fit Person was at the helm of the affairs and even after nine years, the authorities had not constituted a board of trustees to manage the affairs of the temple. It can only be characterised as subversion of the statutory scheme. The court was hearing the petition filed by T.R. Ramesh who challenged the tender notification issued inviting tenders for providing house keeping services in the temple and institutions attached to it. The petitioner contended that devotees were entitled to offer voluntary service known as ‘uzhavara pani.’ Further, the petitioner contended that by entrusting maintenance and cleaning works to outsiders in the name of housekeeping contract, the temple management had infringed on the rights of devotees. He said that no regular board was constituted for over nine years and the Executive Officer cannot take major decisions having financial implications. Quashing the tender notification, the court observed that in the very nature of things, decisions in matters that involve financial implications will have to be taken only by a duly constituted trust board. Policy decisions can only be taken by a duly constituted board of trustees, the court said. When the same official combines in himself both the offices of Executive Officer and Fit Person, the mechanism of checks and balances goes. Executive Officers are appointed so that trustees do not run amok. But if he is also made the fit person to discharge the functions of a trustee and continues for years, it is a fraud on the statute, the judge said. Further, the judge said that Article 25 of the Constitution confers the fundamental right to freely practise one’s religion. In the case of Hindus, it would include the right to perform uzhavara pani. The temple management can of course regulate it, but cannot deny it, the court said.
24 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Antique dealer seeks bail||Antique dealer Subash Chandra Kapoor, currently lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison in judicial custody in connection with idol theft cases, moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking bail on health grounds. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed the Idol Wing CID police to file their response and adjourned the hearing till September 29. The petitioner, a cancer survivor, said that he was 71 years old and was suffering from health problems. He was remanded in judicial custody in 2012. In 2008, he had displayed idols in his art gallery ‘Art of Past’ in the US, following which he was accused of stealing idols from India, based on a confession statement by a co-accused. A ‘red corner’ notice was issued against him in 2011, and subsequently he was arrested in Germany. He was handed over to the Indian government in 2012.
24 September 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Man kills mother, burns body||The Tiruchengode Rural Police are on the lookout for a 39-year-old man who allegedly murdered his mother and burnt the body in the early hours of Wednesday. According to police, the accused Prakash had frequent quarrels with his mother over property dispute. He wanted the property in his mother’s name to be transferred to his name. On Tuesday, during an altercation, Prakash assaulted his mother with an iron rod. She died on the spot. Muthulakshmi, the women’s daughter-in-law, found blood stains inside the house. Prakash warned her not to disclose it to anyone. Police said that he took the body to a vacant land near the house and burnt it using petrol and removed the ashes from the spot. After Prakash left, Muthulakshmi alerted the neighbours, who informed the police. Fingerprint experts and sniffer dog were pressed into service. A case was registered and a search is on for Prakash.
24 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘1. 23 lakh in U.T. given e-health cards’||Around 1.23 lakh people in the Union Territory have been issued e-health cards under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana scheme, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The Minister said around 3,100 people in the Union Territory had received treatment under the scheme. He was replying to question raised by V. Vaithilingam, Puducherry MP.
24 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Test positivity rate under 10% for past 3 weeks in U.T.’||The test positivity rate has been under 10% for the past three weeks in spite of enhanced testing volumes, T. Arun, Health Secretary, said. “We have been testing in excess of 5,000 samples a day for the past week. This is at an optimal level and far exceeds the 3,000 a day target recommended by expert bodies,” he said. The tests are being assigned in a 50:50 ration split between RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test methods. According to Mr. Arun, mortality analysis showed that an estimated 70% of deaths were occurring within 48 hours of admission even in symptomatic patients. “This indicates delayed reporting to hospital,” Mr. Arun said. While the administration has stepped up active surveillance through door-to-door visits by ASHA/ANM volunteers to carry out screening and tests, the fatalities can be lowered only with full cooperation of the public in seeking medical help as early as possible, he said. After a briefing with Mr. Arun and A. Anbarasu, Relief and Rehabilitation Secretary, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said a separate ICMR team will be designated for supervising, monitoring, guiding and handholding of the outlying regions of Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe. 8 deaths recorded Puducherry recorded eight COVID-19 deaths and 543 new cases from 5,642 tests on Wednesday. The capital accounted for seven deaths and Yanam one. The patients, including two women, were in the 45 to 77 age bracket. The case fatality rate was 1.99% and recovery rate 77.98%. The tally is 481 deaths, 4,853 active cases, a cumulative total of 24,227 and 18,893 patients discharged.
24 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Five get life term for SI’s murder||Paramakudi Additional District Sessions Judge Malarmannan on Wednesday sentenced five persons to undergo life imprisonment for the murder of a Sub-Inspector of Police. According to prosecution, Sivasubramanian (44) of Keezhakudi in Virudhunagar district was working as SI in Abiramam police station near Kamudi in the district. When he was on night rounds in April 2006, an eight- member gang attacked the SI at Nandiseri and relieved him of his ring, wrist watch and mobile phone, and murdered him. Bose (40), a head constable attached to Mandalamanickam station, who was proceeding to his village near Abiramam on his bike, was also assaulted by the gang. He escaped with injuries, but he lost his valuables. Police arrested all the eight accused. While T. Muthuramalingam (38), one of the accused, was acquitted, Duraipandi (40) and Muniasami (38) died during the hearing. The court awarded life sentence to all the others — M. Murugesan (38) of Keerathurai in Madurai, Gnanavelpandi (39) of Villapuram, P. Ravi Shanmugam of Keerathurai, V. Thirumurthi (39) and T. Muthuramalingam (42) – on the charge of murdering the police officer and imposed fines of Rs. 2,000 on them each. The court also awarded seven-year jail term and Rs. 1,000 fine to each of the five persons for assault on Mr. Bose. Head constable Shanmugapriya of Abiramam station, who was responsible for coordination in the case, was commended by Superintendent of Police E. Karthik, a press release said.
24 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Licence for cracker stall||The Salem City Police has advised persons interested in setting up cracker shops to apply for licence by October 9. According to a release, they are advised to approach the Police Commissioner’s office with the required documents.
24 September 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||PESO fiat to cracker shops||Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation has issued a slew of precautionary measures for cracker shops to ensure safety. In a statement, its Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives, K. Sundaresan, said that the cracker shop licence holders should purchase and stock only authorised fireworks bought from licensed manufacturers. “The fireworks stock should not exceed licensed quantity as a precautionary measure,” Mr. Sundaresan said. ‘No smoking’ boards should be prominently put up and shopkeepers should not block the emergency exit by placing goods, he added. No electric wires should be in a suspended position in shop, but should be properly fixed. Circuit breaker should be installed in shops. Similarly, no electrical appliances and generators should be in the vicinity. The shopkeepers should periodically remove all the waste materials, including empty boxes, from the shop. PESO has also advised the shopkeepers to stock colour matches, paper caps, roll caps separately. Unloading of fireworks goods should be done during non-peak hours and only one vehicle should be allowed at a time. Only non-alcoholic and non-smokers should be employed for loading and unloading activities. Mr. Sundaresan said that no packing of gift boxes should not be done in shops. Similarly, they should not take up sealing of boxes using any electric power or flame.
24 September 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Widening of Tenkasi-Tirunelveli stretch soon, says RTI response||Even after the Chief Minister had announced in 2014 in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly to widen the road measuring 45.60 km between Tenkasi and Tirunelveli, the project seems to be moving at a snail’s pace, according to an activist Rm. Udayasooriyan of Avudayanoor near Pavoorchatram here. Obtaining a response from the officials through the Right To Information (RTI) Act, the activist said that the State government had in September 2014 earmarked Rs. 480.60 crore for the project to be implemented with World Bank assistance and on the public-private partnership model. The project, according to the Information Officer Dhanaseelan, had proposed to have wide roads measuring 24 to 35 metres all through the stretch beginning from the outskirts of Tirunelveli to Tenkasi. Depending on the rural and urban pockets, the widening of the roads would be carried out, the response said. The officer had also informed that the project would have a service road at Pavoorchatram-Alangulam with 5 to 5.50 metre wide roads and a flyover running to 990 metres at Pavoorchatram. The information obtained by the activist further revealed that though the TNRDC (TN Road Development Company) had invited tender and work was to commence, due to some technicalities, the contract had to be cancelled. Again, tenders were invited in the third quarter of 2019 for a second time and it was now in process of finalisation. The activist said that when in many pockets in the country, villagers and farmers were opposing the widening of roads as in the process, the trees were felled and cultivable lands were acquired, in this case, the people were pressing the government officials to execute it without any further delay, he said. The road from Tenkasi to Tirunelveli had to be widened at the earliest as the number of vehicles had risen manifold. It was a harrowing experience for many motorists to negotiate on many curves and dangerously narrow roads. The only solution to prevent accidents would be to widen the roads and enforce lane discipline, a traffic police officer said.
24 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||More CCTV cameras set up||The district police have been installing more and more CCTV cameras. Superintendent of Police Jayakumar inaugurated the control room at Thenbagam police station here on Wednesday. He said in the last 10 days alone, they had detained two persons under the Goondas Act. In the last two months, 69 persons were booked for possessing ganja and other narcotics substances.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seven die, 598 test positive in central region||The central region on Wednesday recorded a drop in new cases, with 598 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Seven deaths — five in Thanjavur and one each in Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts — were recorded in the region. In Thanjavur, men aged 82, 79, 75, 51 and 50 years succumbed to the viral infection with co-morbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension. In Pudukottai, an 80-year-old man suffering from chronic kidney disease died, according to the State health bulletin. In Nagapattinam, a 62-year-old woman, who had no preexisting ailments, succumbed to the infection at Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases among central districts on Wednesday with 186 patients testing positive. Among the patients to test positive were a professor at a private college, a Public Works Department worker, a physiotherapist at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and three employees at a private hospital. Others had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients detected at fever camps. Tiruchi recorded a slight increase in cases with 112 patients testing positive. The number of containment zones in the district had significantly dropped, a senior health official in the district said. Meanwhile, 27 patients from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 19 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged and sent home after recovery from the viral infection. Tiruvarur recorded 99 new COVID-19 cases, while in Pudukottai, 81 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among those who tested positive in both districts were primary contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Among the 46 new COVID-19 cases in Nagapattinam were frontline workers, patients who were immediate contacts of patients who tested positive and those with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Karur, 41 fresh cases were recorded. Among them were residents from Vennamalai, Panjapatti, Rayanur, and Kadavur among other localities. Perambalur recorded 22 new COVID-19 cases, while Ariyalur recorded 11. Of the 22 in Perambalur were seven from Perambalur block, five from Veppanthattai, four from Veppur and six from Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, 424 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts, those living inside containment zones and people with symptoms and were sent for testing.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Now, it is 1.5 lakh tests||The Department of Microbiology at K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College on Tuesday completed testing 1.5 lakh COVID-19 samples, an achievement officials attributed to team effort. The lab in Tiruchi received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, and began testing for COVID-19 on March 24. The milestone of one lakh tests was reached on August 25. The two-lakh mark would be reached in 20 days time, said K. Lakshmi, Head-In Charge of Department of Microbiology. Though technicians at the lab had the technical know-how to conduct Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR tests) earlier, they faced capacity constraints as only 100 tests could be conducted in a day with one RT-PCR machine. “RNA extraction was done manually until the district administration provided an RNA extractor and another RT-PCR machine,” Dr. Lakshmi said. As the number of COVID-19 cases went up, the number of samples being processed increased. From July onwards, at least 1,800 to 2,000 samples were processed per day, said Dr. Lakshmi. Initially, at least 5,000 samples were from other districts, including Perambalur, Karur, Ariyalur, and the remaining samples were all lifted in Tiruchi. “Nowadays, the samples come from fever camps conducted in the district, and patients approaching Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital to get tested voluntarily. As all other districts have also been equipped with testing facilities, our burden has reduced significantly,” she said. As on Wednesday, they had tested 1,54,000 samples in total. Since September, Tiruchi district’s COVID prevalence rate had dropped, she said, adding that the current rate was around 5%. “This time around, we are well-equipped and prepared. We have a team of well-trained technicians, a new set of postgraduate students and we have the advantage of six months of experience.” With the State slowly relaxing lockdown restrictions, everyone was preparing for ‘the new normal’, but the challenge in reducing incidences of positive cases remains. “When public transport opened up, we feared a significant spike, but we are safe compared to other districts,” she said. Dr. Lakshmi urged the public to continue to wear facemasks as they venture outdoors. “Research shows that wearing of a facemask, even a regular cotton cloth, will cut down the risk of contracting the infection by half. We need to work together.”
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Locked for five months, public parks cry out for cleanup||After a five-month-long gap, most of the recreational parks in the city have been reopened to public. Visitors are allowed in the morning and evening. Though residents are apprehensive about coming out in the open in view of COVID-19, a section of them visits the parks as usual. The visitors are from all walks of life and age groups. They allege that the parks have been reopened without carrying out maintenance work. Caretakers and gardeners usually prune the plants at least once a week and remove weeds. Now, the unchecked gowth of plants, trees and grass is a tell-tale sign that the parks have not been maintained properly since their closure in the last week of March. Parks near Kauvery Hospital in Cantonment and Anna Nagar are among those that need to be cleaned up. Slides, swings and other equipment too look unclean. “We are fortunate to have a well-established park in our locality. We regularly visit it in the evenings. But it has lost lustre due to poor maintenance. Grass has grown to a height of two to three feet,” says M. Sumaya of Bheema Nagar, after a a visit to Science Park at Anna Nagar. Asha, another resident of Bheema Nagar, says the recent wet spell has led to spurt in growth of vegetation and a special drive to clean the parks and clear the weeds is necessary.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||As fear takes a back seat, more people opt for public transport||Though fears over spread of COVID-19 virus have not entirely subsided in the minds of people, there has been a gradual rise in patronage for public transport, both city and mofusil buses. Private bus operators in the central region have not been keen to resume services even after the State government permitted them to get back to business with effect from September 1. Even bus services of State-owned transport corporations have resumed only partially. Due to poor patronage, less than 50% of their fleets were operated during the first week. Commuters, who usually preferred bus transport, were not keen to travel apparently due to the fear factor. However, the number of passengers patronising buses have gone up gradually over the last two weeks. The buses that struggled to fill up less than 30% of their capacity now ply with more than 70% of the permitted seats particularly during peak hours. In city buses, there are also instances of passengers travelling ‘standing’ after all seats are occupied. Most of the buses running between Tiruchi railway junction and Srirangam get near normal patronage. The same is the case in mofusil buses too, according to officials. In the first week post-resumption of services, just three buses out of nine were operated between Kuzhumani and Chathiram Bus Stand. Now, the entire complement of nine buses, including private vehicles, are operated in this sector. “Barring a few days, I commute by standing in the bus from Kuzhumani to Chthiram Bus Stand. Most of the buses are packed to capacity. Not many seem to bother about safety norms,” says S. Kalaiselvi of Kuzhumani. On the Tiruchi-Thanjavur route, a rough estimate shows that a bus transports about 1,100 to 1,200 passengers a day. Just 300 to 400 passengers travelled in the first week after resumption of bus services. It has now gone up to 700 a day. Bus operators see it is a sign of return back to normalcy. “The fear factor is decreasing gradually. Now, we see a ray of hope for complete revival,” says S. Gopal, a bus operator in Tiruchi.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Court issues non-bailable warrant against Sasikala’s brother Sundaravadhanam||A non-bailable warrant has been issued by the Judicial Magistrate Court, Tiruvaiyaru, in Thanjavur district against T.V. Sundaravadhanam, brother of V.K. Sasikala, former close aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalitha, in a case relating to purchase of a piece of land from a farmer, Manoharan, after allegedly kidnapping and threatening him. In 2015, the Anti-Land Grabbing Special Cell registered a case against Mr. Sundaravadhanam and 10 others following a direction from the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on a petition filed by the farmer’s wife, who was the owner of the land situated at Rajendram Arcot in Thanjavur district. The alleged crime dates back to December 2008 when Manoharan decided to sell his farm land on which he had raised several tree species to a timber depot owner. The farmer is said to have received Rs. 15 lakh as advance amount from the timber depot owner. Threat issued Meanwhile, he was threatened by a few “henchmen” to sell the land to Mr. Sundharavadhanam. The timber depot owner subsequently took back the advance amount from Manoharan. It is further alleged that Manoharan and his family were kidnapped and threatened to sign a document pertaining to sale of the land measuring nearly four acres to Sundharavadhanam. Police sources said the land was registered in the name of Mr. Sundaravadhanam, who reportedly paid Rs. 7 lakh to the farmer, who thereafter continuously waged a struggle to retrieve the property. A first information report was booked subsequently naming 11 persons, including Mr. Sundaravadhanam, as accused under IPC Sections including 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation), The chargesheet was thereafter filed by the District Crime Branch in July 2018, said police sources adding that the non-bailable warrant was issued last month. The next hearing in the case has been slated for October 6. ‘Give back land’ Meanwhile, Arappor Iyakkam, a non-governmental organisation, has demanded that the land be handed over to the farmer and the patta be changed in his name. It also wanted police to arrest Mr. Sundaravadhanam and the remaining accused.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Amenities to be upgraded at Puliancholai||Puliancholai, a popular picnic spot in Tiruchi district, is to be provided with a host of basic amenities aimed at benefiting tourists visiting the location. The works will be carried out with State Tourism Development Fund. Official sources say a sum of Rs. 32.82 lakh has been sanctioned to carry out a slew of works such as construction of cloak room and dress changing room, provision of drinking water and laying of approach road and two-wheeler parking area at Puliancholai, which is situated at the foothills of Kollimalai. The facilities are to be provided as per the direction of Minister of Tourism Vellamandi N. Natarajan, the sources added. Puliancholai is located about 70 km from Tiruchi and tourists throng the place to have a bath in the waters flowing down the Kolli hills. The green and serene location has been a favourite spot for picnickers, especially during weekends. Work for creation of basic amenities are to begin soon.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers hold demo||Members of the Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers Union and representatives of CITU, Labour Progressive Front, INTUC, AICCTU and HMS staged a demonstration here on Wednesday in support of their charter of demands. The demonstrators urged the government to provide Rs. 7,500 each for April, May and June totalling Rs. 22,500 to every family of construction workers and unorganised labourers who lost their income due to lockdown. They urged the government not to impose tough conditions for registration and for renewal in the welfare board meant for construction workers. They also demanded immediate withdrawal of prohibitory orders imposed across the country. The stir was held in front of Head Post Office and led by LPF district secretary Wilson.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam-Velankanni electrified track to be ready next month||Overhead electrification works on Nagapattinam-Velankanni broad gauge stretch is nearing completion. The 10-km project entrusted with the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) is proceeding swiftly with wiring works under way along the section. A senior CORE official said overhead electrification work was expected to be completed early next month. As part of the project, CORE had established 265 electric masts and 15 portals along the broad gauge stretch. Upon completion, the electrified section would be inspected by the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru. Only after obtaining statutory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety could electric locomotive-hauled passenger trains be operated to and from Velankanni, the official said. Other sections had already been energised. CORE executed the overhead electrification project on Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagore-Nagapattinam-Karaikal broad gauge section. Electrification of Nagapattinam-Velankanni section would pave the way for operation of electric loco-hauled freight and passenger trains. Upon completion of the project, CORE would concentrate on the next broad gauge section from Needamangalam to Mannargudi also falling under Tiruchi Division. This too was a small stretch to a distance of about 10 km. Foundation to lay electric masts had already begun, the official further said.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Government Arts College at Kulithalai granted Grade 1 status after spike in student strength||The Department of Higher Education has granted Grade 1 status to Government Arts College at Kulithalai in Karur district with effect from the academic year 2020-21. Established in 2007, the co-educational institution had 2,055 students on roll as on September 25, 2019, with 929 boys and 1,126 girls. It was originally named Doctor Kalaignar Government Arts College and renamed as Government Arts College in 2011. A government college will attain Grade 1 status once the student strength crosses 2,000, official sources said. The college offers 14 undergraduate programmes, seven postgraduate programmes, 10 M.Phil programmes and eight Ph.D programmes. There are 68 teaching staff and 15 non-teaching staff. The institution is one among the two government arts colleges to be upgraded to Grade I status from this academic year. The other institution is the Government Arts College for Women at Nilakottai in Dindigul district. The Government Arts College in Kulithalai was sanctioned as a long-felt need of economically backward students in the town and surrounding areas who otherwise have to travel to Government Arts College at Karur for higher education. The Government Arts College, Karur, was started at Thanthonimalai as a men’s institution in 1966 and converted into a co-educational college from 1972-73 academic session. Conferment of autonomy to the college in 2007 coincided with the start of the new government arts college at Kulithalai.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM Trichy signs MoU with Young Indians||Indian Institute of Management, Trichy ,on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Young Indians (Yi) Trichy to conduct various short-term leadership workshop and other allied activities for entrepreneurs in and around the district. The MoU also paves way for students of IIM Trichy to do live projects from industries based out of the district. The MoU was signed by Bhimaraya Metri, Director, IIM Trichy, and Ketan J. Vora, Yi Chair, Yi Trichy Chapter. C. Pradeep Yuva Chair, Yi Trichy Chapter; and P. Saravanan, Chairperson Student Affairs, IIM Trichy, were present. As an an integral part of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Yi Trichy has been engaging students under the aegis of YUVA, offering them a platform to work in cross-functional teams with a broad objective of enhancing their leadership skills and giving back to the nation. Mr. Metri said Yi and IIM Trichy would work together to help start-ups, young entrepreneurs and also build brand for Tiruchi through ‘Discovering Trichy’ activities.
24 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 96.38 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 66,521 cusecs and the discharge 18,000 cusecs.
24 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID takes over murder case probe||Crime Branch CID police officers in Tirunelveli on Wednesday formally took over the probe in the case of the abduction and murder of a 32-year old man, Selvan. A police inspector and an expelled functionary of the ruling AIADMK were among those arraigned as accused. The CB-CID received the case documents from the investigation officer Prakash. The victim belonged to Chinnakudiyuruppu near Sattankulam in the neighbouring Thoothukudi district. Following a complaint from Selvan’s mother Elizabeth (77), the police had recently registered a case against six persons, including Thattarmadam Inspector Harikrishnan (now suspended), AIADMK functionary Thirumanavel (since expelled) and four others. According to the complainant, Selvan was abducted and beaten to death as he had refused to sell his land to Thirumanavel. The latter had also allegedly implicated Selvan earlier in false cases with the help of the Inspector. Placing a few demands, including a CB-CID probe, the family had initially refused to receive Selvan’s body. After Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri and others held talks, they accepted the body two days ago. Subsequently DGP J. K. Tripathy transferred the case to the CB-CID. On Wednesday CB-CID DSP Anil Kumar received the case documents from DSP Prakash, who was the investigation officer in the case till now. The police have so far arrested Chinnadurai and Muthuramalingam, while Thirumanavel and Muthukrishnan surrendered before a Judicial Magistrate Court in Saidapet, Chennai, two days ago. The DIG of Police (Tirunelveli Range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu had Harikrishnan. An officer in the CB-CID police said that six teams, each comprising five personnel, would probe the case.
24 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Banned plastics seized||Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan in a press release issued here on Tuesday said that a flying squad, which conducted checks in all the four zones in the city over the last two days, found that some small vendors continued to use the banned plastics. The teams seized 38 kg of banned plastics and imposed fines of Rs. 11,800.
24 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||SI, 4 others suspended||Tirunelveli Superintendent of Police N Manivannan has suspended five personnel, including a sub-inspector of police, on the charges of their roles in sand smuggling. Following complaints, the SP had ordered a discreet inquiry and subsequently suspended SI Karuthiah, head constable Sudakar, policemen Ratnavel, Mundasami and Lakshmi Narayanan. The public and many activists have been providing vital information about illegal activities to the SP, which was verified before initiating the action. The SP had recently instructed his personnel not to indulge in any manner or connive with sand mining activities and had warned of stern action. The move of the district police administration has been welcomed by many activists.
24 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari’s single-day tally crosses 100-mark again||Kanniyakumari on Wednesday reported 117 new COVID-19 cases to have a total case count of 12,077. There were 21 discharges from hospitals in the district. Tirunelveli recorded 92 fresh cases, with which its tally of cases moved up to 12,081. Hospitals discharged 100 people. In Madurai district, 79 people tested positive, raising its tally to 16,103. No COVID-19-related deaths were recorded and the death toll remains at 380. Seventy-four people were discharged from various treatment facilities. The number of active cases is 764. A total of 55 fresh cases were added to Thoothukudi’s tally, which rose to 13,071. There were 80 discharges. Tenkasi registered 46 new cases to mark a tally of 6,961. Hospitals discharged 123 people. Theni too reported 46 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 14,408. There were 68 discharges registered in the district. Sivaganga district had 44 fresh cases, which took its tally up to 4,922. The district witnessed 35 discharges. Dindigul’s total case count went up to 8,545 with the addition of 40 cases. The district registered 31 discharges. Virudhunagar district recorded 35 fresh cases, which raised the total case count to 14,143. After 34 patients were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 341. The district’s death toll remains at 208. Ten people tested positive in Ramanathapuram, pushing the district’s tally to 5,411. Hospitals in the district reported 17 discharges.
24 September 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Kin allege negligence caused Tiruppur woman’s death||A day after two COVID-19 patients died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur allegedly due to power disruption at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), kin of a woman from Tiruppur alleged on Wednesday that she too could have had died following the power cut. Petition submitted A petition submitted by the relatives of Anuradha (45), a resident of Mummoorthy Nagar in Tiruppur, at the District Collector’s office on Wednesday, alleged that the woman died in the ICU, a few hours after the power supply was restored. Power supply was reportedly disrupted for about 40 minutes from 11 a.m. after a wire was cut by mistake during construction work at the medical college hospital. Anuradha was admitted to the hospital on September 16 and was later shifted to the ICU on Monday. Relatives alleged that power disruption could be the reason behind Anuradha’s death. “As the death occurred a few hours after the power disruption, we suspect negligence,” said Krishna Kumar, a relative of Anuradha. Following the incident on Tuesday, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and the hospital administration had claimed that the two COVID-19 patients had died of severe conditions of the disease and not due to power disruption as all the 147 oxygen lines had power back up. ‘No interruption in oxygen lines’ Hospital dean Valli Sathyamoorthy told The Hindu that Anuradha was admitted to the hospital with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and she was not in the ICU for COVID-19 patients. “She was undergoing treatment in a separate ICU where patients with SARI are treated. Her lungs were damaged and she died around 5.40 p.m. As we said earlier, power disruption did not interrupt oxygen lines,” she reiterated.
24 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Magisterial inquiry into custodial death held||Statements of the police personnel at the Tiruppur Rural police station at Nallur were recorded on Wednesday as part of the magisterial inquiry into the death of a man while in police custody. T. Nithyakala, Fourth judicial magistrate, Tiruppur, conducted the inquiry in connection with the death of C. Manikandan (32) from K. Chettipalayam on Dharapuram Road on Tuesday. Sources with the Tiruppur City Police said that the inquest and the post-mortem were performed in the presence of the magistrate on Tuesday. The autopsy was videographed. The magistrate recorded the statements of the police personnel who brought Manikandan to the police station around 7 a.m. on Tuesday and questioned him, said the sources. The magistrate will submit the report to the District Judge, Tiruppur. According to the police, Manikandan, one of the three suspects in the death of a woman, was epileptic and he died following a seizure at the police station. His relatives were outside the police station at the time of questioning, they said.
24 September 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Petrol bomb hurled at house, says BJP functionary||A BJP functionary Krishnamoorthi, resident of Bharathidasan Nagar, near Tiruppur, claimed that a petrol bomb was hurled at his house when he was off to Palani with family members on Wednesday. According to the police, a broken bottle was found in front of his house and no damage was reported. Special teams were investigating the complaint.
24 September 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||ONGC pipeline leak damages paddy field||A paddy field at Erukattur in Tiruvarur district was damaged due to leakage of crude oil from an underground pipeline of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation. Officials of ONGC and Revenue Department on Wednesday inspected the one acre of paddy field which was inundated in the spillage. It was the same field where the leakage of crude oil had occurred from the underground pipeline during 2018, sources said. ONGC had at that time compensated the farmer for the oil leakage and he had undertaken soil restoration work with the amount. The ONGC officials had reportedly assured the farmer that the suitable compensation will be provided this time also based on a report from the Revenue Department.
24 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Drunk constable held for creating ruckus||A police constable P. Mayakannan (30) of Tirumangalam was arrested on the charge of creating a ruckus under the influence of alcohol at the armed reserve police office in Soolakkarai on Tuesday. He was sent to judicial custody on Wednesday for using abusive language, preventing police officials from discharging their duties and for criminal intimidation. The police said that Mayakannan, who was a constable with AR police here, has absented himself since September 2. On Tuesday, he had turned up at the AR police office in a T-shirt and lungi and abused the police personnel there and the Sub-Inspector of Police Jayakumar for not allowing him to join duty. The accused, who was drunk, also pulled out a knife and threatened the police. Based on a complaint by Mr. Jayakumar, the Soolakkarai police arrested the accused.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees 587 cases and four deaths||Coimbatore district reported 587 new COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Wednesday. As of Wednesday, the district had 4,630 active cases. A total of 512 persons were discharged after treatment. The Health Department said that four patients from Coimbatore district succumbed to the disease, two each in private hospitals and at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The district’s toll rose to 396 on Wednesday.  Discrepancy in test result A resident of Kovilmedu, on Wednesday, lodged a police complaint against a private laboratory in Vadavalli following discrepancy in COVID-19 test result. The man alleged that the result issued by the private laboratory on Tuesday was positive, whereas the result of a re-test done in another private laboratory in the city on Wednesday was negative. The man and his friends thronged the Vadavalli laboratory and later lodged a complaint with the police. A senior official said that the police were yet to register a case on the complaint. Tiruppur district reported 247 new cases and four deaths. With 1,667 active cases, the district tally rose to 6,836. The Health Department on Wednesday declared the deaths of four patients who were undergoing treatment in different hospitals in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. On Wednesday, the district’s toll crossed 100 mark and stood at 101. Salem district reported 298 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 17,379. While 212 persons were discharged, 2,350 persons are under treatment. Nine persons died, raising the toll in the district to 284. Salem City Municipal Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, who tested positive, was admitted to a private hospital in the city on Tuesday evening.  Namakkal district reported 132 cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,487. As many as 196 persons were discharged on Wednesday and 882 persons are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 63. Erode district reported 125 new cases. The district’s tally rose to 5,889. While 122 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 1,113 are under treatment. Eighty-nine persons tested positive in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 3,267. The toll increased to 22 and 719 persons are under treatment. While Krishnagiri recorded 63 new cases, Dharmapuri saw 130 cases.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies to stage protest on Sept. 28 against farm bills||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam units in Coimbatore district will stage a protest on September 28 against the passage of farm bills. Meeting held The party’s Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik told journalist on Wednesday that the decision to hold the protest in front of the Coimbatore South Taluk office was in keeping with his party president M.K. Stalin’s call for protest against the passage of three bills in Parliament and decision taken at the all-party held here earlier in the day. Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi general secretary Eswaran would lead the protest. The protest was also against the Central Government for pushing the bills through in both the Houses, he said and added that they were against farmers’ interest. The party members and cadre from allies in the Secular Progressive Alliance would participate in protests that would be held at more than 10 places on the day, he added. Former Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S. Jayakumar, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader R. Sethupathi, Communist Party of Inda (Marxist) district secretary V. Ramamoorthy, CPI district secretary V.S. Sundaram and leaders from the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and a few other parties participated in the meeting.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Faecal sludge treatment plant commissioned||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Tuesday commissioned the first faecal sludge treatment centre in Periyanaickenpalayam. A release from the district administration said the Rs. 2.48-crore plant, set up on a 1.5-acre plot near the Resource Recovery Park in Periyanaickenpalayam, was funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and commissioned with the support of the Indian Institute for Human Settlements and Keystone Foundation. Waste from public convenience facilities and private toilets in all the wards in the Periyanaickenpalayam and Narasimhanaickenpalayam town panchayats were taken to the plant for treatment. The nearby Gudalur, No. 4 Veerapandi and Idigarai town panchayats would also benefit from the plant, which would process around 25,000 litre waste using electro mechanical method. The release, quoting Mr. Velumani, said the plant would help town panchayats that were not as populated as municipalities and municipal corporation, where sewage treatment plant was set up as part of the underground drainage system. First time And, this was the first time in the State that such a faecal sludge treatment system was commissioned. Liquid and solid waste would be separated at the treatment centre. The liquid waste would be used at the nearby Resource Recovery Park and the solid waste would processed into manure for distribution to farmers. And, as a result of processing the faecal sludge, the ground water and environment were protected, the release added.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to block roads on Sept. 25||Urging the Central government to withdraw the three bills on agriculture, farmers in the district under the banner All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), will stage road roko at three places in the district on September 25. A.M. Munusamy, K.V. Ponnaiyan, C.M. Thulasimani and Subbu, coordinators for Erode district, said that the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, were against the farming community and hence, had called for a pan-India protest. They said that road roko will be organised at Erode, Gobichettipalayam and Kadambur. Farmers, trade unions, youths and the common public will be participating. They said that the bills were passed aimed at corporate interests and to harm the farmers and the country-wide protest in which 250 farmers’ organisations will be participating will urge the Centre to withdraw the bills.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister objects to Culture Ministry panel without experts from Tamil Nadu||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Union Ministry of Culture to reconstitute an expert committee to include eminent scholars from the State. The Ministry recently constituted the committee to conduct a holistic study of the origin and evolution of Indian culture during the past 12 millennia, and its interaction with other cultures of the world. ‘Deep concern’ While it was a welcome move to deepen our understanding of our country’s rich and varied cultural roots, the composition of the committee in itself was a matter of deep concern, the Chief Minister said in his letter to the Prime Minister. “The said committee has no representative from any of the southern States, especially from Tamil Nadu, which has a glorious past and is home to one of the oldest civilizations, viz. Dravidian civilization — a living and thriving culture in the South of India,” Mr. Palaniswami pointed out in his letter. A copy of the letter was released to the media. The recent archaeological excavations in Keeladi and other parts of Tamil Nadu reveal that the world-reputed Sangam era can now be dated back to as early as 6th century BCE. “This places Tamil culture and language as one of the oldest surviving heritages in the world,” Mr. Palaniswami underlined. Glorious legacy “If you recall, Sir, around this time last year you visited Mahabalipuram [for the informal summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping], where you had observed the awe-inspiring timeless monuments and glorious legacy of Tamil heritage in full splendour. You will, therefore, agree with me that any chronicle of Indian history and culture would be grossly incomplete without giving its rightful place to Tamil culture and language,” the Chief Minister said. Given this background, it was surprising that the Ministry of Culture had chosen to ignore experts from Tamil Nadu while setting up the said committee, he contended. On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, the Mr. Palaniswami requested Mr. Modi to personally intervene and direct the Union Ministry of Culture to reconstitute the expert committee by inducting eminent scholars from Tamil Nadu. He requested an early response from the Prime Minister.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flyover planned at Periyanaickenpalayam||The Central Government has approved construction of a flyover across Periyanaickenpalayam junction, according to an official of the National Highways Division of the State Highways. The four-lane flyover will cover three junctions - LMW, Periyanaickenpalayam, and Vannankoil. The Rs. 75-crore project also envisages a service road for vehicles that want to travel within the 1.85 km. It does not involve land acquisition. It will be designed in detail and executed by the work contractor. Works are expected to commence in a couple of months.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC initiates contempt action against schools||The other two schools under the scanner are Muslim Higher Secondary School and Don Bosco Matriculation Higher Secondary School, both in Ramanathapuram district. All of them were directed to offer their explanation for having violated the order. The direction was issued after K. Jeyalalitha, Deputy Secretary, School Education Department, filed a report stating that initially show-cause notices were issued to 23 schools. All the schools submitted their replies, and the charge of violating the court order was established against four of them. Subsequently, the Department created exclusive e-mail IDs for filing complaints in every district. Though 116 complaints were received against schools through these e-mail IDs, only 78 were related to violation of the court order. An inquiry into those complaints led to the establishment of the charge against a few more schools. Five schools were yet to submit their replies to the show-cause notices, the court was told. This submission forced the judge to initiate contempt proceedings against the erring institutions. On July 17, Justice Venkatesh directed all schools and colleges in the State to collect only 40% of the fees in the first instalment and another 25% immediately after the government permits the institutions to reopen after the threat of COVID-19 subsides. However, even after the order was passed, there were complaints of some schools demanding payment of 100% fees. Taking a serious note of the complaint, the judge directed the School Education Department to inquire into the issue and submit a report.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Keeping up the fight||
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gyms remain empty while maintenance costs surge||Sunil S. Shetty, 24, has been a gym regular for the past 10 years. Working out is an essential part of his life, “like brushing my teeth”, he says. He missed going to the gym for five months during the COVID-19 lockdown. Home workouts – lacking in equipment and trainer advice – wasn’t a sufficient substitute. Three weeks after August 5, when gyms in the city were allowed to re-open, Sunil resumed training at a fitness studio in Nagavara. But it’s not the same experience. “With the pandemic still on, working out at gyms isn’t the same as it used to be. We need to adjust,” he says. Sunil, however, seems to be an exception. Fitness trainers and gym owners say most customers haven’t returned. Their relief after the post-lockdown resumption was momentary. “Business is almost as bad as it was during the lockdown,” says Dinesh Kumar, fitness manager of Plej Fitness in Panathur. The daily footfall in his gym has plummeted from 300 before the pandemic to 20 at present. At the same time, the cost of everyday maintenance has surged. As per the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare guidelines, gyms have to reorganise their space so that people can maintain a distance of six feet from each other. They also have to stock up on disinfectants, sanitisers, and face shields, among other things. “I hired two people just to clean and disinfect the gym,” says Vikram Rao, owner of Muscle Kraft Fitness Studio. Up to 12 people can work out simultaneously at his 2,400 sq.ft. gym as per the guidelines. But less than 25 people turn up every day. Quadz Fitness trainer Pradeep A. says, “Footfall is down from 300 to 30. There are no new subscriptions. Even renewals have stopped. We used to have a target of about Rs. 5 lakh a month. Now, doing business of Rs. 30,000 seems challenging. Most trainers, who left for their hometowns during the lockdown, haven’t returned as they can’t sustain themselves in Bengaluru with what they will earn now.” Gyms are sharing photos and videos of the cleaning and physical distancing to reduce anxiety among clients. “But some people don’t come due to family pressure. They either have an elder or a child at home,” said Vikram. Plej Fitness halved their subscription rates to attract customers, but to no avail. “Many of our customers were IT professionals who live in nearby in PG accommodation. Most of them work from their hometowns now,” says Dinesh, “We keep calling and messaging those who live in the city. But they don’t come due to safety concerns. We can’t persuade them after a point. More than the actual safety, it’s a mental block.” Vikash Gupta, who used to work out four times a week at his gym in Yelahanka, cites the daily rise in cases and the death toll. “On one hand, you see pictures and videos of people cleaning your gym, which are reassuring. But on the other hand, you see the number of COVID-19 cases increasing every day. Maybe, it will take a month or two before I can have the confidence to go to the gym again.” Vikram, along with the other gym owners and trainers, hopes that the new year will bring a change in fortune. “That’s the best time for us. People take up new resolutions and a lot of people sign up. We are expecting a lot of people to join and re-join gyms.”
24 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. says ‘no’ to demand for judicial probe into purchase of equipment||The Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (S) on Wednesday staged a walkout in the Legislative Assembly after the government turned down its demand for a judicial probe into the alleged scam in purchase of equipment for COVID-19 management. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who replied to a daylong debate on COVID-19 situation in the State, maintained that purchases had been made transparently. Terming the allegations of the Opposition as “false”, he said there was no need for any probe. Referring to instances of other States buying ventilators at cheaper prices, the Minister said there were different kinds of ventilators and their prices too varied. “The cheaper ones bought by Tamil Nadu and being referred to by the Opposition are the ones used for ambulances. But what Karnataka has procured are high-definition ventilators that have 54 specifications,” he claimed. He agreed to provide a break-up of statistics related to purchases. With respect to the allegations of the government paying Rs. 1,444 per PPE kit in April as against the charge of Rs. 575 paid for them in July, he said the prices were high earlier as the demand was also high. “If there was a scam, we would have paid higher prices even during July,” he maintained. He said 15 government departments had spent around Rs. 4,200 crore on things related to COVID-19. Of them, the Health and Family Welfare Department had procured equipment worth Rs. 1,142 crore while the Medical Education Department had spent Rs. 76 crore on procurements. Most of the purchases had been made through e-procurement, he said. Arguing that it would not be possible to follow all the procedures amid an emergency situation, he maintained that death toll would have touched one lakh if the authorities had waited for completion of various formalities before purchases. Urging the Opposition not to hit the morale of COVID warriors through allegations, he said no other State in the country had seen such allegations being levelled. Dr. Sudhakar also launched a counter-attack by alleging that erstwhile Congress-JD(S) coalition government had paid Rs. 21 lakh for purchase of ventilators as against Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 18 lakh paid by the present dispensation. Walkout Not convinced by his reply, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged that even a layman could understand there was something fishy in the purchase of COVID-19 equipment. “We cannot keep quiet,” he said and staged a walkout with all the Opposition members.  The cheaper ventilators bought by Tamil Nadu and being referred to by the Opposition are the ones used for ambulances. But what Karnataka has procured are of high definition that have 54 specifications. K. Sudhakar,Medical Education Minister
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||House panel to probe ‘irregularities’ in Ganga Kalyana scheme||The government on Wednesday agreed to set up a House committee to probe alleged large-scale irregularities in implementation of the Ganga Kalyana Yojane meant to provide water facilities to poor Dalit farmers by sinking borewells. The announcement by Leader of the House and Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary came after members, cutting across party lines, in the Legislative Council urged the government to probe the alleged irregularities after BJP member Y.A. Narayanswamy raised the issue, and pointed at various corrupt practices found across the State. “The discretionary quota of 20% of the total allocation of borewells is being grossly misused. Fake bills are being created where borewells were not even sunk, bills are being raised for wells where water could not be harvested, and there is huge corruption in allocation of borewells as money is being demanded from farmers,” Mr. Narayanswamy said, adding that 50% of the bills submitted were bogus. The discretionary quota is given to Ministers and board members of Dr. Ambedkar Development Corporation, Bhovi Development Corporation, and Adijambava Development Corporation, he added. According to the data provided, since 2015–16 as many as 31,735 borewells have been approved under the scheme and about Rs. 1,110 crore has been spent. Exemption “While the committee headed by legislators have to adhere to the KTCP Act and no 5G exemption is given, the 5G exemption is given to discretionary quota. This meant, there was no tendering and data shows that 5,831 borewells were sunk at the cost of Rs. 224 crore under the quota.” While 10,221 borewells identified by the committee is yet to be sunk, just about 600 borewells identified under the discretionary quota remains.  31,735 borewells have been approved under the scheme and about Rs. 1,110 crore has been spent since 2015–16
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks details of facilities provided for Special Court dealing with cases against lawmakers||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to give details of the number of public prosecutors, infrastructure, and other facilities provided for the Special Court set up in 2018 to exclusively deal with criminal cases related to former and present Members of Parliament and Members of the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council in the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition suo motu initiated to monitor progress of cases against lawmakers following a direction from the apex court. Noticing that there are about 130 criminal cases pending for trial before the Special Court, the Bench also directed the Registrar-General of the High Court to submit details of district-wise cases that are transferred to the Special Court and the stages of trial of the pending cases, and the orders of stay of trial passed by the High Court. The Bench also asked the government to examine whether the safe and secure place for witnesses can be provided on the premises of Bengaluru city Civil Court Complex based on the special standard operating procedure (SOP) notified recently so that the Special Court could commence recording of statements of witnesses by securing their physical appearance as per the SOP. Also, the Bench asked Senior Counsel Aditya Sondhi, who has been appointed as amicus curiae , to give his suggestions on several aspects, including whether one Special Court is sufficient to complete the trials, as pointed out by the apex court. Further hearing was adjourned till October 5.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Several Bills passed||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed the Karnataka State Civil Services (Prohibition of Absorption of the Services of the Employees of Establishments in Public Sector into Public Service) Bill, 2020. The Bill was necessary to prevent absorption of employees of public sector enterprises into the State civil service. Establishments in the public sector face closure owing to various reasons and employees of such establishments tend to demand that their services be absorbed against posts in the civil services of the State and approach courts. The government would not absorb employees of public sector enterprises who were working on deputation to its departments, in case of closure of the PSEs, it said. The Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Amendment Bill, 2020 was passed. The Bill aims to provide temporary clearance to the manufacturing industry to establish industry on filing combined application forms and to get prepared for commercial operation. Other Bills passed by the Assembly are: the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Karnataka Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; and the Karnataka State Open Universities (Amendment) Bill.
24 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mayors in State are on a weak footing: CAG report||A report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India has observed that “the mayors of cities in Karnataka are on a weak footing.” The report of the CAG on the “performance audit” of implementation of 74th Constitutional Amendment Act that authorised state legislatures to enact laws to endow local bodies to enable them to function as institutions of self government, says that “the tenures of mayor and deputy mayor in city corporations and president and vice-president in ULBs are not coterminous with the duration of the municipality.” Lending credence to the views of some of the urban experts who had demanded a longer tenure for mayors instead of the present one year, the report says the term of mayor was too little for bringing in stability and to provide a long term vision. The report has been tabled at a juncture when the BBMP Bill is getting ready to be tabled before the State legislature, will lead any further modifications of the norms related to urban governance in the Bill. The report also observes that there was no community participation in local governance as ward committees were not constituted in any of the City Corporations except Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. “Though District Planning Committees were constituted in 29 out of 30 districts, meetings were not held regularly resulting in non-preparation of the consolidated District Development Plan involving matters of common interest between panchayats and the municipalities, the report says. “Metropolitan Planning Committee, though constituted for Bengaluru, did not prepare a comprehensive plan,”the report said. The functions of urban planning, regulation of land use etc. were delivered by parastatals in the state, the report says.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will four-lane work impact Ranganathittu, asks HC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State Forest Department to examine whether the proposed four-lane work of the existing National Highway-275 would impact Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna and Arabithittu Wildlife Sanctuary in Hunsur as alleged in a PIL petition. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi passed the order on the petition filed by retired bureaucrat H.T. Chandrashekar of Mysuru and C. Muthanna of Gonikoppa in Kodagu district. The petitioners have complained that the project has been taken up even though the Forest Department had written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) indicating that the new highway would be passing very close to Ranganathittu sanctuary and several eco-sensitive zones. It has been alleged in the petition that the NHAI is proceeding with the process of widening NH-275 based on the incorrect information provided by a private surveying agency stating that the alignment of widening the national highway would not affect both the sanctuaries.
24 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Verbal duel over remark||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar and senior Congress leader K.R. Ramesh Kumar indulged in a verbal duel on Wednesday in the Assembly over purchase of equipment for COVID-19 management. It all began with Mr. Kumar losing his cool when Dr. Sudhakar defended purchase at higher prices and using an abusive word in Kannada in the process. This angered the Minister who said he too was capable of raining such words on Mr. Kumar. Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa intervened and urged Mr. Kumar to tender an apology. Mr. Kumar, however, said he would do so if Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri ruled that the word used by him was unparliamentary. The Speaker went through files to know if the word was indeed unparliamentary. Since the exact word was not on the list of unparliamentary expressions, the Speaker ruled that the word used by Mr. Kumar was unparliamentary and expunged it.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jail term for obstructing public servants during epidemic||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2020, that prohibits obstruction of public servants and acts of violence against them during discharge of duty, and also damage to public and private properties. It prohibits person or persons from indulging in acts of violence against public servants or causing any damage or loss to any public and private properties during an epidemic. Any person indulging in violence or obstructing public servants from discharging duty would be punished with imprisonment for a term from three months to five years and with fine ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh. For committing an act of violence against public servant and causing grievous injury, punishment ranging from six months to seven years would be given and fine of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh would be imposed. The Bill was passed in the wake of attacks on ASHA workers, doctors, and policemen while discharging duties during COVID-19 pandemic.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIA handles export of 1.8 lakh kg of pomegranate||Kempegowda International Airport has handled export of 1.8 lakh kg of pomegranate from April to August. From Bengaluru, the fruit was exported to 12 international destinations by nine global freight carriers. BIAL, operator of the airport, said the airport accounted for 99% of total pomegranate exports from Karnataka.
24 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||The BWSSB will hold a water adalat on Thursday (September 24) between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m.
24 September 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Poor arrivals from Hassan, Agra push up potato prices||The supply of inferior quality potatoes to the market, both from Hassan and faraway Agra, because of a series of problems in cultivation, has been pushing the price of potato upward. In the past one week alone, the wholesale price of potato has seen a big increase. The price rise has been attributed to crop loss due to rains, reduced sowing area, and supply of inferior quality seeds that affected the yield in the major potato-growing regions of Hassan and Chikkamagaluru. Damaged produce Adding to the problem is a high percentage of rejection owing to the poor quality of potatoes arriving from Agra. As much as 35% to 40% of the loads arriving here are being rejected because of damage and poor quality, market sources said. “Potato, which was trading at Rs. 28 to Rs. 29 a kg last week, has reached Rs. 34. This is because there is neither volume nor quality in potato supply,” a trader said. Supplies from Karnataka are crucial for 4-5 months this time of year as the potatoes from Hassan reach the other southern States besides ensuring supply locally, he said. In fact, there is also reduced area under cultivation. As against last year when potato was cultivated on over 12,000 hectares, the area this year is down to about 8,500 hectares. Unlike in previous years, the government did not offer subsidy on seeds or fertilizers, citing COVID-19, and this seems to have prompted some farmers to go for alternative crops such as maize and ginger. While late blight disease had been troubling farmers for some years now, this year its impact was low. Within two weeks of sowing, rains lashed many parts of the district and farmers complained to the Horticulture Department that seeds had rotten since they do not germinate in high moisture. H.R. Yogesh, Deputy Director of Horticulture in Hassan, told The Hindu that the seeds were rotten in about 3,000 hectares within the first few weeks of sowing due to rains. “The yield in the remaining area is quite good, about seven to eight tonnes per hectare. Farmers are getting up to Rs. 3,000 per quintal of potato, a good price in the recent years,” he said. The growers said untimely rains in May and heavy rains ahead of harvest impacted the yield. “We had sowed 10 bags of seed potatoes and the yield was about 60 bags in one acre. There are farmers who got up to 15 bags for one bag of seed potatoes. It depends on the soil. The yield was better in the soil which could withstand water for a longer period,” said Yashwanth, a grower at Nidodi village in Hassan taluk. He got around Rs. 2,600 per quintal of potato. Nagaraju, another grower at Singapatna, said he had sown 16 bags of seed potatoes, but the yield was only 35 bags. “The quality of seeds was not good and many got rotten within days after sowing. Though the price I got was good, I earned less because of low yield,” he said. Shift to other crops Farmers in parts of Tarikere and Chikkamagaluru taluks grow potato and the total cultivated area is around 4,500 ha. Following heavy rains in the district, many shifted to other crops. The farmers who could protect their crop, particularly those in Tarikere taluk, got good harvest and a reasonable price as well.
24 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Guest lecturers stage protest, seek job security and release of pending salary||In response to a call for a State-wide agitation seeking job security and release of pending salaries, scores of guest lecturers staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Wednesday. Staging the protest under the aegis of the Karnataka State Guest Lecturers Agitation Committee in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, the guest lecturers expressed their displeasure over not being paid for their work, and also, lack of job security. As many as 14,564 guest lecturers are serving in 413 government first grade colleges across the State and some of them have been serving for over two decades on a temporary basis. The protesting guest lecturers said that although as per an UGC circular in 2019, guest lecturers in government degree colleges were to be paid Rs. 1,500 per hour or Rs. 50,000 per month, they were being paid very less. “At present, guest lecturers with NET, SLET or with doctoral degrees serving in degree colleges are being paid Rs. 13,000 a month, while the others are being paid Rs. 11,000. And, for the last four or five months, they have not been paid, although COVID-19-induced lockdown and subsequent developments have increased their hardships,” Bhavani Shankar of the agitation committee, said. Mr. Bhavani Shankar said that there have been reports of 15 guest lecturers having taken the extreme step during the pandemic due to financial problems. There are guest lecturers who are suffering from serious health issues. Also, some have been forced to sell vegetables and other articles on the roadside for their livelihood, he said. Convenors Hanumesh Huded and Kotresh Hubballi condemned the government’s apathy in strong terms. They said that the government, which issued directions stating that salaries to employees cannot be stopped, has not followed its own direction so far. Even as the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development issued a direction on considering the period between March 24 and July 31 as service period and payment of salaries for the same duration, the State government has not yet paid the salaries of the guest lecturers, they said. Guest lecturers Mahanthesh Chikkanaragund, C.S. Patil, Vinod Pujar, Manjunath Dandin, Sataraddi, Vijay Kumar Pawar, Gayatri Kulkarni, Geeta Agadi, Sarojini Dandalkar, Daneshwari Guddad and others coordinated the protest. They urged the State government to immediately take remedial measures. They said that although there had been a talk of releasing Rs. 53 crore towards wages, it had not reached the guest lecturers yet. Meanwhile, there were reports about the government not continuing the services of the guest lecturers under austerity measures, making the teachers further anxious, they said. The protesting teachers also said that job security was their main and long-pending demand, which the State government had to look into. They urged the State government to take a suitable decision on this after discussion during the legislature session. They later submitted a memorandum to the district administration.
24 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘New Education Policy will help address shortcomings’||The New National Education Policy will address the shortcomings in the existing system and will help improve the overall educational set-up, Principal of SDM College of Engineering and Technology K. Gopinath has said. Speaking at the foundation day function of the Dharwad Chapter of Association of Consulting Civil Engineers (ACCE) in Dharwad on Wednesday, Prof. Gopinath referred to the gap between civil engineering curriculum and the area of operation, and said that this too would be addressed in the new policy. He said that as the successive governments have been focussing on infrastructure development, there was a wide scope for civil engineers not only within the country but also outside the country. Civil engineers would have a greater role to play in infrastructure development, he said. New president of the Dharwad Chapter of ACCE Sunil Bagewadi said that ACCE would set up a students chapter at SDM College and would arrange week-end talks apart from conducting field visits to construction sites. Regular brainstorming sessions on the latest developments in the field of civil engineering would be held for the benefit of the students, he said. Earlier, Mr. Bagewadi was installed as the president, while Arun Kumar Sheelvanth and Siddanagouda Patil were installed as secretary and treasurer, respectively, along with other office-bearers.
24 September 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Low-key, virtual convocation function at Central University||Students who graduated from the Central University of Karnataka were deprived of an opportunity to wear their convocation gowns and get their degrees and medals from dignitaries in a festive atmosphere this time. For, the fifth convocation of the university was held in a virtual mode, barring a few formalities, thanks to the COVID-19 situation. In a low-key affair on the university campus at Kadaganchi in Aland taluk, Kalaburagi district, only faculty members and a few guests, including M.G. Biradar, who was one of the five recipients of honorary doctorate, were present. The convocation began at 11 a.m. with an academic procession followed by the singing of the Naada Geethe and the Vishwavidyala Geethe by Jagadevi Jangamashetty and her team from the university’s Music Department. Just as Chancellor of the university N.R. Shetty remotely declared the opening of the convocation, Vice-Chancellor H.M. Maheshwaraiah welcomed the guests and participants, apart from briefing about the university’s milestone achievements in the last few years. Five individuals — folklorist and writer M.G. Biradar, Kannada novelist S.L. Bhyrappa, environmentalist Saalumarada Timmakka, Kannada poet Channaveer Kanavi and space scientist K. Sivan — were chosen for honorary doctorate. However, only Mr. Biradar could attend the convocation to receive the honour. As many as 665 undergraduate and post-graduate students who passed their respective courses were awarded with degrees. And, 25 candidates received Ph.Ds. As many as 38 students were honoured with gold medals for scoring the highest marks in their respective programmes. Krishnakanth Prabhu A.V., a graduate of M.Tech in Computer Aided Design Manufacture and Automation (CADMA), who scored 98 % to top the university across disciplines, bagged the Prof. A.M. Pathan Gold Medal for 2019. Chairman of University Grants Commission D.P. Singh remotely delivered the convocation address. Pro-Vice-Chancellor G.R. Naik and Registrar Mustaq Ahmed I. Patel and others were present.
24 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Seven-year-old boy dies of snakebite||A seven-year-old boy died of a snakebite at Dongargaon village in Kamalapur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Dhanshetty Waddankeri, a resident of Dongargaon village. He was going to his agriculture field along with his mother when he was bitten by the snake.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NH 75 repair works again washed away in rain||A sum of about Rs. 15 crore public money spent by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for filling potholes and craters on National Highway 75 between Hassan and BC Road in January has gone waste, as it were, as the work has again been washed away in the recent spell of rain. Besides exposing the poor quality of work, the re-emergence of potholes and craters between BC Road and Addahole in Dakshina Kannada (63 km) and Maranahalli and Hassan (50 km) in Hassan district has put thousands of road users in severe discomfort. Travelling between Hassan and Mangaluru has never been pleasant, for over two decades now, because of the poor condition of National Highway 75 that has seen periodical repairs worth hundreds of crores of rupees in these years. The only solace has been the 25-km Shiradi Ghat stretch that was given a concrete surface recently. With the NHAI failing to implement the four-laning work between Hassan-Maranahalli and Addahole-BC Road commissioned in 2016, there appears to be no end now for the woes of road users between the two cities. NHAI has now decided to award fresh contracts for the execution of the four-lane work, and this is expected to take another three years to be completed. Road repairs that get washed away during the monsoon every year appears to have become an annual affair, regretted Mani Gopal Pai, a native of Mani in Bantwal taluk. NHAI should have either completed the four-laning work or at least kept the road motorable. Spending crores of rupees of public money on filling potholes that only sustain for about four months is not good for anyone, said Sandeep Bhandary, a regular traveller on the stretch. The condition of National Highway 75 in Hassan district too is not different, said Dinesh Shetty, another regular traveller. A drive between Maranahalli and Hassan, that used to take less than an hour, now takes more than two hours, he lamented. Private vehicle users have now started using the Charmadi Ghat (BC Road, Belthangady, Mudigere and Hassan) to avoid the battered National Highway 75, said Mahesh. NHAI’s project director in Mangaluru Shishu Mohan told The Hindu that a Rs. 18-crore contract for filling potholes between BC Road and Addahole has been awarded. However, work could not be taken up in view of the continuous rain. For now, potholes and craters are being temporarily filled with wet mix, he added.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Angadi fast-tracked many rail projects||Though the State has given many Railway Ministers to the Union government, Minister of State for Railways Suresh C. Angadi, who passed away on Wednesday, is credited with fast-tracking many projects related to the State within a short period. He was the one who pushed for long-pending projects such as Bengaluru-Karwar Express, another overnight Bengaluru-Belagavi express, Dharwad-Ambewadi passenger, and opening of Kottur-Harihar line for passenger traffic, said railway activist K.N. Krishna Prasad from Bengaluru. Equally, he gave push for infrastructure development, said Yogendra Swamy from Mysuru Grahakara Parishat. Besides getting the Dharwad-Belagavi new line via Kittur sanctioned, Mr. Angadi hastened the development work of Byappanahalli as the third coaching terminal for Bengaluru. While speeding up line-doubling work across the State, he got a new coaching depot for Shivamogga, Mr. Swamy recalled. Rohith Jain from SWRPC, Davangere, recalled his thrust for the development of railway infrastructure in and around Davangere Railway Station and the city. He got work sanctioned for three new platforms and the third entry at Hubballi Railway Station. Rail activists had pinned lots of hopes on Mr. Angadi to get several pending works done, including sanctioning of suburban rail for Bengaluru, opening of the new railway division in Kalaburagi, and bringing Mangaluru Railway Region under South Western Railway.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corporation to hold water adalats from next month||Mangaluru City Corporation will resume holding monthly water adalats to address issues in water bills starting from next month, according to Mayor Diwakar. He told the meeting of the council on Tuesday that the adalats will be conducted in the head office of the corporation at Lalbagh and in its zonal office in Surathkal. When the meeting began, some councillors urged the Mayor to resume holding the adalats as anomalies in water bills can be addressed on the spot. The Mayor said that each councillor has been allocated Rs. 25 lakh as area development fund for taking up development works in their respective wards. Of the sanctioned fund, Rs. 15 lakh can be used for road and drain projects and the balance for street light and water supply-related projects.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru road named after Mulky Sundar Ram Shetty||Mangaluru City Corporation on Wednesday officially named the road between Ambedkar Circle and the Catholic Club via Light House Hill here as Mulky Sundar Ram Shetty Road following a Government Order. This was done in the memory of Shetty who was a former chairman of the erstwhile Vijaya Bank which has now been merged with the Bank of Baroda. Earlier, the Regional Office of the erstwhile Vijaya Bank was located on this road near the Ambedkar Circle. Mayor Diwakar unveiled a plaque officially naming the road after Mr. Shetty in the presence of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shantigodu and other leaders. There was a controversy on naming the road after late Shetty. If St. Aloysius College located on the road opposed the government’s decision, Pattadhikari of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala D. Veerendra Heggade had welcomed the government’s decision. The government through an order issued on May 24, 2017 gave its approval to name the road after the former chairman of the bank. After it became a controversy, the government stayed its order on July 1, 2017. Later, the matter even reached the High Court of Karnataka which asked the government to take an appropriate decision. Following the court’s order, the government through another order issued on September 5, 2020 withdrew its stay and restored its earlier order of naming the road after late Shetty.  College opposes Meanwhile, objecting to the decision of the government, the college said that the decision has been taken unilaterally. Addressing presspersons, Rector of St. Aloysius Institutions Melwin Pinto said that the government has sidelined the importance of the century-old educational institution housed on the road. He said that the road had been named after the college in 1976 by the then civic body of Mangaluru. Hence, the same name should have been continued. Mr. Pinto said that the college is not against Shetty who has served society. But, as the erstwhile Vijaya Bank no more exists on the road, there is no logic in naming the road after its a former chairman.  Heggade welcomes Mr. Heggade has in a press release said that as the chairman of the bank late Shetty was instrumental in providing jobs to thousands of youths by opening branches in all States in the country and taking the bank to a new height. “Now, it is timely to name the road after Shetty when the name of the Vijaya Bank has faded after the merger with the Bank of Baroda. I congratulate the city corporation for its initiative,” Mr. Heggade said.
24 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nisargadhama to re-open today||The Lake Garden, the Herbarium and Botanical Museum and the Samskriti Grama at Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama here will be re-opened for tourists on Thursday.
24 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Teerthodbhava at Talacauvery on Oct. 17||The Cauvery Teerthodbhava at Talacauvery, the birthplace of the river, has been scheduled for October 17. According to the Hindu almanac, the time has been fixed at 7.03 a.m. in Kanya lagna . The event is marked by a sudden gush of water from the spring at the specified time and is considered sacred and auspicious by the devotees who witness the event. A series of events precedes the Teerthodbhava commencing from September 26, said a note from Sri Bhagandeshwara-Talacauvery Temple, Bhagamandala. Usually, the event attracts a heavy rush of devotees who throng the site to watch the occurrence and collect the holy water. However, in view of COVID-19 this year, there is still no clarity on whether devotees would be allowed to witness the event or restricted from visiting the site. The Talacauvery site recently witnessed a major landslip.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Do not take up process of appraisal of EIA for PRR project for now’||Criticising three law students for approaching the media for publicity before the court took up their PIL petition, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday declined to stop the public hearing taken up through video conference mode on the draft Environment Impact Assessment/Environment Management Plan for the eight-lane Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project of the BDA. However, the court said that the process of appraisal, to be taken up by the State Level Expert Appraisal Committee based on the EIA, and outcome of the public hearing, as envisaged in the procedure prescribed for granting environmental clearances by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2006, should not be undertaken for the PRR project until further orders. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order on the petition filed by Anushka Gupta of Bengaluru, and P.B. Shashaank and Pratik Kumar, both based in New Delhi. The petitioners had questioned the correctness of the decision of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to conducting a public hearing on September 23 through video conferencing. They sought a direction from the court to the authorities to conduct a physical hearing. The bench declined to stop the public hearing through video conferencing as the public hearing had commenced before the court took up the petition for hearing. Told to explain conduct Deprecating the practice of going to the media before a petition is taken up by courts even though there is no law to stop such a practice, the bench asked the petitioner-students to explain going to the media before their petition was heard by the court. As the petitioners had not produced a key document in support of their contentions, the bench observed that the petitioners, being law students, were not aware of materials to be produced in court but were aware of getting publicity through media. When their advocate said several petitions are being published in media much before even the apex court takes them up for hearing and contended that petitioner-students have not gone to the media, the bench asked the petitioners to give their views on the practice of seeking publicity about a petition even before it is heard by a court.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Unregistered projects haunt home buyers||Ananth (name changed on request) bought a house in 2016 in south east Bengaluru. Commitments were given, but to this day, the project is not complete. “We are staying here, but it looks like a construction site. In 2017, I followed up with the builder about house registration. He was giving me fake commitments. I tried registering a complaint with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), but realised that the construction is not registered. RERA started taking up a case. In all, there were 20 hearings. In June this year, we got an order asking the builder to register and complete pending work. He was given 30 days to register, but there has been no update,” said Ananth. Claim of builder Meanwhile, the builder has approached the court, claiming that he was not given a chance to argue, though he didn't attend the hearing in person or online (during the pandemic), Ananth added. Others like him are also jumping through hoops trying to get their apartments registered. There are 1,031 projects listed as projects under investigation in the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (KRERA) webpage, which are unregistered projects, said M.S. Shankar, general secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts. “Surprisingly, a few projects that are developed by promoters who have ongoing/registered/lapsed projects are also categorised as ‘no reply from the promoters’, he added. The Forum for People's Collective Efforts is calling for stringent action. “We have been requesting KRERA and also the government of Karnataka to constitute a task force to inspect the unregistered projects,” Mr. Shankar said. K. Ramesh, president, Bangalore South Citizens’ Forum, claimed no action has been initiated against unregistered projects so far. “Registered projects are in the legal framework. But, registered projects that are violating deadlines are getting away,” he alleged. KRERA Chairman M.R. Kamble said, “We are in the process of getting plan sanction details of the last three years from urban local bodies. “Once we get the information, we will issue notices to promoters who have not registered, and get them registered after levying a penalty.”  We have been requesting KRERA and State govt. to set up a task force to inspect unregistered projects M.S. Shankar, general secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts   We are getting plan sanction details of last three years. Once we get them, we will issue notices to promoters who have not registered M.R. Kamble, Chairman, KRERA
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Slight change in metro services on Green Line||To facilitate pre-commissioning works and testing of systems on the extended Green Line (from Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura), the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. has decided to close the metro services between R.V. Road and Yelachenahalli on Sunday and Monday (September 27 and 28). A release from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) stated that services on the Green Line will be available only between Nagasandra and R.V. Road stations on those days. Normal services along the entire Green Line will resume on September 29 at 7 a.m. Train services will run as usual on the Purple Line from Baiyappanahalli to Mysuru Road station.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KMC Act amended for delimitation of wards||The Legislative assembly on Wednesday passed the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, for commencing the process of delimitation of wards in the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and increasing the number of wards to 250 in view of the increased population and areas under the civic body. A Joint Select Committee of the State legislature, headed by BJP MLA S. Raghu, in its special report recommended amendment to Section 7 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (KMC) Act, 1976, to increase the number of wards from 198 to 250. The KMC Act was a parent Act for all city corporations in the State. By amending the Act, the BBMP would come out of the KMC Act. The proposed BBMP Bill would increase the number of wards from 198 to 250. The Bill was necessary to commence the process of delimitation of wards and hold elections to 250 wards. Otherwise, elections would be held to 198 wards, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. The government would table a separate bill specifying the number of wards in the BBMP after the Joint Select Committee submits its final report.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC tells police to inspect 7 mosques||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the police to inspect seven mosques at Thanisandra to find out whether loudspeakers are being used by obtaining a licence under the Noise Pollution (Prevention and Control) Rules, 2000. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Aruna Sathyamurthy and 40 other residents of a residential apartment complex situated near Thanisandra Main Road. Observing orally that use of loudspeakers cannot be mandatory for azaan, the bench said the police will have to initiate action if rules are violated.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB busts cricket betting racket||The Central Crime Branch police on Wednesday busted a cricket betting racket and arrested six people. The police have seized Rs. 6 lakh and mobile phones from the men who have been accused of taking bets for the ongoing matches of the Indian Premier League (IPL). Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials raided two places in Malleswaram and Banaswadi. and arrested the accused. Event shifted The IPL was shifted out of India this year on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. This year, the event is being held in the United Arab Emirates.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Policemen suspended||“He also handed a mobile phone to Viren Khanna to talk to his associates while he was in police custody. This has been done multiple times,” a senior police officer said . Mudhavi is not part of the team investigating the racket but was heading a different cell within the CCB. The probe also found that Mallikarjuna colluded with the accused and shared confidential information with associates of the accused. Mr. Patil submitted a detailed report to the Bengaluru Police Commissioner who, in turn, forwarded the report to the State government.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Snippets||The statue of the first Prime Minister, late Jawaharlal Nehru, which was shifted to the north-west corner of the Vidhana Soudha premises following Namma Metro work, will be relocated to the front of the building. The statue, before being shifted, was at the south-east entrance of the Vidhana Soudha where the entry/exit of the metro station is located now. The announcement came from Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J. Madhuswamy on Wednesday. “The statue will be relocated before Nehru’s birth anniversary (November 14),” he assured the House. His announcement came after the the Council witnessed ruckus when Congress members demanded a response from the government.
24 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Highest single-day spike of 501 cases in Alappuzha||In a record single-day spike, the district logged 501 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Among the fresh cases, 450 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Thirty two people who came from other States, 17 from abroad, and two health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of locally transmitted cases continue to move on an upward trajectory in Alappuzha municipality with 105 fresh cases registered on Wednesday. Punnapra (30), Mannancherry (29), Krishnapuram (21), Arattuppuzha (21), Ambalappuzha (20), Kayamkulam (19), and Purakkad (18) reported a high number of contact cases. Tested negative Meanwhile, 167 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 3,190. Officials said among the COVID-19 patients only those with serious symptoms would be admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. District Collector A. Alexander who chaired a meeting of MCH and Health Department officials suggested that patients currently admitted to the MCH with mild COVID-19 symptoms should be shifted to first-line treatment centres (FLTCS). This would release beds for admitting more critical patients. Three categories COVID-19 patients have been divided into three categories-A, B and C. “Only patients in the C category (seriously ill) and those in the B category (mild symptoms) who need emergency attention will be admitted to the MCH. Rest of the patients in B and A categories will be admitted at the FLCTs,” said an official. In view of the surge in cases, the meeting decided to set up second-line treatment centres in different places in the district.
24 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A father’s search for his son||It is a lone search by Shanmughanathan for his son Dineshkumar, nearly 50 days after the devastating landslip at Pettimudy. The death toll in the August 7 landslip has been put at 66. Four persons are still missing. Among the missing Dineshkumar, 22, is one among the missing. Shanmughanathan travels almost every day from his house at MG Colony in Munnar to Pettimudy and makes a desperate lone search for his missing son. Dineshkumar and his brother Nithishkumar, 19, were caught in the landslip and the latter’s body was recovered a day after the tragedy. On August 25, when the official search for the missing persons ended, Shanmughanathan started his lone search in the deserted village, where four estate lanes were buried under the debris of the landslip. Shanmughanathan told The Hindu on Wednesday that his sons were at Pettimudy to attend a function at a relative’s house at one of the four lanes. “They reached there on August 4 and stayed there for the function on August 7,” he said. Almost everyone living at the area had either shifted to new lanes or returned to their native places in Tamil Nadu after the tragedy. “For the past few days, I did not go to Pettimudy due to heavy rain. Once the weather clears, I will go there again,” he says. Shanmuganathan is a cashier at Kerala Gramin Bank at Marayur. Dineshkumar had completed bachelor’s degree at Dr Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology at Pollachi in Tamil Nadu this year. While Shanmuganathan continues his search at Pettimudy for Dineshkumar, his wife, Manjula, and daughter Vaishnavi wait for his return in the evening. “I lost 22 family members in the landslip. Three people from our family are still missing,” he says.
24 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||79 cases in Idukki||Idukki reported 79 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, of which 61 have been attributed to local transmission. The source of infection in 16 cases could not be traced.
24 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam water level continues to rise||The water level in the Idukki reservoir continued to rise and touched 2,385.96 ft on Wednesday. According to Kerala State Electricity Board officials blue alert will be announced when the water level reaches 2,387.59 ft. Orange alert will be issued at 2,393.59 ft and red alert at 2,394.59 ft. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was 130.65 ft on Wednesday. Within three days the water level rose over 4 ft at Mullaperiyar. The maximum storage level is 142 ft.
24 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Road work begins in Kannur, Kasaragod||Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma on Wednesday said that steps would be taken to start a fish landing centre at Puthiyangadi, Kannur, and that work could begin during the tenure of this government. The Minister was speaking at the inauguration of coastal roads and modernisation works in Kannur and Kasaragod districts through video conferencing, on Wednesday. Despite the COVID-19 crisis, 709 coastal roads had been upgraded across the State at a cost of Rs. 220 crore, she said. In the district, work on 21 coastal roads in Payyanur and Kalyassery constituencies was inaugurated. The project covers 12 roads in Ezhom, Madayi, Cheruthazham, Mattool, Kalyassery, Cherukunnu, and Pattuvam panchayats of Kalyassery constituency. In Kalyassery constituency, an administrative sanction of Rs. 5 crore has been given for the renovation of 12 coastal roads damaged in the monsoon. The Minister said construction work for 12 road had started. They are in Ezhome panchayat, Pazhayangadi - Muttukandi - Ezhome Road (Rs. 74 lakh), Ezhome Kottakkeel Coastal Road (Rs. 28 lakh), in Madayi Panchayat Pratibha Talkies- Vengara Govt Welfare UP School Road (Rs. 69 lakh), in Cheruthazham panchayat Vayalapra Park - Regulator cum Bridge Road (Rs. 22.7 lakh), in Kannapuram Panchayath Aiyaram Theng-Kelamkoor Road (Rs. 12.5 lakh), in Matool panchayat Matool-Madakkara South Munamb Road (Rs. 38.9 lakh), in Kalyassery Panchayath CRC-Kurmbakkavu-Irinav Dam Road (Rs. 35 lakh) and in Cherukunnu Panchayath Sree Shakthi Talkies - Dalil Road (Rs. 58 lakh), Cherukunnu-Ittammal-Kattakulam Road (Rs. 31 lakh), Thavam Post Office-Pallikkara Road (Rs. 56.5 lakh) Lakh) Mungathadam-Kavinisseri-Otayammadam road (Rs. 19.4 lakh) and Mangalassery-Karikkan Ambalam-Kunhimuttam road (Rs. 55 lakh) in Pattuvam panchayat. Similarly, in Payyannur constituency, in Ramanthali grama panchayat and nine roads in Payyannur municipality limits, the work would be executed for Rs. 2.7 crore.
24 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kamaruddin has embezzled money for starting college: SFI||The Students Federation of India (SFI) has alleged that Indian Union Muslim League’s Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin and district panchayat president A.G.C. Basheer had collected Rs. 5 lakh each from 85 people for starting the Trikaripur Arts and Science College and did not pay the investors the promised dividends or return the money. SFI district secretary Albin Mathew said here on Wednesday that Mr. Kamaruddin, as chairman, and Mr. Basheer, as treasurer of the Trikaripur Education and Charitable Trust, had collected the money as investment for starting the college in 2013. But the college even now functions from Euro Towers, a shopping complex, which has no permission from the local panchayat. Wetland and Wakf land Mr. Mathew alleged that for seven years the trust had managed to renew the affiliation to Kannur University every year, at first by showing a piece of land categorised as wetland and then some land belonging to Peace International at Padanna. The university cancelled the affiliation in 2017-2018 when the trust could not construct the building at the land of Peace International. He said the trust got the affiliation again, this time by showing a piece of land of Gem International School, which was reportedly part of a Wakf board property. Soon allegations of attempts to divert and sell the Wakf land cropped up, he said. The university cancelled the affiliation for 2020-21 citing lack of infrastructure and facilities and the trust approached the High Court and secured an interim order. According to the trust the construction could not be started owing to COVID-19. Principal K.V. Unnikrishnan said he was unaware of the allegations on embezzlement. Though the last Syndicate had approved the affiliation, the Vice Chancellor cancelled it and now the college had received an interim order from the High Court of Kerala for relocating the college in five months. Mr. Kamaruddin could not be contacted on phone despite repeated attempts. Sources said the MLA stepped down as chairman of the trust two days ago.
24 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Seven more cases against MLA||The police registered seven more cheating cases against M.C. Kamaruddin, Manjeswaram MLA, in the gold investment scam. Six cases were registered at the Chandera police station and one case at the Kasaragod Town station. The cases at the Chandera station were in connection with embezzling Rs. 88,55,000 from six persons. A person from Cheruvathur filed a complaint accusing the MLA of embezzling Rs. 1.5 crore. With these, 63 cheating cases have been filed against the MLA. The Crime Branch has taken over the cases and started investigation.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees steep spike with 624 cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district hit another new high, with 624 people testing positive for the virus on Wednesday. Of them, 11 arrived from outside the State, and 613 acquired the infection through local contact. Seventeen health workers have been infected. As many as 12 staff members at private hospitals, an ambulance driver, a health worker each at the Vengola community health centre and the Vazhakulam family health centre, besides two Ernakulam natives working at health facilities in Alappuzha and Kottayam tested positive here. A total of 40 staffers at a private establishment in Edappally have tested positive. They were staying at a hostel in Kalamassery, where they remain in isolation, the local councillor said. The highest number of cases continues to be reported from West Kochi, with 44 persons from Fort Kochi and 28 from Mattancherry testing positive. The other positive cases of infection were recorded in areas including Alangad, Thripunithura, Thrikkakara, Kalamassery, Vengola, Kothamangalam, Varapuzha, Kadungalloor, Eloor, North Paravur, Udayamperoor, Perumbavoor, and Palarivattom. A total of 254 people tested negative. The number of people being treated for the illness has crossed the 4,000-mark, with 4,353 patients in the district. Of them, 1,642 remain isolated at home. With two new first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) that began functioning on Wednesday, one at Rayamangalam and another at Karumalloor, a total of 16 such centres are operational in the district.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. contractors’ stir enters 43rd day||The Kochi Corporation continues to struggle to pay off the dues of its contractors. With the contractors’ strike hitting 43 days, work taken up by the civic administration remains stalled, leaving councillors jittery, as the local body elections are not too far away. Bills worth Rs. 100 crore are yet to be cleared, said K.A. David, secretary, Kochi Corporation Contractors Association. While bills worth around Rs. 60 crore have been prepared by the corporation’s engineering wing, the remaining bills for work that was done have not been prepared yet, he added. After a meeting with the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor last week, they were promised clearance of some dues. But till at least Rs. 15 crore worth of dues from bills dating back to 2017 are paid, the 70 active contractors of the association will not withdraw their strike, Mr. David said. The corporation’s financial situation, hit hard by the pandemic, is only limping back to some semblance of normalcy, according to Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. A sum of Rs. 2.5 crore will be released immediately to the contractors from the corporation’s own fund. With the fast depleting coffers of its own, the civic body has been relying on a Rs. 10 crore bank loan to pay dues to the contractors, but the files are yet to be approved by the government, he said. The corporation is just about able to pay salaries worth Rs. 6 crore every month, with the tax collection inching up to between Rs. 3 crore and Rs. 4 crore per month, after a sharp fall in collection due to pandemic-related restrictions. In the absence of an online mechanism to collect taxes, the corporation relies on bill collectors making visits. While they had begun making collections after restrictions had been eased, a clerk in the Revenue Department had recently tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, putting staff members and a few bill collectors in quarantine, the Deputy Mayor said. The corporation’s revenue has been low over the past five years, with the floods and then the pandemic, said P.M. Harris, works standing committee chairman. Patchwork on several roads, including Salim Rajan Road and Chittoor Road, is pending, and councillors are worried that they will be blamed for it with the election around the corner, he said. Poor financial management that predates the pandemic has led to the system crumbling now, said Opposition Leader K.J. Antony. While expenses have grown, not much has been done to enhance revenue or ensure timely collection of dues from large establishments, he added.  Patchwork on several roads is pending, and councillors are worried that they will be blamed for it with the election around the corner P.M. Harris Works standing committee chairman
24 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Remand of accused in gold smuggling case extended||The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Wednesday extended the remand of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case till October 7 on a petition filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The remand extension report, the first such document to be filed by the agency after the interrogation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel and Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was silent on the interrogation of the two high-profile individuals. In the report filed on Wednesday, the agency repeated the arguments that Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the case, had close ties with M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister. This has led to a situation where Mr. Sivasankar had to be interrogated again, it submitted. Mr. Sivasankar was fully aware of the dubious integrity of the accused. It was also revealed that Swapna had meetings with Mr. Sivasankar when the State machinery was in the UAE from October 17-21, 2018 seeking assistance for flood relief. All these revelations required more questioning of Swapna and the other accused in the custody, it submitted. The investigation revealed that the accused had connections with high-profile individuals and the probe on the aspect was progressing. The involvement of other people in the crime and end-users and the beneficiaries needed to be ascertained, it submitted.
24 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Project to focus on increased enrolment of migrant children||The Education Department has reworked the funding proposal for the Roshni project in Ernakulam by recommending assistance to schools having the maximum number of migrant students. The Rs. 78-lakh project for the new academic year will be submitted to the district administration as part of receiving financial aid from Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). The Roshni project, was launched in 2017 in five schools in the district to enhance the academic performance of migrant children through improved language proficiency. The project is at present operational in 38 schools. The project proposal for getting the assistance from the BPCL was reworked, based on a directive issued by the district administration. The company had sanctioned Rs. 1 crore in the previous academic year from its CSR funds for the initiative. With schools remaining closed and the academic sessions switching to the online mode, the project proponents were asked to re-draft the initial report. Education Department officials said that the revised proposal had recommended that the financial aid could be extended to nearly 40 schools in the order of institutions having the highest number of enrolment of migrant students. The revised proposal has suggested that the financial aid can be extended for arranging conveyance facilities to the PTA in government and aided schools with the maximum enrolment of migrant children. The estimate budget was reduced from Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 78 lakh as schools were remaining closed and the expenses incurred had come down compared with the normal academic days.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A student’s parting gift to her alma mater||When schools reopen, whenever that be, kindergarten students of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School at Kaitharam near North Paravur will walk into a veritable dreamland. The surprise waiting for them will begin from paintings adorning the walls bordering the corridor leading up to the classroom, the interiors of which explode into myriad colours assuming images of scenic natural landscape and beautiful figures, including popular cartoon characters. It turned out to be a parting gift from 16-year-old Sreenandini K.R, who passed out from the school with high grades in the SSLC examination. It took Sreenandini, helped by her parents, both with artistic backgrounds, two months to complete the work, a thanksgiving to her alma mater. “The work engaged us through the two months of lockdown,” she said. The design for the paintings came from her mother Rekha M.R. who is a senior clerk in government service and holds a diploma in arts. “The school approached us asking whether we could do some painting for the newly built kindergarten classroom. We jumped at it, since we found it an apt way of giving something back to the school that took so good care of our daughter,” she said. Both the husband and wife joined their daughter in painting the classroom, which was done mostly using enamel paint. “They have literally transformed the classroom and yet did not charge us a single penny,” said Tejo P. Joy, a teacher at the school. Sreenandini has contested in district and national-level painting contests from an early age. She had not ruled out using her skills professionally, and her father Ratheesh K.S., who is into painting houses, also remains open to the idea.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||EV charging station to be commissioned soon||In keeping with the State government’s objective of embracing electric vehicles (EV) as a measure of clean mobility, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is establishing a chain of electric vehicle charging stations across the State. The EV charging station in Kochi, with a capacity to charge two passenger cars at a time, is ready to be commissioned. Board sources said work on the station, close to the Kochi metro station at Palarivattom, was in the final stages, and that it should be ready in a short time. According to an official, a passenger car will take between 45 and 50 minutes to be fully charged. A full charge will take around 20 units of power. The rate on the power used for charging is yet to be finalised. The KSEB’s plan is to establish a charging station in every municipal corporation. The EV charging station in Kochi is among the first to be established by the KSEB in the State. Similar facilities are being commissioned in Thrissur, Kollam, and Kannur. Stations in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam are ready. According to a policy document on EV potential in the State, the government expects to have a substantial number of EVs by 2022. Kerala has now over 10 million conventional vehicles. The electric charging stations are also expected to help the KSEB during off-peak hours, as they help keep the supply balance. Bulk of electricity demand in the State is accounted for by domestic consumers, which can vary substantially in accordance with demand.
24 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two more arrested in Munambam murder case||A day after a youngster was beaten to death in Munambam, the Ernakulam rural police arrested two more accused in the case. The arrested were identified as Jithoose, 19, of Edavanakkad, and Sarath, 19, of Kuzhupilly. They were tracked down from an isolated stretch near the murder site. Another accused, Ambady, 19, of Ayyampilly, was arrested on Tuesday itself. A special squad deployed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik made all three arrests. Pranav, 22, of Cherai, was found beaten to death on Pallathankulangara Beach Road on Tuesday around 4.30 a.m. According to the police, tension was simmering between the victim and the accused for sometime over the alleged stalking of the lover of one of the accused by the victim. The accused tailed the victim in the early morning hours and beat him with wooden planks at an isolated stretch near the Kuzhupilly beach. The police have registered a case invoking IPC 302 (murder).
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC allows A4 size paper use||The Kerala High Court has allowed filing of petitions, affidavits, and appeals and other proceedings typewritten or printed on A4 size papers. The order said though the use of A4 size papers was optional now, it would be mandatory from November 2. The court said the use of A4 size paper would reduce infrastructural investment in foolscap paper compatible printers. The use of such papers will also reduce costs and “add positive impact on environment.”
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC moved against lathicharge||A writ petition was filed on Wednesday by three Congress leaders in the High Court seeking a directive to the State government and the State Police Chief to frame regulations for lathicharge and use of water cannons against protesters. The petition was filed by K.P. Noushad Ali, secretary, KPCC, and two others. They said the police had resorted to unlawful lathicharge and use of water cannons against Congress workers during a protest meeting organised in connection with the gold smuggling case on the Malappuram collectorate premises on September 18. Many protesters were seriously injured. In fact, they were conducting a peaceful protest. The police had beaten the workers on their heads and eyes with lathis, the petitioners said.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Restore toll relaxations’||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) must restore toll relaxations extended to residents of Mulavukad, Kadamakudy, Cheranallore, and Eloor for using Container Road, Hibi Eden, MP, and T.J. Vinod, MLA, have said. A letter in this regard has already been submitted to the District Collector.
24 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in robbery case flees detention centre||An accused in several robbery cases escaped from a detention centre at Karukutty in the early hours of Wednesday. Kandelakudiyil Suresh aka Dracula Suresh is known for targeting shopkeepers and breaking into shops during nights. The accused is suspected to be hiding somewhere in the Angamaly-Karukutty area. The police keep the arrested in detention centres and move them into prisons only if they test negative for SARS-CoV-2.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One arrested under KAAPA||The Ernakulam Rural police have arrested a person on the charge of violating restrictions imposed on him under the Kerala Anti-social Activities Prevention Act (KAAPA). The arrested is Ashik Babu, 22, of Cherai, who has several cases, including attempt to murder, assault, unlawful assembly, and criminal trespass, against his name within the Munambam police station limits. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik had barred him from entering the police station limits for a year from March 20. However, he was found at Munambam on September 20, following which he was arrested and remanded. As many as 23 persons, including eight from Munambam, had been similarly barred from entering their respective police station limits. “We are closely keeping a tab on them. Besides, we are also planning to intensify action under KAAPA in the coming days,” Mr. Karthik said. Sexual abuse The Chengamanad police on Wednesday arrested a person on the charge of sexually abusing his mentally challenged stepdaughter. A neighbour was arrested on similar charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act earlier.
24 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to CBSE on school fee||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the CBSE to inform the court of its jurisdiction and competence to fix fee in its affiliated schools in the State as per the bylaws. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive on a petition filed by Biju C.N. and six other parents challenging the removal of their children studying at St. Joseph Public School, Manalimukku, Ernakulam, from online classes because of their inability to pay the full school fee. The court had earlier directed the school Principal not to expel any student from online classes on the ground of non-payment of fee.
24 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC extends order against NGT’s quarry distance norm||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday extended till October 15 the order directing that quarries need not follow the distance norm of 200 metres from residential and inhabited areas set by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) during their valid period of licence or lease. The court passed the order when writ petitions filed by the State government and some quarry operators came up for hearing. The court had said that such quarries only need to maintain a distance of 50 metres as contemplated in the Kerala Minor Mineral Concession Rules. The court, however, had made it clear that quarries whose licence or lease period had expired should follow the distance norms set by the NGT.
24 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam count surges to a new high with 503 cases||The district reported the highest single day spike in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 503 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. With this, the total active cases in the district has touched 3,396. Among the patients are 495 contact cases, two NRIs, and three others who had travelled from Karnataka, Nagaland and West Bengal. The new patients also include three health workers aged 28, 40 and 23 who have been working at Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, Primary Health Centre, Kanjaveli and Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 37-year-old Ayoor resident, 57-year-old Thattamala resident, and 62-year-old Pooyappally resident are due to COVID-19. They died on August 22, September 8 and September 20 respectively. While Kollam Corporation reported 126 new cases, other places with more than 40 new patients include Thodiyoor (46), Thrikkaruva (45) and Alappad (44). Sooranadu, Neendakara, Kottarakara and East Kallada are also among the places that reported new contact cases. Within Kollam Corporation, Kadappakada has 12 new cases while Mangad and Saktikulanagra reported eight cases each. Under observation Kollam district currently has 22,250 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,79,318. While 1,484 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 37,470 primary and 6,491 secondary contacts of the cases. Seventeen COVID-19 first-line treatment centres are functioning in the district and the number of recoveries on Wednesday is 152.
24 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Migrant workers under watch||The Labour Department, health officials and the police will closely monitor migrant labourers in Kollam as over 30 West Bengal residents have tested positive in a camp near Karungapally. According to the Health Department, micro-containment steps and Closed Cluster Groups activities will be strengthened to prevent the spread. “The situation is under control at present,” said an official. The Labour Department deployed squads in railway stations and labourers who travel to Kollam via road are being monitored.
24 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||262 new cases in Kottayam||As many as 262 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Wednesday Of the fresh cases, 256 persons including six persons from other districts contracted the virus through local transmission. Among these, at least 30 cases belonged to persons above the age of 60. Tally Kottayam municipality led the tally with 37 cases, followed by Panachikkad with 20 cases. Cases were also reported from Erattupetta- 13, Ayarkunnam- 11, Arpokkara-10, Elikkulam and Puthpally – nine each and Thrivarppu- 8 . With 274 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,799 active cases.
24 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Dialysis units for COVID-19 patients||The State government will soon set up dialysis units exclusively for COVID-19 patients at the District General Hospital, Kottayam, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. She was inaugurating the renovated outpatient and emergency departments at the hospital here through videoconferencing on Wednesday. The first set comprising two dialysis units will be installed on an emergency basis. The Minister said a plan was in place for a massive augmentation of the facilities in all hospitals. Efforts were on to convert all primary health centres in Kottayam district into family health centres. The outpatient and emergency departments at the General Hospital here had been upgraded at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore under the Aardram project. Additionally, a digital mammography unit has been installed at Rs. 2.3 crore.
24 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-hit Palayam market in Kozhikode closed||Transportation of vegetables and fruits to many parts of Kozhikode district is likely to be affected in the coming days with the Kozhikode Corporation on Wednesday deciding to shut down the Palayam market where 233 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Four deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Tuesday and Wednesday. While a 60-year-old man from Koothuparamba in Kannur died on Tuesday, a 65-year-old man from Thiruvambady in Kozhikode, a 72-year-old man from Velimukku and a 74-year-woman from Kunnamangalam, both in Malappuram, died on Wednesday. Palayam market is a major centre for wholesale as well as retail trade of vegetables and fruits in the district and areas in adjacent districts as well. Corporation sources claimed that the new cases of infection were revealed after antigen tests were conducted on 760 people. Most of the infected are vegetable vendors, pushcart vendors, and loading and unloading employees. Binu Francis, Corporation Secretary, said in an order that being a crowded area, the functioning of the market place would pose a threat to public health. The Central Market or Valiyangadi, the major market in the city, was closed down recently after over hundred people were tested positive for the virus there. New cases Meanwhile, the District Medical officer said in a release that 504 people were found newly infected in the district on Wednesday. As many as 452 of them got the infection through local transmission. Source was unknown in 37 cases. Twelve persons had returned from other States and three from abroad. There are 15 health workers among the newly infected persons. With 427 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases from the district stood at 4,156. Health Department officials claimed that the daily tests had crossed 7,000-mark in the district now. Most of them are carried out in clusters and critical containment zones where a large number of people are being tested positive for the virus. A large number of tests were held at fish markets, fishing harbours, wards in the coastal zones, and at Palayam, they added. In Malappuram For the second time within a week, the number of daily COVID-19 cases crossed 500 in Malappuram on Wednesday. As many as 512 people tested positive for the virus in the district while 372 recovered from the disease. As many as 465 of the new cases were found to have been infected through direct local contacts. There were 20 cases in which the source of infection could not be identified. While 11 cases came from abroad, one came from another State. There were 15 health workers among the new cases. The number of active cases in Malappuram shot up to 3,474. However, the number of people in quarantine came down to 29,586. In Thrissur As many as 478 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Wednesday, the highest number of cases ever reported in the district. Of these, 476 are local transmission cases. The source of infection of 11 people could not be traced. There are now 3,278 people under treatment for the disease at various hospitals. Home isolation A review meeting convened by Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen here on Wednesday decided to focus on home isolation of patients. People under home isolation will be given home kits, including homoeo medicines and vitamin tablets. At present, there are 1,000 patients under home isolation in the district. The Minister asked officials concerned to form a COVID monitoring team at panchayat level to arrange necessary facilities for people under home isolation. In Kannur As many as 365 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Wednesday. Among them, 322 contracted the disease through local transmission. Twenty-one health workers were among the infected. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district so far is 8,630. As many as 5,295 people have also recovered from the disease. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 278 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. While 204 of them got the infection through direct local contacts, four came from other States and two from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 68 cases. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district saw 136 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of these, 128 are local transmission cases. The district also reported 310 recoveries on the day. There are now 4,062 people under observation. Out of these, 2,949 persons are in home quarantine and 1,113 are in different institutions. In Wayanad A total of 59 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Wednesday. Of these, 56 people were infected through contact and the other three persons had returned from outside the State. The district also reported 31 recoveries on Wednesday. The district has so far reported 2,774 cases. Of these, 2,091 have recovered. There are now 3,006 people under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)
24 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sargaalaya takes to farming, beats lockdown blues||This is the time of the year when the whole crew of the Sargaalaya Arts and Crafts Village at Iringal in Kozhikode usually immerses itself in the preparation of the Sargaalaya International Art and Craft Festival (SIACF) that takes place in December-January. But, this year they are all toiling in the soil to keep the boat afloat. The COVID-19-induced lockdown has taken its toll on the tourism industry. For a State that has tourism as one of its major sources of revenue, a loss of Rs. 25,000 crore during the period is too big a crash. And for Sargaalaya, keeping its staff fed is too much of a challenge, which it manages to meet to a great extent through agriculture, as part of an employee-support scheme of the Uralungal Labour Contractors’ Cooperative Society which manages the village. “We expected the lockdown to go on this long. But we could not set up another industry to feed our employees. Agriculture is the only option though not a very viable one,” says P.P. Bhaskaran, CEO of Sargaalaya. Every direct employee of Sargaalaya, including the top management, has turned up at the village over these months to engage in farming. Under the Subhiksha Keralam project of the government, 28 plots, beside the premises of the Craft Village (around 10 acres in total), have been used for vegetable farming. The initiative benefited around 45 employees while the village has made a turnover of Rs. 3 lakh in three months. The vegetables, produced largely in organic manner, are mainly sold at the local market, besides the nearby towns of Vadakara, Payyoli, and Azhiyur. Mr. Bhaskaran says the initiative has been instrumental in kindling an interest in agriculture among the local people. As for the artisans who have set up their permanent stalls there, the village provided some relief during Vishu and Onam, and some of them made an earning by selling the vegetables. Tourism revival is key “The tourism sector needs to reopen, and very soon. Or else, we will lose out to our competitors,” he said. "If we do not open for the tourists now, we may lose a lot of them to Sri Lanka," Mr.Bhaskaran added. Even now, a lot of domestic tourists knock on the doors of Sargaalaya every week, only to be politely sent back. "People are fed up of being cooped up at their homes," he said, not hiding the expectation that the tourism sector will be reopened at least by November.
24 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to fast-track road widening||The action committee for the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road widening has requested the State government to immediately sanction pending funds for the project and complete the work at the earliest. At a recent meeting chaired by historian M.G.S. Narayanan welcoming the release of Rs. 50 crore for the project, the committee demanded that the amount be distributed to those who had been waiting for compensation for long.
24 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rights panel intervenes in body mix-up case||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has registered a case in connection with a recent mix-up of two women’s bodies at Government General Hospital here. The commission has sought explanations from the Director of Health Services and the District Collector about the incident, which had anguished a tribal family from Attappady. The body of a tribeswoman from Attappady brought to District Hospital for postmortem was mixed up with a COVID-19 victim’s body and handed over to its relatives. The kin of the woman who died of COVID-19 cremated the tribeswoman’s body as per the pandemic protocol.
24 September 2020||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||NHRC cases against ‘excesses’ of police||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has registered cases against the police in the State in connection with excessive use of force during separate lathicharges on Youth Congress protesters in Palakkad and Malappuram. Dozens were injured in the police action when the Youth Congress activists took out Collectorate marches last week demanding Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel’s resignation. Palakkad, Malappuram The commission filed the case following complaints from Youth Congress district general secretary Vinod Cherad in Palakkad and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committe member K. Sivaraman in Malappuram. Both Mr. Cherad and Mr. Sivaraman were extensively injured in the lathicharge.  “Mercilessly beaten up” Showing video footage and photographs, Mr. Cherad and Mr. Sivaraman told the commission how they were singled out and mercilessly beaten up by the policemen. Mr. Sivaraman’s complaint was against police officer L. Harilal, who allegedly beat him up when he was standing in front of a bus station in Malappuram. “I had not joined the march. I was standing about 200 metres away from the collectorate gate when he (Mr. Harilal) pounced on me with a lathi,” said Mr. Sivaraman.  Lathicharges on Youth Congress protesters in Palakkad and Malappuram
24 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Bid to fast-track Sabarimala road work||Taking note of the report that the Mannarakulanji-Pampa stretch of the road that leads to Sabarimala is highly vulnerable to landslides, the Sabarimala special commissioner has sought to implement the curative measures on a war footing. In his report to the Kerala High Court, M. Manoj, special commissioner, submits that there is considerable risk if the slope stabilisation messages suggested by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) are not carried out before the annual pilgrim season which would begin in November. “It needs to be noticed that the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku festival season of 1196 ME will commence on 16/11/20. Several vehicles, including KSRTC buses, carrying pilgrims and lorries transporting jaggery, rice, etc., have to be plied. It is necessary to transport these articles to manufacture Appam and Aravana prasadam,” it says. Coordinated work Besides seeking to issue a directive in this regard to the State government, the commissioner requests for a directive to the Forest Department for coordinating with the Public Works Department and giving necessary concurrence to carry out the slope stabilisation and other necessary measures. As the uphill and downhill of the road stretch which has developed cracks and fissures is a forest area coming within the Goodrical range, the coordination and aid of the Forest Department to carry out necessary works were a must, the report notes. Only motorable road Traffic along the 18-km road, the only motorable road with access to Sabarimala, has been banned ever since it developed cracks and fissures between Attathodu and Pampa during the heavy rain last month . While examining these fissures, the NCESS found that many places along the PWD road are highly prone for slope failure. According to sources, the PWD has already prepared a road stabilisation plan worth Rs. 1.70 crore and is awaiting an administrative sanction to commence the works. The delay in restoring traffic along the stretch is likely to have an impact on the preparations for the upcoming pilgrim season.
24 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||223 fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||The district here on Wednesday reported 223 fresh cases and 99 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 173 contracted the virus through local transmission while 25 cases had landed from abroad. The remaining 25 cases came from other States in the country. The authorities are yet to trace the source of at least 29 cases. Pathanamthitta currently has 1,399 active cases and 12,718 contacts under surveillance.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||852 positive cases in capital||The district’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 852 cases on Wednesday, while the death toll rose to 183 with three more recent deaths attributed to the disease. Local transmission accounted for 640 cases, even as a sharp rise was noted in the number of cases where the source of infection was not immediately known. On Wednesday, the district reported 184 cases in this category, health officials said. The deceased included a 68-year-old man from Puthukurichi who died on August 27; 49-year-old woman from Peroorkada who died on August 29; and a 64-year-old man from Peyad who died on September 18. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his customary COVID-19 briefing, said a serious situation persists in the district. Concerned He expressed concern over the rise in number of patients below the age of 10 and above 60 and the cases where the source of infection remained vague. The Chief Minister appealed to asymptomatic COVID-positive patients who can safely opt for home isolation to do so subject to conditions set by the Health Department. Doing so will ensure adequate facilities for COVID-positive patients who need institutional care, he said. Wednesday’s caseload included 344 women and 508 men. Children aged below 10 numbered 78. As many as 118 persons were above the age of 60. The number of recoveries stood at 321. Twenty-five more health workers have tested positive for the virus in the district. Meanwhile, 22 more police personnel have tested positive for the virus. This include six personnel attached to the Thumba station. With this the number of personnel from this station alone diagnosed with the disease has touched 17. Three personnel attached to Thiruvananthapuram rural police including a Grade SI and one person attached to the control room (Thiruvananthapuram city) also have tested positive. Ten personnel attached to the Fire and Rescue Services station, Attingal, were diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday. As many as 2,236 persons were newly placed under disease surveillance on Wednesday. With this, the number of people under observation in Thiruvananthapuram district has risen to 26,816.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s trade deficit put at Rs. 1 lakh crore||Kerala has a trade deficit of Rs. 1 lakh crore with the rest of the country, reflecting its small and underdeveloped manufacturing sector. Import of other State goods is valued at approximately Rs. 1 trillion (lakh crore) and export Rs. 550 million. The multiplier benefit of Kerala’s consumption boom has been reaped by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In 2019-20, firms and economic agents in Kerala generated about 20 million transactions with the value of goods traded at Rs. 4.3 trillion. Of this, about 45% of the goods were traded within Kerala (Kerala sellers to buyers). The rest were shipped from other States, and the all-India GST data were testimony to the commodity movement, Sushil Khanna, Professor, Economics and Finance, IIM Kolkata, and Independent Member, KIIFB, has opined after analysing the GST data. Kerala’s manufacturing sector, the smallest among the four large southern States, accounts for 9.5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Manufacturing accounts for 15% of the GSDP in adjoining Karnataka and 20% in Tamil Nadu. High consumption in Kerala has created demand and employment in the neighbouring States, according to Mr. Khanna. About one-third of Rs. 1.5 trillion worth of goods imported by Kerala from other States come from Tamil Nadu while Karnataka ships Rs. 250 billion worth of commodities. Major imports from these States consist of high-value goods such as motorcycle, scooter, electronic goods, light machinery & equipment, and goods. Mr. Khanna points out that Kerala’s exports mirror those of an underdeveloped agricultural economy. Last year, Kerala’s exports were of Rs. 150 billion with agricultural produce such as spices, coir, cashewnut, and marine products occupying roughly half of the table. The analysis has been published in the maiden volume of Kerala Economy published by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation. Kerala’s international imports were only about Rs. 150 billion. COVID-19 impact COVID-19 has hit intra-State trade centred on large urban centres. Two-thirds of goods movement during the lockdown were within Kerala, while interstate transactions showed a sharp decline. The sharpest decline in economic activity and tax collection came from the cities of Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. steps up efforts to control virus||With the continuing rise in COVID-19 caseload in the city, the Corporation has stepped up its measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The health wing has decided to deploy a squad consisting of health inspectors, junior health inspectors and other health workers to carry out checks in shops, institutions, public spaces and in houses or auditoriums where functions are happening, to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are being followed. This follows an understanding that there has been some level of laxity in following the various safety protocols among the public, as the opening up of businesses and traffic has created an impression of return to normalcy. There has been no let-up in the number of cases being reported from the city. Mike announcements “We have formed squads in each of the health circles. These squads are mainly carrying out checks in shops and other institutions. When we began the latest round of checks on Tuesday, we found that proper physical distancing was not being followed in many of the shops, even in some medical stores. The squads are also carrying out checks at marriage functions in homes to ensure that there are no more people than the number of guests allowed. Squads have also been formed to carry out mike announcements in all wards,” said a health wing official of the Corporation. Ever since the responsibility regarding contact tracing was shifted from the local body health officials to the police, there has been some kind of lull in the COVID-19 prevention activities at the local body level. The attention of local bodies had shifted mostly to the running of COVID first-line treatment centres and institutional quarantine centres. Ward-level committees formed with people’s representatives and residents of each ward for efficient monitoring of those in home quarantine have also become non-functional in recent weeks. Residents’ association “The focus has to go back to grassroots monitoring again. For this, the Corporation has been organising video conferences with various residents’ association representatives over the past few days to discuss the steps to be taken at the local level. This is especially important in areas where the caseload is high,” said the official.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coastal belt excluded from containment zones||The coastal belt of the district has been excluded from the list of containment zones, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Wednesday. Coastal areas with a high number of cases will be treated as micro containment zones, Ms. Khosa said. The following coastal areas will be treated as micro containment zones: Ward no: 4, Mudippura, Puthen Nada and Valiyapalli wards in Anchuthengu panchayat; Mannotukonam, Mannakallu in Kottukal panchayat; and Vengadambu ward in Kulathur panchayat. The following coastal areas in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits are micro containment zones; Kochuthope (Vettuthope), St Xavier's Lane, Velankanni Junction (Beemapally ward); Azad Nagar and Balan Nagar (Manikyavilakom ward) SM Lock, Moonattumukku (Puthenpally ward) and Puthenthura (Vellar ward), a pressnote said. The coastal belt was brought under total lockdown in mid-July following a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases. Additionally, a number of other places in the district have been included in the list of containment zones. Ward no: 14 in Pulimath panchayat; ward no: 12 in Kilimanoor panchayat; ward no: 13 in Perumkadavila panchayat; Valiyasala ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Latha Nagar, settlement colony and Naduvam in Ponnumangalam ward. Ward no: 22 in the Pallichal panchayat has been excluded from the list of containment zones.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to amend building rules||The State government has decided to amend the Kerala Municipality Building Rules 2019 and the Kerala Panchayat Building Rules 2019 following complaints from organisations in the construction sector regarding some clauses. The Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday approved the draft suggestions. It has been decided to change the requirement of approach road width from 10 metres to 8 metres for buildings of hospitals, educational institutions, offices and auditoriums above 18,000 square metre. Another change was regarding the calculation of the floor area ratio (FAR), for which the old formula will be used henceforth. As per the old method, the FAR was calculated based on the floor area, but as per the rules notified in 2019, this was based on built-up area. The organisations in the construction sector had complained that this has led to reduction in floor area, based on which it was decided to revert to the old formula.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Acclaim for JNTBGRI bid to save rare tree||The efforts of the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, to save an exceedingly rare tree species found in the Western Ghats region from extinction have grabbed international attention. The JNTBGRI endeavour to conserve and propagate Buchanania barberi has been included as a case study in the Plant Conservation Report, 2020, a review of global efforts made in this direction during the past decade. The report has been published by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Botanic Gardens Conservation International (BGCI). An evergreen tree that rises up to a height of 15 metres, Buchanania barberi (family Anacardiaceae) is endemic to the southern arm of the Western Ghats in Thiruvananthapuram district and is categorised as ‘critically endangered’ on the IUCN Red List. Natural and man-made causes had caused the near-extinction of this tree in the wild, says the report.“ Buchanania barberi is known from only two mature individuals with an area of occupancy in less than 5 sq km and is categorised as Critically Endangered on IUCN Red List,” the report notes. British botanist C.A. Barber collected the first herbarium specimen of Buchanania barberi from Thiruvananthapuram district in 1904. Botanist J. S. Gamble described the species in 1916. The species entered the Red Data Book of Indian plants in 1990 and eight years later, was listed as Critically Endangered by the IUCN. The JNTBGRI scientists rediscovered this tree in 2001 in Palode, Thiruvananthapuram, incidentally in the same neighbourhood where their institute is situated. The JNTBGRI launched a small project for the conservation of this species with a BGCI grant in 2016.In 2019, the institute received funding from the Mohamed Bin Zayed Species Conservation Fund, Anurag Dhyani, scientist, Division of Conservation Biology, JNTBGRI, said.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Talks again on salary cut by weekend||The government will hold talks again with unions of government employees and teachers on repayment of one month’s deducted salary and to further deduct a month’s salary as decided by the Cabinet to overcome the financial crisis. The talks will be held either on Friday or Saturday to arrive at a consensus, sources said. The third round of talks, to be led by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, is to overcome the resistance of pro-United Democratic Front unions. The Cabinet had decided to deposit six days’ salary deducted for five months from April this year in the provident fund (PF) on April 1, 2021 and allow withdrawal only from June 1, 2021. It had also decided to extend the salary cut for another six months from September. The deadline for the unions to respond to the proposals in writing ended on Wednesday. All unions had not given suggestions, sources said. The pro-Left Democratic Front Action Council of State Employees and Teachers said it would submit its views on Thursday. The Joint Council of State Service Organisations has asked the government to take employees and teachers into confidence before going for another salary cut.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Take home care, asymptomatic cases told||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday urged people who have contracted COVID-19 and are asymptomatic to opt for home isolation and care, strictly according to the directions and guidelines of the Health Department. With COVID-19 cases surging in the State, health facilities and infrastructure can be utilised strictly for those patients with symptoms and who may require a higher level of medical care if those who are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms opt for home care, he said. The Chief Minister said that unnecessary fear and misconceptions about COVID-19 were preventing those with asymptomatic infections but who had adequate facilities at home from opting for home care. While home isolation and care, if done strictly as per the guidelines issued by the Health Department, was nothing to be scared about, it had been noticed that even the friends and family of the infected persons were pushing them towards choosing only hospital care. Better recovery Mr. Vijayan said that apart from reducing the strain on the health system, remaining at home amongst one’s own family could help reduce the mental stress of the infected and help them recover better. He said that while deaths owing to COVID-19 were fewer among younger persons when the total case numbers went up, mortality could rise among the younger age group also. He claimed that initial reports had indicated that a good number of those who were at the forefront of the strikes in the capital city had contracted the disease.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||45 get occupancy certificates at adalat||The city Corporation organised a town planning adalat on Wednesday to dispose off building permit and related applications for houses with smaller areas. Mayor K.Sreekumar presided over the adalat. Applications for houses of areas up to 150 sq.m., including those in the LIFE housing project, were considered. Out of the 68 applications which were considered, it was decided to award occupancy certificates to 45 and building permits to five. Two were given UA (Unauthorised) numbers. Four applications were sent for the concurrence of the regional town planner, two were sent to the Coastal Regulation Zone authority and one to the local-level monitoring committee. Nine applicants were asked to submit their applications again after eliminating various issues. Token issued The applications of those who applied for adalat tokens on Wednesday will be considered on Thursday.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kit distribution through ration shops||The State government’s free food kit distribution through ration shops in the district will be as per the last number on the ration card. For AAY (yellow) card holders, the distribution will begin on September 24, with card numbers ending in zero. On September 25, card numbers ending with one can buy while those ending with two can buy on September 26, those ending with 3,4 and 5 on September 28 and the cards ending with 6,7, 8 and pink cards ending with zero on September 29. On September 30, yellow card holders and pink card holders with numbers ending in 1 and 2 can buy. The entire distribution will be completed on October 15.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Domestic workers’ protest||Domestic workers will stage a dharna in front of the AG’s Office here on Thursday as part of national protest by various trade unions and domestic workers’ organisations against the Union government’s alleged anti-labour policies. In a statement here, the SEWA Union said the three labour Bills passed by Lok Sabha had sounded the death knell for the unorganised sector’s rights. Domestic workers had been kept away from these labour Bills, the statement said.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Akhil C. Banerjee is IAV Director||The government has decided to appoint Akhil C. Banerjee as Director, Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV). The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Dr. Banerjee is currently Emeritus Scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi. Set up under the Kerala Biotechnology Commission and located at the Bio 360 Life Science Park at Thonnakkal, IAV is equipped with virology laboratories and diagnostic facilities for high end research.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Roadside veggie market at Kowdiar||The roadside veggie market promoted by the Agriculture Department will be open on the Kowdiar-Kuravankonam road from 3 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. on Thursday. The Department’s Ecoshop has joined hands with farmers affiliated with the Krishi Bhavan, Anad, and ‘Ammakootam’ to organise the market. The market will function in front of the Pattom Thanu Pillai Government LP School. Eggs, banana, rice and coconut oil also will be available here. The farmers’ market is being organised under the Jeevani vegetable promotion initiative.
24 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Book released||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai  released the book Kaadu Kayarunna Indian Maovaadam written by Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader M.V.Govindan here on Wednesday. The first copy of the book, published by Chintha publishers, was received by party State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. The function was held as part of the Chintha publishers’ annual book festival.
24 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mata’s birthday||The Mata Amritanandamayi Math has decided to observe the 67th birthday of Mata Amritanandamayi globally as a prayer for world peace and harmony. Against the backdrop of COVID-19, however, there will be no celebrations. “Amma’s followers from 193 United Nations-member countries have pledged to observe the day with spiritual chanting, meditation, and other disciplines to pray for universal peace and for the world to overcome these difficult times.”
24 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Medical aspirants get fake calls offering admission||As medical aspirants are awaiting the NEET results, which are expected in the second week of October, their parents are getting many fraudulent calls offering assured admission to MBBS and other professional courses. K. Gireeshan of Poonkunnam, one of the parents from Thrissur, says he has been getting at least 5-6 calls, WhatsApp messages and text messages daily regarding admission after the NEET exam. “Parents and students must be careful against such fake calls. The admission to MBBS in the States and All India quota including government, private and deemed to be universities/colleges are based on NEET ranks. Nobody can manipulate the rank for giving admission to ineligible candidates as suggested by agents. Never rely on seat offering agencies,” says Dr.T.P.Sethumadhavan, education and career consultant. The national level NEET counselling is throughwww.mcc.nic.inunder the guidance of the Directorate General of Health Services. The State level counselling will be done through the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Novel protest||
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beyond their brief||
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||
24 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Declaration rule must apply to CM too: TDP||TDP leaders on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer demanding that the rule stipulating non-Hindus to sign a declaration before entering the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala be applicable to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as well. At a press conference here, former Minister Kalava Srinivasulu and Anantapur Urban MLA Vaikuntham Prabhakar Chowdhary alleged that the YSRCP government was hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community by remaining a silent spectator to incidents like desecraton of idols at Pithapuram, burning of the chariot at Antarvedi, and theft of silver lion idols at Vijayawada. “Let the Chief Minister give a statement that he would take all measures to ensure the sentiments of Hindus are not hurt through such incidents,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. ‘Sentiments hurt’ The TDP Polit Buro member alleged that Hindus did not have faith in Mr. Jagan, and said that no such incident ever took place during the TDP regime as the party believed in secular politics. “From the time of taking oath as Chief Minister till entering the Tirumala temple, Mr. Jagan had been deviating from the traditions and hurting the sentiments of Hindus, he alleged, and said that people would give their verdict in the next elections based on these actions. Asked if the TDP was supporting the BJP in this agitation, Mr. Srinivasulu said that there was no political mileage being drawn out of these statements and asserted that the TDP would be the only alternative to YSRCP whenever elections are held.
24 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 hospital ratings upset Anantapur health professionals||The health professionals were happy when a survey conducted by the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare revealed that the top 12 COVID-19 hospitals in the State are in Anantapur and the district ranked first with an average of 2016.82 points. However, their joy was short-lived when the officials went into the fine print of the survey. Even as the average ranking is good, the three major hospitals— Anantapur Government General Hospital (GGH), RDT Hospital at Bathalapalli, and KIMS Saveera Hospital— which handled the maximum number of cases, majority of them critical patients had poor individual rankings while the hospitals in the smaller towns were in the top spots. These three facilities, being district referral hospitals, treated the more critical patients and the number of deaths reported from these facilities was also higher and this worked against them in the overall rating. Survey parameters In the survey, points were awarded on various parameters such as the number of deaths reported, number of doctors available, availability of oxygen support, quality of food served to the patients and etc. The GGH, RDT Hospital at Bathalapalli, and KIMS Saveera Hospital have been treating the critical COVID-19 patients since March second week. The GGH got the ninth rank with 1966.55 points, while the RDT Hospital stood at the 12th place with 1636.5 points. KIMS Saveera Hospital, a private facility that was roped in for COVID-19 treatment on April 15 got the 10th place with 1943.25 points. However, the Area Hospital at Kadiri has been adjudged the best hospital with 2346.5 points, followed by YSR Memorial Hospital with 2309.9 points. These survey results disappointed the doctors’ fraternity and health personnel. The RDT Bathalapalli has been the most sought-after facility for its quality healthcare service and it treated 5,123 patients till September 21. The facility reported 202 deaths. Hospital Superintendent Birru Praveen Kumar said 30 critical patients were on ventilator support and of them, only seven survived. but “A majority of the COVID-19 patients in the district were treated here. It is painful to see our rank being the lowest,” he said. Number of deaths Similarly, 2,848 patients were admitted to the GGH and 2,290 patients were discharged including the 108 patients in home isolation. The hospital has reported 341 deaths till date, said GGH Superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik. “Of the patients treated, 79 needed oxygen support, 29 were in the ICU. At present, 15 patients are on the ventilator support. We treated more critical cases than the patients with mild symptoms,” he said. The KIMS Saveera Hospital treated 704 patients and of them, 52 patients including 10 on ventilator support died. “In all, 418 patients needed oxygen support while the rest were treated as normal patients. An 85-year-old woman was also recovered from the infection,” said hospital managing director Kishore Reddy.
24 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman delivers baby in 108 ambulance in Anantapur||A woman, in her late twenties, delivered a baby in 108 ambulance at Chilamathur in the district with the Emergency Medical Technician Suresh and ambulance driver Bhaskar Reddy providing proper support in making a safe delivery on Wednesday morning. Mamatha, a resident of Pedanapalli village in Chilamathur mandal, developed labour pains and her husband called 108 ambulance, which landed within 10 minutes and began their journey towards Chilamathur Primary Health Centre after informing the doctor there. Even before traversing the 10-k.m. distance, Mamatha complained of severe pain and EMT Suresh gave necessary injections and aided Mamatha’s mother, who was accompanying her in the vehicle, to deliver a healthy male baby weighing 3 kg at 7.25 a.m. The ambulance pilot Bhaskar Reddy said both mother and baby were fine and there was not sufficient time and soon after the delivery, they were taken to the Health Centre, where the doctor checked their health and gave necessary medicines and advice. The family members and hospital staff lauded the efforts of the 108 staff, who had been allotted to the mandal recently during the COVID-19 pandemic.
24 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA starts online training on ASIC||Department of ECE, at JNTU College of Engineering at Anantapur, organized a TEQUIP-III-sponsored five-day online training programme on Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) front-end design and verification. TEQUIP or Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme is a government project launched to encourage and enhance the quality of technical education. To bridge the gap between industry and academia, the department collaborated with the Entuple Technologies, Bangalore, to conduct the programme which was attended by Vice-Chancellor S. Srinivas Kumar as the chief guest. He later elaborated on the importance of Very Large Scale Integration(VLSI), LOW Power VLSI, and Image Processing in the field of chip-designing from the student’s career point of view. He invited industries to collaborate with the university for sharing knowledge with the faculty and students and discussed introducing multidisciplinary courses.
24 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition leaders taken into preventive custody||The Chittoor and Tirupati urban police on Wednesday confined several Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leaders to their houses, preventing them from resorting to agitations in support of their demand that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy sign the declaration form at Tirumala temple. As the Chief Minister is scheduled to embark on a two-day visit to the hill-shrine in connection with the Salakatla Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara, the police initiated preventive custody of some of the key leaders, who included former MLA M. Sugunamma, senior TDP leader G. Narasimha Yadav and BJP State official spokesman G. Bhanuprakash Reddy in Tirupati. Apart from these, other leaders placed in preventive custody were TDP district president Pulivarthi Nani in Chittoor, and Punganur TDP in-charge N. Aneesha Reddy at Punganur.
24 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two poachers held in Chittoor district||A combing party of the Red Sanders Task Force on Tuesday night nabbed two poachers and seized a country rifle and ammunition from them at Vellampalle reserve forest of Chamala valley, 40 km from here. According to the task force officials, a combing party was on patrol at the reserve forest area to keep a watch on the movements of the red sanders smuggling operatives. Close to midnight, they noticed a couple of men entering the forest. The task force personnel surrounded them and it was revealed that the duo was carrying a country rifle, some ammunition and provisions meant for cooking. They reportedly confessed to the task force police that they intended to bag some small game in the valley. The duo was identified as Madhu (45) and Ramana (48) of Bhakarapeta. A case was registered and they were sent to remand.
24 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy drowns in tank||The body of a six-year-old boy who went missing from a residential locality in Piler on Tuesday evening was found in a village tank nearby on Wednesday. Piler police said the boy, Varun, who was playing with his classmates, was seen going towards the tank. Late in the evening, the boy’s mother approached the police saying that the boy did not return home. A frantic search was launched for him by the police and locals. At noon on Wednesday, police received information regarding a body floating at the edge of a tank. They rushed to the spot and identified it as that of Varun. It is suspected that the boy might have gone to the water body for a swim. The body was shifted to hospital for an autopsy.
24 September 2020||Continued from Page 1,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Council did not decide to refer Capital Bills to panel’||Mr. Balakrishnamacharyulu said, “The House retains the power to appoint a select committee and refer a Bill to it exclusively, and that such power cannot be exercised by any authority, except the House itself.” Citing Clause (1) of Article 189 of the Constitution, the Legislature Secretary stated that no select committee had been formed as there was no decision of the House to that effect. ‘Legally untenable’ “The House was adjourned sine die on January 22, 2020, without any decision on the select committee. Therefore, the argument that the Bills are lying with the select committee is factually incorrect and legally untenable,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnamacharyulu further said that the Supreme Court and various High Courts had held that even if there was any infirmity, or a procedural irregularity, in passing an Act and the Governor had given his assent, it cannot be questioned before the Constitutional courts. “Besides, even if such an infirmity or procedural lapse is established, in terms of Article 255, the procedural matters do not render as invalid an Act that is cleared by the President or Governor as the case may be,” he added. Chairman’s admission The Legislature Secretary pointed out that the Council Chairman had admitted that the proposal to refer the Bills to a select committee was not in accordance with the rules. However, he (the Chairman) had announced his decision to refer the Bills to a selection committee by invoking the discretionary powers under Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in A.P. Legislative Council.  The House retains the power to appoint a select committee and refer a Bill to it exclusively, and that such power cannot be exercised by any authority, except the House itself P. Balakrishnamacharyulu Legislature Secretary
24 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||B.R Stadium in throes of neglect||Patches of slushy ground, muddy tracks and coats of paint peeling off the roof, and cracks growing on walls. These are the sights that greet sports lovers in Guntur when they visit the Brahmananda Reddy Stadium, which has witnessed many memorable sporting achievements. A recent spell of heavy rains has only worsened the situation at the stadium, which remains out of bounds for athletes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Several promises were made over the years by successive governments to renovate the stadium, but these have remained on paper. While massive sums have been allotted to building an indoor stadium and the administrative offices of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP), the stadium, sadly, lies in throes of neglect. Glorious past The Brahamananda Reddy Stadium was the oldest stadium in the State under SAAP and was built in 1965 on 26.40 acres of land. The stadium has been a happy hunting ground for star athletes, and it was here in 1989 during the National Athletics Championship that P.T. Usha rediscovered her form, after the history she created in the Asian Games in 1984. The stadium also hosted first class Ranji matches in the 1980s and 90s. Since then, the stadium has lost its sheen over the last few years and has become a shadow of itself due to the apathy of sporting bodies. “BR Stadium still brings back good memories. We have been practising in the ground for the last 40 years. The government should rebuild the place and make it a multi-purpose stadium ,” Athletics Association of Guntur district secretary G. Seshaiah said. Scores of budding athletes continue to practice on the dusty track without proper equipment, while hockey players slug it out on an open space outside the stadium and gymnasts struggle in a make-shift room.  The stadium also does not have an adequate underground drainage system, making it vulnerable to inundation during heavy rain.
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||We are against three capitals: Sailajanath||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee reiterated that Amaravati should continue to be the capital of Andhra Pradesh as it was unanimously decided in the AP Assembly with the support of all the parties. APCC chief Shailajanath said that the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is now changing his stand, but it was unacceptable to the Congress. “We are against the very concept of three capitals,” he said. Speaking after a meeting of the APCC here, attended by former Kerala Chief Minister and AICC in-charge for Andhra Pradesh Oommen Chandy and former Union Minister Pallam Raju among others, he said the meeting decided on the stand to be taken by the party on various public issues concerning the people. “Amaravati, attacks on Dalits and temples and the issues related to courts were the issues discussed,” he said. Mr. Shailajanath alleged that the YSRCP, TDP and Jana Sena were working under the umbrella of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and failed to question the injustice being meted out to Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Chandy said the political situation in the State and the anti-people policies of the Central government were discussed and the party had planned agitations against them. Criticising the Central government on the recent farmers bills, Mr. Chandy said the BJP government had deceived the farmers ignoring their interests in the bill. “BJP’s behaviour is against the federal spirit,” he said. “The UPA government had assured special status to Andhra Pradesh, but even after six years of BJP’s rule the promise is not fulfilled.” Mr. Chandy refused to comment on the judgements of the courts in relation to Andhra Pradesh government and said it was not fair to target the judiciary. Later, Mr. Chandy was felicitated by the Congress leaders for completing 50 years in the Kerala Assembly.
24 September 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Performance of police dogs checked||Officials of the Intelligence Department in association with the district police conducted annual inspection of police dogs in Krishna district on Wednesday. A team of officials, led by dog squad Reserve Inspector (RI) T. N. Srinivas Rao and other staff, inspected the dog kennel in the town. “We have seven dogs, including trackers and sniffer dogs in the district. The team checked the health condition of the dogs, performance, their track record and the facilities being provided to the canines as per rules,” said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Mock operation The intelligence sleuths performed mock operation and checked the performance of each dog. They enquired about the death of a dog in the district recently, the SP added.
24 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood threat to Nellore recedes as rains subside||The threat of floods receded further with rains abating in the catchment areas of the Somasila reservoir on Wednesday. The inflow into the reservoir from the peak level of 1.48 lakh cusecs on Sunday, came down drastically to 25,972 by Wednesday evening. The flood situation improved further with the flow in the Penna and its tributary Kundu dipping drastically, Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao said while keeping a close vigil on the water flow. The entire water quantity was discharged from the reservoir downstream, including 11,500 cusecs to Kandaleru reservoir, to maintain a flood cushion of 4 tmcft of water in the reservoir which now had a storage of 73.86 tmcft of water against the maximum capacity of 78 tmcft of water. The storage in Kandaleru reservoir, which caters to the drinking water needs of Chennai and Tirupati, went up to a healthy 42.67 tmcft. The discharge was maintained at 1,810 cusecs.
24 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digital crop booking must: Agriculture Commissioner||All cultivators at the grassroots level should compulsorily register their names online under the e-crop booking system to get all the benefits entitiled to them, according to State Agriculture Commissioner H. Arun Kumar Visiting the rain-affected Basavanapalem village near Kodavalur along with Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, he said that only names of those tilling the land would be registered under the system. Without registering their names, the farmers would not be able to get minimum support price for their produce and other benefits including input subsidy for any crop loss, he said. Millers from West Godavari district were being pressed into service for expeditious milling, he said. The Collector assured the agitated growers that every grain produced by them would be procured at the farm level itself by offering minimum support price and asked them not to resort to distress sale.
24 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight vigil at places of worship in Prakasam||The Prakasam police have stepped up vigil to prevent any untoward incidents at the places of worship in the wake of violent incidents in some temples elsewhere in the State. A team of personnel led by Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.N.V. Prasad visited many temples including the famous Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy shrine at Singarayakonda and took stock of the security arrangements. Reviewing the situation on Wednesday, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal warned the personnel of strict action if any religious clashes occurred under their jurisdiction.  CCTV surveillance He suggested that CCTV cameras be installed at all religious places including prayer halls, chariots, idols and other important places and police patrolling be intensified. “The personnel deployed at the grassroots level should visit the places of worship regularly and initiate measures such as preparing suspect list, conducting counseling session and posting police pickets in sensitive areas, to prevent any untoward incidents,” said Mr. Kaushal. ‘Scan social media’ The SP also wanted the police to monitor the messages being circulated on WhatsApp, Facebook and other social media sites and take stern action against those individuals who misuse the platforms for spreading hatred. The SP also appealed to the people to dial 100 or 9121102266 to pass on information about the persons spreading religious hatred, adding that the identity of the informants would be kept confidential.
24 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases drop, but hospitals still overflowing with patients||The toll due to coronavirus increased to 864 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with 10 more persons, 7 in Prakasam district and 3 in Nellore district, succumbing to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, Prakasam caught up with Nellore in the toll as both the districts accounted for 432 deaths each, a health bulletin released by the State government said on Wednesday night. The number of persons recovering from COVID was higher by over 500 when compared to the fresh admissions into hospitals, which still are overflowing with patients. As many as 1,519 persons recovered from the illness in the last 24 hours while the number of fresh admissions into hospitals was only 981 in the two districts. Over 79,500 of the more than 94,000 patients, who had tested positive for the disease, have recovered in the two districts. Nellore district reported 479 new cases at a time when 623 patients were discharged from hospitals, bringing down the number of active cases to 3,969 . In Prakasam district, recoveries stood at 869, while 502 new infections took the number of active cases to 10,482. As many as 663 of 1,303 persons undergoing treatment in hospitals were provided with oxygen/ventilator support. Situation reviewed Reviewing the health situation, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar asked the health officials at the grassroots level to ensure that the patients taking treatment at home, over 8,500, followed the guidelines as any violation would lead to rapid increase in cases. At least 100 persons in each of the public health centres should be tested for the disease and immediate steps should be taken to identify their primary and secondary contacts. It was unfortunate that some of the persons furnished fake addresses and mobile numbers and went incommunicado, he said, and wanted them to double up efforts to trace them with the help of police.
24 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whereabouts of three welders who went to Libya unknown||The family members of three youth who went to Libya for work last year have sought the help of the Union government, saying that their whereabouts were unknown. The three youths—Boddu Danayya, Batsala Venkata Rao and B. Jogarao— all residents of Sithanagaram of Santabommali mandal in Srikakulam district, went to Libya in October last year and have been working as welders in a company there. ‘No contact since months’ The family members said that they had lost contacts with the youths. The last time they spoke, the youths had told them that their visas were about to expire and they had bought flight tickets to return home. A BJP delegation led by party leader from Tekkali Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar interacted with the family members at Sithanagaram. “The family members, who lost contact with the youths months ago, have no clue about their whereabouts now. The issue will be brought to the notice of the Union government. We request the State government to take care of the families,” said Mr. Udaybhaskar.
24 September 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on NEP at NIT||Management of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Tadepalligudem, organised a webinar on National Education Policy - 2020 (NEP-2020) on Wednesday. C.S.P. Rao, Director of NIT, AP, was the chief patron. He said a series of webinars were planned to disseminate key factors of NEP-2020. Leading policy makers, academicians and researchers would participate in the webinars.
24 September 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan presents ‘silk vastrams’ to Lord||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy donated a pair of ‘silk vastrams’ to Lord Venkateswara on behalf of the State government on Wednesday in connection with the annual Brahmotsavams currently under way at the sacred shrine. Clad in traditional white dhoti and shirt, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy arrived at Sri Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple where the priests applied ‘tilakam’ (insignia) on his forehead and placed the silver plate containing sacred ‘vastrams’ over his head which he carried them with great veneration and marched towards the main temple complex to the beat of temple drums and ‘nadaswaram’ by temple musicians. Later, he handed them over to the chief priest of the temple inside the sanctum sanctorum to be adorned to the deity. Taking everyone by surprise Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy prostrated at Dwajasthambam after coming out of the sanctum. After the customary ‘Vedasirvachanams’ he took part in the auspicious ‘Garuda seva’ at kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple where the priests explained him about the significance of the deity and occasion. The interesting part of the presentation ceremony was that over half a dozen Ministers, MLAs and armed police officials, who accompanied him, were dressed in traditional dhotis. Earlier, on his arrival at Padmavati guest house, he was accorded a warm reception by Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, EO A.K. Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, and other officials. Modi video conference After a brief rest he took part in the video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at TTD Annamaiah Bhavan that lasted for over 40 minutes in the evening. The Chief Minister will offer prayers at the temple for a second time on Thursday and take part in Sundarakanda parayanam at Nada Neerajana Mandapam besides attending the foundation stone laying ceremony for the construction of a massive guest house at Karnataka State charities along with his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa. Garuda Seva Meanwhile, religious fervour marked the auspicious ‘Garuda seva’ at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. Immense significance is attached to the festival observed on the fifth day of annual Brahmotsavams which are currently under way at the sacred shrine. Special rituals were observed to Lord Malayappa Swamy at Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple complex. The deity was adorned with precious jewels like centuries-old Makarakanti, Lakshmi Kasula haram, diamond studded crown and other antique jewels whose history is rooted deep in the temple legends.
24 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Declaration system should go at Tirumala: Kodali||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Wednesday opined that the system of signing a declaration form by the non-Hindus visiting the temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala should be withdrawn. Addressing the media here, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said, “Lord Venkateswara is regarded as an universal deity and cannot be confined to a particular region. People from various parts of the country and abroad attach immense reverence and throng the temple for darshan. While so, how far is it fair to create hurdles by imposing such man-made regulations?” “The opposition parties are exploiting the issue at the cost of the sentiments of the people with a malicious intention of furthering their political gain,” he said. ‘Debate needed’ “There should be a debate as to who had actually introduced the system and when? Was it the Britishers, or the kings, or the successive governments, and why? The religious leaders, the TTD authorities and other learned personalities should deliberate over the merits of the subject,” the Minister observed. When asked for his reaction to the demand made by BJP leaders that Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy offer the silk ‘vastrams’ to the deity along with his wife, the Minister shot back saying that let those making such demands ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set an example. “Such mean demands are bound to erode the hard-earned image of Mr. Modi, who is revered by people across the country for his noble values and hard working nature,” he added. ‘Naidu’s game plan’ Ridiculing the protests against the Chief Minister’s visit to Tirumala by the TDP and the BJP leaders at Tirupati, Mr. Venkateswara Rao termed it as a part of the political game plan of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who allegedly was behind the episode in which miscreants had pelted stones at Union Home Minister Amit Shah at Alipiri a couple of years ago. When a reporter drew the Minister’s attention to the demand that he be removed from the State cabinet, he shot back saying that if I too make a similar demand to terminate a particular Minister from the Union Cabinet, will the BJP leadership concede my request? “The party leadership is aware of the happenings and is competent enough to act as and when required,” he said.
24 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Successful in checking pandemic spread’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday said the State conducted 98,000 COVID-19 tests per million, which was the highest amongst all the States. Taking part in the video-conference addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chief Minister detailed the steps taken by the State government in containing the spread of pandemic as well as the measures adopted in extending best medical facilities to the affected people. He said that the State government had taken the pandemic as a challenge and successfully contained the spread of the disease. Besides making a concerted effort towards de-stigmatisation and enhancement of infrastructure at an unprecedented level, the government had also taken multiple steps for the revival of economy and ensuring livelihood for the people, he added. Of the 52 lakh tests carried out in the State, 6,39,302 positive cases had been so far identified and that the positivity rate was also on the decline. The positivity rate, which had increased from 11.55% in July to 16.89% in August, decreased to 12.22 % with a further reduction of 10.98% reported on September 20. The positive cases had also fallen from a peak of around 11,000 cases per day to less than 7,500 cases as on Tuesday. The Chief Minister said there was a significant reduction in COVID-19 deaths, which had come down drastically from almost a 100 deaths a day.
24 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sugarcane cultivation turns bitter for Chittoor ryots||With sugar factories landing in trouble one after the other, the cane growers from Chittoor district, considered as the sugar bowl of Rayalaseema, are at their wits’ end as to when they would get their dues and who would buy their produce. Post-bifurcation, there were 29 sugar factories in Andhra Pradesh, which came down to 12 last year. Of the six in Chittoor district, The Chittoor Sugars and the Sri Venkateswara Sugars near Tirupati, both in the cooperative sector, have been non-functional since long. Of the four private factories, the ones at Buchinaidu Kandriga and Punganur have been under lockout. The Sri Rangaraja Puram factory is doing fairly well, while the one at Nindra, which is enduring tremendous financial crisis, has narrowly escaped auction of its machinery by getting an interim court order this week. The government scheduled the auction for September 10, but the factory sought more time and finally secured an interim court order. “We will wait for the final order and proceed with the auction process by getting the stay vacated,” Assistant Cane Commissioner M. John Victor told The Hindu . Farmers, who supplied cane to Buchinaidu Kandriga and Nindra factories, have to get Rs. 30 crore and Rs. 37.6 crore respectively. “The first one declared lockout last year and its properties are being auctioned, but the latter one is resisting such an attempt,” says Avula Srinivas Yadav, general secretary of the Cane Growers’ Association (Nindra Zone). A study of the cane sector shows that neither the farmers nor the factories are happy with the output. Monsoon vagaries apart, the major problems plaguing the industry are the perennial pendency in settlement of dues and plummeting of sugar price in the open market over the last decade. This has led to a drastic shrinkage in cane acreage, with majority of the farmers now looking for lucrative and less risky crops. “I stopped growing cane a decade ago as it was no longer remunerative,” opines Mangati Gopal Reddy, State president of Federation of Farmers’ Associations (FFA). Labour problem Being a labour intensive crop, cane farmers incur huge cost esepcially during the harvesting. With local workers lacking the expertise, the farmers depend on importing workforce that comes at a premium. A farmer spends between Rs. 750 and Rs. 1,200 per tonne on labour. Smaller harvesters are the need of the hour, as larger ones are unable to manoeuvre the small landholdings. The factories can explore ancillary units to make ethanol and by-products to shore up revenues. It may be recalled that the co-generation units set up over the last decade had eaten away precious resources, instead of contributing to the factories’ profit.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari districts account for nearly a fourth of State’s cases||The State reported 7,228 new COVID-19 cases and 45 deaths in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. Consequently, the infection tally climbed to 6,46,530. The tally of East Godavari crossed the 90,000-mark and that of West Godavari 60,000-mark as both the districts reported 1,000 new cases each in the last one day. Both the districts account for 23.41% (nearly a quarter) of the State’s infection tally, excluding the 0.4% imported cases. Standing in the first and second positions respectively among the districts, East Godavari alone accounts for 13.99% of the State’ tally while West Godavari accounts for 9.42% of the cases. Chittoor, Kurnool and Anantapur, with 8.80%, 8.50% and 8.43% respective shares, account for 25.73% of the State’s total cases while the remaining eight districts account for 50% of the cases. For the first time in the past two months, the daily death toll reported was less than 50. So far, 5,506 deaths were reported in the State. The death rate continues to be lowest among other States at 0.85%. The recovery rate further increased to 88.27% with a total of 5,70,667 recoveries. In the last one day, 8,291 patients recovered leaving 70,357 cases active. Daily positivity rate For the first time in more than two months, the daily positivity rate of the tests conducted in the last 24 hours was less than 10% and stood at 9.92% as 72,838 samples were tested. So far, 53.02 lakh samples were tested and the positivity rate was 12.19%. The tests per million ratio inched closer to the one-lakh mark. It is currently at 99,295. About 9.93% of the State’s population had been tested so far, and 1.21% of the population was infected. East Godavari reported 1,112 new infections and four new deaths in the last one day while West Godavari reported 962 cases and four deaths. They are followed by Guntur (648 & 2), Anantapur (612 & 3), Kadapa (600 & 3), Chittoor (536 & 7), Prakasam ((502 & 7), Nellore (479 & 3), Krishna (428 & 5), Visakhapatnam (414 & 4), Vizianagaram (387), Srikakulam (319 & 1) and Kurnool (229 & 2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (90,047),West Godavari (60,659), Chittoor (56,653), Kurnool (54,720), Anantapur (54,263), Guntur (51,232), Nellore (49,163), Visakhapatnam (47,824), Prakasam (43,710), Kadapa (40,939), Srikakulam (36,893), Vizianagaram (32,597) and and Krishna (24,935).
24 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goal of three capitals is balanced development, Jagan tells Shah||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrapped up his two-day Delhi visit with a second round of deliberations with Home Minister Amit Shah on the implementation of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, and a separate interaction with Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on irrigation projects, mainly including Polavaram and drought mitigation in the Rayalaseema region. Abolition of Council In his meeting with the Home Minister, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought steps for fulfilling the Central government’s commitments under the Act and other promises made to the State after bifurcation. He also reportedly apprised Mr. Shah of the passing of the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and the CRDA Repeal Bill, and the resolution adopted for the abolition of the Legislative Council, which was pending approval by the Centre. The Chief Minister stated that the proposed three capitals were meant to achieve balanced development of the State and had no mala fide intention as was being alleged by the opposition parties. He also wanted the Centre to help the State in overcoming the impact of COVID-19 by extending financial and logistics support. Plea to Shekhawat Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested Mr. Shekhawat to reimburse nearly Rs. 4,000 crore spent by the State on the construction of the Polavaram dam and Relief and Rehabilitation package. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy left for Tirumala to offer silk ‘vastrams’ to Lord Venkateswara as part of the annual Brahmotsavams.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister reviews Jashua Kala Pranganam project||Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday said that the Gurram Jashua Kala Pranganam proposed to be constructed in Guntur would be a prized possession of the State. The Minister, along with Telugu Academy chairperson Nandamuri Lakshmi Parvathi, MLC Dokka Manikya Varaprasad and Madiga Corporation chairman Kommuri Kanaka Rao, reviewed the modalities of the project with officials. He said the government had sanctioned Rs. 3 crore and allocated 25 cents of land on the premises of the Government Women’s Degree College in Guntur for construction of the project. As part of Gurram Jashua’s 125th birth anniversary on September 28, week-long activities were being conducted by the Gurram Jashua Kala Peetham. The Minister said arrangements were apace for celebrating the occasion in strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. After examining the design of the proposed structure, he said the final model would be submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and construction works would start once he approves the designs. He said the project would encompass facilities like a convention hall, dining area and other features. He then discussed with the officials on how to mobilise funds without having to depend on the government. Ms. Lakshmi Parvathi said that the Chief Minister's intention to give equal importance to all sections is reflected in the proposed projects like Ambedkar Smriti Vanam at Swaraj Maidan in Vijayawada and Gurram Jashua Kala Pranganam in Guntur. She expressed happines to be a part of these projects.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adhere to COVID-19 norms: RTC official||In view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is following a set of rules in its city bus services which the commuters should strictly follow, according to Corporation Executive Director K.S. Brahmananda Reddy. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Reddy said to maintain social distancing norm in the buses, passengers were being allowed to occupy alternate seats. “Occupation of second seat is being allowed only after all seats, till the last row, are filled,” he said, adding that nobody would be allowed to stand and travel. Use of mask was mandatory in the bus, he said, stating that all stalls at the bus station were asked to sell masks for the convenience of the commuters.
24 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demands ouster of Kodali from Cabinet||MLC P.V.N. Madhav took strong objection to the disparaging remarks allegedly made by Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and demanded that he be dismissed from the Cabinet. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Madhav said, even as the controversy kicked up by the Minister’s “outrageous comments” on Hindu Gods and Goddesses raged, Mr. Venkateswara Rao stooped so low as to speak about the personal lives of Mr. Modi and Mr. Yogi Adityanath as he was not reined in by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, whose silence was tantamount to endorsing the Minister’s outbursts. The BJP would stage protests across the State on September 24 demanding Mr. Venkateswara Rao’s ouster from the Cabinet. Mr. Madhav said the government should withdraw the cases foisted on Hindus who were protesting against the attacks on temples and unwarranted comments being made by some unruly elements on on the Gods and Goddesses. “Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao is not serious about the issue. He, rather, joined the anti-Hindu chorus in his party,” Mr. Madhav observed. BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said it appeared to be a part of the conspiracy against Hinduism, and by keeping quiet Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was adding fuel to fire. He questioned whether the government would dare to dictate the religious affairs of other faiths.
24 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP bats for one capital, decentralised growth||JSP general secretary T. Sivasankar Rao, in an affidavit filed before the State High Court on the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills, said the party was in favour of “one capital and decentralised development of the State.” “The party stands for Amaravati as the capital city, and it will fight through all rightful means to the possible extent to get justice for the farmers of Amaravati, safeguard the institutions and protect the spirit and sanctity of the Constitution,” Mr. Sivasankar Rao stated in the affidavit, to which he attached a letter of authorisation given by party president K. Pawan Kalyan. Mr. Sivasankar Rao pointed out that the Bills were passed in the Legislative Assembly on June 16, 2020, under Article 197 of the Constitution and sent to the Legislative Council for consideration and passing, but they were neither tabled nor laid before the Council as per numbers 139 and 140 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the AP Legislative Council. The government treated the Bills as considered and passed by the Council, and sent them to the Governor, who approved them even as doubts were raised whether they were in compliance with the constitutional tenets, the A.P Reorganisation Act and rules of the Legislature. Mere satisfaction of the Governor that the Bills were in order was not immune to judicial review.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. efforts to revive hospitality sector hailed||Hoteliers and tourism associations have hailed the government initiatives designed to support the hospitality industry, especially the recently announced GOs 272, 273 and 274 regarding the Excise policy. The Andhra Pradesh Commerce and Industry Federation (AP Chambers) organised an online interactive session for hoteliers and tourism associations in the State with Special Chief Secretary, Tourism and Culture, Rajat Bhargav, to thank the government for all the initiatives and remedial measures taken in the Excise policy to provide relief to the hoteliers. The meeting was attended by the Managing Director of AP State Beverages Corporation Limited Vasudev Reddy, representatives of AP Chambers, hotel owners and operators, tour operators and travel agents and representatives of hotel and restaurant associations. The speakers hailed the government efforts to revive the travel and tourism industry, which significantly contributed to the State GSDP and created employment opportunities in the service sector industries. They said the relaxations in the Excise policy was a major relief and expressed their gratitude to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for his considerate stand. They welcomed the recent initiatives like the registration of hotels by the government, permission to operate boating activities, opening up of hotels and restaurants, archaeological sites, adventure sports activities and bars and related trade. Plea to govt. The hoteliers also appealed to the government to consider reduction in electricity charges, automatic renewal of licences and a stimulus package. Pointing out that the State was gifted with second longest coastline, rivers, backwaters and other water bodies which provide a vast potential for development of water-based tourism and adventure activities, they said an aggressive tourism policy coupled with swift implementation of initiatives would go a long way in helping to revive the sector. Mr. Rajat Bhargav said the government was open and approachable and the Chief Minister regarded the tourism sector as one of the critical sectors for the economy. Issues related to branding and brand ambassadors were also discussed at the meeting.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC to take up Benz Circle beautification work||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation(VMC) will soon take up beautification work of the area under the Benz Circle flyover in the city at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.75 crore. VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh had recently sought the administrative sanction of the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department to take up the work. On Wednesday, the department accorded the administrative sanction to beautify the area under the flyover between the first span, near SVS function hall, and the 47th span, near Gurunanak Nagar. Funds The civic body will draw funds from the General Funds. VMC will take up hardscape, softscape and landscape works to beautify the premises.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fill vacant ‘sachivalaya’ posts: JAC||A.P. Nirudyoga JAC State president Samayam Hemanth Kumar on Wednesday urged the government to fill the village/ward sachilvalaya posts that fell vacant after resignations of those who got better job opportunities, with the candidates who qualified in the first round of the exams but left out in the race. In a statement, Mr. Hemanth Kumar pointed out that almost 2,000 of the 3,524 candidates who are now being recruited to the posts of Secondary Grade Teacher (DSC-2018) are working as village-ward sachivalaya employees. The posts would fall vacant when they join as teachers. Even in the past, almost 10,000 village/ward sachivalaya employees resigned after they got better opportunities. Though the government promised to fill the vacant posts by giving chance to other qualified candidates on merit basis, these vacant posts were not included in the second round exam notification for the sachivalaya posts.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital MD refuses to attend probe in person||Ramesh Hospitals managing director P. Ramesh Babu said he can attend for police inquiry online, in the case related to fire at the COVID facility run by its management. Ten patients died and 21 persons suffered injuries in the fire at the the COVID Care Centre run by Ramesh Hospitals. The hospital management took lease of Hotel Swarna Palace in the city. The Governorpet police registered a case and took up investigation. However, the hospital management moved the Supreme Court, which directed the investigation officers to continue the inquiry in the case, but not to arrest the hospital MD. In a release, the hospital management said police served notices under Section 160 CrPc and asked Ramesh Babu to attend for investigation. But, in wake of COVID-19 situation and as per the Supreme Court directions, the MD will attend for online inquiry.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pro-poor schemes of State govt. attracted me to YSRCP: Vasupalli||“Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s welfare schemes for the poor and the sea change in governance during the last one-and-a-half years have attracted me to the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), and I extended support to it of my own free will,” Visakhapatnam (South) MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has said. “The State government has spent Rs. 59,000 crore on the implementation of various welfare schemes, in the last 15 months, as no where else in the country. The Chief Minister has set up firewalls to prevent corruption, thereby providing ease of administration. The Opposition has no work now except to obstruct the programmes of the government,” Mr. Ganesh Kumar told the media here on Wednesday. “Any ruling party is meant for the poor. The rich can get their works done. When I was in the ruling Telugu Desam Party government in the past, I wanted to do many things but couldn’t. I did not search for the reasons, but now all those things are happening in the YSRCP government,” he said. “I was getting instructions from the TDP leadership to organise protests against every programme of the YSRCP government. In the last 14 months as TDP Urban district president, I had acted against my conscience in organising agitations against the ruling party. It would have been wrong on my part, if I had stayed there any longer.” The MLA said that he could not wear the YSRCP scarf for ‘technical reasons.’ “I have admitted my two sons into YSRCP and will work as a ‘sympathiser.’ I am ready for any role entrusted to me by the YSRCP.” he said. Replying to a query, he said: “I told the CM of my inability to keep the promises made to the people of Visakhapatnam (South) constituency and my failure to implement them due to lack of cooperation from the TDP leadership. Mr. Jagan assured me of extending all cooperation for their implementation.” Replying to another query, he said that he was the first to welcome the decision of the State government to make Visakhapatnam as Executive capital of the State. It would foster development of North Andhra, which has remained backward for long. “I am born and brought up in Visakhapatnam and always support its development,” he added.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||414 new cases take tally to 48,336||As many as 414 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative COVID-19 tally to 48,336 here on Wednesday. The death toll also rose to 375 with four more persons succumbing to the infection.  447 discharged The bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar also stated that 447 persons who were infected with COVID-19 were discharged or recovered. The recoveries also include people being treated in home quarantine, apart from in hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. With the new cases and discharges, the total number of active cases is 4,285 and recoveries increase to 43,676. There are 58 very active clusters, 19 active 641 dormant clusters, as per the bulletin. It may be remembered that 192 clusters were already de-notified.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM should honour traditions at Tirumala: Anita||Telugu Mahila president Vangalapudi Anita has said that it is wrong to ignore Hindu traditions, being followed at Tirumala temple for ages. It has been the practice of Chief Ministers of to visit Tirumala and present ‘pattu vastrams’ to Lord Venkateswara, the presiding deity of Tirumala. The practice of signing a declaration by those professing other faiths has been in vogue at Tirumala since 1860. The Britishers also used to abide by it, Ms. Anita told the media here on Wednesday. She recalled that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had signed the declaration, when he had visited Tirumala as an MP in 2009. She wondered what was the problem in signing the declaration now. She ridiculed the remarks by the Ministers on the issue. She also took strong exception to the growing attacks on temples in the State. She also wondered as to why BJP leaders were placed under house arrest.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 youth held on charge of bike thefts||Arilova (Crimes) police on Wednesday arrested two youth for their alleged involvement in motorcycle thefts and a property offence here on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as S. Ravi (19) and A. Jagadeesh (18), both residents of Poorna Market. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that based on a complaint of motorcycle theft, the police acting on a tip-off conducted checking near Jodugulapalem on Wednesday, where they caught the duo. Police said that the youth also confessed that they were involved in another bike theft apart from stealing Rs. 5,000 by gaining entry into a guest house at Gudlavanipalem.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI files cases against Nellore-based jewellers||The Economic Offences wing of the CBI, Chennai, has filed cases against Nellore-based Shantilal and Sons Jewellers and Shanti Kalash Jewellers for allegedly misappropriating bank funds and cheating Canara Bank to the tune of Rs. 7,013.20 lakh, at the Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. As per the FIR filed by the CBI, based on a complaint lodged by the AGM of Canara Bank, Stressed Assets Management Branch, Hyderabad, Shantilal and Sons Jewellers had availed a term loan of Rs. 538 lakh and Secured Overdraft (SOD) of Rs. 1,140 lakh from Syndicate Bank (now Canara Bank), Dargamitta Branch, Nellore, on February 25, 2014. The SOD was later enhanced to Rs. 2,400 lakh on July 29, 2015. In another instance, Shanti Kalash Jewellers had availed a term loan of Rs. 479 lakhs and SOD of Rs. 1,140 lakh from the same bank on February 4, 2014. The term loan was later enhanced to Rs. 521 lakh on March 13, 2014, and the SOD was enhanced to Rs. 2,400 lakh on August 13, 2015. The accounts of both the firms became NPA in 2018, and it was alleged that the borrowers had diverted the available stock hypothecated to the bank without the knowledge of the bankers. It was also alleged that in the guise of renovation of the shop, the borrowers had sold the stock and misappropriated the bank’s funds and cheated it to the tune of Rs. 7,013.20 lakh.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 Dalit families face ‘social boycott’ over inter-caste marriage||About 22 families belonging to Dalit community were allegedly socially boycotted by upper caste families, after a boy from a ‘upper caste’ community married a Dalit girl, at Gummalapudi village in Ravikamatham mandal in Visakhapatnam district. According to Kothakota Circle Inspector Lakshmana Murthy, the 22 families are being allegedly not provided milk, vegetables and other daily essentials. The upper caste families have also decided not to talk with any boycotted families and also decided impose fine on those shopkeepers selling them essentials. The victims are not even given wages for agricultural works Though this has been going on in the village for the last two weeks, it came to light on Tuesday after a few victims lodged complaint. The police have registered cases and swung into action. Narsipatnam Assistant Superintendent of Police Tuhin Sinha and police teams visited the village and spoke to people. “Police-picketing has been posted in the village. Both in the morning and evening, we are arranging meetings with both the parties. As of now, essentials are provided to the needy,” said Mr Lakshmana Murthy, while conducting a meet at Gummalapudi on Wednesday night.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre trying to deprive workers of their rights: CITU||CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao has called upon all sections of the people to get ready for a long-drawn battle against the Union government, which was trying to deprive workers of their rights by amending the labour laws. A rally was taken out from the Ambedkar statue to the Gandhi statue near GVMC on Wednesday.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga therapy camp from tomorrow||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting online and offline yoga therapy camp on ‘Harmonal regulation through yoga’ from September 25. The sessions timings are 10 a.m. to 11.15 a.m. In a release on Wednesday, Head of the Department K. Ramesh Babu said that interested people can attend the therapy session conducted by Dr. R. Tulasi Rao (Assistance Professor and Mr. Lakshman (Yoga therapist). For further details, contact 799 3241 701.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 10.04 crore sanctioned for road extension works: Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government has sanctioned Rs. 10.04 crore for the road extension works of Reddipalle-Padmanabham in Visakhapatnam district. In a release on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that on September 22, government issued a G.O. sanctioning the amount for the extension works of 3.5-km stretch of Reddipalle to Padmanbham.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed to the needy||Members of Sri Gayatri Brahmana Abhyudaya Seva Sangham, Rajeev Nagar, Kurmannapalem, distributed essential commodity kits to priests serving at small temples in the city and poor community members near Shankar Math, Visakhapatnam on September 19. So far, the Association has distributed 3,500 food packets and 125 commodity kits each containing rice, tur dal and other food items.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online classes on ‘Basic English Language Skills’ from Sept. 26||The Department of Youth Services would conduct free online classes on ‘Basic English Language Skills’ for people aged between 15 and 35 years, from September 26. Course Facilitator T. Srinivasa Rao, Department of Technical Education, will take the classes on every Wednesday and Saturday from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., said CEO, SETVIS, B. Srinivasa Rao, in a release on Wednesday. He also said that interested candidates can register themselves inwww.tiny.cc/communicationskillsaplink by September 25. For more details, people can contact 9849913079/9491553607, he added.
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khadi masks to be distributed on October 1||On the eve of Gandhi Jayanti and Khadi Day on October 1, a khadi mask distribution programme is being organised by fashion designers and executive members of the government across the country and in Visakhapatnam Khadi Designer Council of India in collaboration with JD Institute of Fashion Technology, will be organising it. According to Khadi Designer Council Joint Secretary Aishwarya Ganguri, for the last four years, the organisation has been working across the country for the promotion of khadi
24 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMTZ to have common facility centre||Referring to a question by YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in Parliament on Wednesday, on whether the Union government has given final approval for the setting up of common facility centre under “Assistance to Bulk Drug Industry for Common Facility Centre” scheme to medical device industry in A.P., the Minister of Chemical and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda, said that it has been approved for Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone (AMTZ) at Visakhapatnam.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trapped in traffic||
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chilled out||
24 September 2020||Abhinay Deshpande,TELANGANA||Stray dogs have a free run in Adilabad town||Adilabad town and the surrounding villages in the district are reeling under stray dog and pig menace. Repeated complaints to the municipal authorities are not yielding desired response to the ‘life-threatening’ problem. With ferocious dogs moving freely in the area, parents are not allowing their children to play outside the house, especially after sunset. “Though the streets of our colony are not littered with garbage and the majority of residents are vegetarians, we are surprised to see how the population of stray dogs has shot up in the locality,” said Hastesh Kurliwar, a resident of Brahmanwada. He said that for the past three-four months the stray dog menace has been severe in their colony and other neighbourhoods. “Municipal authorities must take immediate measures to control the growing menace,” said Rana Ashish Chauhan, a research scholar from Old Housing Board Colony. On an average, a pack of six to 10 stray dogs is found in almost all the colonies and on several occasions they have caused injuries to the passers-by. The problem is more in the older parts of the town, including Ashok Road, Brahmanwada, Shivaji Chowk, Ambedkar Chowk and Ranisatiji Colony. With shops and other establishments downing their shutters early on, the main roads are wearing a deserted look, giving a free run to the stray dogs. Two-wheeler riders are the worst affected as the dogs are chasing them, sometimes leading to their fall. Morning walkers are equally vulnerable to stray dogs attacks. Neither is there a municipality-maintained dog kennel nor a dog van in the town. “Authorities are not taking adequate measures to address the problem. The issue was brought to the notice of the Municipal Commissioner and the Chairman on several occasions, but in vain,” said Moluguri Vijay Kumar, municipal councillor from ward No. 30. He said that every year, a dog catchers’ team from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh comes to Adilabad, tranquillise the canines and lets them off in the jungle area. “Again they come back to the town. The authorities must start animal birth control,” Mr. Kumar said. When contacted, Adilabad Municipal Commissioner Rajeshwar Rathod agreed that they are getting a large number of complaints on stray dog and pig menace and they are yet to initiate any action. “This (municipality) subject is new to me. So far we have not taken any action, but within a few days I will hold a meeting with officials concerned and address the issue,” he said.
24 September 2020||B. Pradeep,TELANGANA||MLA calls for tractor rally in Miryalaguda today||Celebrations to hail Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the ‘historic’ Revenue legislation, here on Wednesday, reminded the TRS’ Pragathi Nivedana Sabha tractor rallies at Kongara Kalan, held ahead of the State Assembly elections in 2018. Close to a thousand tractors, driven by farmers and leaders of TRS, with posters of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy as the vehicle badge, turned the town pink. While officials in the town estimated the flow was “about 1,000-1,200 tractors between 11 a.m. and 2.30 p.m.”, TRS leaders said several thousands of tractors moved here from all the mandals. Milk abhishekams were performed and crackers were burst as thanksgiving to the Chief Minister. And visible from the videos and batches of photographs, the participants were lacking safe physical distance norms and protective masks. Suggesting almost a competition of sorts, TRS leaders in Miryalaguda are gearing up for a grander show on Thursday, with an estimated participation of 3,000 tractors, a spirited call by its legislator N. Bhaskar Rao. Miryalaguda DSP Venkateswara Rao, when contacted, said permissions were given for 200 tractors and arrangements were being done.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana logs 2,296 more cases, 10 deaths||Telangana recorded 2,296 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 1,77,070. The death toll reached 1,062 as 10 more patients passed away. While 55,892 people underwent tests, results of 1,388 were awaited. Of those tested, 24,592 were primary contacts and 6,707 were secondary contacts. The new 2,296 cases include 321 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 217 from Rangareddy, 173 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 155 from Nalgonda, 136 from Karimnagar, 99 from Warangal Urban and 92 from Siddipet. A total of 26,28,897 samples were put to test from March 2 so far. Of the total 1.77 lakh cases, 29,873 are active cases while 1,46,135 have recovered, and 1,062 have died, as per details in the media bulletin issued by the Health department. The recovery rate in the State stands at 82.52%. ICU beds So far, the Health department had been giving out details of regular beds, oxygen beds, and ICU beds available at government and private hospitals. From Wednesday, data on ICU beds with and without ventilator support is also being mentioned in the media bulletin. In the 62 government hospitals, there is availability of 4,548 oxygen beds, 333 ICU beds with ventilator support, and 218 ICU beds without ventilator. In case of 222 private hospitals, 2,289 oxygen beds, 720 ICU beds with ventilator and 1,093 beds without ventilator were vacant.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BRS scrutiny gathers pace ahead of GHMC polls||GHMC has speeded up scrutiny of applications under the Building Regularisation Scheme (BRS), which had run into rough weather after its commencement in November 2015. A public interest litigation was filed in the High Court by the Forum for Good Governance (FGG) challenging the scheme, which put the process of regularisation on hold. The High Court had already issued interim directions asking GHMC authorities to carry out the process of scrutinising the applications, and demolishing the structures pertaining to the rejected applications. GHMC, which has been dragging its feet on the directions for four years, has suddenly gained speed in processing of the applications ahead of the announcement of corporation polls. Several residents in the city who had applied for BRS have started getting notices about shortfalls and rejections. “Quite a few residents of our colony have got notices about shortfalls. Some of the applications have been rejected, with a column mentioning regularisation fee, which is confusing,” informed P. Srinivas Murthy, a resident of Bandlaguda. Officials attribute the alacrity to recent directions by the High Court reportedly to submit details of the scrutinised applications. The next hearing is reportedly scheduled for October 8, by when the officials will have to finish scrutiny of applications. Sources on condition of anonymity attributed the same to the bounty it would bring to the fund-starved GHMC, beside the government’s aim to gain mileage in the upcoming GHMC elections. By conservative estimates, building regularisation is estimated to bring in a windfall of Rs. 1,000 crore to the corporation. Two meetings have been already conducted at the highest bureaucratic level about the scheme, they say. As per the official data, a total of 1.13 lakh applications for building regularisation have been pending with GHMC as of now. So far, rejection intimation has been sent with regard to 2,000 applications, while shortfall notices have been sent to 95,000 to 96,000 applicants. The remaining applications may be accepted as per the BRS norms. Officials informed that applications are rejected owing to construction in government land, colony parks, open spaces, land without titles, and within the full tank level of water bodies, to name a few. While the High Court has asked the GHMC to go ahead with demolition of such buildings, officials say that the applicants still have a right to approach the appellate authority, which is a committee constituted by the government with member officials drawn from the Town Planning wing of GHMC and Municipal Administration department. If the application is rejected even by the appellate authority, the final decision lies with the Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration, they say.
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Maroon pattadar passbooks for non-agriculture land holders||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that maroon colour pattadar passbooks will be issued to non-agriculture land holders in the State. Online mutation free of cost will be done for all kinds of non-agricultural properties, including houses, plots, apartments, farmhouses and residential accommodation in agricultural lands, Mr. Rao said at a meeting with officials to discuss implementation of new revenue law and enrolment of non-agricultural properties in Dharani portal. The requirement of mutation will not apply to houses constructed on lands of endowment, wakf, nala, FTL and urban land ceiling. He said the passbooks were conceived to provide a permanent solution to land disputes and resultant clashes that took place. The government aimed to provide total security to the properties of poor, middle class and all other sections of people through the new piece of legislation. The law was enacted keeping in view the long term and broad benefits of people. The details of every house should be registered online in villages and municipal areas. It should be ensured that the houses were numbered, taxes collected and `nala conversions’ were taken up for residential accommodation in agricultural lands. Irrespective of the delay in completion of Dharani portal of land transactions, the registration of agricultural and non-agricultural lands will be done only after its launch. He warned that the portal will henceforth be the sole platform for transfer of even an inch of land from one person to another. Therefore, people must get their non-agriculture properties registered online along with Aadhaar and door numbers and details of family members. He also warned that people will face problems in future if they failed to take up mutation of their properties now. The government will regularise the houses of poor people where they had staying for longtime. It will not only provide them security but facilitate borrowing bank loans. There was no connect between mutation and the ongoing land regularisation scheme. The construction of houses or deviations, if any, will be considered as per panchayat raj and municipal laws. The `nala conversions' of agricultural lands in gram panchayats and houses in municipal areas will be done free of cost. Mr. Rao asked public representatives and officials to educate people on the process involved in removing the extent of land used for construction of residential accommodation in agricultural lands from agriculture category. The meeting was attended by Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, V. Prashant Reddy, E. Dayakar Rao, P. Ajay Kumar, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Chief Advisor to government Rajeev Sharma and some legislators.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR expects huge dip in passenger earnings||The South Central Railway (SCR), like the rest of the railway zones, is staring at a huge dip in passenger earnings expecting only between Rs. 500 crore and Rs. 1,000 crore compared to about Rs. 4,100 crore the last financial year. Even freight earnings have been down by 30% so far but it is expected to pick up with time-tabled freight trains, fare concessions and as the economy moves, said general manager Gajanan Mallya on Wednesday. “There was nil passenger traffic during the pandemic-induced lockdown. We are running special trains towards specific destinations based on demand and as per respective states’ permissions. We will introduce more trains as the pandemic eases. Freight is looking up with 33% rise this month in comparison. We hope to do better,” he said, during his first virtual press conference. Freight too got hit because of low demand for coal from thermal power plants and coal had been a major revenue generator. Bountiful rains and enhanced non-conventional energy production ensured that the demand did not pick up but there had been improvement in transport of foodgrains and fertilisers on account of more agriculture activity, he said, pointing out that the SCR was the first to run an exclusive ‘Kisan Rail’. Teams were formed to target new business with attractive schemes introduced to get more freight by rail. Special business development units were started in all divisions to lure customers. Shramik trains too were run from here; more trains could be introduced based on demand and permissions. It was for the same reason that more trains were not being run towards Chennai and Kakinada. Local suburban trains would be run once the Government permitted the same as in the rest of the country. “We will follow all necessary safety protocols of sanitisation, social distance, face mask, when we start the services,” said the GM. With regard to MMTS Phase-II, Mr. Mallya put the onus on the State government, pointing out that more than Rs. 600 crore was due as per the cost-sharing agreement. “We are not going to delay any work from our side but unless funds are infused, it cannot be done faster,” he said. For the upcoming private trains, the GM said BHEL-R.C. Puram and Telapur were identified as potential originating stations. “We have identified space within our land for maintenance of these trains whose rakes are going to be different. The picture will become clearer once technical bids are finalised by the Railway Board,” he said.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GWAC extends aid to migrant’s family||They live in different countries doing odd jobs but came together to help the family of Nirmal-based Gulf migrant, who died of COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia. Migrants from Telangana working in Gulf countries, joining hands under the aegis of Gulf Workers Awareness Center (GWAC), handed over an aid of Rs. 2.72 lakh to the family of Bhanu Chander. A resident of Narsapoor village in Kadem mandal of Nirmal district, Chander went to Saudi Arabia in search of livelihood. Recently, he tested positive for coronavirus and died while undergoing treatment on August 9 in Ha’il of Saudi Arabia, GWAC president Donikeni Krishna said. Chander’s body was buried in Saudi Arabia as per COVID-19 protocols on September 21. Responding to the call of the GWAC, several migrant workers in Gulf countries and other places abroad donated money. An amount of Rs. 1.5 lakh was made as fixed deposit in the name of Chander’s daughter. Amounts of Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 30,000 were deposited in the bank in the names of Chander’s two sons. An amount of Rs. 40,000 was handed over to the family in the presence of village sarpanch and other elders. Groceries worth Rs. 12,000 were also given to the family members. Plea for ex gratia Thanking those who extended help, Mr. Krishna urged the State government to announce an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to Chander’s family. He demanded that a double bedroom house be allotted to the family.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anti-depressant shortage at IMH raising patients’ anxiety||Fifty-five-year-old Prakash, who has been battling depression and anxiety for over a decade, relies on the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) at Erragadda here for medicines. Residing in a village near the Telangana-Karnataka border, he and his family members travel to the city once every month or two to collect the medicines. However, supply of medicines at the government hospital has been erratic at least for the past four months. “When we run short of medicines, my father’s anxiety level shoots up. He lives in fear,” says Prakash’s son, as he clenches his fist and releases it repeatedly to indicate a pulsating heart to describe the fear. He added that they started to face issues with supply of medicines at the hospital post lockdown. Theirs is not the lone case. Attendants of many other patients also have been facing similar problems in getting medicines at the hospital pharmacy. 33% have anxiety Doctors at the hospital said out of around 300 patients that they attend per day, 100 have depression and anxiety. These patients, accompanied by their attendants, visit the facility from different parts of the State for consultations and medicines. The doctors admitted that a shortage in medicines given to patients with depression, anxiety and epilepsy associated with mental health illnesses, in the past four months. “Since our pharmacy does not have the new generation medicines, older generation medicines are issued to the patients. However, the older generation drugs have side effects. That is the reason we depend on the new generation drugs and are in dire need of that. Erratic use of the medicines can aggravate depression and anxiety leading to grave consequences,” a doctor says. Medicines to treat epilepsy associated with mental health illnesses too are in short supply. Patients and their family members are starting to see the side effects of the older generation drugs. Satish, who walks down the pharmacy ramp holding a notebook with prescription and medicines, says he was at the hospital to collect medicines for his aunt who lives in Khammam. “One of the medicines helped put my aunt to sleep. On some days, she spends sleepless nights wailing just like that woman there,” he says, pointing to a patient in distress near IMH pharmacy. Satish says though his family has bought medicines from private pharmacies, the substitutes do not work too well. Another attendant says they spent Rs. 600 to Rs. 700 per month on the medicines. Authorities informed The pharmacy staff, however, claim that the issue has been resolved. A few attendants have taken the issue of medicine shortage to the notice of IMH superintendent, and additional director, whose numbers are mentioned on a big board in the out-patient block. Hopsital superintendent M. Umashankar was not available at his office on Wednesday morning, and was not reachable over phone either.  (Names of patients changed to protect identity)
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vapers seek relook at e-cigarette ban||A year after the Centre banned vapes or e-cigarettes, a group of Hyderabad-based vapers have launched an online protest against the decision, and to demand deliberations to better understand the issue. Speaking to The Hindu , Hyderabad-based businessman and director of the Association of Vapers India, Jagannath Saranagapani, claimed that vaping, when compared to smoking, has a reduced harm potential. “I used to smoke 40 cigarettes a day for many years. I tried to quit and used nicotine gums and patches but nothing worked. Nobody is saying that vapes are harmless, but there is reduced harm. Such a solution should be there for a smoker if he wants to quit smoking. But this was taken away in an abrupt manner,” he said. Syed Ismail, a 27-year-old entrepreneur and vaper, narrated a similar story. In an attempt to give up smoking, he started vaping around three years ago. But with the ban, he claims that it is difficult to stay off cigarettes. “There are some others I know who gave up smoking after they started vaping,” he claims. Given the COVID-19 pandemic, vapers could not gather for an in-person protest. So, on September 18, which marked the one-year anniversary of the ban, they took the demonstration online. According to Mr Saranagapani, those from six cities, including Hyderabad, Delhi and Bengaluru, joined. “We wrote to nearly 500 Members of Parliament, explaining to them what vaping is, and why this ban is wrong. We have given the reasons to them and the justifications for this,” he said, adding that vapes are now available in the black market, even as he suggested that vapes could be regulated. “In light of these missteps, we request Parliament and the Indian government reconsider the ban on e-cigarettes and institute a panel to conduct an unbiased analysis. There are a number of regulatory frameworks available from which to adopt the aspects best suited to India’s needs – EU’s Tobacco Products Directive (TPD), US FDA’s deeming regulations, China’s proposed regulatory framework, as well as regulations from New Zealand, Philippines, South Africa etc,” an excerpt from the letter reads.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SEC meets civil society representatives||State Election Commissioner (SEC) C. Parthasarathi, on Wednesday, convened a meeting with members of the team of ‘Election Watch’ and discussed contribution of civil society organisations in enhancing the voting percentage in the upcoming GHMC elections. The Election Commissioner explained to civil society members the process of elections, and said the poll turnout during the previous GHMC elections in 2016 was mere 45.29%. In order to improve it, a plan of action needs to be initiated, he said, requesting the members to organise voter awareness campaigns. He promised full cooperation in this regard, by appointing liaisoning officials to coordinate with civil society organisations. The organisations may also pitch in with regard to implementation of precautionary guidelines to be followed by electors in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Parthasarathi informed that E-Voting was under examination for implementation on pilot basis, for those who cannot cast their vote by coming to the polling station. Voter awareness campaigns will begin 10-15 days before the elections, by sending SMSes, and publicity activities will be taken up about verification of names in electoral rolls through the Election Commission’s website, he said. Effective measures will be taken to distribute voter slips to all voters, he said, assuring that the resident welfare associations will be actively participating in this. Representatives from the Federation of Senior Citizens’ Associations, Forum for Good Governance, Aman Vedika, Care Team, COVA, UFERWAS, and MV Foundation attended the meeting.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks ‘white paper’ on funds spent on Hyderabad||Telangana BJP on Wednesday demanded the ruling TRS government to release a ‘white paper’ on the total amount spent for development of Hyderabad during the last four years. “Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has claimed Rs. 65,000 crore has been spent for development under GHMC limits but citizens have been experiencing innumerable civic issues like bad roads and open drains. The death of two persons, including a 12-year-old girl, when they got washed away, has exposed the government claims,” lambasted city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao. Talking to the media, Mr. Rao reminded that both Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son Mr. K.T. Rama Rao have been making tall claims to make Hyderabad a world class city but the civic conditions have only turned worse during the six year TRS rule. He accused the TRS leaders of making false promises just before the GHMC elections, winning the confidence of gullible voters and later not living up to them. The BJP leader was however confident that the voters have “realised their mistake” and “this time they will not fall into the TRS trap and will teach a lesson to the party.” He charged that the recent publicity blitz on the two-bedroom housing was another ruse to entice the potential voters despite failing miserably to provide houses to all the citizens in the last elections. “The TRS government has constructed not more than 10,000 houses during last four years in the city whereas lakhs of people have no houses. When will the government provide houses to these poor people,” the BJP leader questioned. People want to know what are the developmental works the TRS government has taken up after it has won the GHMC polls, he said. The MLC expressed confidence that the BJP would win majority of GHMC divisions and urged the citizens to give a chance to his party to not only bring about development of the city but also rescue it from “clutches of TRS and MIM”.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth arrested with 150 gm opium||Police arrested a 25-year-old youth from Nallakunta for allegedly supplying opium illegally in and around the city, on Tuesday evening. Around 150 grams of the contraband were seized. A native of Rajasthan, the accused, Dinesh Kumar, came to Hyderabad around six years ago in search of a job and started working as a labourer at a private company in Nagole. However, he was out of work during the pandemic and was in financial distress. Police said that he was addicted to opium. After the lockdown was lifted, he went to his native place, procured one kg opium and returned to the city to sell it. Kumar allegedly sold the contraband at Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 1,600 per gram. Based on a tip-off, the city police’s South Zone Task Force team along with Nallakunta police apprehended him.
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress to seek SEC’s views on election mode||The Congress has decided to seek the views of the SEC about the pros and cons of conducting elections in ballot paper mode or EVMs apart from the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India for the Assembly elections to be conducted in Bihar shortly. The party’s stand will be taken after receiving the SEC’s views, according to chairman of the TPCC Election Commission Coordination Committee Marri Shashidhar Reddy. At a meeting held at Gandhi Bhavan, in which TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy participated from New Delhi via video conference, the party was responding to the SEC’s letter to political parties, seeking their views on conducting the elections. Senior leaders of the GHMC area, including former PCC president V. Hanumantha Rao, former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, presidents of Rangareddy and Sangareddy districts participated. Mr. Reddy pointed out that the State government did not come out with any categorical statement about their intent to continue with the same number of 150 municipal wards for the polls. Last time, the delimitation of divisions was taken up on the basis of the 2011 census, he said.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI’s first YONO branch in south India at Hi-Tec City||State Bank of India (SBI) has opened a YONO branch in Hi-Tec City, the first such in south India and the fourth in the country. Chairman Rajnish Kumar digitally inaugurated the facility in the presence of Managing Director (Retail and Digital Banking) Challa Sreenivasulu Setty, a release from SBI said. The branch is on the high streets of Hi-Tec City or the IT hub that hosts offices and campuses of tech firms, including those of Google, Deloitte, TCS, Tech Mahindra and S&P Global. Customer base of the branch is purely retail. The target audience of the facility will be the tech savvy young generation people working in and around Hi-Tec City. The main business focus will be digital products and home loans.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID has claimed 50 SCR personnel so far: GM||At least 50 railway personnel succumbed to COVID-19 in the last few months, SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya informed a virtual press conference. This is even as the medical healthcare infrastructure was improved to provide treatment, isolation and quarantine facilities for the employees and their families at various places after taking necessary permissions from the State governments.  “Initially, our healthcare personnel had been treating patients with mild to moderate symptoms of coronavirus but with more cases coming in and private hospitals refusing to accept referrals due to the patient rush, even those with serious symptoms too are being treated with enhanced oxygen facilities in our own healthcare facilities. Altogether 250 beds for positive patients, 85 beds as isolation wards and 1,000 beds for quarantine were created,” the SCR general manager said. Separate fever wards have been earmarked to isolate patients before the onset of other symptoms.  “In addition to our own permanent staff, we have contracted about 250 doctors and healthcare workers with each one taking a break every 14 days. The Central hospital here is testing for COVID-19. We have also started testing all our employees in all offices and workshops to identify asymptomatic patients to prevent the virus spread. About 40 persons inside Rail Nilayam and another 40 in Hyderabad have tested positive during the mass testing,” Mr. Mallya revealed.  Initially, our healthcare personnel had been treating patients with mild to moderate symptoms. But with more cases coming in, even those with serious symptoms are being treated with enhanced oxygen facilities in our own healthcare facilities.SCR general manager
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC urged to speed up on alternative to Gough Road||Local defence authorities, on Wednesday, urged the GHMC to expedite the process of finding an alternative road to Gough Road by the next meeting that is scheduled to be held this week-end. An official press release from the defence ministry claimed that the issue has been delayed for the last six years despite the High Court directing the State government to finalise an alternative road for the benefit of the commuting public especially those living in the north and north-eastern parts of the city. Defence authorities have carried out meetings with the GHMC commissioner and requested the government to freeze the requirements of defence land, so that the case can be suitably considered by the Ministry of Defence. “The requirements conveyed by GHMC officials have been varying over a period of time leading to defence authorities’ inability to consider the case. Lack of urgency on the part of the officials to implement the directions of the HC has led to continuous suffering of residents by way of denying the use of alternative roads,” the release said. A joint survey with revenue authorities for finalising land needs has now been completed.
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man murdered||A 24-year-old youth was killed after four unknown persons attacked him with knives at Wadi-e-Mustafa, Balapur, on Tuesday night. Sayyed Momin Ali died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital. Balapur police inspector B. Bhaskar said the attack occurred when Ali, along with his friend Khalid, was on the way to his friend’s home on a two-wheeler. Police visited the spot of murder and alerted the CLUES team.
24 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICFAI, Assocham to work on Green Movement certification programme||The ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE), a deemed to-be university, and ASSOCHAM have established a strategic alliance to execute the Green and Eco-Friendly Movement Sustainability Certification Programme. The programme includes Sustainability, Energy and Water Efficiency, Fire and Life Safety, Indoor Air Quality, Daylight, Fresh Air and Human Comfort and is based on BEE ECBC 2017 and NBC 2016. National Chairman, ASSOCHAM National Council for GEM, Pankaj R. Dharkar and Registrar, IFHE, S. Vijayalakshmi signed the MoU. Vice-Chancellor of IFHE J. Mahender Reddy said that they were committed to develop professionals with a sense of social and moral responsibilities.
24 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Scramble to set up liquid oxygen plant at Khammam hospital||The surge in demand for medical oxygen amid the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed dependency of State-run hospitals on a few private manufacturing units for procuring oxygen cylinders for needy patients. The pandemic has also brought into sharp focus the urgent need to build a self-reliant public healthcare infrastructure to effectively tackle future disease outbreaks and also the untapped potential of the oxygen manufacturing sector for prospective entrepreneurs. In a proactive step in this direction, the district administration has hastened the process of setting up a 13 KL liquid oxygen storage plant on the premises of the District Headquarters Hospital here under the aegis of the TSMSIDC. Following the intervention of Collector R.V. Karnan, work on the plant has gained pace in the last fortnight, hospital sources said. Once the plant is opened, it would help maintain a reserve stock of oxygen cylinders for one week and ensure oxygen supply in a hassle-free and cost-effective manner, sources added. The requirement of oxygen cylinders in the government and private hospitals across the old undivided Khammam district is estimated to be around 600 to 650 a day, sources said. There are four distributors who are catering to the requirements of the hospitals from two filling stations. Last month, when the COVID-19 cases surged suddenly, the demand for oxygen cylinders rose sharply due to a gap in demand and supply, pushing up the cost of cylinders, sources added. However, official sources attributed the slight increase in price of oxygen cylinders to the additional cost of transportation of the cylinders from a plant in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. When contacted, B Srinivas Rao, Resident Medical Officer of District Headquarters Hospital, Khammam, told The Hindu that adequate stock of oxygen cylinders are being maintained to administer oxygen to the needy patients. “The requirement of oxygen cylinders ranged between 20 to 30 a day prior to COVID-19 outbreak. The hospital has a total of 200 beds for COVID-19 patients and as such, we are maintaining the required number of oxygen cylinders one each per bed,” he said, adding that the consumption of oxygen cylinders peaked last month. The number of COVID in-patients in the hospital today is around 80, he pointed out. Works on the liquid oxygen storage tank and the supply pipeline system have reached the final phase. Drug Inspector of Khammam, G. Surendra said there are sufficient stocks of 3,000 oxygen cylinders of 7 cubic metres (30 tonnes) each are available with distributors in the district. “We are monitoring the supply situation on a daily basis,” he said.
24 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Many Nalgonda sarpanches suspended||District Collector Prashant J Patil on Wednesday signed orders placing several sarpanches and panchayat secretaries under immediate suspension for laxity in conduct of government programmes. While the sarpanch of Uppala Pahad of Kethepally did not take part in the ongoing Haritha Haram, Palle Pragathi and related development works, his counterpart at Palthi tanda of Peddavoora mandal demolished an Over Head Service Reservoir (OHSR) without permissions from officials. Panchayat secretaries at Alwala of Tirumalagiri Sagar and Singarajupalli of Gundlapalli also did not attend to village works and had not collected property taxes in time. In addition to them, five deputy sarpanches – of Yapalabayi tanda, Choudamapalli, Pedda tanda, Gonya tanda and Erra Cheruvu – were also suspended. They had not signed cheques since February. Among mandal-level officers, Nampally’s panchayat officer was attached to the head office on September 21 and an officer at Kattangur was suspended on July 31 for being negligent in supervising works, the statement informed. Several other panchayat secretaries at Pamanugundla, Junuthala, G. Gowraram and Aepur were also placed under suspension for allowing illegal layouts in their limits, among other violations.
24 September 2020||R. AvadhaniGUNJOTI (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Plea to save fully grown trees in mini forest||On the outskirts of Gunjoti village in Nylakal mandal, a few metres from the road, a huge cluster of trees looks almost like a mini forest with trees standing high. At one side some trees were cut down. “Officials are getting the trees cut down in this mini forest. They say that this will be developed as ‘Palle Prakruti Vanam’ with a walking track. How can they cut trees when they asked us not to cut them down?” Bakkkamma, one of the women gathered at the mini forest, questions agitatedly. The women working in the Deccan Development Society (DDS) claimed that more than two-and-half decades ago they were permitted by the then authorities to take up plantation in about 5.6 acres. A thick forest was developed in about an acre area. “The trees the officials have already cut down had some medicinal values,” says Narsamma. Panachayat secretary Santosh Kumar said that they have been instructed to lay walking track in the area. “We have instructed the workers not to remove a single tree. Not even a branch would be cut from now at that place,” District Panchayat Officer V Venkateswarlu told The Hindu .
24 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Youth electrocuted at seed research farm||Rinku Choupal, all of 25 years, was native of Dularpur village in Mokarampur post of Darbhanga district of Bihar, more than 1,500 kilometres from here. He has been here for the past few years working as security guard at a bio-seed research farm at Kalivemula in Kandi mandal, and earning Rs. 300 per day. In addition, he used to work as labourer in the farm where he was working as security guard. He was staying in the accommodation provided in the farm along with his two brothers – Bikal Choupal and Mangal Choupal and another relative. On Wednesday morning, Rinku came into contact with live 11- KV wire passing by his room when he was trying to tie an iron wire to a tree, and got electrocuted in the process. Rinku was married two years ago and his wife stays at his native village while he works here. The same was the case with his brothers and relatives as well. They used to keep their families at their hometown and stay here to save some money and send the same to the native villages so that the other members live happily. These migrants from other States work here for very low amounts as they are unable to get even this work in their native States. “We do come here to work with whatever is available and save some amount. All of us live in a room provided by our landlord. Basically our job is as security guards. However, we work whenever there is work in the farm as labourers and are paid Rs. 200 per day,” Mangal Choupal, brother of the deceased, told The Hindu .
24 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Start seed production: Finance Minister||Minister T. Harish Rao called upon the representatives of seed companies to commence production in the district. Mr. Harish Rao along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy held a meeting with officials of Agriculture, Seed Development Corporation, Horticulture and representatives of seed production companies at Ranganaiksagar on Wednesday. “The moisture conditions have improved in the district with the establishment of five reservoirs. Abundant ground water is available. About 100 tmcft water will be in store, hence there will be no problem for irrigation even during severe summer. While cultivation has been taking place on 5 lakh acres, seed production is in place for about 1,500 acres by the Seed Development Corporation, and on 25,000 acres by different seed production companies. Twenty-five seed processing plants and three cold storage units are available in the district. The Union government has recently announced that Siddipet district is suitable for oil palm production,” said Mr. Rao. He has suggested the representatives of companies to adopt villages and start production, stating that villages will be allotted based on the requirement. Mr. Reddy said that about 46,000 acres of land was acquired for the construction of irrigation projects and another 6,000 acres would be acquired for canals.
24 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||Jagan visiting Delhi to get relief from cases: TDP||TDP leader Nakka Anand Babu alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy visited New Delhi only to get relief from court cases. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, he said: “Mr. Jagan is visiting Delhi only to seek the blessings of the BJP leaders, but not interested in the development of the State.” Mr. Anand Babu said that neither the Chief Minister nor his Cabinet colleagues and party MPs were making efforts to pursue the pending issues. While even the BJP friendly parties were criticising the Centre on farmers' Bills, the YSRCP MPs were praising them and giving all support. YCRCP MPs gave unconditional support to the BJP on the farmers' Bills, he said.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Petal pusher||
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||How easy is it to get tested for COVID-19?||To check the ease of getting a COVID-19 test done in the city, The Hindu visited a government dispensary and a mohalla clinic in Delhi and found that around 150 people were tested at the dispensary daily, while the particular mohalla clinic was not testing for COVID-19. At the dispensary, most of the people were satisfied with the facilities, but some complained that the waiting time was long. Details missing The information of government testing centres is available on a government website “www.delhifightscorona.in”, if a person wants to find out where they can get a COVID-19 test done. However, the list is incomplete as it has details of only nine of the total 11 districts. Even for these centres there is no Google Map location, phone number, or timing of the centres. Also, there are a total of around 330 testing centres in the city, but only 226 were mentioned on the website. Though selected mohalla clinics are doing COVID-19 tests, almost all of them, with an exception of a few, were not mentioned on the list. Of the 400 functional mohalla clinics, over 50-60 have been conducting COVID-19 tests after OPD consultation is over, according to the Delhi government. A government spokesperson did not respond to queries. The government following a High Court is expected to come out with a map with locations of all testing centres later this week, officials said. With virus cases on the rise and private diagnostic centres taking at least 24 hours to provide available slots, many people are now lining up outside mohalla clinics to get themselves tested. Ayan Khan of a private diagnostic centre in South Delhi said, “We provide a facility for home collection of samples. However, one needs to make an appointment at least a day prior to the testing. The results are then available usually between 24-48 hours. Most requests that we have been getting are from people who want to get themselves tested before a scheduled trip outside the city.” Ground reality At a New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) dispensary in Sarojini Nagar in central Delhi, the in-charge said that around 150 people are tested every day. At 1.30 p.m., there were around 25 people either waiting for results or to get tested. “We have been testing from June 18 and we function from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. People will have to come with a photo ID card and take a token and wait their turn for testing,” Mohammad Salamuddin, in-charge of the centre said. As a woman asked whether she could take the token and come back later, he replied, “You can’t take a token and go home, you’ll have to wait here. People get angry over these things. We had to call the police thrice to control the crowd.” While Nithin Kumar, 32, who came to an office in the same complex to get a birth certificate for his brother’s newborn son, decided to test for the virus just to know whether he is safe, another person waiting for the result said that he wanted the report to submit at a five-star hotel he was working. Meanwhile, in south Delhi, Sudhir Kumar, a private sector employee, however, found himself in need for an alternative mohalla clinic as the one he reached in Kalkaji was not a testing centre. The 35-year-old said, “For the last few days some of my family members were showing a few symptoms. To be on the safe side, I thought of getting tested myself as well. However, I was unaware that all mohalla clinics are not COVID-19 testing centres and now I will have to look for another one. I came to this particular one as it was the most conveniently located for me.” Staff unavailability A staff member at the mohalla clinic said that due to unavailability of required mohalla clinic assistants, testing for COVID-19 had not begun at the clinic yet. “Due to a few logistical issues, COVID-19 testing has not started yet in this particular clinic. However, there are several others, including ones in Govindpuri and Giri Nagar, where people can go and get themselves tested. All that they need is an Aadhaar card and they can walk in and get a rapid antigen test done,” the mohalla clinic worker said.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Petition seeks action against Twitter India||A petition before the Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought action against Twitter India and its representative under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for being allegedly involved in the conspiracy to promote the Khalistan Movement. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan recused from hearing the case and directed it to be heard by another Bench of the High Court. The case is now listed for hearing on September 30. The petition by Delhi resident Sangeeta Sharma has claimed that Twitter India “deliberately and knowingly, in order to create rift in society, promoted the prohibited content of the SFJ [Sikhs For Justice]”. Sought NIA probe “The Khalistan Movement is supported by many Sikhs who are not residents of India. This issue needs to be probed by an Indian agency that is capable of investigating it,” the plea stated, while asking for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to look into the case. The petition also asked for action to be taken against Twitter India and its representative in India “for wilfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalise them and relevant authorities according to the law of the land”. Taxation laws It also asked for direction to ensure that the “revenue generated from India by the social media platform should be taxed and come within Indian Taxation laws”.  The Khalistan Movement is supported by many Sikhs who are not residents of India. This issue needs to be probed by an Indian agency that is capable of investigating it Petition
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Decide on complaint against media house: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to take a decision within four weeks on a plea seeking action on a complaint against a media house for broadcasting shows related to ‘Palghar mob lynching’ in Maharashtra. Justice Navin Chawla directed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to consider the complaint filed by the petitioner, advocate Amrish Ranjan Pandey, and take a decision on it. Advocate Pandey has alleged that the shows aired on the incident by the media house “tried to promote communal attitudes in the country. “The shows were offensive against good taste or decency. It was intended to encourage or incite violence,” the petition claimed. The petition filed through advocate Joby P Varghese, contended that the shows/programmes on these incidents were in absolute violation of the rules of programme code prescribed under the cable television regulations and also the uplinking and downlinking guidelines issued by the Ministry.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Residents raise upkeep concerns at DDA meet||In an online meeting conducted on Wednesday by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), residents of group housing societies raised issues over maintenance and security of shared spaces, practices adopted for solid waste management and demand for solar panel installation and underground cabling of electricity. The meeting was a part of a series of consultations being undertaken by the DDA for the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041.  Colony redevelopment According to the DDA, around 70 residents and resident welfare associations participated in the meeting. “Participants expressed their consent to partner in the improvement and redevelopment of their colonies in a planned and phased manner. Augmentation of existing infrastructure, ensuring fire safety and provision of lifts were other concerns of improvement related to the redevelopment and upgradation,” DDA officials said. Suggestions to create specific redevelopment policies for group housing colonies, with planned densification and the need for a robust implementation framework for MPD-2041 were also put forth by the residents, officials said. The urban body said, “Main concerns shared by the participants were those related to access and maintenance of shared common spaces like terraces, parks, common toilets and so on.”
24 September 2020||new delhi,||Bar Council summons Bhushan||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has asked activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan to appear before it on October 23, following his conviction by the Supreme Court, which imposed a token fine of Rs. 1 on him in a contempt case. The BCD move comes in pursuance of the resolution of September 6 of the Bar Council of India (BCI), asking its Delhi chapter to take a legally mandated decision in this matter keeping in mind the conviction of Mr. Bhushan. The Bar Council of Delhi has sought Mr. Bhushan’s response as to why proceedings should not be initiated to revoke his enrolment as a lawyer in view of the conviction for his alleged contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Mr. Bhushan acknowledged receiving the notice on Wednesday.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Choppy waters||
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||Downpour leaves hospitals, stations flooded in Mumbai||Heavy rainfall since Tuesday night left many parts of Mumbai, including railway stations and hospitals, waterlogged on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted “enhanced rainfall activity along the west coast, including Mumbai”. “Monsoon remained vigorous over the entire Konkan belt, including Mumbai, with heavy to very heavy rainfall over many places and isolated extremely heavy falls yesterday (Tuesday),” said the IMD press release. It has advised fishermen to not venture into the sea for next 24 hours. Maharashtra’s Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that five companies of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are ready to be deployed. From 8 p.m. on September 22 to 8 a.m. on September 23, the Mumbai city area received 256 mm rainfall while western and eastern suburbs received 237 mm and 158 mm rainfall respectively, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. At some places, the rain intensity was as much as 70 mm per hour. Dadar and Dharavi in central Mumbai witnessed rainfall of 332 mm in 12 hours, said the BMC statement. According to IMD data, Santacruz recorded 286.4 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Nair Hospital, dedicated to COVID-19 care, was flooded after water rushed into the out-patient section. “This has been happening due to adjacent Metro construction work. Earlier, we never used to face such problem,” one of the medical personnel working at the hospital said, requesting anonymity. Areas in central Mumbai such Chunabhatti, Parel, King Circle and Hindmata were inundated. Due to continuous heavy rain and waterlogging at Parel-Currey Road on the Main line and Vadala Road on Harbour line, suburban rail services were suspended between CSMT-Dadar and CSMT-Vashi. Shuttle services were running between Dadar-Kalyan and beyond and Vashi and Panvel. Around 30 BEST buses were trapped in water for some time. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday appealed to residents to not venture out unless in case of emergency. Government and private offices were given a holiday, keeping only emergency services on. Two security guards died after getting stuck in a flooded lift in the basement of a building in central Mumbai on Wednesday morning, the police said. The incident occurred at Nathani Residency, a high-rise near Kala Pani junction of Agripada area.(With PTI inputs)
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rare surgery saves diamond unit worker’s life||A rare surgery conducted on a 36-year-old man from Surat by doctors at a Mumbai hospital has put an end to severe breathing problems being faced by him for over eight years. In fact, these last two years have been particularly difficult as he had to move around with an oxygen cylinder. When Bhaveshbhai Sabhadia approached Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital (Sir HNRFH) for treatment, he was unable to walk more than a few steps at a time, was not getting sleep in the night and had been on and off hospitalisation due to water accumulation in the abdomen region. He had been told that the only way to save his life was a heart and lung transplant. However, doctors at Reliance conducted a rare curative surgical procedure instead of a heart-lung transplant as suggested by international and Indian experts. “The doctors evaluated his health condition and diagnosed him with chronic thrombus pulmonary embolism (CTPEH), a condition wherein the patient has high blood pressure in the lungs’ arteries. They also found that the right side of his heart was severely damaged and the blood pressure in the lung vessels was four times more than the normal,” said hospital officials. CTPEH is a rare and severe form of pulmonary hypertension (PH) which goes undiagnosed in most cases. In Mr. Sabhadia’s case too, it was diagnosed very late leading to severe damage to his heart. Dr. Anvay Mulay and his team of doctors at Sir HNRFH decided to go for pulmonary endarterectomy surgery instead of the heart-lung transplant. “Though it was a high risk and challenging surgery, doctors managed to remove the old blood clots from the pulmonary arteries in the lungs and reduce the blood pressure inside the arteries. Post the surgery, doctors were happy to see the right side of the heart responding well and showing remarkable improvement,” the hospital said in a statement. “In Mr. Sabhadia’s case, it was a level 3-4 CTPEH making it technically a difficult surgery. It was heartening to see a terminally ill patient, who was waiting for heart-lung transplant, walk home with his own organs,” said Dr. Mulay, director cardiac surgery and heart transplant, Sir HNRFH. Mr. Sabhadia, who works in a diamond unit in Surat, is out of danger and ready to lead a normal life. He had been suffering from this ailment since 2012 and the situation had aggravated in the recent past.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant was the only consumer, Rhea says in bail plea before HC||In her bail application filed before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday, actor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in connection with a drugs case, has said that Sushant Singh Rajput was the only consumer of drugs and he used others around him to facilitate his habit. “The said documents clearly indicate that Sushant Sing Rajput was the only consumer of drugs and that he was directing his staff members, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, to procure his drugs. Apart from that, the prosecution has made statements to the effect that applicant and her brother Showik are used by the late actor to procure drugs for himself,” she has said in her bail plea filed by her lawyer Satish Manshinde. Ms. Chakraborty, who is in Byculla jail after being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), has said, “based on the information available in public domain, Neeraj, who worked as a cook for the late actor has stated to CBI and Mumbai police that three days before his death, Sushant Singh Rajput had asked him to make ganja joints/doobies and place them in his bedroom. Accordingly, Neeraj prepared the joints and kept them in a box in Sushant’s bedroom. When Sushant died, Neeraj checked and found the box to be empty.” The plea said, “She and her brother (Showik also in jail) are being targeted in a witch hunt and that Rajput had told her that he developed a large liking for ganja sometime in 2015-16 during the shooting of Kedarnath .”
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC suspends all hearings||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday suspended all hearings for the day after heavy rain caused waterlogging and commuting issues that led to acute shortage of court staff. A notice signed by protonotary and senior master high court of original side, M.W. Chandwani, and Registrar High Court, Appellate Side, V.R. Kachare, read, “Due to the acute shortage of staff because of heavy rain on Wednesday, the Benches are unable to take up the matters on their respective boards. Judicial proceedings for the day, thus, stand suspended.”
24 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Villages near proposed Navi Mumbai airport worst-hit||With Panvel taluka receiving 306 mm rain, its second highest single-day rainfall of the year, the villages — Kombadbhuje, Dungi and Pargaon — adjoining the Navi Mumbai International Airport have been flooded. While Dungi and Pargaon are on the outskirts of the proposed airport, Kombadbhuje is one of the 10 villages acquired by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) to construct the airport. Some of the project affected persons who have not vacated the village yet, owing to non-fulfilment of demands by the CIDCO, are affected. The villagers claim that the land filling for the airport work had led to filling of the storm water drains which has caused the flooding of their houses. “Kombadbhuje never gets flooded to this level. The rain started by Tuesday night and by 3 a.m. on Wednesday, we had water level till window. Talathi office workers started pumping the water by around 8 a.m. but by evening, the water level remained same,” Bhushan Koli, a villager, said.
24 September 2020||Pune,||EWS quota: Maratha outfits issue ultimatum to govt.||Maratha outfits on Wednesday warned the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of a Maharashtra shutdown on October 10 if it failed to explain how it planned to extend the benefits meant for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) to the Maratha community. The State Cabinet on Tuesday decided to extend the 10% reservation meant for the EWS to the Maratha community. A ‘round table conference’ of Maratha outfits under the umbrella of ‘Maratha Arakshan (reservation) Action Samiti’ (MAAS) held on Wednesday in Kolhapur urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Cabinet to clarify how exactly the government planned to implement what it had announced. “This time, we want to make sure that the government keeps its promises. We are giving them time till October 9 to clarify its decision. Failing this, we will stage a complete shutdown in Maharashtra on October 10. The bandh , if held, will be peaceful with all emergency services on,” Suresh Patil, who heads the MAAS, said. Stating that protests across the State would not cease until the Maratha quota law was upheld in the Supreme Court, Mr. Patil said that the MAAS would be submitting a list of 15 demands to the CM and other senior Cabinet members. These include fee waiver for Maratha community students, an immediate stop to the mega-recruitment drive to fill vacant police posts until the issue was resolved in the SC, increased funding to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore to rejuvenate Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute or SARTHI, and withdrawing police cases lodged against Maratha protesters. The Maratha Kranti Morcha — another umbrella outfit spearheading the quota agitation — has alleged that the phones of important leaders of the agitation was being tapped by the authorities. Rajendra Kondhare, convenor, Maratha Kranti Morcha, said: “Perhaps the police do such things as a matter of course, but Maratha community leaders have sensed that their phones were being tapped by the administration of both the erstwhile BJP government and the MVA government. If this has indeed been happening, then we urge the Home Department to immediately look into it and put a stop to this practice.” Mr. Kondhare warned that if this practice continued, then the Maratha agitation would be even more intense than that of the Patel or the Gujjar communities in the coming days.
24 September 2020||Pune,||21,029 fresh COVID-19 cases push Maharashtra’s total tally past 12.50 lakh||Maharashtra reported 21,029 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as its total case tally breached the 12.50 lakh mark to reach 12,63,799 of whom 2,73,477 are active. As many as 479 more deaths pushed the State’s fatality toll to 33,886. However, the case spike was nearly matched by the recoveries, with 19,476 patients being discharged to take the cumulative recoveries till date to 9,56,030. “Of a total 61,06,787 laboratory samples tested thus far, 12,63,799 (20.69%) have returned positive with more than 89,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 75.65%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate was currently 2.68%. Pune reported more than 3,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,70,866 while 61 deaths saw its mortality count climb to 5,429. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases is less than 42,000 with the district’s recovery rate exceeding 81%. Mumbai reported 2,360 cases to take its total case tally to 1,90,264 of whom 27,186 are active. As many as 49 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 8,604. Nagpur district reported 58 more deaths to take the death toll to 1,827. A big jump of nearly 1,900 cases took the district’s total case tally to 68,843 of whom 19,247 are active. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported 63 deaths as its fatality toll rose to 1,196. As many as 472 cases took its total case tally to 40,0057 of whom 7,994 are active. Sangli reported 690 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 33,595 of whom 10,515 are active. With 36 deaths, the death toll has risen to 1,020. Satara reported 28 fatalities to take its death toll to 787. As many as 604 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 32,005 of whom 8,991 are active. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported a spike of more than 1,800 cases as its total tally reached 67,831 of whom 14,894 are active. With 13 deaths, the district’s total deaths have climbed to 1,179. Jalgaon reported more than 500 cases and five deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 44,742 of whom 8,353 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 1,167. Ahmednagar reported a surge of 846 cases as its total case tally rose to 37,529 of whom 7,979 are active ones. As many as 16 deaths took its death toll to 613. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 20 deaths as its fatality count rose to 1,782. As many as 791 new cases saw its total case tally cross the 63,000 mark. The Navi Mumbai civic body recorded 11 deaths and 480 cases to take its death toll to 838 and its total case tally to 37,256. Dr. Awate said that currently, 18,75,424 people across the State were in home quarantine and 34,457 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
24 September 2020||Thane,||Death toll in Bhiwandi collapse climbs to 39||The death toll in the Bhiwandi building collapse rose to 39 on Wednesday, with the recovery of 14 more bodies overnight, the police said. The dead include 18 children in the age group of two to 15, including three toddlers, an official said. Twenty five people have been pulled out of the debris alive so far and are being treated at hospitals in Bhiwandi and Thane. The search operation continued throughout the night despite heavy rain. The bodies recovered from the debris were mutilated and highly decomposed as they had remained there for over 50 hours, he said. The 43-year-old Jilani building collapsed at 3.40 a.m. on Monday.
24 September 2020||Beijing,||China vows to go carbon neutral by 2060||The U.S. is guilty of “obstructing” the global fight against emissions, China said on Wednesday, as Beijing seized the climate agenda by vowing to go carbon neutral by 2060, a target welcomed by environmentalists despite its patchy detail. The goals, which include a pledge to reach peak emissions in 2030, are the most concrete ones yet announced by China, which is the world's biggest polluter and accounts for a quarter of the planet's greenhouse gas emissions. They also open a new divergence in relations with the U.S., which are already pinched by squabbles over trade, tech, defence and human rights. Speaking to the United Nations (UN) General Assembly, Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday renewed his support for the Paris climate accord and called for a ‘green focus’ as the world recovers from the COVID-19 crisis. Under President Donald Trump, the United States, the world's second-largest polluter, pulled out of the agreement, blaming China for the stalled momentum on tackling global emissions. “This clearly ... seriously obstructs the progress of reducing global emissions,” China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said in a statement on Wednesday. “What qualifications does such a country have to criticise China,” he asked, citing U.S.’s hunger for plastics and its export of waste. In his speech to the UN, Mr. Xi said China aims to have “C02 emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060”. ‘Nuanced picture’ In addition to its embrace of global emissions-busting deals, China already feeds nearly 15% of its energy demands with non-fossil fuels, Mr. Wang added. China's “installation of renewable energy stands at 30% of the world total,” he said. But experts say the picture is more nuanced, with massive investments continuing at home and overseas in coal and other fossil fuels. China currently has 135 gigawatts of coal-power capacity either permitted or under construction, according to Global Energy Monitor, a San Francisco-based environmental group. This equates to about half the total coal-power capacity in the United States.   Welcoming China's pledge, EU commission president Ursula von der Leyen tweeted “a lot of work remains to be done”. The 2060 objective is still a decade later than the date set by dozens of small states as well as European powers. But it was applauded by experts as a significant step to inject momentum into the Paris accords. Joeri Rogelj, a climate expert at Imperial College London's Grantham Institute, called Mr. Xi's pledge “unexpected and eye-opening”. Trump’s criticism Mr. Xi's tone at the UN contrasted sharply with that of Mr. Trump, who called the Paris accord unfair to the United States. Mr. Trump said he is standing up for U.S. constituencies such as coal miners, and has loosened environmental rules, although individual States such as California have insisted on fighting climate change on their own. “Those who attack America's exceptional environmental record while ignoring China's rampant pollution are not interested in the environment,” the U.S. President said in his UN speech shortly before Mr. Xi spoke.
24 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. House panel holds hearing on rights in Asia||The restrictions in Kashmir, National Register of Citizens (NRC) and Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were discussed at a U.S. House of Representatives subcommittee hearing on human rights in Asia. The Committee on Asia and the Pacific and Nonproliferation held, as it did last year, a hearing on the topic titled: Stemming a Receding Tide: Human Rights and Democratic Values in Asia.  The hearing focussed on Asia, with India forming one segment of it. “Human rights and democratic governance have not only been central to the concerns of Congress, they’ve traditionally been core to the conduct of American foreign policy,” said Chairman of the subcommittee, Ami Bera, who is an Indian American physician and Democratic lawmaker from California. “The U.S. has its own faults and shortcomings when it comes to living up to our own values disparate treatment of communities of colour and immigrants to institutions increasingly influenced more by ideology than the rule of law,” Mr. Bera said. He said the U.S. recognises and welcomes feedback and suggested that countries in the region also welcome feedback and criticism. “This is what part of being a mature democracy is,” Mr. Bera said, echoing a sentiment he had expressed last yearwhen he saidIndia should be allowing of criticism as it assumed a leadership role in the world. “Although this hearing focusses on Asia, I cannot help but observe that the problems here on the home front have tarnished our appeal and undermined our ability to urge others to live up to the highest ideals,” said Alyssa Ayres, a former high ranking American diplomat for South Asia, currently a South Asia expert for the think tank Council for Foreign Relations. Ms. Ayres also provides informal advice to the Biden campaign, as per her public bio. In India, the steps the current government had taken have given cause for concern about the “future of Indian secularism and the place of minorities, particularly Muslims,” Ms. Ayres said, listing the dilution of Article 370, the CAA and the NRC. “Because India is so important to the strength of the global democratic order at a time of great strain, challenges in India are ones we should all care about deeply,” she said. Negative impact In her written statement, Ms. Ayres noted that the security restrictions and arrests of political leaders, including three former Chief Ministers, had negatively impacted human rights and democracy. She also wrote that there was documented history of the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India and also documented history of Pakistan trying to change thestatus quothrough force and Pakistan-based terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir. “Terrorism has undermined every effort at peace in the last two decades, and continues to create insecurity,” she said, acknowledging the “long-standing suffering” of Kashmiri Pandits. On Sri Lanka, she said the country after a five year period of improvement (in terms of human rights and democratic values) was moving in the opposite direction with the return of the Rajapaksa government. “Pakistan has struggled with democracy for much of its existence,” Ms. Ayres said. Nepal and the Maldives, though facing challenges, were on an updward trajectory as regards human rights and democracy, she said, noting that the Nepalese government nonetheless faced pressures from China on the issue of Tibetan refugees. The other two witnesses at the hearing were former U.S. Ambassador to Myanmar Derek Mitchell and former U.S. government trade and foreign policy official Daniel Twining.
24 September 2020||Washington,||G4 seeks time-bound reform of Security Council||Foreign Ministers from the Group of 4 — India, Brazil, Japan and Germany — a group that is seeking permanent membership of the UN Security Council (UNSC), met virtually on Wednesday to further their objective. The four countries stressed delivering concrete outcomes, in writing and within a time frame. “Participated in#G4Foreign Ministers Meeting that called for a decisive push for UNSC reforms during#UN75. Unanimous call for text-based negotiations in a fixed time frame. Reformed Multilateralism guides India’s approach to the United Nations,” External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar tweeted. His counterparts at the G4 meeting were Motegi Toshimitsu (Japan), Niels Annen, (Minister of State representing German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas) and Ernesto Araújo (Brazil). The Ministers reaffirmed their common resolve to “finally take decisive steps towards the early and comprehensive reform of the Security Council that was envisaged by Heads of State and Government in the 2005 World Summit,” as per a joint press statement released by the Ministry of External Affairs. The G4 will work with “other reform-minded countries and groups” to start text-based negotiations (TBN) without delay and seek “concrete outcomes” during the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, which has just begun and lasts until next September. “G4 Ministers reiterated support for each other’s membership to the UNSC “given the capacity and willingness to take on major responsibilities with regard to the maintenance of international peace and security”, the statement said. India, which, in January, will commence a two-year non-permanent term on the UNSC, has long sought a permanent seat at the Council and is a proponent of other UNSC reforms — such as increasing the number of permanent (currently five) and non-permanent (currently 10) seats and ensuring greater representation for Africa. “Africa needs to be represented in both the permanent and non-permanent categories of membership of a reformed and expanded Security Council to correct the historical injustice against this continent with regard to its under-representation in the Security Council,” the G4 countries said. India is a proponent of text-based negotiations at the UN.
24 September 2020||Berlin,||Navalny out of German hospital||Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny has been released from a Berlin hospital after over a month’s treatment for poisoning, with doctors now believing that a complete recovery from the Soviet-era nerve agent is possible for him, the hospital said on Wednesday. Mr. Navalny spent 32 days at Berlin’s Charite hospital, 24 of them in intensive care, before doctors deemed his condition had improved sufficiently for him to be discharged from acute inpatient care. After his release on Tuesday, Mr. Navalny, in an Instagram post, took a swipe at Russian President Vladimir Putin, scoffing at reported comments by the Russian leader, suggesting that Mr. Navalny might have intentionally poisoned himself. Mr. Navalny, a politician and corruption investigator, who is Mr. Putin’s most visible opponent, was flown to Germany two days after falling ill on August 20 on a domestic flight in Russia. He spent those two days in a coma in a hospital in the Siberian city of Omsk, where Russian doctors said they found no trace of any poisoning. German chemical weapons experts have determined that he was poisoned with the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok — findings corroborated by labs in France and Sweden.  Russia has bristled at the demands for an investigation, saying that Germany needs to share medical data in the case or compare notes with Russian doctors.
24 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka Oppn. challenges new Bill in SC||A day after the Sri Lankan government tabled the contentious 20th Amendment Bill, Opposition parties, including the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB, or United People’s Front) and the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), moved the Supreme Court challenging it.   At least six petitions, including those of the SJB and the TNA, were filed on Wednesday, following the Opposition’s protest in the legislature against the move. “We have filed a petition on the basis that the 20th Amendment Bill adversely impacts the sovereignty of the people. The legislature and judiciary are sought to be made subservient to the executive. That is not acceptable,” TNA leader R. Sampanthan told The Hindu . “Each arm of the government should be able to function independently, without undermining each other,” he added. Leader of Opposition and SJB leader Sajith Premadasa earlier said tabling the Bill marked a “dark day for democracy”. 'Referendum needed' The thrust of the petitions, according to legal sources, is that the 20th Amendment Bill cannot be enacted without a national referendum since it impacts the “sovereignty of the people”. The Attorney General earlier ruled out the need for a referendum and said it could be passed with a two-thirds majority in Parliament. The government secured a comfortable two-thirds with its allies following the August general election. In introducing the 20th Amendment Bill, the government, led by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, is seeking to keep its poll promise to repeal the 19th Amendment, introduced by the former government in 2015, that clipped the President’s executive powers, while empowering Parliament. Reversing the 19th Amendment, its replacement envisions a more powerful executive, even as it reduces the Prime Minister’s role to a ceremonial one, legal experts here have remarked.
24 September 2020||Australia,||Over 380 whales dead in mass stranding||At least 380 whales have died in a mass stranding in southern Australia, officials said on Wednesday, as hopes faded of saving more than a few dozen of those creatures still trapped. Nearly the entire pod of 460 long-finned pilot whales stuck in Macquarie Harbour — on the rugged and sparsely populated west coast of Tasmania — has now perished. “We can confirm that 380 whales are dead,” said Tasmania's Parks and Wildlife Service manager Nic Deka, describing the three-day operation as emotionally and physically taxing. “There's around 30 left [that are] still alive, but the good news is that we have saved 50,” he said. The incident is believed to be the largest mass stranding ever recorded in Australia, and is among the largest in the world. The first of the giant mammals were discovered on Monday, sparking a major effort to free them from sandbars and beaches that are only accessible by boats. A crew of 60 conservationists, skilled volunteers and local fish farm workers are engaged in the rescue efforts . The whales have been found stranded across an area 10 kilometres long, and the search area has been expanded to see if more of the mammals are stuck nearby.  The causes of mass strandings remain unknown even to scientists who have been studying the phenomenon for decades.
24 September 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||Have support to form new govt.: Anwar||Malaysian Opposition chief Anwar Ibrahim said on Wednesday that he had “formidable” support from MPs to form a new government and oust Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin. The nation has been in turmoil since an alliance that swept to power in 2018, which was headed by Mahathir Mohamad and included Anwar, collapsed in February amid infighting. In his response, Mr. Muhyiddin said, “Until proven otherwise, the... government still stands firm and I am the legitimate prime minister.”
24 September 2020||Ukraine,||President of Belarus inaugurated despite election protests||President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus assumed his sixth term on Wednesday during an unannounced inauguration ceremony, after weeks of mass protests against his re-election, which opposition activists say was ‘rigged’.AP
24 September 2020||Geneva,||World's workers lost $3.5 trillion in wages amid pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic is taking a heavier toll on jobs than previously feared, the UN said on Wednesday. In a fresh study, the International Labour Organization (ILO) found that by the mid-year point, global working hours had declined by 17.3% compared to last December — equivalent to nearly 500 million full-time jobs. ILO chief Guy Ryder said that global labour income had shrunk by 10.7% during the first nine months, compared to the same period in 2019. That amounts to a drop of some $3.5 trillion, or 5.5% of the overall global GDP.AFP
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Seeing dystopia in India’s democracy||The United Nations has declared September 15 ‘International Day of Democracy’. An entry on its website states that this “provides an opportunity to review the state of democracy in the world”. To review the state of democracy in India would be timely given the times we are living through. Indeed by now, as India meets fresh challenges almost daily, for us to do so is arguably more important than to celebrate independence from colonial rule, which we do out of habit annually. But to review the state of democracy in India we would need to adopt a suitable criteria. A partial evaluation Formally, India is a democracy alright. There are multi-party elections with universal suffrage subject only to an age restriction. In evaluations of democracy in India it is often observed, to its credit, that it is the world’s largest democracy. Further plaudits are given for the smooth changeover in government after elections, the existence of an independent press and judiciary, and the guarantee of civil liberties justiciable in courts of law. While these are valid observations, the assessment is based on a partial evaluation. To an extent it amounts to admiring a form of government for its own sake without concern for the socioeconomic outcomes that are produced. It is like admiring the architecture of a building without pausing to enquire whether its inhabitants are happy to be living in it. Outcomes differ among countries that are democracies. Take for instance the life satisfaction that citizens report. First, it should be noted that this is potentially an important metric as it is based on people’s perceptions on what matters most, including the responsiveness of the government to their needs. In the UN’s World Happiness Report for 2020 (https://bit.ly/32UcJMe and https://bit.ly/2HqdN2l), the list of top 10 countries is heavily loaded with the democracies of western Europe. The U.S. barely edges into the top 20. India, on the other hand, is ranked 144 out of the 153 countries evaluated. Further, its ranking has dropped in recent years. We should be giving serious thought to both the fact of India’s low ranking on the happiness index and its slide. To my mind, the criterion that in a democracy the people must be satisfied with their life is given very little thought these days. It was not so in the early days of our republic. Built by the people Two leaders who had recognised this criterion in their engagements with the public were Jawaharlal Nehru and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Nehru was explicit in his speech on August 15, 1947 when he stated that the goal of independence was to create institutions which will ensure justice and fullness of life to every man and woman. Note that Nehru had not promised that the government will create these institutions. He was far too aware that democracy is not synonymous with statism; it is about the people. Ultimately, the institutions that enable persons to lead fulfilling lives are built by the people themselves. Let me give you three examples, all from the United States. In the 1960s, that country saw movements for black empowerment, women’s emancipation and sexual liberation. These movements were remarkably successful in the outcomes they achieved, while receiving no support from the U.S. state. This is the sense in which it may be said that it is the people who build the institutions that matter. That said, however, the state has a role in their building. Laws must not constrain liberty when it is self-affirming and must change when it is realised that they do. On development The role of the state does not end with removing restraints though. It extends to the endowment of individuals with capabilities in the sense of Amartya Sen. Prof. Sen had thought of capabilities as the endowments that allow individuals to undertake the functionings, or do the things, that they value. We can think of a person’s health and education as among the most important inputs into the capabilities that they end up possessing. While radical approaches to empowerment rightly emphasise the importance of self-help, it is not sufficiently recognised that individuals cannot easily equip themselves with capabilities, requiring the state to intervene. Think of a person born into poverty or a woman born into wealth but into a world with social sanction against education for women. Similarly, historically, the caste system in India had excluded a large section from education. While private initiative should not be de-legitimised, it has had only a limited impact on building capabilities in India as it has focused on those with the ability to pay. In a move to measure the capabilities of a population, the UN devised the Human Development Index. The main elements of this are health and education. As with the UN’s Happiness Index, India fares very poorly in the UN’s Human Development Index too. In 2019, India ranked 129th out of 189 countries. Judged in terms of human development — and one would be hard put to defend any other sense in which development is to be understood — Indian democracy is severely challenged. Pointing to the incongruence between India’s low level of human development and its status as a democracy evokes the response that this is to see the latter in instrumental terms. Democracy it is asserted is a form of government, namely government by discussion. The answer to this deflection is that democracy may be a form of government but surely the people have come to adopt this particular form of government with a goal in mind. We may safely assume a fulfilling life is that goal. Authoritarianism is not compatible with such a life, only  democracy, which at least in principle grants individuals a voice in governance, is.  Second, people adopt democracy so that they can participate in their own governance. They cannot but have foreseen that they must be endowed with capabilities if this is to be possible at all. Thus, liberty and capability are conjoined as the ultimate aspiration in a democracy. Neglect and repression In India, the state’s ritualistic attachment with the procedures of democracy has not been matched by an awareness of its implicit goal of a fulfilling life for Indians. By the 1950s, freedom of speech had been restricted by the First Amendment to the Constitution and the Directive Principles, that had enjoined upon the state to promote health and education, had been all but forgotten. Inevitably, the consequential underinvestment in a public health system has left the country severely unprepared for the emergency when COVID-19 struck. After reading of bodies left lying in their wards, we now read of an emerging shortage of something so basic as oxygen supply in metropolitan hospitals. COVID-19 affects the human respiratory system and oxygen is vital to avert the loss of life. Those who have survived thus far live with foreboding of a gruesome end. Not only has the state neglected its responsibility but it has resorted to repression when its inaction is questioned. Recently, an agency reported that a representative of the State in southern Andhra Pradesh publicly threatened with arrest a government doctor who had dared to mention at a review meeting that there were not enough beds in the primary health centre that he was responsible for. Dystopia was imagined as a place where the people experience great suffering as they fend for themselves under the watchful eyes of an authoritarian state. Is it so far from where we live today? Pulapre Balakrishnan is Professor of Economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The mental health needs of the homeless||As many as 66.1% of those worst affected in India during the Spanish Flu belonged to oppressed classes and suffered the consequences of multidimensional poverty. Similar trends persist today. The inability to adhere to public health protocols that prescribe distancing and use of hygienic products, the absence of private toilets and basic amenities, and the lack of adequate nutrition are all realities in lower- and middle-income countries. Amongst those most affected are homeless persons and the ultra-poor, many of whom are employed in the informal sector. They are exposed to greater adversity against the backdrop of intergenerational social disadvantage and lack of social security. Health shocks could precipitate a downward spiral into a state of not just homelessness, but also hopelessness. Globally, unpreparedness to handle the pandemic and near collapse of the health systems denuded  our ability to focus on health. Many countries have attempted to make amends for the unjustifiable perpetuation of structural barriers and inequities. However, are we awakened to the needs of our poor only during a disaster? The pandemic has made a sound case for increased investments in the health and social sectors. States must also re-examine the role of social determinants of health in perpetuating unjust structures that normalise deprivation. A person’s social context and health intersect to help achieve a better quality of life. Relative poverty and its co-relation to stress, mental health and well-being have been evidenced. While distress cannot always be pathologised, data suggest that deaths by suicide and common mental disorders have also been on the rise during the pandemic. Distinctly deprived Within this context, distinctly deprived are homeless persons living with a mental illness. They are at risk of violent victimisation, assault and long-term incarceration. In India, close to two million individuals sleep rough; 35% of them live with one or the other mental health concern. The presence of homeless persons with mental illness elicits a range of responses from a desire to help, triggered by evocation of pity or sympathy, to wilfully wishing them away or shunning them from mainstream society. Historically, in a limited context of religiosity associated with renunciation and hearing voices (considered unique to the saint), a few were deified; however, the majority were feared, found to be repulsive and often treated as objects of ridicule. This has resulted in their occupying a lowly place in society’s hierarchical structure even today. Pathways into homelessness include abject poverty, conflict, natural or man-made disasters, lack of access to health and mental health care, social hardships, disruptions in care-giving and domestic violence. In India, homeless persons with mental illness are also the largest number of long-stay patients in State mental hospitals. Besides a few exceptions, services for this under-served group are scarce globally. As they are susceptible to physical co-morbidities and co-occurring substance misuse, and unshielded against the consequences of homelessness, malnutrition, sexual violation, loss of support networks and kinship, homeless persons find their longevity impacted. Further, their experience of loneliness and hyper-segregation contributes to their low sense of self-worth and shrunken group identity, weakening their collective ability to influence change. Additionally, we unfortunately inherited a legacy of name-calling and large and unwieldy lunatic asylums and poor houses from the colonial era which got off to an altruistic start but were later ridden with inadequacies and often deployed as punitive measures to initiate ‘reform’. Inadequate care staff resulted in a grossly underwhelming caregiving climate. Fortunately, strong resistance has been built against parochial practices which are giving way to newer dimensions of therapeutic and social care. However, much remains to be done. A person-centric action plan UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’s call to “step up for the vulnerable” cannot be more timely. The UN set up a fund of $2 billion to alleviate the distress of the ultra-vulnerable, including those living with disability or chronic illness. Along similar lines, the Tamil Nadu government, taking cognisance of the mental health needs of homeless persons, will take to scale Emergency Care and Recovery Centres (ECRC) that will support the treatment and community inclusion of this vulnerable section in 10 districts (in addition to the five districts where ECRCs were set up in 2018). The Department of Health, the National Health Mission, the Institute of Mental Health in Chennai, and The Banyan, a mental health care establishment, in partnership with multi-sectoral service providers, will together pursue the goal of improving mental health access and mitigating social and opportunity losses. Three hundred bed spaces will be earmarked for homeless persons in psychosocial distress, with a capacity to service more than 1,000 people a year, in smaller and integrated care units in district hospitals and/ or social care centres. Early enrolment into care may result in reduction of exposure to harm, injury and starvation, and better prognosis. An integrated approach may also help address stigma associated with this group. Additionally, facilitation of social needs care and livelihoods may reduce the recurrence of episodic homelessness, critical to sustaining and enhancing well-being gains. Three sectors — the government, development and corporate sectors — will partner to ensure that the lives of those who live on the fringes matter. The mental health team that anchors the Centre may also lend further support to the District Mental Health Programme, and offer counselling support to address mental health issues in the context of the pandemic. However, we must remember that issues of homelessness and mental ill health even independently present intractable problems; in combination, one may confront ethical dilemmas and emerging constraints and challenges. We realise that the ECRCs are not a panacea to all distress undergone by homeless individuals, and that we cannot frame the problem within a restrictive and normative orientation. Incorporation of heterogeneity of experiences and multi-nodal approaches to care, which are embedded in values of accountability and integrity and take into account variegated distress markers, maybe critical for the evolution of newer meaning-making around social and psychiatric phenomenology. More importantly, these care paradigms have to be informed by the long overdue voice of the ‘subject in distress’. While this is a powerful start to acknowledge the need to focus on minority mental health, we also hope to benefit from feedback to further build on care plans and mental health systems for the vulnerable. Vandana Gopikumar is Co-founder, The Banyan and The Banyan Academy of Leadership in Mental Health, and J. Radhakrishnan is Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Tamil Nadu
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Weighing in on the efficacy of female leadership||What do Germany, Taiwan and New Zealand have in common? These are all countries that have women heading their governments. And although they are located in three different continents, the three countries seem to have managed the pandemic much better than their neighbours. Much along the same lines, a detailed recent study by researchers in the United States reports that States which have female governors had fewer COVID-19 related deaths, perhaps partly because female governors acted more decisively by issuing earlier stay-at-home orders. The authors of the study conclude that women leaders are more effective than their male counterparts in times of crises. There will be several critics (no need to guess their gender) who will question the reliability of this conclusion by pointing out deficiencies in the data — admittedly somewhat limited — or the econometric rigour of the analysis. Many will also point out that it is dangerous to make sweeping generalisations based on one study. The point about the danger of making sweeping generalisations is valid. Of course, studies such as these do not establish the superiority of all female leaders over their male counterparts. All female leaders are not necessarily efficient, and there are many men who have proved to be most effective and charismatic leaders. The important takeaway from the recent experience and such studies is the necessity of getting rid of inherent biases and perceptions about female effectiveness in leadership roles. India’s gram panchayats Importantly, female leaders also bring something quite different to the table. In particular, they perform significantly better than men in implementing policies that promote the interests of women. This was demonstrated in another study conducted by Nobel Laureate Esther Duflo and co-author Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, who used the system of mandated reservations of pradhans in gram panchayats to test the effectiveness of female leadership. Their study was made possible by the 1993 amendment of the Indian Constitution, which mandated that all States had to reserve one-third of all positions of pradhan for women. Since villages chosen for the mandated reservations were randomly selected, subsequent differences in investment decisions made by gram panchayats could be attributed to the differences in gender of the pradhans . Chattopadhyay and Duflo concluded that pradhans invested more in rural infrastructure that served better the needs of their own gender. For instance, women pradhans were more likely to invest in providing easy access to drinking water since the collection of drinking water is primarily, if not solely, the responsibility of women. In addition to the instrumental importance of promoting more space for women in public policy, this is also an important goal from the perspective of gender equality. The right to vote is arguably the most important dimension of participation in public life. There are others. What proportion of women stand for election to the various State and central legislatures? How many are elected? Perhaps more important, how many women occupy important positions in the executive branch of government? About suffrage Independent India can rightly be proud of its achievement in so far as women’s suffrage is concerned. Women were allowed to vote from 1950 onwards and so could participate on an equal footing with men from the first general election of 1951-52. This is in striking contrast to the experience in the so-called “mature democracies” of western Europe and the United States. In the U.S., it took several decades of struggle before women were allowed to vote in 1920. Most countries in Europe also achieved universal suffrage during the inter-war period. Since most able- bodied men went away to the battlefields during the First World War, increasing numbers of women had the opportunity to show that they were adequate substitutes in activities that were earlier the sole preserve of men. This, it is suggested, mitigated the anti-female bias and earned women the right to vote in European countries. We have had and have charismatic female leaders like Indira Gandhi, Jayalalitha, Mayawati, Sushma Swaraj and Mamata Banerjee among several others. Interestingly, a glaring example of gender stereotyping was the labelling of Indira Gandhi as the “only man in the cabinet”. Apart from these stalwarts, the overall figures are depressing. The female representation in the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre is probably not very far from the typical gender composition in Indian central and State governments. Female members make up only about 10% of the total ministerial strength. The underrepresentation of female Ministers in India is also reflected in the fact that Ms. Banerjee is currently the only female Chief Minister. The underrepresentation of women in Indian legislatures is even more striking. For instance, the 2019 election sent the largest number of women  to the Lok Sabha. Despite this, women constitute just over 14% of the total strength of the Lok Sabha. This gives us the dismal rank of 143 out of 192 countries for which data are reported by the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Tiny Rwanda comes out on top with a staggering 60% of seats in its lower house occupied by women. The women’s Bill languishes Since women running for elections face numerous challenges, it is essential to create a level-playing field through appropriate legal measures. The establishment of quotas for women is an obvious answer. I have mentioned earlier that mandated reservation for women in gram panchayats was established in all major States since the mid-1990s. Attempts have also been made to extend quotas for women in the Lok Sabha and State Assemblies through a Women’s Reservation Bill. Unfortunately, the fate of this Bill represents a blot on the functioning of the Indian Parliament. The Bill was first presented to the Lok Sabha by the H.D. Deve Gowda government in 1996. Male members from several parties opposed the Bill on various pretexts. Subsequently, both the NDA and United Progressive Alliance governments have reintroduced the Bill in successive Parliaments, but without any success. Although the Rajya Sabha did pass the bill in 2010, the Lok Sabha and the State legislatures are yet to give their approval — despite the 24 years that have passed since it was first presented in the Lok Sabha. Steps to reducing prejudice Of course, there is a simple fix to the problem. The major party constituents of the NDA and UPA alliances can sidestep the logjam in Parliament by reserving say a third of party nominations for women. This will surely result in increasing numbers of women in legislatures and subsequently in cabinets. The importance of this cannot be overestimated. There is substantial evidence showing that increased female representation in policy making goes a long way in improving perceptions about female effectiveness in leadership roles. This decreases the bias among voters against women candidates, and results in a subsequent increase in the percentage of female politicians contesting and winning elections. So, such quotas have both a short-term and long-term impact. Indeed, voter perceptions about the efficacy of female leadership may change so drastically in the long run that quotas may no longer be necessary! Bhaskar Dutta is Professor, Ashoka University. The views expressed are personal
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The BJP’s widening social base||Political alignments in Bihar for the forthcoming elections offer a peek into the various ways the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) constructs its electoral building blocks. Taking into consideration the specificities of each State, the NDA has been able to secure the votes of the upper castes as well as large sections of non-Yadav Other Backward Classes (OBCs), especially in large parts of north and central India. And due to its successes, prominent Dalit leaders are either aligning with it or going soft on it. Models in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh In Bihar, the Hindutva discourse is still not sufficient for the BJP to win votes, unlike in, say, Uttar Pradesh. If alliance-building in Bihar fails, the BJP also fails. This was seen in 2015 when Nitish Kumar of the Janata Dal (United) and Lalu Prasad of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) joined hands and defeated the BJP. The BJP’s model in Bihar is to build a strong alliance, where it is able to secure the support of many upper castes, Mr. Kumar is able to mobilise the Kurmis and other non-Yadav OBCs, and Lok Janshakti Party chief Ram Vilas Paswan, a significant section of Dalits (the Dusadhs). In 2015, a coalition of the JD(U), the RJD and other parties successfully defeated the BJP. This time is different as the JD(U) walked out of that coalition in 2017. Political developments in U.P. point to a different template. In U.P., unlike in Bihar, the BJP could fight back successfully against an attempted Dalit-OBC-Muslim alliance by the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Following that defeat, BSP chief Mayawati broke her alliance with the SP. Since then, she has been soft on the Centre. She supported the Centre’s move on Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and also credited the Supreme Court for paving the way for construction of the Ram Mandir. How does one understand the BJP’s continued success in U.P.? Since the 1990s, the general sense was that caste combines could always defeat the ideology of Hindutva in U.P., as in Bihar. The reasoning was that caste is an expression of divergences, and if subaltern castes made common cause against ‘Brahmanical’ Hindutva, evoking the discourse of Bahujan (the majority), they would win. In 1993, the SP and the BSP defeated the BJP soon after the demolition of the Babri Masjid on the strength of the Bahujan discourse. However, that alliance came apart within two years. When the two parties came together again in 2019, the BJP defeated them on its own, securing the support of the upper castes and large sections of the OBCs and thus creating a new Bahujan, as it were. The non-Yadav OBCs felt that the Yadavs were reaping the fruits of social justice and wanted to vote for the BJP. The BJP seems to no longer need alliances in the State. In U.P., the BJP portrays the Muslims primarily, and then the Yadavs, as the ‘other’. In Haryana, the Jats, who are the dominant caste, are projected as the ‘other’. In Maharashtra, the Marathas are the ‘other’. The BJP is thus able to attract many upper castes, OBCs and even some Dalits. Impact on Dalit politics These models of largely upper caste-OBC alliances have propelled the BJP to great heights. They have also impacted Dalit politics. A prime driver of Dalit politics since the 1980s was the need for greater representation. Power, it was believed, was crucial for Dalit uplift as Dalits lacked the resources to be able to rise without representation. The sudden widening of the BJP’s social base under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has convinced established Dalit leaders that the BJP is here to stay. They believe that transacting with the party is now a necessity. In Bihar, Mr. Paswan has supported the BJP for some years now. Jitan Ram Manjhi, a symbol of non-Dusadh Dalit politics, also supports the party. In U.P., Ms. Mayawati has softened her approach towards the BJP. In 2019, Ramdas Athawale told Parliament that he supported the BJP as he had seen which way the wind was blowing. The message is thus clear: unless there is a serious challenge to the BJP at the Centre, Dalit leaders have to be open to supporting the BJP on many issues. The belief that a Dalit-Muslim alliance can defeat the BJP is a romantic one held by some liberals. The fact is that prominent Dalit faces like Mr. Paswan are with the NDA today. And strident Dalit critics of the regime like Chandrashekhar Azad are electorally untested. Vikas Pathak teaches at Asian College of Journalism, Chennai
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The people of nowhere||In 1943, Hannah Arendt began a narrative that had the potential to confer a sense of identify on millions of people who faced the misfortune of not only having lost a home, but also the impossibility of having to find a new one. She challenged the framework that made access to citizenship the sole prerogative of the state. Through this framework, the ideas of ethnical and racial homogeneity were propagated. This subsequently linked the idea of being a rights-bearing individual to the concept of citizenship. More specifically, the narrative of citizenship being the sole prerogative of the nation state linked the idea of a rights-bearing individual to the idea of belongingness to a particular formalised political community. Inclusion, a precondition The predicaments that such an idea brought with itself were acknowledged by Arendt, when she recognised the inefficacy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. She said that in order to be entitled even to basic human rights, a person is required to be something more than just a human being. The person is required to be a member of a political community which can enforce her other civil, economic and political rights. Arendt emphasised on this right to inclusion in a political community which precedes even the most basic of human rights and phrased it as the “right to have rights”. This premise stemmed from the fact that a right without a corresponding remedy or means of enforcement is practically meaningless. Against this backdrop, she apprised the world of the plight of the stateless who have been denationalised or denaturalised, and whose very need for a validating community or the right of inclusion has inclusion as its precondition. With respect to India, this concept of being regarded as a rights-bearing individual only when one belongs to a particular formalised political community has become so well entrenched in the socio-legal ethos that hardly anyone has raised questions about its soundness in the last seven decades. This has been fundamentally because the assumptions about the access to citizenship have always seemed so settled that we have forgotten that such assumptions were once instituted through a narrative, and can be revised as such. No citizenship, no belonging The exclusion of 19 lakh people from the National Register of Citizens in Assam stripped them not only of their citizenship, but also their bare status as human beings. They are left with no forum whatsoever to even assert their “right to have rights.” This is essentially because once the Foreigners Tribunal decides that an individual is a foreigner, she is sent to a detention camp where she is to be kept until she can be sent back to her country of origin. This is problematic as it reinforces Arendt’s argument that it is possible for humans to exist in a place called nowhere. This is due to the twin effects of the lack of a validating community which will accept these individuals (unless there is an agreement to the effect with the alleged country of origin) and the sheer impracticality of the rightless laying claim to a community from which they have been wilfully excluded. To add on to this, the flawed determination procedures of the Foreigners Tribunal have also ensured that such individuals are also precluded from the ostensible protection of a social order. Natural rights theorists assert that basic rights should be available even if only a single human being remains on earth, but history demonstrates that resistance and political mobilisation are the first steps towards asserting such rights. This asymmetry is neither new nor unprecedented. It is just a constant reminder of the world order we live in, where the “rightlessness of the stateless is assumed, rather than asserted, let alone argued.” Tanishk Goyal is a student at the West Bengal NationalUniversity of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata. Email: tanishk218110@nujs.edu
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A light touch||The Government has, in recent days, twice signalled that more rules to tackle the problems of unlawful content and harm-causing disinformation in the digital media space are in the offing. On Monday, in an affidavit filed in the case involving Sudarshan TV, responding to the Supreme Court’s call for suggestions to improve the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media, the Centre said that the regulation of web-based digital media is the need of the hour, instead. Without any checks, it told the Court, digital media can spread “venomous hatred”, terror and violence. On the same day, the Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha that his ministry is working to amend the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, to make intermediaries more responsive and accountable. It is difficult to disagree with the view that the Internet is a space where finding truthful facts can be often challenging, and that polarising opinions, hate speech, and disinformation abound. Many lives have been lost to such disinformation-fuelled violence in India in recent years. But it is also difficult to agree with the view that more rules are an answer to an age-old problem, only, now amplified by technology-based platforms. That more regulation will solve this is a fanciful idea. For one, the laws to tackle incendiary content and hate speech that fuels violence are already in place. What is seen lacking is a will to uniformly apply these rules, irrespective of political affiliations. The flip side is that the net is a place where there is a free sharing of information and ideas. So, the question worth asking is if it is possible to ever regulate the Internet without throttling it, like China has done. The fear that bringing more rules is a euphemism for censorship cannot be brushed away. These questions are all the more important because there has been a wave of investments in the digital news media space in recent years. A large number of these media sites and magazines pursue legitimate journalism initiatives, which not only have the proper mechanisms to deliver quality but also operate with a high degree of accountability. Attempts at making new rules for intermediaries such as Google and Facebook need to be well thought-out and measured. Earlier attempts at imposing a high degree of liability on them for content posted on their platforms have not survived legal scrutiny, with Section 79(1) of the IT Act, 2000, giving them some immunity in this regard. An intervention that is light and well considered is what will work.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Unlocking campuses||The University Grants Commission has published a revised academic calendar for 2020-21, under which classes can be started for first year undergraduate and postgraduate students from November 1, but the prospects of a normalised regime of education remain far from clear. In a circular that factors in the uncertainties surrounding COVID-19, the UGC has offered institutions the option of offline, online or blended modes of instruction. For school education, many States have allowed reopening for Classes 9 and above from September 21, based on the Centre’s instructions for the unlock phase. These measures, with their semblance of normality, may bring some relief to parents, but their outcomes are not predictable. That becomes clear from the experience of the U.S. and the U.K.: there is apprehension among parents, teachers and staff that they may get infected, and governments are under greater pressure to test, trace and isolate in communities with schools and colleges. A U.S. study in pre-print, conducted by four educational institutions after students returned to in-person classes, showed that infections for counties with campuses rose by 3,000 a day over the median value. Another estimate for virus cases linked to school reopening, made by other researchers, put the figure at over 21,000; college cases in the U.S. exceeded 88,000. In Britain, teachers’ unions voiced deep concern over poor preparedness ahead of school reopening in September. The government’s guidance there included a rotation system for students, and compulsory face masks in contact areas. India’s move to unlock education coincides with a reported reduction in overall daily incidence of infection, although absolute numbers are frighteningly high. If the UGC’s campus calendar is implemented as planned, it would require a high level of commitment among States to do what countries such as Germany, Denmark and Norway have done: provide free RT-PCR testing and pursue contact tracing where students test positive. Yet, some State governments seem to be focused on managing the numbers rather than the pandemic, slashing overall testing rates, and inflating test numbers using less reliable rapid antigen tests to reduce positivity rates. This approach is fraught, and the consequences of statistical illusions could prove disastrous. Students have, no doubt, experienced a long summer of discontent, with just the option of online classes; the examination schedule and admissions systems were severely disrupted. But it is also true that many of them live in multi-generational households, potentially bringing home the risk of infection to older, at-risk individuals. Unlock for schools and colleges can, therefore, be seen only as a work in progress, requiring constant vigil, strict adherence to masking and distancing, and full access to testing and treatment. The government’s messaging cannot carry conviction if it cautions the public about the pandemic on the one hand, while relaxing norms for campus activity on the other.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Selection basis unconstitutional||A Division Bench of the Supreme Court has unanimously held that the unit-wise system of selection, adopted by the Tamil Nadu Government in regard to admissions to the first year integrated M.B.B.S. course in the State medical colleges for the year 1970-71, is unconstitutional, being violative of the fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 15. The court further held that the impugned selections were not validly made, and that the interviews conducted by the selection committees constituted for the purpose were not held in accordance with the relevant rules. The Bench also held that the interviews were invalid for the reason that the committees took into consideration irrelevant matters, and at the same time failed to take into consideration matters required to be taken into consideration (prescribed under the relevant rules governing the interviews).
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Imperial Secretariat (From an editorial)||In view of the coming changes in the administration of India, the reorganisation of the Imperial Secretariat is a subject of some interest to the public. The Government of India have considered the proposals of the Committee which recently investigated the question and accepted the major part of its recommendations, some for immediate execution, some for tentative examination and the rest for eventual adoption. The Committee’s proposals begin with a scheme for the readjustment of departments and a new allocation of business. It is proposed, for instance, to amalgate the civil agencies dealing with public health under the Education Department; education and public health will thus be two sections of one department, each section under the charge of an expert, with the connecting link providing in a common Secretary. Each of the two sections will be assisted by an Advisory Board which is to have the privilege of addressing and interviewing the Viceroy and will be represented, at the Viceroy’s discretion, in meetings of the Executive Council that deal with the respective questions of each section. Another recommendation of the Committee relates to the reunion of the allied subjects of Commerce and Industry and the creation of a separate Department of Ways and Communications to co-ordinate the duties of the Postal, Telegraphic and Transport departments.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre retained Rs. 1.1 lakh cr. of cess receipts’||The Centre retained in the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) more than Rs. 1.1 lakh crore out of the almost Rs. 2.75 lakh crore collected in 2018-19 through various cesses, instead of transferring the receipts to the specified Reserve Funds that Parliament had approved for such levies, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India observed in a report. Moreover, Rs. 1,24,399 crore collected as cess on crude oil over the last decade had not been transferred to the designated Reserve Fund — the Oil Industry Development Board — and had been retained in the Centre’s coffers, the CAG reckoned. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Compensation Cess, which has become a bone of contention between the States and the Centre, was also ‘short-credited’ to the relevant reserve fund to the extent of Rs. 40,806 crore in 2018-19. ‘IGST accounting flawed’ Separately, the CAG noted that erroneous Integrated GST (IGST) accounting also led to States receiving less funds from the Centre. A sum of Rs. 15,001 crore collected as IGST was erroneously transferred and accounted as States’ share of net proceeds of IGST instead of being apportioned between Centre and States. A balance of Rs. 13,944 crore was also left ‘unapportioned’ and retained in the CFI, ‘even though the amended IGST Act now provides for ad-hoc apportionment of IGST,’ the CAG stated “As a result, States received overall less funds on account of IGST,” the audit concluded. Designated funds “The Union Government collected Rs. 2,74,592 crore from 35 cesses and levies in 2018-19. Under the scheme, such cesses and levies are required to be first transferred to designated Reserve Funds and utilised for the specific purposes intended by Parliament. However, only Rs. 1,64,322 crore was transferred to Reserve Funds/Boards and the rest was retained in the Consolidated Fund,” the CAG noted in an audit report on Union Government accounts tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. In at least one case, no dedicated fund was created for the surcharge levied on taxpayers. For instance, a ‘Social Welfare Surcharge’ on customs duties yielded Rs. 8,871.19 crore, but no dedicated fund was found for it. As much as Rs. 10,157 crore of the Road and Infrastructure Cess collected during the year was neither transferred to the related Reserve Fund nor utilised for the purpose for which the cess was collected. Separately, the CAG said that a journal entry after the close of the year was used to transfer Rs. 10,250 crore from the Central Road Fund, recording the same as a non-tax receipt in violation of accounting procedures. Similarly, Rs. 2,123 crore of Universal Service levy and Rs. 79 crore collected as National Mineral Trust levy was not transferred to the relevant funds.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘India must focus on reforms as high growth is not a given’||India has tailwinds, such as its demographic advantage, to make it a high-growth economy, but the same cannot be considered foreordained and requires continued action, global private equity major Warburg Pincus CEO Charles Kaye said on Wednesday. Implementing the reforms vision is the “principal challenge” for India, he said, specifying that both the challenges and opportunities for the country are domestic in nature. Warburg Pincus has invested $5 billion in India since 1995. Its bets include HDFC, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Bharti Airtel, where it made handsome returns, setting a milestone for risk capital investing. “India has all the powerful tailwinds of demography and so much else, but that’s not destiny; it’s not foreordained and requires continued vigilance and significant action to continue to take advantage of that opportunity,” he emphasised. Speaking at a business summit via video, he said India had improved remarkably since 1995 when the firm first invested in HDFC but added that the main challenge for the country was to complete the reforms vision.  Offloaded responsibility He welcomed the policy response to the pandemic. “The more significant way it dealt with it is that it essentially offloaded responsibility... into the banking system and then provided meaningful monetary support through the RBI and moratoriums; we will see how it plays,” Mr. Kaye added. India’s strategy seemed to be “letting the recovery itself lead economic recovery”.  The challenges and opportunities for the country are domestic in nature, says Charles Kaye
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||TTK Prestige forays into dining tableware market||TTK Prestige, a kitchenware company, is now stepping into the dining room for a bite of the Rs. 1,000-crore organised dining tableware market in the country. “The dining tableware market is a very huge space and it complements our manufacturing capability as well,” T.T. Jagannathan, chairman, TTK Group, told The Hindu.  “To test the market, we just launched stainless steel casseroles. We are expecting sales of Rs. 50 crore from this space in the next couple of years,” he said. Despite the disruptions caused by COVID-19, the kitchenware market had remained quite stable and the company witnessed a 5% increase in demand from April to July. In September, it witnessed a demand spike of 15% compared with the year-earlier period. “We also launched 32 products between April and September, and another 60-odd products will be rolled out during this fiscal. The only thing is that the supply chain has not yet been fully revamped,” he said.  TTK Prestige also said it had stopped all imports of finished goods from China.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘MSMEs, start-ups not for non-personal data policy’||A majority of MSMEs and start-ups are not comfortable with the draft non-personal data policy in the current form, as per a survey by LocalCircles. On responses of the public, LocalCircles said, 27% said they would never want to share their anonymised data, while 35% said they would be willing to do so only in a law and order or investigation situation. Only 30% said they could share the data with the government for general purposes. “[About] 80% MSMEs and start-ups oppose non-personal data policy in its current form,” the community social media platform said, sharing the findings. “[They] believe permitting large businesses and platforms to sell aggregate data for a price will not help them.” Over 31,000 responses — about 17,000 from citizens and 15,000 from businesses — were received across 280 districts for the survey. LocalCircles said the start -ups and SMEs believe data sharing should be voluntary to start with and could be made mandatory later for firms with annual revenue of more than Rs. 500 crore.
24 September 2020||Mumbai,||KKR to add RIL retail unit stake for Rs. 5,550 crore||Investment firm KKR has decided to buy a 1.28% stake in RIL’s Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. (RRVL) unit for Rs. 5,550 crore, Reliance Industries said in a stock-exchange filing. The U.S.-based company’s investment, its second in an RIL subsidiary, values the retail arm at a pre-money equity value of Rs. 4.21 lakh crore. Earlier this year, KKR had announced a Rs. 11,367 crore investment in Jio Platforms. RRVL has been on a capital raising spree to bolster its technology reach and to help fund the unit’s ambitious expansion plans as it vies with Amazon and Walmart for a larger slice of the rapidly expanding online retail business. On September 9, Silver Lake announced it would pick up a 1.75% stake in RRVL for Rs. 7,500 crore. KKR said in the statement that it would support Reliance Retail in its mission to become India’s leading omnichannel retailer. KKR’s Asia private equity funds would make the investment, with the transaction being subject to regulatory approvals.
24 September 2020||Chennai,||MPL to triple propylene glycol output capacity||Manali Petrochemicals Ltd. is setting up a Rs. 150-crore brownfield project to more than triple its annual production capacity of propylene glycol (PG), said a top official. “We have drawn up an expansion plan to more than triple the annual production capacity of PG, from 22,000 tonnes to 70,000 tonnes, in two phases at an investment of about Rs. 150 crore,” said Ashwin Muthiah, chairman, Manali Petrochemicals Ltd. “The funding will be met through internal resources,” he said The board of MPL approved the proposal on Wednesday, which entails an investment of about Rs. 60 crore in the first phase that will be completed in 18 to 21 months. Initially, the capacity will be expanded to 46,000 tonnes and later, by another 24,000 tonnes, taking the total volume to 70,000 tonnes, Stating the additional capacity would increase the domestic market share of MPL, he said the expansion was meant to build local capacity, reduce import content and save foreign exchange outgo. “We see this as a sustainable model, going forward,” he added. The primary focus of the project will be to supply to two sectors viz. pharmaceuticals and food. The growth in demand expected in future in these two sectors will help MPL meet its sales target post the expansion, according to M. Ravi, MD, MPL.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bharat Biotech, WUSM tie up for COVID-19 nasal shot||Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said it would conduct trials, produce and market an intranasal vaccine for COVID-19, being developed by the Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis. The Phase I trials of the chimp-adenovirus, single-dose vaccine will take place at St. Louis University’s Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Unit. On receipt of regulatory approval, Bharat Biotech would pursue further stages of clinical trials in India.  Bharat Biotech said a licensing agreement gives it rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except the U.S., Japan and Europe. Krishna Ella, CMD, said an intranasal vaccine would be simple to administer and help reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles and syringes, thereby significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive.
24 September 2020||Chennai,||Webinar on ‘asset allocation in a volatile market’||ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on on the topic ‘Asset allocation in volatile market’ on September 26. Experts from the industry will provide advise on mutual funds and answer all queries related to mutual funds. Attendees will get insights from experts which would help them to plan their individual finance. The webinar will delve into the following aspects of asset allocation: What decides your asset allocation; · approaches to asset allocation; [and] what not to do in a volatile market. Experts on the panel include: Jeevan Koshy, Head – Tamil Nadu, ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company and Aarati Krishnan, Editorial Consultant, The Hindu BusinessLine. To register for this free webinar, log on to: http://bit.ly/ICICIDE
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Likhitha Infra sets IPO band at Rs. 117-Rs. 120||Likhitha Infrastructure has set the price band of its initial public offering (IPO) at Rs. 117-Rs. 120 per share. The IPO consisting of a fresh issue of up to 51,00,000 equity shares, representing 25.86% of the post-issue shareholding, is expected to raise up to Rs. 61.2 crore. Issue will be open from September 29 to October 1. The firm is into laying of pipeline networks and construction of associated facilities besides providing operations and maintenance services to city gas distribution firms. The proceeds will be used to meet working capital needs, amid the growing demand for its services and for general corporate purposes, the firm said.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Railways dressed up FY19 figures’||The Ministry of Railways had resorted to ‘window dressing’ for presenting the working expense and operating ratio for 2018-19 in a better light, the CAG said in a report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. It also added that inefficiency of zonal railways and weak monitoring by the Railway Board led to slow progress in projects that were to be completed during 2015-20. The CAG noted that against the target of 92.8% in the Budget Estimates, the operating ratio of railways was 97.29% in FY19. This means railways spent Rs. 97.29 to earn Rs. 100. This, however, is an improvement from FY18’s 98.44%, the worst in ten years, according to an earlier CAG report.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||CAMS IPO subscribed 47 times||Computer Age Management Services’ initial public offer had been subscribed 46.85 times on the final day of bidding on Wednesday. The Rs. 2,242-crore IPO of Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS received bids for 60,19,36,188 shares against the offer size of 1,28,27,370 shares. The IPO consists of an offer for sale of more than 1.82 crore shares and is in the price range of Rs. 1,229-1,230 apiece. The public offer of CAMS, which acts as registrar and transfer agent for mutual funds, opened for subscription on Monday.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CAG raps DGH, govt. for not collecting dues||The CAG has pulled up the Director General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry for failing to collect dues worth over Rs. 3,600 crore from contractors who relinquished blocks allocated to them for oil and gas exploration.  Contractors of 54 relinquished blocks failed to pay dues as specified in the production sharing contracts, as per a CAG audit. An amount of $510.79 million (Rs. 3,652.64 crore) remained uncollected on this account with respect to 45 blocks out of total dues of $ 664.67 million or Rs. 4,753 crore.
24 September 2020||SHARJAH,||‘Worked on fitness and power-hitting’||Convinced that possessing an array of shots is a must along with power-hitting, wicketkeeper-batsman Sanju Samson said he worked on these aspects during the COVID-19-enforced break. The result was there to see as Samson pulverised the Chennai Super Kings bowlers in the IPL on Tuesday, setting up a victory for Rajasthan Royals with a blistering 32-ball 74, studded with nine sixes and a boundary. Impact player That he is an impact player is a known fact but his clean and elegant hitting earned praise from one and all. “I think range-hitting is what the game demands in this generation. I had time to work out in these five months, and I think I’ve increased that ability,” Samson said at the post-match presentation. “I’ve been working hard on my fitness, diet and training, and on my strength, because my game relies a lot on power hitting,” he added. Samson, who was adjudged the Man-of-the-Match, said his plan is to hit all deliveries in his arc. Stand and deliver “My gameplan is stand and deliver. If it’s in the arc I go for it, and it’s very important to have the intent to hit the ball if it’s there to be hit.” With Robin Uthappa and Jos Buttler also in the squad, Royals are spoilt for choice in the wicketkeeping department. However, Samson, who executed two stumpings and as many catches against CSK, said he was happy to play any role the captain and coach deemed fit for him. “Everyone likes to keep wickets and no one likes running around, but it’s up to the coach. We are happy to bring smiles on the faces of the fans and we hope to continue doing so.”  Everyone likes to keep wickets and no one likes running around, but it’s up to the coach
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Rohit, bowlers help Mumbai Indians open its account in the UAE||Kolkata Knight Riders has been a favourite opponent for Rohit Sharma the batsman and his Mumbai Indians teammates. Once the captain continued his form against the Knight Riders, it became easier for the Mumbai outfit to continue its domination against the Kolkata side in the IPL at Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Zayed Stadium on Wednesday. The comprehensive 49-run victory, set up by Rohit’s rampaging 80 (54b, 3x4, 6x6) — his seventh 50-plus score versus KKR — and his quickfire 90-run second-wicket association with Suryakumar Yadav (47, 28b, 6x4, 1x6) — gave the defending champion not only its first win in the 13th edition, but also its maiden victory in seven outings in the Emirates. Having won nine of the previous 10 encounters, MI couldn’t have asked for a better opponent than KKR to overcome a disappointing opening loss against Chennai Super Kings. Once KKR skipper Dinesh Karthik erred by persisting with pace for the first five overs, Rohit forced the Knight Riders to play catch-up.  Barring the wicket-maiden bowled early on by Shivam Mavi, the young pacer who was the pick of the KKR bowlers, nothing went the Kolkata side’s way. Suryakumar caressed Sandeep Warrier for four fours in the third over before Rohit welcomed Pat Cummins with two sixes in the fifth. That set the platform for a leather-hunt and even after Suryakumar’s needless run out in the 11th over, Rohit continued to clear the boundary at will. With most of the big-hitters chipping in with cameos, MI amassed a mammoth 195. Mumbai’s Trent Boult started off with a maiden to Shubman Gill, showing that Rohit’s men were on the money from the get-go. Where the Knight Riders had earlier persisted with bowling in the arc, the MI bowlers knew exactly what to do, especially bowling in the dew. Boult and James Pattinson not only stuck in the PowerPlay but never offered freebies, helping Mumbai tighten the screws. That enabled the side use Kieron Pollard — making his 150th IPL appearance — effectively with the ball. In fact, Pollard picked up his first IPL wicket since 2015 when southpaw Nitish Rana was caught well in the deep by Hardik Pandya. With the run-rate mounting to almost 20 an over with five overs remaining, Knight Riders looked to Andre Russell and Eoin Morgan to pull off a miracle. But Jasprit Bumrah, running in at full steam, saw the back of both the dangermen in the 16th over to seal the deal.
24 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Can play whatever role the team needs, says Finch||These are early days, but in Aaron Finch and Devdutt Padikkal, Royal Challengers Bangalore seems to have found a solid opening combination. In its IPL opener against Sunrisers Hyderabad, Finch and Padikkal put on a 90-run stand in quick time. The normally explosive Finch played second fiddle to debutant Padikkal, who took on the attacking role with aplomb. “I can play whatever role the team needs. Dev (Devdutt) got off to a great start, so it was my job to give him strike. On some days, that role might be reversed,” Finch said in a media interaction on Wednesday. Impressive The Australian was full of praise for Padikkal, who impressed with a 42-ball 56. “Dev’s composure under pressure was very important. At the start, he was a bit nervous, but he played his natural game. That was very impressive. Once the innings developed, he grew in confidence. “He’s an attacking batsman who has done well in domestic and under-19 cricket. In the middle, we spoke about the game scenario, who we were matching up against, and what areas we will look to target each bowler,” he said. Finch, the Australian captain, is happy to be on the same team as India skipper Virat Kohli. “I have always had huge respect for how Virat goes about the game. He is very aggressive on the field in terms of his captaincy. His body language is great. Playing against him is a great challenge, because you have to be 100% committed all the time. Virat has got the better of teams I’ve played with in the past, so it's good to be playing with him for once.”
24 September 2020||Dubai,||Kings XI will be keen to bounce back against upbeat RCB||Kings XI Punjab will look to put behind it the controversial ‘short run’ decision in its IPL opener and start afresh when it takes on Virat Kohli’s buoyant Royal Challengers Bangalore here on Thursday. In Kings XI’s opening game against Delhi Capitals, the square-leg umpire erroneously called the Punjab team’s Chris Jordan for a ‘short run’ off the third ball of the 19th over, effectively costing his team the closely fought game. KXIP went on to lodge an appeal to the match referee over the incident but, on Thursday, K.L. Rahul & Co. would like to forget the incident and focus on the task ahead. Winning note In contrast, RCB opened its campaign on a winning note, defeating Sunrisers Hyderabad by 10 runs. Devdutt Padikkal started his IPL career on a classy note, hitting a sublime half-century and will once again be in focus, while A.B. de Villers will also look to continue in the same vein following a crucial half-century.  Yuzvendra Chahal, as always, will be the key man in the RCB bowling attack. The leg-spinner was instrumental in his team’s victory over SRH on Monday, triggering a batting collapse. For KXIP, leggie Ravi Bishnoi impressed against DC while Mayank Agarwal looked in imperious touch but was gutted as he couldn’t get his team over the line. Rahul, Glenn Maxwell and Nicholas Pooran will be expected to step up. Big-hitter Chris Gayle, who was left out of the opener for better balance in the eleven, could be back and batting all-rounder Jimmy Neesham could also be given a chance.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Don’t play tennis just for making money’||The new hero of world tennis, Dominic Thiem, is sure to challenge the dominant trio — Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer — and their stranglehold on Grand Slam titles. The 27-year-old Thiem has been in the top-10 from 2016, and thus it was no surprise that he has stepped it up to the next level after joining hands with coach Nicolas Massu, owner of two Olympic gold medals. Sharing an insight on Thiem’s growth on topleveltennis.com/in, his father Wolfgang revealed that the target was not about professional tennis when the kid was hitting for hours on the garage door and on the wall. “Don’t play tennis because you can make money. We never had a goal that Dominic should become professional,” Wolfgang said. He recalled how as a 10-year-old, Thiem had won a tournament which fetched him a ticket to the USA, and how he started playing international events like Orange Bowl when he was 12. It was at this stage Thiem was made to change to the classic one-handed backhand. “When he was under-14, he was about top-30 in Europe. By 15, he grew up equal and competed with really good players.” Breakthrough year Thiem’s breakthrough was in 2010, when he won two events of grade-1 and 2 in South America. “He lost in the first round of the Junior French Open, but it was a nice experience,” Wolfgang remembered. In 2011, he reached the French Open junior final and acheived a career best No. 2 junior ranking. “When Dominic moved into men’s circuit in 2012, it looked like a different sport. He won a Challenger in 2013, and started winning big tournaments in 2015 to make the top-100,” his father said. Wolfgang was grateful to two investors “who believed in Dominic” and made it possible to meet the tennis budget through his junior career. Among many other things, Wolfgang has one big advice to all aspiring players, “choose tournaments that fit your development, and not the ones that fit your wallet”.  When Dominic moved into men’s circuit in 2012, it looked like a different sport
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Everything Samson hit was going for six’||Steve Smith led Rajasthan Royals from the front on Tuesday. He was at the wicket for all but 10 balls of the Royals’ innings, ensuring his team posted a score that would prove too much to chase down even for M.S. Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings. The Australian, playing his first game after being hit on the head during a training session in England earlier this month, made 69 off 47 balls. He was overshadowed though by Sanju Samson. Not that he has any complaints. Playing second fiddle About the blistering knock by Sanju (74, 32b, 1x4, 9x6), Smith said his role, in their 121-run partnership for the second wicket, was to get him on strike. “The way he was going, I was trying to get to the other end and let him do his thing; fortunately that worked well,” the skipper said. “He played incredibly well. Today it felt like everything he was hitting was going for six.” Samson wasn’t just taking over the aggressive role of Jos Buttler in the top-order but the Englishman's ’keeping gloves as well. He had two stumpings and as many catches, including one that flew high off the bat of Kedar Jadhav.  The return of Buttler to the squad against Kings XI Punjab on Sunday is no doubt a huge boost for Royals. “Jos coming back is a big plus,” Smith said. “He has an incredible record at the top, so I dare say he will probably slot in back there.”
24 September 2020||Paris,||Lewandowski, Neuer and de Bruyne nominated for UEFA player prize||Bayern Munich duo Robert Lewandowski and Manuel Neuer have been nominated alongside Manchester City’s Kevin De Bruyne for the UEFA Men’s Player of the Year prize for last season, European football’s governing body announced on Wednesday. The winner will be announced — along with the UEFA Women’s Player of the Year — on October 1, when UEFA holds the draw for this season’s Champions League group stage at its headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland. Lewandowski and Neuer starred as Bayern won the Champions League. He scored an astonishing 55 goals in 47 games as Bayern won the treble of Champions League, Bundesliga and German Cup. He top-scored in the Champions League with 15 goals. Goalkeeper Neuer also played a key role in Bayern’s triumphant campaign, while Belgian playmaker De Bruyne scored or set up 33 goals in the English Premier League. England star Lucy Bronze is a contender to win the women’s prize for the second year running after helping Lyon win the Champions League for the fifth season in a row. Her Lyon colleague, the France defender Wendie Renard, is also shortlisted alongside the Danish striker Pernille Harder, who helped Wolfsburg get to the Champions League final.
24 September 2020||Chennai,||Curran’s unmistakable similarity with Irfan||The similarities are compelling. Both Sam Curran and Irfan Pathan are left-arm swing bowlers and punishing southpaws. Curran has been bowling with verve for Chennai Super Kings in the ongoing IPL, taking the sphere away from the southpaw and bringing it back into him — a delivery high on the scale of difficulty. Bothways movement Irfan too, in the years 2003, ’04 and ’05, when he was at his peak, would move the ball both ways from over the wicket. The batsman would be kept guessing. And their speeds too are similar. Curran, for most part, operates in the early 130s, and that was about the pace Irfan bowled at too. It was the two-way movement in the air and off the seam that did the batsmen in. The run-ups of both are rhythmic and this fluidity is carried to the delivery stride and the eventual release where the wrist plays a key role. Both are skilful, have variations in pace, can alter the angles and use the crease effectively. With the bat too, the two are alike; perhaps Irfan was a more organised batsman. Sam Curran hounded the Indian team when it last toured England for a Test series with his cameos. In fact, the English lower-order fightbacks, that ultimately won the side the series, was invariably centred around Curran. Fearless with bat He is fearless with the bat, does not allow situations to bother him, and is a free-spirited batsman who unsettles bowlers. The canny M.S. Dhoni has employed him as a pinch-hitter for CSK and Curran has made an immediate impression with his bold ways. Dhoni, as the India captain, used Irfan as a pinch-hitter and the vibrant allrounder took flight. Curran and Irfan are birds of the same feather.
24 September 2020||Sharjah,||Quarantine time didn’t help: Dhoni||The extended two-week quarantine of Chennai Super Kings hampered his preparations as he did not get enough time for batting practice, said captain M.S. Dhoni after his side lost to Rajasthan Royals by 16 runs, on Tuesday. Dhoni came in to bat at No. 7, sending the likes of Sam Curran and Kedar Jadhav ahead of him in a mammoth 217-run chase on Tuesday. Asked why he came so low in the order, the CSK captain said, “I haven’t batted for a long time. The fourteen-day quarantine doesn’t help.” Extra one week Dhoni’s reference was to CSK’s extra one-week quarantine after 13 people in the contingent tested positive for COVID-19, resulting in missing out on important training sessions. He was not out on 29 off 17 balls with three sixes in the last over. Although he didn’t name M. Vijay, the veteran opener’s run-a-ball 21 was one of the reasons for CSK falling short besides an off-day from his spin duo of Ravindra Jadeja and Piyush Chawla. “With 217 on the board, we needed a very good start which was not the case. Steve (Smith) and (Sanju) Samson batted very well. We need to give credit to their bowlers.” “Once you’ve seen the first innings, you knew the lengths to bowl,” Dhoni said. “Their spinners did well to bowl away from the batsman. Our spinners made the error of bowling too full. ““Maybe, if we had restricted them to 200, it would’ve been a good game.” His rival captain Steve Smith praised Jofra Archer’s big hits in the last over that eventually changed the game. “I think the last surge from Jofra was an incredible bit of hitting. Sanju Samson... looked like everything he hit went for six. “MS smacked a few in the end, and Faf got going too, but nice to get a win,” Smith said. Smith heaped praised on Samson for his nine sixes. “Sanju was incredible, and all I had to do was give him the strike. “This should give him a lot of confidence. Jos (Buttler) is a quality player and we’ll see what happens when he comes back. Hard to take the opening slot away from someone like him.”  Jofra loves his batting. He actually kicked me out of the nets yesterday [Monday], said I was in there for too long, and asked me to give him a hit Steve Smith Royals skipper
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Financial assistance to athletes||The Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud will provide a financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 each, apart from three electronic scooters, to the top three athletes from the State on September 25 at Ravindra Bharathi here, A. Venkateshwar Reddy, SATS chairman, said. He added that the athletes, J. Deepthi (200m), G. Maheshwari (3,000m steeplechase) and A. Nandini (100m hurdles and long jump), will be accompanied by their Sports Authority of India (SAI) coach N. Ramesh at the event facilitated by former Andhra Ranji Trophy captain and Telangana Badminton Association vice-president V. Chamundeswaranath. No tournaments: TSTA Meanwhile, Telangana State Tennis Association (TSTA) informed on Wednesday that it is not granting any permission to organise tournaments in the State. “This is to make clear that TSTA is not keen to have any tournaments right now in the Star due to the pandemic as per the instructions of the All-India Tennis Association,” TSTA secretary Ashok Kumar said in a statement.
24 September 2020||Kochi,||Blasters sign Gomez||Kerala Blasters FC has signed Spaniard Vicente Gomez for the coming Indian Super League. The defensive midfielder, who made his senior debut for his home team Las Palmas in 2010 and played there for eight years, was instrumental in his club gaining promotion to the LaLiga in the 2015-16 season. But following the team’s relegation, Gomez moved to the second division side Deportivo La Coruna before joining the Blasters. “I wanted to have an international soccer experience this season. The opportunity came up and I am excited about both, playing for the club and being a part of the ISL,” said Gomez. “He’s going to be a big presence in our midfield,” said Blasters’ sporting director Karolis Skinkys.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Coach Stephen Fleming defends MSD’s approach||Chennai Super Kings coach Stephen Fleming defended M.S. Dhoni’s sedate approach, saying that time away from the game means that the former Indian skipper will need more matches to be back at his best. “MS (Dhoni) is a specialist towards the end of the innings and has always been,” said Fleming when asked whether he came a bit too late at No. 7 after the likes of Sam Curran and Ruturaj Gaikwad. Good hitting “He came in the 12th over [sic: 14th over], which is his optimal time and batted accordingly. He is coming back from not playing a huge amount of cricket. So the expectation to see him at his best is going to take time but his hitting towards the end was very good. Curran was there to keep us ahead in the game because we were falling behind. He has good hitting power and Rutu, it was his first game,” he added. The former New Zealand captain though felt it was bowling not the team’s cautious approach to the chase that was the problem area on Tuesday. “We were slow to adjust and too full. We overpitched and were slow on that track. There was intent to adjust but the execution was poor. We came close to pulling it back to a manageable score but that last burst (from Archer) put it out of reach.” Fleming also added that there could be changes to the batting order with the option to open with Faf du Plessis who has scored back-to-back fifties.
24 September 2020||DUBAI,||Marsh ruled out of IPL, Jason Holder included||Sunrisers Hyderabad all-rounder Mitchell Marsh was on Wednesday ruled out of the IPL with an ankle injury he suffered in the team’s opener against Royal Challengers Bangalore. West Indies captain Jason Holder has been named as Marsh’s replacement and is expected to join the Sunrisers squad soon in the UAE. This is the second time that Marsh has been ruled out of the IPL due to injury. The injury-prone cricketer had to pull out of the 2017 edition with a shoulder injury. Holder, who played for Sunrisers in the 2014-15 season, last featured in the IPL for Kolkata Knight Riders in 2016.
24 September 2020||Ballymena (Northern Ireland),||Motivated Bhullar back in action||Indian golfer Gaganjeet Bhullar is set to return to action after more than six months as he tees up at the Dubai Duty Free Irish Open this week. The nine-time winner on Asian Tour, and one-time winner on European Tour, Bhullar last played on the Tour in March at the Malaysia Open. Also in the field is Shubhankar Sharma, who got back to action with the Hero Open, the second event on the UK swing after the European Tour re-started in June. Bhullar, whose sole win on European Tour came at the Fiji International in 2018, plays with Englishmen Ashley Chesters and Steve Brown. Shubhankar plays with Dane Joachim Hansen and England’s David Law at the Galgorm Spa & Golf Resort in Northern Ireland. Excited Bhullar, who reached Europe earlier this week, said, “I am really excited to get back on tour. “But I think this break was very much needed for me. I am feeling more motivated and ready for the tour.”
24 September 2020||Berlin,||Bayern eager to stop Super Cup becoming virus hotbed||Bayern Munich boss Karl-Heinz Rummenigge insists the German giant is eager to stop Thursday’s UEFA Super Cup showdown in Budapest turning into a super spreader event due to a high infection rate of the coronavirus there. On Monday, Bavaria’s premier minister Markus Soeder warned against the match in Budapest becoming a “football-Ischgl”, referring to the Austrian ski resort where thousands of holidaymakers were infected with the virus at the beginning of the pandemic in Europe. Soeder added that amid the pandemic “I really get a stomach ache when it comes to the Super Cup” between Bayern and Europa League holder Sevilla in Budapest. Rummenigge echoed Soeder’s comments on Wednesday, insisting Bayern Munich have “every interest in ensuring that no Ischgl of football takes place” in Budapest.
24 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Vidyadhar happy to be back coaching||J.B.S. Vidyadhar, a former SAF Games gold medallist and member of the elite panel of coaches for Olympic probables, is pleased to be back as coach conducting full-fledged training sessions at his JBS Badminton Academy (Patamata) in Vijayawada. The 41-year-old — known for his telling smashes during his peak — says with most of the restrictions eased, badminton training is in full swing now. “I am determined to produce players who will go the distance as there is plenty of talent in and around the city,” he said. “I am a product of Dronacharya Arif sir and Bhaskar Babu (former SAI coach). They taught the essence of discipline and I want to ensure that my trainees inculcate the same as a prerequisite to become big players,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . He said the preference is for those below 12 years of age and that the academy is run by him alone without any external support. “I want to give back something to the sport and Vijayawada, which was once a major badminton centre,” he added. The fact that the likes of K. Srikanth and Ruthivka Shivani make it a point to train at the JBS Academy whenever they are around shows the kind of respect Vidyadhar commands and also the facilities available. “The daily sessions include intensive scientific methods of coaching and also one-on-one training sessions with some of the young talent who look good as long-term prospects. All that they need is the right kind of guidance, exposure and mentoring,” the former Asian Satellite doubles champion said. “Having played at the highest level, I am conscious of what is required to groom raw talent,” said Vidyadhar, who hopes to get his Academy included in the Khelo India scheme of things for better reach and results.
24 September 2020||Chennai:,||Rayudu likely to miss one more game||Ambati Rayudu, grappling with a hamstring strain, is likely to miss at least one more CSK game after not figuring in Tuesday’s clash against Rajasthan Royals. Rayudu will undergo assessment by the side’s physio on Thursday morning. The franchise’s CEO K.S. Viswanathan was optimistic Rayudu would recover soon.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The real beauty||Nature abounds in beauty, and men and women have used whatever they can which Nature affords, to enhance their own beauty. Flowers, shells, beads and many other things were used by them as adornment. Physical beauty is clear for all to see, and that is the reason we attach so much importance to it. But is this real beauty? Tamil literature says it is not. What then is real beauty? Different Tamil works give different answers to this question, said Malayaman in a discourse. A verse in Naladiyar says luscious hair is beautiful; so is an elegant saree. But none of these is a match for the beauty of education. Another Tamil work called Eladhi says that the appeal of slender hips, or an attractive strut, or even the appeal of a blush, cannot be classified as real beauty. Intelligent thinking and writing alone can be called beauty. Sirupanchamoolam says that while a person may have eye catching nails, long tresses, or regular teeth, none of this deserves to be called beauty. The use of appropriate words in a literary work alone can be called beauty, says Sirupanchamoolam. Thirukkural says that if a man does not have the ability to contemplate and analyse things, then his physical beauty is comparable to that of an image made of mud. Kumaraguruparar wrote a work called Neethi neri vilakkam. In this, he says that education alone qualifies to be called a thing of beauty. Those who have read extensively possess this beauty. It is their adornment. They have no need for further ornamentation. Does an ornament require an ornament? All these works show us the respect we must have towards learning. Scholarship alone lasts, whereas a pretty face is lost when youth ends. An educated man is remembered with respect even after he dies.
24 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CDBA dist. championships from Oct. 3||Chennai District Badminton Association (CDBA) will conduct its district championships at the Fireball Academy here from October 3. Competitions will be held in five age categories: seniors, under-19, 17, 13 and 15. “We are not restricting entries as we are using tournament software. It will be a round of 64 since it involves only singles. We will be following the SOPs by the Central and State Governments,” Aravindan Samiappan, Secretary, CDBA, told The Hindu.   The schedule:   Oct. 3 & 4: Seniors and under-19; Oct. 10 & 11: Under-17 & 13; Oct. 17 & 18: Under-15 .
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SCOREBOARD||MUMBAI INDIANS   Quinton de Kock c Naik b Mavi 1 (3b), Rohit Sharma c Cummins b Mavi 80 (54b, 3x4, 6x6), Suryakumar Yadav run out 47 (28b, 6x4, 1x6), Saurabh Tiwary c Cummins b Narine 21 (13b, 1x4, 1x6), Hardik Pandya hit wicket b Russell 18 (13b, 2x4, 1x6), Kieron Pollard (not out) 13 (7b, 1x4), Krunal Pandya (not out) 1 (3b); Extras (lb-2, w-11, nb-1): 14; Total (for five wkts. in 20 overs): 195.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-8 (de Kock, 1.2 overs), 2-98 (Suryakumar, 10.5), 3-147 (Saurabh, 15.1), 4-177 (Rohit, 17.5), 5-180 (Hardik, 18.3).   KNIGHT RIDERS BOWLING   Warrier 3-0-34-0, Mavi 4-1-32-2, Cummins 3-0-49-0, Narine 4-0-22-1, Russell 2-0-17-1, Kuldeep 4-0-39-0.   KOLKATA KNIGHT RIDERS   Shubman Gill c Pollard b Boult 7 (11b, 1x4), Sunil Narine c de Kock b Pattinson 9 (10b, 1x6), Dinesh Karthik lbw b Chahar 30 (23b, 5x4), Nitish Rana c Hardik b Pollard 24 (18b, 2x4, 1x6), Eoin Morgan c de Kock b Bumrah 16 (20b,1x4, 1x6), Andre Russell b Bumrah 11 (11b, 2x4), Nikhil Naik c Hardik b Boult 1 (3b), Pat Cummins c Hardik b Pattinson 33 (12b, 1x4, 4x6), Shivam Mavi st de Kock b Chahar 9 (10b, 1x4), Kuldeep Yadav (not out) 1 (2b); Extras (lb-2, w-3): 5; Total (for nine wkts. in 20 overs): 146.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-14 (Gill, 2.4 overs), 2-25 (Narine, 4.5), 3-71 (Karthik, 10.1), 4-77 (Rana, 11.4), 5-100 (Russell, 15.1), 6-101 (Morgan, 15.4), 7-103 (Naik, 16.3), 8-141 (Cummins, 18.2), 9-146 (Mavi, 19.6).   MUMBAI INDIANS BOWLING   Boult 4-1-30-2, Pattinson 4-0-25-2, Bumrah 4-0-32-2, Chahar 4-0-26-2, Pollard 3-0-21-1, Krunal 1-0-10-0.   Toss: KKR.   Man-of-the-match: Rohit Sharma.   MI won by 49 runs.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 08:15 IST,||Sudoku - September 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Chennai’s Uncork 1.0||“This time last year, we had a Sid Sriram performance and Bay 146 was packed with happy fans. This time, well, at least we are open,” says Sampath who handles Food and Beverage for Savera Hotel, and programming for its bar Bay146. He sounds almost rueful, but turns practical when describing the myriad safety instructions spelt out by the State Government for bars in the city to restrictedly reopen. “There should not be any activities which bring in more footfall — no DJs, no live acts, nothing,” he says, adding, “The Government order came on September 3, and we opened our doors on September 4, from 11 am to 8 pm, as is allowed.” Others have taken a little longer, and many of Chennai’s favourite watering holes are less than a week into their reopening. Having faced the litmus test of their first weekend in unlock, they have a lot to say, from changed seating plans and floor plans to trimmed-down cocktail menus. The one change that stands out the most, however, is in the patrons. Not the regulars Zahir RR, owner of Radio Room in MRC Nagar, points out that their usual crowd of 30-plus-year-olds — “we would prefer people sitting back with their drinks quietly” — are still cautious about stepping out, and their guests so far consist largely of people in their 20s. For Sampath, the new, somewhat steady flow of weekday customers is a novelty, compared to the dominantly weekend patronage that most lounges and pubs were used to. Bay 146 now sees patrons of all ages through the day, and is entirely bereft of quick-turnover bar hoppers. “Before the COVID-19 pandemic, people would stop by one place for a quick couple of drinks, move to another for dinner, and to a third to revel, and so on. Now, they would rather sit in one place for about an hour and a half, and then go home,” he observes. Sanjeev Varma, owner of Black Orchid, explains that unlike the city’s family restaurants and cafés that began cautiously opening up a month ago, the hospitality services that serve alcohol — like bars and clubs — were awaiting permission from the State’s Prohibition and Excise Department. That order mandates, among other things, a seating limit of 50% of the bar’s original capacity. “Bay 146 roughly holds around 170 people in peak hours, so we can easily do around 70 covers at a stretch now,” says Sampath, adding that they keep a two-metre gap between each of its 20 (down from 40) tables. Radio Room, a 120-seater bar, is allowing a maximum of 60 people in. Black Orchid, on the other hand, is keeping only 50 of its 220 seats available, “but the crowd that comes in is not more than 10 to 15 in a day, so we can safely seat them at far corners of the space, with more than six feet of distance,” says Sanjeev. However, Lord of The Drinks in Nungambakkam boasts about 100 walk-ins over the course of each day this past week, even as its seating capacity has reduced from 300 to 150 at a time. “People usually come in by 6 pm and stay till closing time on weekends, and we get some steady corporate clients through the week,” says owner Raj Thiru. Cocktail of conundrums Bartenders are now operating in relative isolation, away from chaotic crowded orders and expectations of performative flair. All establishments are avoiding bar stools. Brands on offer are just as many as usual, but cocktails and speciality drinks are fewer. Customers can order their drinks only from their table, and it will be brought over to them. At Savera, instead of opening multiple kitchens, Bay 146 has increased diner choice by offering dishes from other restaurants in the hotel. “Besides the bar, we had the option of keeping one restaurant open, where we serve the specialities of three outlets. If a family comes in, we seat them at Piano. If everyone in the group is over 21 and wants to drink, we seat them at Bay 146,” says Sampath. Radio Room, too, operates its central kitchen for the bar, Fromage and Broken Bridge Café on the same property. Adds Zahir, “We have a special cocktail menu out for Radio Room, and are not serving some speciality dishes that require a lot of pre-prep, till we get a better idea of how likely they are to be ordered.” At Black Orchid, the first-floor bar is the only segment that has opened so far. “Our ground floor restaurant is still shut, and the food comes up by elevator from our kitchen on the mezzanine floor,” Sanjeev says, adding that they are allowing only people with reservation, and not encouraging walk-ins. This also gives them some idea of what is likely to be ordered, since both kitchen and bar are operating with fewer staff. Other haunts, like Barracuda Brew in Nungambakkam and Bass & Soda on OMR, will not be opening their doors till October. As Chennaiites remain cautious about stepping out to their much-missed watering holes, many plans depend on how these first-movers fare.  Ready to serve Lord of The Drinks, Nungambakkam Radio Room, MRC Nagar Kommune, T Nagar Black Orchid, RA Puram The Cycle Gap, Anna Nagar Gully Bar, Kilpauk   Yet to open Barracuda Brew, Nungambakkam Watson’s, T Nagar Bass & Soda, OMR
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The wind beneath her wings||What does it take for a woman to assert herself as an entrepreneur? Finding the initial capital and putting in hours of work to bring dreams to fruition is one part of the story. The ability to rise above self-doubt and find her voice in a patriarchal system becomes equally important. Director Drishya Gautam’s 25-minute Tamil short film B Selvi & Daughters subtly highlights these issues through the story of a single mother (Kalairani as Selvi) and daughter (Gayathrie Shankar of Super Deluxe ). Selvi, who used to go door-to-door to sell saris, struggles when she tries to do business via WhatsApp. She is overwhelmed when orders pour in after her daughter sets up a Facebook business page. The rest of the story is about how Selvi embraces the new challenges of entrepreneurship.  B Selvi & Daughters is among the four films that won a production grant after their scripts were chosen from among 100 entries for the ‘Her&Now film campaign’ announced in 2019. Her&Now project supports women-led start-ups and announced its first cohort in 2019. The second cohort selection, for 2020, is underway to choose promising start-ups (ideas for incubation and early ventures for acceleration) in the Northeastern states, Telangana and Rajasthan. The film campaign is one part of Her&Now — to promote the idea of women-led start-ups through infotainment. Julia Karst, head of Her&Now project believes cinema can be an effective medium for social change, and says, “Films are a beautiful medium to showcase role models. A documentary can show real-life role models. Likewise, where no role models can be found in real life, fiction can help us create them. We wanted to have different film categories (fiction, documentary, and animation) for the campaign. We hope to inspire many women across India to become entrepreneurs.” The filmmaking teams of the four selected scripts were supported by supervising producers from Filmbooth. “GIZ [German Agency for International Cooperation] was involved at all stages but intervened as little as possible,” adds Karst. The films are unlikely to be made available for viewing on public platforms soon, since the plan is to take them to Indian and international film festivals. There will also be screenings and moderated discussions at academic institutions, NGOs, women networks, cultural centres and institutes from the entrepreneurship ecosystem.  For details of the project or to apply for start-up support, look up https://herandnow.in/get-involved/   The other selected films   Kashmakash – The Dilemma , directed by Manav Rath, a fictional story where a corporate employee in Delhi overcomes her inertia to turn entrepreneur after meeting an homemaker-entrepreneur from Jaipur.   Ritu Goes Online , a documentary directed by Vrinda Samartha, tells the story of homemaker Ritu Kaushik who began selling handbags through an e-commerce portal.   Pahal - an initiative , animation film directed by Swarup Deb, Anuj Kumar and Avinash Medhe explores conversations and eventual learnings between three entrepreneurs from the Northeast, Rajasthan and Telangana.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Surfing over troubled waters||Trust a surfer to know how to navigate through troubled waters. At a time when the pandemic had forced surf schools across India to temporarily shut down, Palani, from Covelong village, seized this opportunity to set up his own school. Bidding goodbye to his job as head instructor at Surf Turf, he launched Soul Mate in April. This new addition takes the tally of surf schools along ECR (Chennai to Mamallapuram) to six. “People wonder why I launched in the middle of Corona,” says Palani. “I felt a surge of confidence. Starting this school had been my dream for three years,” he says. For now, he stocks equipment at his home and commutes to two nearby beaches to teach. Starting with two students in April, the numbers rose to 30 over the past few months. On some days it is a 13-hour shift: 5 am to 6 pm. But the waters are therapeutic, he states. Just like Palani, the pandemic could not put a brake on Murthy Megavan’s plans either. The fisherman-turned-surfer, who is one of the catalysts of Chennai’s surf scene, now runs Covelong Point Surf School independently. He has 10 instructors — nine from his fishing village and a new recruit from Tiruporur. Along with surfing lessons, the enterprising Murthy also serves breakfast. “During lockdown, the nearby restaurants were shut. The surfers were hungry. I discussed this idea with my wife. She makesidlis and prawn curry ordaland chutneys. The day I started, 12 people booked a surf-and-breakfast-on-the-beach package,” he says and adds, “In a way Corona altered my life. I will build a formal structure for my school on a piece of land I bought. For now, my house doubles up as the storage unit.” Murthy’s regulars are trickling back, averaging around 50-60 a week. During lockdown he taught his sons — aged seven and 12, his wife and a number of children from Covelong village to surf. The sport has become a community activity. “Village kids know the ocean well because they are from fishing families. Over the years they have observed the other surfers here... I just give them tips.” Ever since surfing picked up in 2012, this is the first time that the East Coast has seen a lull during surf season: April to September. November is usually a slow month but it picks up in December, says Appu, a former fisherman, who in 2015 started Ocean Delight Surf School in Covelong, along with his friend Vicky. With lockdown now lifted, he is thrilled to have his clients back, but is careful about how many he takes at a time. “It’s three people in one session,” says Appu. The good thing about surfing, he says, is even though the trainer is with the student in the water, they are positioned behind the student. The surfboard is around nine feet, so that ensures there is distancing too. “Even if it is 20 people in the water, they can spread out. The ocean is vast. And in this sport, you don’t have to physically engage with each other.” Till early March, Ocean Delight received nearly 50 clients every month. Now it is limited to 25. Appu has also noticed a surge in new clients. There are families, entrepreneurs and professionals in their twenties. Among his regulars is a French family that turns up every Thursday. “With work from home (WFH), people have more time to explore activities they hadn’t earlier thought of,” says Appu. During lockdown, Appu’s student Madhumita Rangarajan, a freelance photographer, unlocked an achievement. That of balancing on the board, without falling, for about 700 metres into the sea. The last two months have made her a better surfer, she says, adding “I see a remarkable difference.” Twice a week, she drives from T Nagar to ECR, with her younger brothers to partake in what they describe as a wholesome family activity. “After all these years of being born and raised in this city, I am finally using the beach,” she says. For a lot of people, any sport in a closed room is still not an option, given the threat of COVID-19. Plus, there is the added pressure of wearing a mask. “The view that confined spaces and air-conditioning may not be good, is helping us,” says Arun Vasu, managing director, Surf Turf. After a temporary closure of almost four months, Arun reopened the school in July and the bay view restaurant in August. Many of his clients, after surfing, now settle down with their laptops in the open air restaurant and work.  The team at Surf Turf has been tested for COVID-19 and the management plans to keep testing every month. Clients are taken through bookings. “The ideal number is three per instructor and five if it is a family,” says Arun. Covelong village’s homestays are normally bustling with guests from Mumbai to Melbourne, this time of the year. Though 2020 is quiet, Murthy and his neighbours are not disheartened. “It is better for them to come after the vaccine arrives,” says Murthy. Besides, the coast is gradually filling up with local surfers, mostly from Chennai. “We’ve also got people driving down from Coimbatore and along the Madurai belt,” says Arun. Murali Panjanathan of Mumu Surf School in Mamallapuram says locals from surrounding villages kept the surf scene buzzing last month. His regulars also include doctors from Christian Medical College, Vellore, who drive down 135-odd kilometres on weekends just to surf. “This is de-stressing for them,” he smiles, adding “And they need to do this now more than ever.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||And that’s the bottomline||In Tamil, ‘Po da’ is slang for telling someone to ‘go away,’ and not very politely at that. When this word, prefixed with ‘Hindi Theriyathu ,’ was printed on a T-shirt recently, it quickly went viral. Politician and DMK Member of Parliament, Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, says that when she printed a few T-shirts with the phrase and distributed it to friends earlier this month, she had no idea that it would become a phenomenon. Film celebrities like Shanthnu Bhagyaraj and Aishwarya Rajessh posted pictures wearing the T-shirt on social media. In Wisconsin, USA, a TikTok user (thunder_cat21) posted a video where he asks ‘Do you know Hindi?’ to Walmart employees, only to get resounding, accented replies that went: ‘ Theriyathu , Poda !’ The movement is also spreading to other States; actor Prakash Raj recently posted a photo on social media sporting a similar T-shirt with Kannada lettering: ‘ Nange Hindi Baralla , Hogappa ’ (I don't know Hindi, Go!). “It was just an expression, that’s all,” says Kanimozhi, over phone. “I knew that people wanted to say the same thing, but I did not expect so many of them, especially youngsters, to support it. What people should understand is that this is not against any language... nobody minds learning a language when there is a necessity. When students go to Russia to study Medicine, they learn Russian. Likewise, if someone has to work in the North, there is no hesitation to learn Hindi. But it should not be imposed. What we are against is the notion that you are Indian only if you speak Hindi,” she adds. Face of resistance Tamil Nadu’s history with resisting Hindi imposition is well documented, and dates back to pre-Independence days. In June last year, a clause recommending mandatory Hindi teaching in all schools was dropped from the draft National Educational Policy following backlash from Tamil Nadu. Tamil actor Shirish, seen in films like Metro and Raja Ranguski , who posted a picture on Twitter where he was seen sporting a red T-shirt with the phrase alongside composer Yuvan Shankar Raja, and which was retweeted over 3,000 times, says, “I didn’t expect this overwhelming response. I stand with what I wore: I do not know Hindi and I expressed that through my T-shirt.” The unexpected spurt in demand for these T-shirts is spreading cheer in Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu’s textile hub. B Karthikeyan’s manufacturing unit in the district shut down when lockdown was imposed. He now finds new hope with the ‘Hindi Theriyathu Poda ’ T-shirts. “I worked with a buying agent and Kanimozhi’s office to create a few T-shirts at first. Word started spreading and my number was circulated as the man behind the creation,” says Karthikeyan. He has completed manufacturing 12,000 pieces so far, priced at Rs. 200 each. Karthikeyan, who coordinates through WhatsApp and Google Pay for his orders, adds, “I’ve heard that there are people who buy from me and sell it for Rs. 500.” Over the last couple of weeks, more T-shirt designs inspired by the catchphrase have started popping up. “We are trying out other designs: one is a white T-shirt that says, ‘I am a Tamizh Pesum Indian’. We tried out one with Periyar’s face that says ‘ Jaathi Illai Poda ’ (There is no caste, go away), and another that said ‘Ban NEET’,” says Karthikeyan. However, the slogan that has caught everyone’s fancy seems to be the one that is most direct. Karthikeyan speaks with disbelief as he says, “I just delivered 250 pieces of ‘Hindi Theriyathu Poda ’ T-shirts to a client in California. The demand is unreal.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Going against the grain||This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture?   Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh, to be young again||What makes us feel young? It is a question that Kochi-based band When Chai Met Toast is exploring through its début album, three years since they began dominating the Indian indie/folk pop scene. Recently released ‘Kahaani’, the third single in When We Feel Young , lets a gentle acoustic guitar and banjo fill in each other’s silences. The sound is endearingly familiar to listeners of indie folk, but what’s different this time around is that the lyrics are entirely in Hindi. Penned by Ankur Tewari — another favourite among Hindi-speaking crowds with a liking for quiet acoustics — ‘Kahaani’ is about “two nice people who just met at the wrong time,” as vocalist Ashwin Gopakumar puts it. “We felt the tune suited Hindi lyrics and once we had decided that, there was no better person than Ankur to pen the song,” he says, adding, “In February, Ankur wrote the song on a napkin, during a flight, and sent us a picture of it. That’s it, it didn’t need many iterations.” A look at the song’s comment section on YouTube — full of people claiming to call their exes after listening to this song — would make it seem that recognising ‘the one that got away’ (despite the vaguely abductor-like phrasing) is a rite of passage into adulthood. And this throwback to youth is the overarching theme of the album; it is not so much about being young as it is the vagaries of moods that make us relive our youth. “Those emotions you have when you’re young, can come back to you even if you’re 20, 40, 50…” says Ashwin. Before ‘Kahaani’’s restrained melody was preceeded by an all out celebration in the form of the band’s second song, ‘Maybe I can Fly’. Palee Francis’s use of the synth and Pai Sailesh’s drums evoke the rush of heady confidence in one’s future. The first song of the album is the eponymous ‘When We feel Young’ which has Ashwin singing of an ageless love. “That song was actually us looking at our parents and realising how good they are with each other,” he says. This hit deeper especially after the pandemic, when they returned to live with their families after five years of gigs — Ashwin in Thiruvananthapuram and Palee, Sailesh and guitarist Achyuth Jaigopal in Kochi. “I have seen how my parents got through the lockdown together,” he says adding, “My father has retired but my mother hasn’t. So he drops her to her work and picks her up every day, and in the evenings they share a drink and play Scrabble. If you have love like that, whatever be your age, you feel young.” The album has been a year-and-a-half in the making, reveals Ashwin. If not for the pandemic, the band would have headed to the US for recording and aimed at a June release. “Before the lockdown began, we already had three songs ready to be released.” And then, after a brief hiatus of staying at home, once travelling became easier again, the band met and decided to release the album anyway. “It was a bad time for everyone and we thought releasing new songs would make us all feel better.” There are five more upcoming songs from the album and they are all being mixed and mastered currently; “the next one is called ‘Ocean Tide’,” he adds.  To sounds of Nature In rain-swept Vagamon, the four members of When Chai Met Toast sit huddled around a wooden table in the centre of all things green, playing to the sounds of Nature. Alongside the album, the band is releasing a series of ‘Nature Tapes’, featuring stripped down versions of their songs. “We have to travel a lot but wherever we go, we try to be as sustainable as possible. Because all four of us are very environment conscious, and we love Nature. This is one of our ways of showing that (minimalism),” says vocalist Ashwin Gopakumar. After shooting three videos at Little Flower Farms in Vagamon, the band is now looking to shoot the other songs somewhere in Kochi.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Professor HRT Roberts: Philosopher with a friendly pugilist punch||It is very rarely that you come across someone who effortlessly moves from a career as a Squadron Leader in the Indian Air Force (IAF) to teaching Philosophy and passionately donning gloves in a boxing ring. Well, that is HRT Roberts, former Professor of Philosophy, Madras Christian College (MCC), for you. He passed away last week at the age of 94. Harry Roberts served in the IAF for two decades, during which time he saw action in the Sino-Indian War of 1962, and retired as a Squadron Leader. Not one to spend an inactive retired life, Roberts returned to teaching in 1969, at the invitation of Prof Chandran Devanesen. He served the department and college with great dedication until retirement in 1985. Under the guidance of Prof CTK Chari, Roberts did his PhD on Ludwig Wittgenstein’s Philosophy of Religion. Roberts had his own inner circle of students and colleagues, drawn from different departments, called the ‘Tuesday Club’ in his own flat on campus, who would cogitate on the radical, liberative ideas of a wide range of western philosophers. A regular participant in these and a student of Philosophy, MR Venkatesh, reminisces, “Perfectly at ease in teaching modern Western Philosophy, from Descartes to Wittgenstein, and placing their works under his sharp critical lens, his philosophic mind, however, was at times in tussle with the deep Catholic faith that he inherited from his family. As a teacher, Harry Roberts was one who would speak up for students.” Roberts shared many responsibilities in college, and the most challenging was as the anti-ragging ‘commander-in-chief’. With a shoulder bag, and none beside him, he would barge into the Halls, looking for mischief makers. Yet, during disciplinary proceedings, he would always give a genuine ear to their viewpoints, and would not be harsh at meting out punishments. Yet another impressive side of Roberts was his indomitable passion for boxing. He acted as an adjudicator for many inter-collegiate bouts on campus. One of his fondest memories was interviewing the great Muhammed Ali in Chennai. During that interview, he was asked to show his palm to Ali, who would say, “I will punch 10 times, before you count 1,2,3”. The great champion did, and the philosopher accepted these punches with stoic resignation. Even after retirement from MCC, Roberts was never idle for a day. In the 1990s, he was invited to visit Dayton University, Ohio, USA. Impressed with his academic prowess, the authorities there requested Roberts to help a Philosophy programme in their institute in Bengaluru. Roberts served as the Dean of Academic Affairs at the University of Dayton’s Marinist Scholasticate at Deepahalli, Bengaluru until 2006. My greatest satisfaction was in 2013, when I, as Head of the Department, invited Prof Roberts to deliver the Dr Michael Lockwood Endowment Lecture. Though 87, he came fully prepared to deliver a memorable lecture on animal rights. Nostalgia filled the air, as Harry Roberts reconnected with his alma mater, and shared a joke or two with former colleagues and students.  The writer is an Associate Professor and former Head of the Department of Philosophy, Madras Christian College
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Chennai’s Uncork 1.0||“This time last year, we had a Sid Sriram performance and Bay 146 was packed with happy fans. This time, well, at least we are open,” says Sampath who handles Food and Beverage for Savera Hotel, and programming for its bar Bay146. He sounds almost rueful, but turns practical when describing the myriad safety instructions spelt out by the State Government for bars in the city to restrictedly reopen. “There should not be any activities which bring in more footfall — no DJs, no live acts, nothing,” he says, adding, “The Government order came on September 3, and we opened our doors on September 4, from 11 am to 8 pm, as is allowed.” Others have taken a little longer, and many of Chennai’s favourite watering holes are less than a week into their reopening. Having faced the litmus test of their first weekend in unlock, they have a lot to say, from changed seating plans and floor plans to trimmed-down cocktail menus. The one change that stands out the most, however, is in the patrons. Not the regulars Zahir RR, owner of Radio Room in MRC Nagar, points out that their usual crowd of 30-plus-year-olds — “we would prefer people sitting back with their drinks quietly” — are still cautious about stepping out, and their guests so far consist largely of people in their 20s. For Sampath, the new, somewhat steady flow of weekday customers is a novelty, compared to the dominantly weekend patronage that most lounges and pubs were used to. Bay 146 now sees patrons of all ages through the day, and is entirely bereft of quick-turnover bar hoppers. “Before the COVID-19 pandemic, people would stop by one place for a quick couple of drinks, move to another for dinner, and to a third to revel, and so on. Now, they would rather sit in one place for about an hour and a half, and then go home,” he observes. Sanjeev Varma, owner of Black Orchid, explains that unlike the city’s family restaurants and cafés that began cautiously opening up a month ago, the hospitality services that serve alcohol — like bars and clubs — were awaiting permission from the State’s Prohibition and Excise Department. That order mandates, among other things, a seating limit of 50% of the bar’s original capacity. “Bay 146 roughly holds around 170 people in peak hours, so we can easily do around 70 covers at a stretch now,” says Sampath, adding that they keep a two-metre gap between each of its 20 (down from 40) tables. Radio Room, a 120-seater bar, is allowing a maximum of 60 people in. Black Orchid, on the other hand, is keeping only 50 of its 220 seats available, “but the crowd that comes in is not more than 10 to 15 in a day, so we can safely seat them at far corners of the space, with more than six feet of distance,” says Sanjeev. However, Lord of The Drinks in Nungambakkam boasts about 100 walk-ins over the course of each day this past week, even as its seating capacity has reduced from 300 to 150 at a time. “People usually come in by 6 pm and stay till closing time on weekends, and we get some steady corporate clients through the week,” says owner Raj Thiru. Cocktail of conundrums Bartenders are now operating in relative isolation, away from chaotic crowded orders and expectations of performative flair. All establishments are avoiding bar stools. Brands on offer are just as many as usual, but cocktails and speciality drinks are fewer. Customers can order their drinks only from their table, and it will be brought over to them. At Savera, instead of opening multiple kitchens, Bay 146 has increased diner choice by offering dishes from other restaurants in the hotel. “Besides the bar, we had the option of keeping one restaurant open, where we serve the specialities of three outlets. If a family comes in, we seat them at Piano. If everyone in the group is over 21 and wants to drink, we seat them at Bay 146,” says Sampath. Radio Room, too, operates its central kitchen for the bar, Fromage and Broken Bridge Café on the same property. Adds Zahir, “We have a special cocktail menu out for Radio Room, and are not serving some speciality dishes that require a lot of pre-prep, till we get a better idea of how likely they are to be ordered.” At Black Orchid, the first-floor bar is the only segment that has opened so far. “Our ground floor restaurant is still shut, and the food comes up by elevator from our kitchen on the mezzanine floor,” Sanjeev says, adding that they are allowing only people with reservation, and not encouraging walk-ins. This also gives them some idea of what is likely to be ordered, since both kitchen and bar are operating with fewer staff. Other haunts, like Barracuda Brew in Nungambakkam and Bass & Soda on OMR, will not be opening their doors till October. As Chennaiites remain cautious about stepping out to their much-missed watering holes, many plans depend on how these first-movers fare.  Ready to serve Lord of The Drinks, Nungambakkam Radio Room, MRC Nagar Kommune, T Nagar Black Orchid, RA Puram The Cycle Gap, Anna Nagar Gully Bar, Kilpauk   Yet to open Barracuda Brew, Nungambakkam Watson’s, T Nagar Bass & Soda, OMR
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The wind beneath her wings||What does it take for a woman to assert herself as an entrepreneur? Finding the initial capital and putting in hours of work to bring dreams to fruition is one part of the story. The ability to rise above self-doubt and find her voice in a patriarchal system becomes equally important. Director Drishya Gautam’s 25-minute Tamil short film B Selvi & Daughters subtly highlights these issues through the story of a single mother (Kalairani as Selvi) and daughter (Gayathrie Shankar of Super Deluxe ). Selvi, who used to go door-to-door to sell saris, struggles when she tries to do business via WhatsApp. She is overwhelmed when orders pour in after her daughter sets up a Facebook business page. The rest of the story is about how Selvi embraces the new challenges of entrepreneurship.  B Selvi & Daughters is among the four films that won a production grant after their scripts were chosen from among 100 entries for the ‘Her&Now film campaign’ announced in 2019. Her&Now project supports women-led start-ups and announced its first cohort in 2019. The second cohort selection, for 2020, is underway to choose promising start-ups (ideas for incubation and early ventures for acceleration) in the Northeastern states, Telangana, and Rajasthan. The film campaign is one part of Her&Now — to promote the idea of women-led start-ups through infotainment. Julia Karst, head of Her&Now project believes cinema can be an effective medium for social change, and says, “Films are a beautiful medium to showcase role models. A documentary can show real-life role models. Likewise, where no role models can be found in real life, fiction can help us create them. We wanted to have different film categories (fiction, documentary, and animation) for the campaign. We hope to inspire many women across India to become entrepreneurs.” The filmmaking teams of the four selected scripts were supported by supervising producers from Filmbooth. “GIZ [German Agency for International Cooperation] was involved at all stages but intervened as little as possible,” adds Karst. The films are unlikely to be made available for viewing on public platforms soon, since the plan is to take them to Indian and international film festivals. There will also be screenings and moderated discussions at academic institutions, NGOs, women networks, cultural centres and institutes from the entrepreneurship ecosystem.  For details of the project or to apply for start-up support, look up herandnow.in /get-involved   The other selected films   Kashmakash – The Dilemma , directed by Manav Rath, a fictional story where a corporate employee in Delhi overcomes her inertia to turn entrepreneur after meeting an homemaker-entrepreneur from Jaipur.   Ritu Goes Online , a documentary directed by Vrinda Samartha, tells the story of homemaker Ritu Kaushik who began selling handbags through an e-commerce portal.   Pahal - an initiative , animation film directed by Swarup Deb, Anuj Kumar and Avinash Medhe explores conversations and eventual learnings between three entrepreneurs from the Northeast, Rajasthan and Telangana.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Surfing over troubled waters||Trust a surfer to know how to navigate through troubled waters. At a time when the pandemic had forced surf schools across India to temporarily shut down, Palani, from Covelong village, seized this opportunity to set up his own school. Bidding goodbye to his job as head instructor at Surf Turf, he launched Soul Mate in April. This new addition takes the tally of surf schools along the East Coast Road that runs from Chennai to Mamallapuram, to six. “People wonder why I launched in the middle of Corona,” says Palani. “I felt a surge of confidence. Starting this school had been my dream for three years,” he says. For now, he stocks equipment at his home and commutes to two nearby beaches to teach. Starting with two students in April, the numbers have risen to 30 over the past few months. On some days it is a 13-hour shift: 5 am to 6 pm. But the waters are therapeutic, he says. Just like Palani, the pandemic could not put a brake on Murthy Megavan’s plans either. The fisherman-turned-surfer, who is one of the catalysts of Chennai’s surf scene, now runs Covelong Point Surf School independently. He has 10 instructors — nine from his fishing village and a new recruit from Tiruporur. Along with surfing lessons, the enterprising Murthy also serves breakfast. “During lockdown, the nearby restaurants were shut. The surfers were hungry. I discussed this idea with my wife. She makesidlis and prawn curry ordaland chutneys. The day I started, 12 people booked a surf-and-breakfast-on-the-beach package,” he says and adds, “In a way Corona altered my life. I will build a formal structure for my school on a piece of land I bought. For now, my house doubles up as the storage unit.” Murthy’s regulars are trickling back, averaging around 50-60 a week. During lockdown he taught his sons — aged seven and 12, his wife and a number of children from Covelong village to surf. The sport has become a community activity. “Village kids know the ocean well because they are from fishing families. Over the years they have observed the other surfers here. I just give them tips.” Ever since surfing picked up in 2012, this is the first time that the East Coast has seen a lull during surf season: April to September. November is usually a slow month but it picks up in December, says Appu, a former fisherman, who in 2015 started Ocean Delight Surf School in Covelong, along with his friend Vicky. With lockdown now lifted, he is thrilled to have his clients back, but is careful about how many he takes at a time. “It’s three people in one session,” says Appu. The good thing about surfing, he says, is even though the trainer is with the student in the water, they are positioned behind the student. The surfboard is around nine feet, so that ensures there is distancing too. “Even if it is 20 people in the water, they can spread out. The ocean is vast. And in this sport, you don’t have to physically engage with each other.” Till early March, Ocean Delight received nearly 50 clients every month. Now it is limited to 25. Appu has also noticed a surge in new clients. There are families, entrepreneurs, and professionals in their twenties. Among his regulars is a French family that turns up every Thursday. “With work from home (WFH), people have more time to explore activities they hadn’t earlier thought of,” says Appu. During lockdown, Appu’s student Madhumita Rangarajan, a freelance photographer, unlocked an achievement. That of balancing on the board, without falling, for about 700 metres into the sea. The last two months have made her a better surfer, she says, adding “I see a remarkable difference.” Twice a week, she drives from her home in Chennai to ECR, with her younger brothers to partake in what they describe as a wholesome family activity. “After all these years of being born and raised in this city, I am finally using the beach,” she says. For a lot of people, any sport in a closed room is still not an option, given the threat of COVID-19. Plus, there is the added pressure of wearing a mask. “The view that confined spaces and air-conditioning may not be good, is helping us,” says Arun Vasu, managing director, Surf Turf. After a temporary closure of almost four months, Arun reopened the school in July and the bay view restaurant in August. Many of his clients, after surfing, now settle down with their laptops in the open air restaurant and work.  The team at Surf Turf has been tested for COVID-19 and the management plans to keep testing every month. Clients are taken through bookings. “The ideal number is three per instructor and five if it is a family,” says Arun. Covelong village’s homestays are normally bustling with guests from Mumbai to Melbourne, this time of the year. Though 2020 is quiet, Murthy and his neighbours are not disheartened. “It is better for them to come after the vaccine arrives,” says Murthy. Besides, the coast is gradually filling up with local surfers, mostly from Chennai. “We’ve also got people driving down from Coimbatore and along the Madurai belt,” says Arun. Murali Panjanathan of Mumu Surf School in Mamallapuram says locals from surrounding villages kept the surf scene buzzing last month. His regulars also include doctors from Christian Medical College, Vellore, who drive down 135-odd kilometres on weekends just to surf. “This is de-stressing for them,” he smiles, adding “And they need to do this now more than ever.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||And that’s the bottomline||In Tamil, ‘Po da’ is slang for telling someone to ‘go away,’ and not very politely at that. When this word, prefixed with ‘Hindi Theriyathu ,’ was printed on a T-shirt recently, it quickly went viral. Politician and DMK Member of Parliament, Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, says that when she printed a few T-shirts with the phrase and distributed it to friends earlier this month, she had no idea that it would become a phenomenon. Film celebrities like Shanthnu Bhagyaraj and Aishwarya Rajessh posted pictures wearing the T-shirt on social media. In Wisconsin, USA, a TikTok user (thunder_cat21) posted a video where he asks, ‘Do you know Hindi?’ to Walmart employees, only to get resounding, accented replies that went: ‘ Theriyathu , Poda !’ The movement is also spreading to other States; actor Prakash Raj recently posted a photo on social media sporting a similar T-shirt with Kannada lettering: ‘ Nange Hindi Baralla , Hogappa ’ (I don't know Hindi, Go!). “It was just an expression, that’s all,” says Kanimozhi, over a phone call. “I knew that people wanted to say the same thing, but I did not expect so many of them, especially youngsters, to support it. What people should understand is that this is not against any language... nobody minds learning a language when there is a necessity. When students go to Russia to study Medicine, they learn Russian. Likewise, if someone has to work in the North, there is no hesitation to learn Hindi. But it should not be imposed. What we are against is the notion that you are Indian only if you speak Hindi,” she adds. Face of resistance Tamil Nadu’s history with resisting Hindi imposition is well documented, and dates back to pre-Independence days. In June last year, a clause recommending mandatory Hindi teaching in all schools was dropped from the draft National Educational Policy following backlash from Tamil Nadu. Tamil actor Shirish, seen in films like Metro and Raja Ranguski , who posted a picture on Twitter where he was seen sporting a red T-shirt with the phrase alongside composer Yuvan Shankar Raja. It was retweeted over 3,000 times. He says, “I didn’t expect this overwhelming response. I stand with what I wore: I do not know Hindi and I expressed that through my T-shirt.” The unexpected spurt in demand for these T-shirts is spreading cheer in Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu’s textile hub. B Karthikeyan’s manufacturing unit in the district shut down when lockdown was imposed. He now finds new hope with the ‘Hindi Theriyathu Poda ’ T-shirts. “I worked with a buying agent and Kanimozhi’s office to create a few T-shirts at first. Word started spreading and my number was circulated as the man behind the creation,” says Karthikeyan. He has completed manufacturing 12,000 pieces so far, priced at Rs. 200 each. Karthikeyan, who coordinates through WhatsApp and Google Pay for his orders, adds, “I’ve heard that there are people who buy from me and sell it for Rs. 500.” Over the last couple of weeks, more T-shirt designs inspired by the catchphrase have started popping up. “We are trying out other designs: one is a white T-shirt that says, ‘I am a Tamizh Pesum Indian’. We tried out one with Periyar’s face that says ‘ Jaathi Illai Poda ’ (There is no caste, go away), and another that said ‘Ban NEET’,” says Karthikeyan. However, the slogan that has caught everyone’s fancy seems to be the one that is most direct. Karthikeyan speaks with disbelief as he says, “I just delivered 250 pieces of ‘Hindi Theriyathu Poda ’ T-shirts to a client in California. The demand is unreal.”
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The assassins of the insect world||Throughout my life, and I’m afraid to say, even until sometime after I was introduced to nature and wildlife, I had the misconception that insects were dependent on plants for food. In 2016, I discovered the vicious Robber Fly at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram. With over 7,000 species described, the world of these Robber Flies, is so diverse that an entire family, Asilidae , has been created for them. They’re named for their feeding behaviour: they ‘rob’ other insects of their lives! They come in various colours but the ones found in Delhi-NCR are mostly brown and black. Although humans may only be able to see two large compound eyes on heads of Robber Flies, they do have three small simple eyes (called ocelli) wedged between those two big eyes. There’s also a bristly moustache — more than a fashion statement, this deters struggling prey from causing damage to the Robber Fly. Their agile flight, impeccable eyesight, quick reflexes, and strong spiny legs help them catch insects in flight: other flies, beetles, grasshoppers, butterflies, moths, carnivorous dragonflies. They even feast on spiders sometimes. They pierce their strong dagger-like proboscis (tubular straw-like organ to take in food) into their prey, usually between the head and thorax, to subdue them. They inject victims with their saliva containing neurotoxic enzymes to paralyze, and proteolytic enzymes to liquify the innards of their prey. They then fly off with the prey between their legs to an undisturbed branch, where they suck the innards through the proboscis. They patiently stalk other insects from vantage points and make a swift yet graceful, silent flight on the first opening they see It took me almost two years to actually see this opportunistic assassin hunt another black fly in air. This behaviour has also brought them their other name - Assassin Flies. Like all insects, they too have a three-segmented body: head, thorax, and abdomen. The females lay eggs using an ovipositor attached to the abdomen, a tubular organ that helps them store and lay eggs. The eggs are laid in plants close to the ground or in nooks and crannies of soil or wooden barks. When the eggs hatch, the larvae generally lives in soil or in wood and is predatory in nature, feeding on eggs and larvae of other insects. In short, the species in both larvae as well as the adult stage is a bane for other beings. In order to withstand the extreme winter, Robber Flies often overwinter in the soil as larvae or as pupa before emerging when they feel that the climatic conditions are favourable. I always thought I’d have to be in the wilder areas of the city to see this magnificent creature but I recently saw it in an urban park in front of my house. These predators maintain a delicate balance in the food chain and also help rid your backyard of pests. Participants on our nature trails have also witnessed Robber Flies being hunted by bigger dragonflies in the vicinity, but these instances are rare. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh, to be young again||What makes us feel young? It is a question that Kochi-based band When Chai Met Toast is exploring through its début album, three years since they began dominating the Indian indie/folk pop scene in the country. Recently released ‘Kahaani’, the third single in When We Feel Young , lets a gentle acoustic guitar and banjo fill in each other’s silences. The sound is endearingly familiar to listeners of indie folk, but what’s different this time around is that the lyrics are entirely in Hindi. Penned by Ankur Tewari — another favourite among Hindi-speaking crowds with a liking for quiet acoustics — ‘Kahaani’ is about “two nice people who just met at the wrong time,” as vocalist Ashwin Gopakumar puts it. “We felt the tune suited Hindi lyrics and once we had decided that, there was no better person than Ankur to pen the song,” he says, adding, “In February, Ankur wrote the song on a napkin, during a flight, and sent us a picture of it. That’s it; it didn’t need many iterations.” A look at the song’s comment section on YouTube — full of people claiming to call their exes after listening to this song — would make it seem that recognising ‘the one that got away’ (despite the vaguely abductor-like phrasing) is a rite of passage into adulthood. And this throwback to youth is the overarching theme of the album; it is not so much about being young as it is the vagaries of moods that make us relive our youth. “Those emotions you have when you’re young can come back to you even if you’re 20, 40, 50…” says Ashwin. ‘Kahaani’’s restrained melody was preceded by an all out celebration in the form of the band’s second song, ‘Maybe I can Fly’. Palee Francis’s use of the synth and Pai Sailesh’s drums evoke the rush of heady confidence in one’s future. The first song of the album is the eponymous ‘When We feel Young’ which has Ashwin singing of an ageless love. “That song was actually us looking at our parents and realising how good they are with each other,” he says. This hit deeper especially after the pandemic, when they returned to live with their families after five years of gigs — Ashwin in Thiruvananthapuram and Palee, Sailesh and guitarist Achyuth Jaigopal in Kochi. “I have seen how my parents got through the lockdown together,” he says adding, “My father has retired but my mother hasn’t. So he drops her to her work and picks her up every day, and in the evenings they share a drink and play Scrabble. If you have love like that, whatever be your age, you feel young.” The album has been a year-and-a-half in the making, reveals Ashwin. If not for the pandemic, the band would have headed to the US for recording and aimed at a June release. “Before the lockdown began, we already had three songs ready to be released.” And then, after a brief hiatus of staying at home, once travelling became easier again, the band met and decided to release the album anyway. “It was a bad time for everyone and we thought releasing new songs would make us all feel better.” There are five more upcoming songs from the album and they are all being mixed and mastered currently; “The next one is called ‘Ocean Tide’,” he adds.  To sounds of Nature In rain-swept Vagamon, the four members of When Chai Met Toast sit huddled around a wooden table in the centre of all things green, playing to the sounds of Nature. Alongside the album, the band is releasing a series of ‘Nature Tapes’, featuring stripped down versions of their songs. “We have to travel a lot but wherever we go, we try to be as sustainable as possible. Because all four of us are very environment conscious, and we love Nature. This is one of our ways of showing that (minimalism),” says vocalist Ashwin Gopakumar. After shooting three videos at Little Flower Farms in Vagamon, the band is now looking to shoot the other songs somewhere in Kochi.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre says labs in Delhi can do 27,000 RT-PCR tests a day||The Centre informed the Delhi government earlier this week that the latter has the capacity to do about 27,000 RT-PCR test daily to detect COVID-19, said officials. “The Centre informed the Delhi government two days back that labs in the city have a capacity to conduct 27,016 RT-PCR tests per day. But the figure is too high and the Delhi government is reviewing it,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The Delhi government has maintained the city labs have a capacity to do around 14,000 RT-PCR tests a day. Two types of tests are done to test for COVID-19 in the city: RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard and gives more accurate results compared to RAT. Results of RT-PCR usually come the next day, while RAT takes only 30 minutes to give a result. Rapid antigen test The Delhi government has been heavily dependent on RAT to increase testing in the city. Earlier this week, the Delhi High Court took note of this and ordered the Delhi government to increase RT-PCR testing. “Having regard to the fact that results of RAT are only 60% accurate... we are of the firm view that RT-PCR should be the way forward. Delhi govt. ought to focus on shoring up RT-PCR testing capacity,” the Bench had said. The court also directed an expert committee to convene a meeting on “priority” to consider the extent to which capacity building for RT-PCR testing is required in the current scenario. Over the last two days, the Delhi government has been contacting labs to assess capacity, and it is less than 27,000, said officials. “In many cases, the actual capacity of the labs mentioned in the list is less. The process is still under way, but the actual total capacity could be between 15,000 and 20,000,” the official said,” the official said. A second official, confirming the development, said the Centre may have calculated capacity based on machines in labs. “We also need staff to do the work and it cannot be done 24*7. All these things have to be taken into consideration,” the official said.
24 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Ensure oxygen supply, Amarinder urges PM||Amid apprehension of shortages, including oxygen, with rising COVID-19 cases in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged the Prime Minister for urgent steps to ensure adequate supplies from other States and also sought expeditious release of Rs. 200 crore that the State government had requested as the next tranche of Central aid for virus management. Stubble management With experts suggesting possible aggravation of COVID-19 scenario due to stubble burning, the Chief Minister also reiterated his demand for fiscal aid by the Centre to farmers for defraying the cost on management of paddy straw. During a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Captain Amarinder urged him to direct the Chief Controllers of Explosives, Nagpur, to clear the license request for establishment of a liquid medical oxygen plant in Punjab, under the PM Swasthya Surkhsha Yojna. Noting that the State government and private hospitals in Punjab could end up facing shortage of oxygen supply due to the late surge in virus cases, Capt. Amarinder informed the Prime Minister that with no manufacturer of medical oxygen, the State was largely dependent on three big manufacturers from outside. ‘No adequate supply’ He said the Dehradun and Panipat plants are not supplying oxygen as per the State’s demand, adding that the Panipat plant can supply more oxygen if supply to Panipat Refinery is curtailed. Capt. Amarinder said his government, on its part, was in talks with industry to convert industrial oxygen to medical oxygen.
24 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||High Court restores powers of village headman in U.P.||A village headman in Etawah district whose administrative and financial powers were ceased by the administration over allegations of misappropriation of funds in building toilets and rural homes has got his powers restored by the Allahabad High Court. The pradhan alleged that he was targeted by the administration and BJP leaders as he was affiliated with the Samajwadi Party. The administrative and financial powers of Sunil Kumar Yadav, pradhan of the Asafpur gram panchayat, were ceased by an order of the District Magistrate under Section 95 (1) (g) of the Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1947, on August 20. Charges against Mr. Yadav were proved in the preliminary enquiry, recorded the DM’s order. The pradhan challenged the order, arguing that the procedure laid down in the Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Removal of Pradhans, Up-Pradhans and Members) Enquiry Rules, 1997, was not followed. Mr. Yadav also contended that he was neither issued any show-cause notice nor did the DM record satisfaction justifying invocation of power under Section 95 (1) (g) of the Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1947. While putting a stay on the DM’s order till the next hearing, a Bench of Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra allowed the pradhan to continue in his post and exercise his administrative and financial powers. A perusal of the DM’s order does not reveal that any show-cause notice was issued to the petitioner nor his version was considered, said the court. ‘Political vendetta’ Mr. Yadav alleged that the administration took action against him at the behest of BJP leaders as part of a “political vendetta”. He said the administration ceased his powers after recommendations for conducting an inquiry were made by BJP MP Ram Shankar Katheria, BJP MLA from Barthana Savitri Katheria and BJP district president Ajay Pratap Singh Dhakre. The court granted the State four weeks to file a counter-affidavit.
24 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Mathura villages tense after boy’s death||Two villages in Mathura turned tense on Tuesday after a boy was beaten to death late on Monday night when he went to meet his alleged love interest in the neighbouring village. His friend was also beaten up, police said. Four persons have been arrested in connection with the murder. Police presence has been increased and at least a dozen personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary have been stationed in the villages. The incident took place at Bhartiya village in the Vrindavan area of Mathura. According to SSP Gaurav Grover, police got a call on Monday night that two persons have been attacked by villagers in Bhartiya village. “When the police reached the spot, they found Sahib Singh from Parkham village in a serious condition. He was taken to the government hospital where he died during treatment. His friend was also assaulted and confined by the villagers.” Mr. Grover said the police has registered an FIR against seven persons on the complaint of the deceased’s family. “The father of the boy has said that his son went to meet his friend in Bhartiya village but he was confined and beaten to death. We are investigating the case from all possible angles,” said Arvind Singh, chowki in-charge, Jaint. “He said the boy was 22 while the girl is a minor,” he added. Local sources said the two studied in the same inter college and knew each other well. Hailing from a Thakur family, the girl studies in 9th standard while the boy, a Gurjar, was in 12th. As the college was closed, perhaps, they were desperate to meet, said a source, ruling out caste animosity as the reason behind the incident.  ‘Bid to abduct girl’ The relatives of the girl’s family alleged that Sahib Singh’s activities were suspicious. “He came during the night when the girl’s mother was in hospital and her father was not at home. It seems he wanted to abduct her as he came along with two friends. The girl’s grandfather raised an alarm and the villagers rushed,” a relative could be heard saying in a video recorded by local reporters.
24 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. approves rules for police complaints authority||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved the rules for governing the conduct of business of the Punjab State Police Complaints Authority, 2020, set up earlier this year to probe allegations of serious misconduct against police officers of the rank of Senior Superintendent of Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police and above. It may be noted that Section 54-F of the amended Punjab Police Act, 2007, stipulates that the State police complaints authority shall make rules for the conduct of its business and that of the divisional police complaints authorities, with the approval of the State government, said an official statement. Notably, the Punjab Police Act, 2007, was notified on February 5, 2008, in compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court.  Vigilance Commission The Cabinet meeting, which was presided by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, also approved the establishment of a multi-member Vigilance Commission. “The Punjab State Vigilance Commission Ordinance, 2020, proposes to set up commission as an independent body to exercise more effective superintendence over the functioning of Vigilance Bureau and all departments of the State government, in order to provide clean, fair and transparent administration. It will comprise a Chairman with two members, with a term of 5 years,” said the statement. The Punjab State Vigilance Commission (Ordinance) Bill, 2020, which provides for the constitution of the commission, will effectively exercise superintendence and control over the functioning of Vigilance Bureau and other departments of the State government. “The Punjab State Vigilance Commission shall review the progress of investigations conducted by the Vigilance Bureau and cases of prosecution sanction pending with various departments of the government,” added the statement.
24 September 2020||September 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Rape victim was called to hotel on pretext of loan under MSME relief||The 27-year-old woman who was allegedly gangraped by five men in a room at a luxury hotel on Lutyens’ Delhi, was called on the pretext of disbursement of loan amount, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. The officer said that the accused Manoj Sharma, a government contractor and liasoner, was working as a middle man and helping businessmen in getting loan from Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). “Manoj used to help businessmen to get loan disbursement certificate from MSME that help them to get loan easily. He was operating from a bungalow of a Member of Parliament,” said the officer. The officer added that Manoj had taken Rs. 1 lakh from the victim to get her a loan of Rs. 10 lakh from MSME under scheme of government to provide loan to small business houses that suffered losses during the lockdown. He used to take commission to arrange loan for businessmen from MSME for the past three months.  “He had promised the victim to get a sanction loan of Rs. 10 lakh from the MSME and for that he had demanded Rs. 2.6 lakh as commission. He had called the victim in the hotel room to hand over her Rs. 10 lakh loan check,” said the officer. On Tuesday, the police arrested accused identified as Anushka, Sanjay Chaudhary, Manoj Sharma and Jagdeep Singh. Two more accused who were from Andhra Pradesh are absconding.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||3,714 new cases take city’s tally to 2,56,789||As many as 3,714 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 2,56,789, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 36 fresh fatalities have been reported in a singe day, taking the total number of deaths to 5,087.  30,836 active cases Of the total cases, 2,20,866 people have recovered and there are 30,836 active cases here at present. The positivity rate was 6.2% – the lowest in over a month – on Wednesday.  Out of the 15,810 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 55.73% were vacant, as per government data on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 62.2% ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 71.3% of ones without ventilators are full. The number of containment zones in the city on Wednesday jumped to 1,987 – the highest so far. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who had tested positive on September 14, was admitted at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital on Wednesday evening. “The Minister had fever and his oxygen level was low when he was admitted. But he is better now,” an AAP source said. The Minister was under home isolation since he had tested positive for the virus. Addressing the media, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the positivity rate plateaued a bit, but there would be a downward trend in one-two weeks. He also said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the city.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal lauds IARI for developing low-cost tech to manage stubble||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met scientists from the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI), who presented an innovative decomposer technique to deal with the issue of stubble burning in the Capital. The Pusa Decomposer technology involves mixing formulated capsules in water and spraying it on straw to speed up decomposition of stubble. The cost of capsules is Rs. 20 per acre and can effectively deal with 4-5 tonnes of raw straw per acre. Mr. Kejriwal said that stubble burning is a major source of winter pollution in Delhi and congratulated the IARI scientists for developing a low-cost, effective technology to deal with crop stubble. Mr. Kejriwal will visit the IARI Pusa campus on Thursday for a live demonstration of the technique. He further directed officials from the Development Department to carry out a detailed cost-benefit analysis and explore the possibility of using the technique across all farms in outer Delhi. IARI research in Punjab and Haryana farms over the past four year has shown that the technique not only reduces the need for stubble burning but also cuts down fertiliser consumption and increases farm productivity, the government said. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had recently said the government would bear the cost of spraying the mixture in the fields so that there is no financial burden on farmers in the city.
24 September 2020||Guwahati,||Akhil Gogoi’s group to float party||Jailed peasant rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) is expected to form a political party by the end of September after consultations with 70 other groups that had protested the Citizenship (Amendment) Act together. The move follows the launch of the regional Asom Jatiya Parishad (AJP) by the All Assam Students’ Union and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad, two major students’ organisations in the State. “We have asked all our associate organisations to nominate a representative for a coordination committee by September 25. Members of this committee are expected to meet within the next two days to draw up the plan for the political party,” KMSS president Bhasco de Saikia told The Hindu on Wednesday. The 70 organisations include All Assam Muslim Yuba Parishad, All Tai-Ahom Students’ Union, Scheduled Caste Yuba Chhatra Parishad, Asom Sena and Cha Mukti Sangram Parishad. Mr. Saikia said the regional parties in Assam should have ideally joined hands to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2021 Assembly polls. The AJP did not respond to an appeal by the KMSS to respond to their unity appeal by September 20. “We haven’t given up hope for a united front. Regional forces contesting the polls separately will only help the BJP,” he said. The AJP leaders said they were not averse to teaming up with the regional parties while indicating that they would not like the KMSS to call the shots if a regional front does crop up ahead of the polls.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for firing outside ex-girlfriend’s house||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly firing outside the house of his ex-girlfriend who was avoiding him after his marriage in southeast Delhi, the police said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Sumit Tomar, a resident of Aali Vihar. On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, the police received an information regarding firing in Dharampal Colony, Aali Vihar. The woman (24), informed the police that she was in love with Tomar for the last 10 years, a senior officer said. However, after Tomar got married to another woman in 2018, the victim started avoiding him. He did not like it and threatened her of dire consequences, the police said. At the time of the incident, she was at her home with her family, when she heard firing outside her home.She opened the door and saw Tomar with a pistol in his hand. Later, he ran away The victim found that a portion of the main gate was broken. Empty cartridge and bullet lead were found on the spot, the police said. “The police conducted a raid in Aali Vihar jungle and Tomar was arrested,” DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said. On interrogation, he said he wanted to marry her, but due to some reasons, he married the other girl. He could not tolerate after the victim’s marriage was fixed and she started ignoring him. He decided to take revenge from her, the police said.
24 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi launches new BTech programme||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, on Wednesday announced that students qualifying JEE Advanced 2020, will have a new programme to choose from as the institute has launched a BTech in engineering and computational mechanics this year. The new course will be run by the department of applied mechanics. Head of Department of Applied mechanics, Sanjeev Sanghi, said that the graduates of this programme are likely to find the best technical jobs in core engineering and will also be very apt for candidates for higher studies like masters and PhD in IIT-Delhi as well as other leading national and international educational institutions. “Design, analysis and research jobs in sectors such as defence, aerospace, automotive, shipping, biomechanics and biomedical devices, off-shore structures etc. will be open to students doing this programme, which has been designed based on consultation with industry.” Mr. Sanghi added. IIT-Delhi said that under the programme, students will be exposed to basic fundamentals of all aspects of mechanics, including classical aspects like theoretical and experimental mechanics and also the latest in computational techniques, including finite element method (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD). It added that the new programme will provide a strong grounding in the fundamentals of engineering mechanics along with the tools to address areas like biomechanics, nanomechanics, constitutive modelling at multiple length and time scales among others.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Farmers to benefit from Bills passed by Centre’||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, met and thanked Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Kailash Choudhary, here on Wednesday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020 were passed in the interest of farmers by the BJP government at the Centre, Mr. Bidhuri said. Lakhs of farmers in Delhi, who were now free to sell their produce on MSP or open market, would benefit from the Bills, he said.
24 September 2020||Patna,||Bihar DGP Pandey takes voluntary retirement||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, on Tuesday took voluntary retirement from service. He is likely to contest the upcoming Assembly election as a ruling NDA candidate either from Buxar or Shahpur constituency. Mr. Pandey, who was appointed as DGP on January 31, 2019, was to retire from service on February 28, 2021. Earlier in 2009 too, Mr. Pandey had opted for voluntary retirement to contest the Lok Sabha poll but when he failed to get ticket, rejoined after a few months. Late on Saturday evening, the Home department issued the notification granting voluntary retirement for Mr. Pandey effective from September 22 afternoon under the provisions of the All India Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958. DGP (home guard and fire services) S.K. Singhal was given additional charge of DGP. A day after his VRS, Mr. Pandey on a social media post said he might take a plunge into politics and will do “politics of principle”. “I may join politics…is it a sin? is it crime? Is it unconstitutional?...is it unethical?...can’t a poor farmer’s son contest an election after 34 years of unblemished career in police force?” asked Mr. Pandey in his post.
24 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram experiment ignites hope for BTC polls||Mizoram’s experiment with village council and civic body polls during the COVID-19 pandemic in August has ignited hope for the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) that were to have been held on April 4. However, the Assam’s BJP-led government wants the BTC polls delayed in view of the increase in cases. The elections were postponed due to the outbreak of the pandemic and the BTC put under the rule of the Governor after the expiry of the term on April 27. The Governor’s rule ends on October 27. “Life and everything else in a democracy cannot stop because of a pandemic, no matter how serious. If Mizoram could smoothly hold rural polls and if Bihar can prepare for a major election, we can too,” said Khampa Borgoyari, senior leader of the Bodoland People’s Front. The BPF is a minor partner in the multi-party Assam government. But the relationship between the two parties has soured at the council level. Naba Sarania, Independent MP, said the government should hold the polls for the sake of democracy. “The COVID scenario in Bihar and Rajasthan is more serious than Assam. The two States are already in poll mode...There is no reason why we cannot,” he said. The allegedly BJP-backed United People’s Party Liberal too has favoured the holding of the council polls. “We think a democratic process should not be kept in abeyance for long,” party president Pramod Boro said. ‘An excuse’ According to the Congress and the AIUDF, the pandemic has come as an excuse for the BJP to gain control through lesser parties. “The feedback is that the BJP could lose if the elections are held soon,” said Congress spokesperson Rhituparna Konwar. The BJP has trashed “foul-play” allegations.
24 September 2020||New delhi,||Shaheen Bagh ‘dadi’ Bilkis in TIME’s most influential list||Eighty-two-year-old Bilkis, who shot into the limelight last year during the months-long anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here, has been recognised by TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020. During the protest, which began in December, the octogenarian sat under a tent with hundreds of women and children, braving icy winds. She emerged as the face of the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. The protest ended in March this year in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. Also on the TIME magazine’s list from India are Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
24 September 2020||Bhopal,||‘Absence of antibodies in M.P. survivors’||Between 4 to 20% of adults in Indore who had recovered from COVID-19 in the past four months and came forward to donate plasma had either no or very low level of antibodies, two city-based hospitals have found. At the privately-owned Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences, the largest COVID-19 facility in Indore, samples of 17 of the 378 prospective donors had either no or very low levels. Whereas, 25 of 130 prospective donors at the government-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College reported such similarly low levels, thereby rendering them as ineligible.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Govt. keeping eye on price of essential goods’||Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain on Wednesday said that the Delhi government was keeping a close watch on the prices of essential commodities and intervention would be made wherever possible, to stabilise the rates. The Minister directed the Food and Civil Supplies Commissioner to convene weekly meetings with departments and agencies to ensure that the prices of essential commodities were kept under control.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT wants relief for traders||Traders’ body CAIT on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling for an economic package for traders and restructuring of retail trade, which, it argued, would be beneficial to traders and help widen the tax net. Expressing disappointment that traders were not included in relief measures announced as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore package, CAIT, in a memorandum to the Prime Minister, put forth multiple suggestions for easing retail trade. They called for a high-level committee to be set up to look into various laws involved in setting up retail trade etc.
24 September 2020||New Delhi,||Family of COVID-19 warriors get compensation||Families of deceased corona warriors were awarded financial aid of Rs. 10 lakh, South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Anamika said on Wednesday. Families of Selva Raj, a contractual labourer, and Mahinder Singh, a sanitation worker – both of whom were deployed in the South Zone of the SDMC – contracted the virus in the course of duty and lost their lives, the Mayor said. Apart from the compensation, families of the deceased would also be provided employment.
