24 December 2020||MYSURU,||CZA chooses Mysuru zoo to elevate it to global standards||If things go as planned by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), the century-old Mysuru zoo may, in the next two to three years, attain global standards. The Mysuru zoo is the only one in the State identified among the 15 in India by the CZA for transforming them to foreign zoo standards, bringing in developments and changes keeping in view the best practices followed in the top zoos of the world. Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni said the CZA’s long-term vision of transforming the Indian zoos that are already in the reckoning because of their various development and conservation initiatives, is expected to take off soon following its announcement. It has already appointed Ernst and Young Global Ltd, a multinational professional services’ network, for preparing the project document, listing out the key aspects requiring attention after studying the chosen zoos. “A consultant from the firm visited the Mysuru zoo recently and collected data that is essential for developing the template on how to bring it to world standards. We have shared all information towards realising the vision,” he said, adding that the same firm had been entrusted with the task of developing content for the 14 other zoos. Mr. Kulkarni said the Mysuru zoo was a large one. It had set a benchmark and it was seen as a model by other Indian zoos. Before COVID-19, the zoo used to attract nearly three million visitors and it was in the must-see list of tourists to South India. “This reputation and trust has made the zoo emerge stronger and give more to the visitors, stressing on conservation, giving the welfare of animals and the facilities for visitors’ a priority. The CZA wants the zoo to grow further and come on a par with the world’s best zoos. In this connection, the zoo management has extended all support to realise the CZA’s vision,” he said. To a question on whether the project was assured any funding, he said, “We hope the ongoing efforts come with a special funding. Once the firm prepares the project report, we may get to know what’s in store for each zoo.” Mr. Kulkarni said the number of animals and birds, and the species, conservation efforts all these years, animal adoption scheme, visitor facilities, domestic and international animal exchanges, captive breeding, innovative and realistic enclosures, were among the details shared with the visiting member of the firm. Besides Mysuru zoo, Bannerghatta Biological Park, is another zoo certified as a large zoo. Among the initiatives that stand out include the animal adoption scheme, which has been replicated by many other Indian zoos. Politicians, celebrities, renowned personalities and the general public have been adopting animals and birds since two decades, giving the zoo an additional revenue platform. After securing the much-awaited membership from the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums, the responsibilities of the zoo have gone up as the zoo is bound to maintain high standards in areas like husbandry and veterinary care; maintain animal record systems; conduct environmental education programmes and conservation activities; comply with ethical guidelines and so on. The zoo has secured the ISO 9001:8008 certification with a vision to improve the quality of services. The zoo has kept a management system to ensure quality service.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Poet Sugathakumari passes away||Poet and social activist Sugathakumari passed away here on Wednesday morning following COVID-19 related health complications. She was 86. She was admitted to the Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, earlier this week with pneumonia and was put on ventilator support on Tuesday as her health deteriorated. She was cremated at the Shanthikavadam electric crematorium with full State honours. In a literary career spanning close to seven decades, she used poetry as a tool to express her concerns on environment and oppression of women. She was in the forefront of some of the major environmental protests witnessed in the State in the past half century, right from the Save Silent Valley Movement of the 1970s to the protests against the Aranmula airport in the 2000s. She also played a key role in the movement which culminated in Malayalam becoming the official language in the State. The country honoured her with the Padma Shri in 2006. She has won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award, Kendra Sahitya Akademy Award, Saraswati Samman, Odakkuzhal Award, Vayalar Award and several other major literary prizes. Governor condoles In his condolence message, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said her works, which render full justice to the Indian poetic tradition, reflected her love for Nature and a genuine concern for the abused and deprived sections of society. Her response to social issues guided public opinion in matters related to the security of women and protection of nature, he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Sugathakumari was a poet who stood with the tears of the environment and women. She had seamlessly merged social activism and poetry. She had intervened in various issues faced by women as the Chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said she was able to instil a new consciousness about the environment through her poetry. She used the power of poetry, which was the voice of humanity, for women, children and downtrodden, he said.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ front rejects govt. offer to resume talks||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions, on Wednesday rejected the Union government’s offer of talks on the three farm laws, saying they were seeking the revocation of the legislation and not just amendments. It urged the government to come out with concrete proposals showing an “open mind” and “good intentions” to resume the process of negotiation at the earliest. Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, reading out a letter from the Morcha to the government, said at a press conference that farmer unions wanted the government to repeal the three laws, raising fundamental questions with regard to their constitutionality, basic objectives and policy direction. But the government had attempted to present these fundamental objections as mere demands for amendments. The letter was addressed to the Joint Secretary of the Agriculture Department and CEO of PM-KISAN, Vivek Aggarwal. All-India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said farmers were holding an agitation in extreme cold to talk and find solution.
24 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Mangaluru-Mumbai GoAir daily flight from today||GoAir will introduce a daily flight between Mangaluru and Mumbai from Thursday. Mangaluru is the new destination of the airlines on the domestic network. Addressing a virtual press meet on Wednesday, Chief Executive Officer of the airlines Kaushik Khona said that flight G8 0335 will leave Mumbai at 7.40 a.m. and arrive in Mangaluru at 9 a.m. On the return journey, it will depart from Mangaluru as G8 0338 at 9.30 a.m. and reach Mumbai at 11 a.m. The flight is a state-of-the-art Airbus 320neo. Continued recovery “The domestic air travel demand is witnessing continued recovery, with passengers increasing 10% month-on-month to around 63.54 lakh in November 2020. Responding to the demand, we are delighted to announce the launch of new daily direct service to Mangaluru,” Mr. Khona said. He said that GoAir is also exploring the possibilities of introducing direct flights from Mangaluru to Bengaluru and Delhi. A decision on introducing a flight between Mangaluru and Bengaluru is likely to be taken in another two weeks. No direct flight The CEO said that at present, there is no plan to operate a direct flight between Mangaluru and Ahmedabad. With the connectivity from Mangaluru to Mumbai from Thursday, the link between Mangaluru and Ahmedabad will be established through connecting flights between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. “We are thinking of reducing the three-hour waiting time at Mumbai airport for taking flight to Ahmedabad,” he said.  GoAir is also exploring the possibilities of introducing direct flights from Mangaluru to Bengaluru and Delhi, said Kaushik Khona, Chief Executive Officer of the airlines.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||At 0.99%, Delhi has lowest positivity in entire country, says Jain||Delhi witnessed less than 1,000 new COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, prompting Health Minister Satyendar Jain to say that the city has the lowest positivity rate in the entire country. A total of 871 new cases and 18 more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. In all, 87,861 tests were conducted, pushing the positivity rate to 0.99% in Delhi. Eleven people who travelled from the U.K. to Delhi on four flights have tested positive for COVID-19, said Genestrings Lab, which conducted mandatory RT-PCR tests on the passengers arriving at the IGI airport. 8,003 active cases Of the total 6,19,618 cases in the Capital, 6,01,268 people have recovered and there are 8,003 active cases. Also, 10,347 COVID-related deaths have been reported so far. Reacting to the declining number of new COVID-19 cases, Mr. Jain said: “The [COVID-19] positivity rate has been continuously declining and is the lowest in eight months. Also, for the past three days, Delhi is seeing less than 1,000 cases, and the positivity rate is well under control. Delhi has the lowest positivity rate in the entire country.” About the preparedness of Delhi to roll out the vaccine, he said all necessary requirements are being met and the AAP government is waiting for the vaccine. “In the first phase of the roll-out, healthcare and front-line workers, people aged above 50 and those with medical complications will get vaccinated,” he said. The government is tracing everyone who travelled to the city from the U.K. since November 25, said a Delhi government spokesperson.
24 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Kunhalikutty to quit Lok Sabha seat||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, is set to quit the Lok Sabha seat to contest the upcoming Assembly elections. A meeting of the party State working committee held here on Wednesday decided to recall Mr. Kunhalikutty from Parliament and make him the party’s leader in the Assembly. Mr. Kunhalikutty had quit his Assembly seat and been elected to the Lok Sabha in a byelection held in April 2017 following the death of E. Ahamed, MP. He was again re-elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019. The IUML, in a meeting of its high power committee on September 6, had decided to call back Mr. Kunhalikutty to State politics by entrusting him with the charge of leading the local body and Assembly polls. Now that the local body polls are over and the stage being set for the Assembly elections, the IUML reposed its faith in Mr. Kunhalikutty’s leadership. He will step down from the Lok Sabha membership in such a way as to hold the Parliament byelection in Malappuram along with the Assembly elections, said IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed. Mr. Majeed said that the party would launch a campaign to counter the CPI(M)’s communal allegations against it. “The CPI(M), which boasts itself of being secular, has made some gains by tying up with parties such as the SDPI (Social Democratic Party of India). We will expose this fraud face of the CPI(M). Communal forces are making gains in Kerala when others try to weaken the IUML,” said Mr. Majeed. Mr. Kunhalikutty said the spirit of the party’s decision asking him to lead the Assembly election was that “I should spend more time in Kerala.”
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cairn Energy wins arbitration award||India has been ordered to return up to $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy PLC of the U.K. after an international arbitration overturned tax demanded retrospectively — an award the government indicated it may challenge. The three-member tribunal, which also comprised a nominee of the Indian government, unanimously ruled that India’s claim of Rs. 10,247 crore in past taxes over a 2006-07 internal reorganisation of Cairn’s India business was not a valid demand. India “failed to accord Cairn Energy’s investments fair and equitable treatment” under the bilateral investment protection pact it had with the U.K., it said in a 582-page order. The tribunal ordered the government to desist from seeking such a tax and return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. The government was asked to compensate Cairn “for the total harm suffered,” together with interest and cost of arbitration, according to the order. While the order does not contain a provision for challenge or appeal against the award, the government said it would study the arbitration award and “will consider all options and take a decision on the further course of action, including legal remedies before appropriate fora.” Cairn, according to people aware of the matter, can use the arbitration award to approach courts in countries such as the U.K. to seize any property owned by India overseas to recover the money if the award is not honoured. In a statement, Cairn Energy said it had been awarded $1.2 billion damages plus interest and costs.
24 December 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases drop in Bengal||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 1,628 COVID-19 cases and 34 deaths in the past 24 hours. While the number of infections has dropped significantly in the past few days the State continues to record high number of deaths. Till a few days ago, the State recording over 3500 daily infections and 45 deaths. While the number of infections has reduced to half, the number of deaths has not dropped proportionately. The total number of the infections in the State increased to 5,41,624 and the active cases have declined to 15,689. Debashis Dhar, group vice-president, ILS Hospitals, a healthcare group that administers three hospitals in Kolkata and Howrah of which two have been involved in COVID-19 management, said the situation has improved. “Our Howrah facility was taken over by the State government for Covid care, now 50% beds have been given to us for treatment of general patients,” Mr. Dhar said. According to him one of the reasons for high mortality of COVID-19 patients is that most of the patients suffer from co-morbidities and were brought to hospitals and medical facilities late. The number of samples tested in the State in the past 24 hours was 41,067 and the percentage of positive cases remains at 7.97%.
24 December 2020||Mangaluru,||41 U.K. returnees test negative for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 41 of the 46 United Kingdom returnees to Dakshina Kannada, who underwent the RT-PCR test on Wednesday, have tested negative for COVID-19 and they have been advised home quarantine. The reports of six returnees are awaited, said District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy. Dr. Bairy said that as per the travel list provided by the the Centre, there were 66 passengers from Dakshina Kannada who have returned from the U.K./bound to the U.K. since December 7. Of this, one passenger hailing for the city cancelled his visit and stayed back in the U.K. Two passengers, who visited Dakshina Kannada, have returned to the U.K. after testing negative for COVID-19. Two passengers bound to the U.K. are in Bengaluru and they have been told to undergo RT-PCR test, he said. Of the 41 who tested negative, 39 were tested at the Government Wenlock Hosptial while two underwent the test at the laboratory of a private hospital. RT-PCR test of the 10 U.K. returnees will be done on Thursday, Dr. Bairy said. According to official sources in Udupi, the Centre sent a list of 37 U.K. returnees to Udupi, of which one name was repeated twice and one passenger hailed from Dakshina Kannada. Eight passengers tested negative for COVID-19 and results of 14 passengers are awaited. A U.K. returnee, who had come to Udupi on December 5 and was bound to Jharkhand from Bengaluru airport, has been informed to undergo RT-PCR test, an official said.
24 December 2020||Kolkata,||After months of restraint, Kolkata turns into City of Joy||After a muted Durga Puja and Deepavali, Kolkata is ending the year with a spirited celebration of Christmas even as renewed restrictions are being put in place in several other cities due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Park Street — the centre of Christmas festivities — is all decked up; pubs are hosting bashes; home bakers are giving big names a run for their money by spreading the word on social media. While the Christmas of 2020 may not be as cheerful as what the city witnesses every year, there is certainly more joy in the air than there was in the preceding months. “Only a week ago when I crossed Park Street, I was deeply saddened by the grim look. I was told this year it won’t have any decor or the famed carnival. But the other day, while approaching Park Street from Esplanade, I could spot the dazzling lights from miles ahead. Then the feel of festivity jumped at me — cakes, cookies, carols!” Mumbai-based advertising professional Sreelekha Maitra, who is visiting Kolkata, told The Hindu . Ms. Maitra elbowed her way into Allen Park, the venue of the popular Christmas carnival, and listened to carols being sung — in Bengali and in English. “It was a delight to watch the performances, particularly the St. Thomas Church choir. Announcements kept saying of rock bands coming up soon, but I was pressed for time,” she said. Ms. Maitra was at the park on Monday, when the carnival was inaugurated by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who, of course, didn’t miss the opportunity to make a political statement. Ms. Banerjee sought to know why Christmas wasn’t a national holiday. “We celebrate Christmas as a public holiday in our State,” she said. Doctors, meanwhile, expected similar restrictions that were imposed during other festivals in West Bengal, but now that year-end festivities have been set rolling, the least they expect of revellers is to wear masks. “I happened to be driving through Park Street on the day the carnival was inaugurated; needless to say, there was a large crowd and there was hardly any social distancing,” said Dr. Punyabrata Gun, convener of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum. “Just because there was no surge [in the number of COVID-19 cases] during Durga Puja and Deepavali does not mean that won’t happen during Christmas. While Christmas festivities are largely limited to Kolkata and that too the Park Street area, the risk remains high. People should wear masks to keep the risk as low as possible,” Dr. Gun said.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||International returnees without negative report to be tested||All passengers who arrive in the State from any country without a COVID-19 negative report will have to compulsorily undergo a test. According to a government circular issued on Wednesday, the returnees should have a COVID-19 negative certificate issued within 72 hours from time of departure. “Otherwise they will be mandatorily subjected to an RT-PCR test for COVID-19 at the port of entry (BIAL Bengaluru, Mangaluru International Airport, Mangaluru seaport and Karwar seaport),” stated the circular. Necessary measures Authorities at BIAL Bengaluru, Mangaluru International Airport, Mangaluru seaport and Karwar seaport have been directed to take necessary measures to implement this with immediate effect in association with jurisdictional health officials. “Facility for RT-PCR testing or swab collection should be made available. Passengers who have given swab samples should be advised strict home quarantine till the receipt of the lab report. The passengers can opt for free RT-PCR testing by the government or undergo express test at the airport at their own expenses,” the circular added.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. govt. gives go-ahead for jallikattu||The Tamil Nadu government has permitted jallikattu to be held across the State during the upcoming Pongal season. But the bull-taming sport would be subject to fresh restrictions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to an official press release, not more than 300 bull tamers would be allowed to take part in a jallikattu, ‘manjuvirattu’ or ‘vadamadu’ event. Spectators would have to undergo thermal screening before entering the venue. To ensure adherence to physical distancing norms, the number of spectators would be limited to 50% of the venue’s capacity. “All bull tamers taking part in jallikattu events have to get a certificate from a government-recognised lab, stating that they have tested negative for COVID-19,” the release said. Members of the audience would have to wear masks and adhere to distancing norms. A standard operating procedure for conducting jallikattu events would be issued soon. This would be in addition to the SOP being followed since 2017. SOP issued Since 2017, jallikattu is conducted across Tamil Nadu by complying with an SOP issued then. The SOP for this year would be in addition to the one being complied with every year since 2017.
24 December 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal CM speaks to protesting farmers||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday reached out to the protesting farmers in Delhi and assured them the support of her party. This is the second time this month that she has spoken to the farmers protesting against the farm Bills passed by the Centre. During the day, a five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress MPs met the farmers in Delhi. The delegation comprised Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md. Nadimul Haque. “Many farmers in small groups had an interaction on the telephone with Mamata Banerjee who assured them of full solidarity with their movement. Some farmers also requested her to visit the dharna site,” a press statement issued by the party said. “Please come & join our dharna it will give us more strength, said a farmer on the phone to @MamataOfficial. A 5-member delegation of @AITCofficial MPs visited Singhu border again to express solidarity with protesting farmers. Bengal CM spoke to multiple groups #KisanDiwas,” Mr. O’Brien, TMC’s national spokesperson, tweeted. On December 4, Ms. Banerjee sent a delegation to meet the protesting farmers and reached out to them over telephone. The TMC leadership had hit the streets in Kolkata in protest against the farm Acts. Earlier in the day, Ms. Banerjee said her party “observes December 23 as Kisan Diwas or National Farmers Day to celebrate the contribution of our brothers and sisters to the country’s economy”.
24 December 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance leads in DDC polls in J&K||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of six parties, on Wednesday managed to sweep six district councils, with an edge in six others, and the BJP managed to secure five councils, with an edge in one district in the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls held in 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar alliance, which saw the coming together of rivals, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the polls, has won 110 seats across the Union Territory. The polls were held with 14 seats in each district. Out of 10 districts in the Kashmir Valley, the alliance has won a majority and will have its district chairmen in Kupwara (nine seats), Budgam (10), Pulwama (nine), Anantnag, Kulgam (12) and Ganderbal (11).
24 December 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Special survey of flyers arriving from U.K.||The health department will be conducting a special survey of passengers who arrived in Maharashtra from United Kingdom between November 25 and December 23. This move comes in wake of a new variant of coronavirus detected in that country. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “The survey will be conducted as per Central government guidelines. We have a list of all passengers during this period which will be sent to all district and municipal corporation.” The concerned authorities will conduct RT-PCR test on them and samples of those testing positive will be sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check for traces of the new strain. Relatives of the patients will also be put under institutional quarantine and will have to undergo RT-PCR tests between fifth to tenth day of the visitors being found positive. There will be follow up on those who test negative for 28 days. The department has also appealed to flyers from U.K. to voluntarily come forward for testing. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) too has issued a similar appeal. Meanwhile, 1,688 passengers arrived at the Mumbai international airport from U.K. and other countries since Monday midnight and 745 of them were quarantined in the city, according to a civic official. BMC teams at the airport are exempting from quarantine some categories of passengers such as pregnant women or those travelling to attend last rites of their kin, the official said. So far two passengers have been exempted.  (With PTI inputs)
24 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||IT firm executive held for ‘molesting’ physiotherapists||A vice president of an IT company has been arrested for molesting several female physiotherapists by posing as a patient with vein issues in his private area. Eric Jimmy Anklesaria (43), a resident of Matunga, was arrested on December 19 by Police Inspector Sunil Shinde and a team of Unit I Crime Branch of Navi Mumbai four months after an FIR was registered with Turbhe MIDC police. The accused is now on bail after being in custody with Turbhe MIDC and Nhava Sheva police. Amboli police is likely to take custody. The accused has a 40-day-old daughter and according to the police, his wife was unaware of his actions. Police said the accused would call up hospitals with female physiotherapists and introduce himself as a urologist practising with Wockhard and Fortis hospitals. He would say he had a patient who was sodomised and had lost ‘activation’ of the veins in his private areas and needed massage by a physiotherapist. He would say the patient needed only a female doctor as he had been sexually assaulted by a male doctor. According to police, the accused would usually make this call from near the hospital and then enter the premises after sometime posing as the patient referred to by the said ‘urologist’. The accused would introduce himself as either Dr. Pradhan or Dr. Joshi. The accused, posing as the ‘patient’, would leave without paying the bill. After reaching home he would make a WhatsApp video call to the therapist, pose naked and show that her massage had not helped him. The accused was using separate phones to make the calls to the physiotherapists making the tracing difficult. “The Crime Branch had been trying to nab him for last two months. We had two cases in our jurisdiction against him and it was learnt that he was a habitual offender. Hence it was important to nab him at the earliest.” Additional Commissioner of Police, B.G. Shekhar said, “The phone that was used by the accused was being closely monitored. We found that he had travelled to Kolkata and returned to Mumbai.” Police scrutinised the list of passengers from Mumbai to Kolkata and back and found the accused as the police already had CCTV grabs of hospital. “Using all this information he was traced to Matunga. He was wanted by the police at Pimpri Chinchwad, Mahim, DN Nagar, Amboli, Nhava Sheva and Turbhe MIDC,” Mr. Shekhar said. The first FIR against the accused was registered with DN Nagar police on August 4 where he had posed as a dermatologist and made a video call to a lady. He told her that her husband was his patient and had a skin disease in his private parts which he was shy of revealing it at home and was calling to verify if it had spread to his wife. In the pretext of checking her, he made her strip on the video call and later also asked her minor son to strip. Due to the involvement of a minor boy in this case, the accused has also been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). On further investigation, it was found that the accused had made around 250 calls to various hospitals in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Kolkata. The police suspect that he might have molested several female physiotherapists.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive cheer||
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,||PMK seeks apology from Maran||PMK president G.K. Mani has sent a legal notice to former Union Minister and DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran seeking an unconditional apology from him within 24 hours for having allegedly commented that the PMK was bargaining for money to join an electoral alliance. The remarks were allegedly made by him in Salem on December 21. “The scandalous and scurrilous imputation made by you through your poisonous words on the said occasion have been widely published and telecast by the print and the electronic media respectively and also in the social media throughout Tamil Nadu and across the world.” “It is no wonder that my client [Mr. Mani] was shocked and surprised to know that the said defamatory in descent, unsubstantiated, baseless and malicious statements contained in your rank utter falsehood, incorrect, derogatory and demeaning accusations," said the legal notice sent by PMK spokesperson and advocate K. Balu. Mr. Maran’s act of making such defamatory statements would ex-facie attract the penal provisions of section 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code, the notice contended. The notice claimed that the remarks have caused incalculable damage to the PMK and its leaders.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Undiminished attraction||
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Dry weather to prevail till December 27||Cool and dry weather conditions may prevail in most parts of the State for the next few days. There is a possibility of light rain in one or two places over south Tamil Nadu on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With no significant weather system over the Bay of Bengal, most parts of the State are set to experience dry weather till December 27. On Wednesday, there was light rain in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts, officials said. Temperature dipped The minimum temperature has dipped below normal in many regions. Places like Vellore and Tiruttani had a minimum temperature of 18 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. In Chennai, the weather stations at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a minimum temperature of 20.5 degrees Celsius. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “Dry weather may continue over the State almost till the year-end. Weather models indicate that rain may revive around the first week of January. But we will have to wait for more clarity.” “Cloudless sky conditions and dry land winds from central parts of the country would influence chilly weather during night time. However, the northeast monsoon has still not withdrawn from the State,” he added. Officially, the season is considered to end on December 31. Tamil Nadu has recorded normal rainfall for the season. Since October 1, the State has recorded an average rainfall of 47 cm, which is 7% more than its normal share of 44 cm, Mr. Balachandran said. Deviations in rainfall up to 19% below normal or in excess are considered normal by IMD.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Minister calls for high vigil||The Health Department has asked the public to maintain a high state of vigil as COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the State and Christmas and New Year celebrations can lead to further amplification of the virus in the community. The threat posed by the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 cannot be dismissed, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said in a statement here.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive season||
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Changes to SC scholarship scheme get govt. approval||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved changes to the post-matric scholarship scheme for students from Scheduled Castes, including a new funding pattern of 60-40 for the Centre and States. The changes were aimed at enabling four crore students access higher education over the next five years, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot said at a press briefing. Switching from the existing “committed liability” formula, the new funding pattern would increase the Centre’s involvement in the scheme, a government statement said. An investment of Rs. 59,048 crore, of which Rs. 35,534 crore would be the Centre’s share, was approved for the next five years. Acknowledging the delays that have plagued the scheme, Mr. Gehlot said now the amount would be sent to the beneficiaries’ accounts directly. Poorest students Social Justice Secretary R. Subrahmanya said the changes approved by the Cabinet were aimed at enrolling the poorest students, ensuring timely payments and maintaining accountability. He said an estimated 1.36 crore students who would otherwise drop out after Class 10 would be brought into the higher education system under the scheme in five years. A campaign for enrolling students from the poorest households would be carried out, he said. States would be asked to carry out verification of the students’ eligibility and caste status and collect their Aadhaar and bank account details. “Transfer of financial assistance to the students under the scheme shall be on DBT [direct benefit transfer] mode, and preferably using the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System. Starting from 2021-22, the Central share [60%] in the scheme would be released on DBT mode directly into the bank accounts of the students as per fixed time schedule, after ensuring that the State government concerned has released its share,” the statement said. Community audits of the scheme would be conducted to make sure the benefits were reaching the students. “The Central assistance, which was around Rs. 1,100 crore annually during 2017-18 to 2019-20, would be increased more than five times to be around Rs. 6,000 crore annually during 2020-21 to 2025-26,” the statement said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cabinet nod for 100% FDI in DTH service||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved 100% Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in direct-to-home (DTH) services, extension of the licence period from 10 years to 20 and a reduced licence fee. At a press meet, Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said, “The Commerce Ministry had already spoken of 100% FDI in the DTH sector but because of the guidelines issued by the Information and Broadcasting [I&B] Ministry, the FDI was limited to 49%. We have corrected that aberration today.” The licence fee had been reduced in keeping with the rates in the telecom sector, he stated. A statement from the I&B Ministry said the proposed reduction was intended to align the licence fee regime applicable to the telecom sector and would be prospectively applied. “The difference may also enable DTH service providers to invest for more coverage, leading to increased operations and higher growth and thereby enhanced and regular payment of license fee by them,” the statement said. Currently, India has 18 crore television sets, of which six crore operate on DTH.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Khaps’ lead stir in Haryana||Though the farmers agitation in Punjab is primarily led by farmer unions with substantial political support, “khaps”, community organisations representing a clan or a group of related clans, are spearheading the move-ment in Haryana.Page 11
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Test mandatory for all returnees||All international passengers arriving in theState without a COVID-19 negative report will have to mandatorily get tested. Also, all passengers arriving from the U.K., who test positive will be isolated in an institutional facility till their genome sequencing is completed.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC directs police officer to clean public road||A police officer of Station Bazaar Police station in Kalaburagi has been asked to clean a public road for a week for failing to do his duty.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC views reignite debate on ACB formation||The recent observations of the High Court of Karnataka regarding lapses on the part of the Lokayukta police in investigating an old case against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has reignited the debate on the formation of Anti-Corruption Bureau.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||'GP polls witnessed social crowding not distancing’||With the first phase of GP polls witnessing “social crowding” instead of social distancing, experts have emphasised the need for greater caution.
24 December 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance leads in DDC polls in J&K||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of six parties, on Wednesday managed to sweep six district councils, with an edge in six others, and the BJP managed to secure five councils, with an edge in one district in the maiden District Development Council polls held in 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar alliance has won 110 seats across the Union Territory.
24 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar junior doctors on strike for raise in stipend||Hundreds of junior doctors of government-run medical colleges and hospitals in Bihar went on strike on Wednesday demanding increase in their monthly stipend. The strike affected health and emergency services in hospitals across the State. Bihar has eight government-run medical colleges and hospitals where thousands of patients come every day for treatment.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani from December 30||A Rajdhani special train will run on four days a week between Mumbai and Hazrat Nizamuddin (Delhi), the Central Railway said on Wednesday. The train will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday at 4.10 p.m. from December 30, and reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 11 a.m. the next day.
24 December 2020||Jaipur,||BTP withdraws support to Cong. in Rajasthan||Two weeks after severing ties with the Congress, the Bharatiya Tribal Party on Wednesday announced withdrawal of support to the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan over the issue of the latter allegedly blocking the election of a BTP-backed candidate to the post of Zila Pramukh in Dungarpur during the recent panchayat polls.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pinarayi reiterates Kerala’s support for ryots||A day after the Governor Arif Mohammed Khan denied consent for a special Assembly session to discuss the farm laws, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said Kerala stands firmly with the protesting farmers and urged the Centre to accede to their demands and repeal the contentious laws. Addressing an indefinite stir organised by farmer organisations at Palayam here, Mr. Vijayan said the support for the ongoing nationwide stir was growing. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should not harbour any illusion that it could suppress it by dividing the people or through underhanded means, he said. The BJP government was upholding the interests of the corporates and not that of the farmers, he said. Moreover, the stir was not confined to any particular region of the country. The slogans raised by the farmers represented the common demands of the nation as a whole. A crisis in the food sector would have dire consequences for Kerala, as the State was not self sufficient on many fronts, he said. Attempts made by the government to suppress the struggle had collapsed, Mr. Vijayan pointed out. “An interesting feature of the ongoing stir is that it has united everyone. People who are not directly linked to the farm sector, including senior officials, eminent personalities and decorated citizens, have united to become a part of the struggle,” the Chief Minister said. Local body polls The local body elections in the State had prevented the State from actively joining the farmers’ stir, Mr. Vijayan said. Now that the elections were over, the State was becoming a part of it and expresses solidarity with the farmers, he said.  A crisis in the food sector will have dire consequences for Kerala, as the State is not self sufficient on many fronts.  Pinarayi Vijayan  Chief Minister
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Priest, nun get life term in Abhaya murder case||Fr. Thomas M. Kottoor and Sister Sephy were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special CBI court here on Wednesday for the murder of 19-year-old novice Sister Abhaya. Sister Abhaya was found dead in a well at Pius X convent of the Knanaya Catholic order in Kottayam, Kerala, in March 1992. CBI special judge K. Sanal Kumar found the priest and the nun guilty of murder and destruction of evidence under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Fined Rs. 5 lakh each The judge also imposed a second life sentence on Fr. Kottoor for house-trespass to murder under Section 449 of the IPC. The court said both life sentences would run concurrently. The judge also fined the accused Rs. 5 lakh each. The CBI case was that the accused killed Sister Abhaya after the novitiate found them in objectionable circumstances when she went to collect drinking water from the convent’s kitchen on the night of March 27. The accused were startled by Sister Abhaya’s unexpected appearance. To prevent their liaison from being known, Sister Sephy bludgeoned her on the side of her head with the blunt side of an axe. The suspects dumped the victim’s body in the convent well to make it appear as suicide, the CBI argued. It had no case that the accused had sexually assaulted Sister Abhaya. The CBI arraigned another priest, Fr. Jose Poothrukayil, as an accomplice in the crime. However, he was discharged from the case in 2018 for want of evidence. In light of fresh evidence, the CBI moved a review petition in the High Court to put Fr. Poothrukayil on trial for the murder.  The CBI found that the Crime Branch wilfully suppressed evidence. The CBI also arraigned former Crime Branch SP K.T. Michael as the fourth accused in the case on the charge of destruction of evidence. The Kottayam West police had dismissed the death as suicide initially. The Crime Branch had seconded it. The findings caused a public outrage. Locals formed an action council headed by Jomon Puthanpurackal, a public interest litigant, to press for a CBI inquiry. The agitation gained traction across Kerala, prompting the government to recommend a CBI probe in 1995. The case took another sensational turn in 1996 when then CBI Deputy SP, Varghese P. Thomas, opted for voluntary retirement after allegedly coming under pressure from his superior to write off the death as a suicide.
24 December 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance leads in J&K DDC polls||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of six parties, on Wednesday managed to sweep six district councils, with an edge in six others, and the BJP managed to secure five councils, with an edge in one district in the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls held in 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar alliance, which saw the coming together of rivals, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the polls, has won 110 seats across the Union Territory (UT). The polls were held with 14 seats in each district. Out of 10 districts in the Kashmir Valley, the alliance has won a majority and will have its district chairmen in Kupwara (nine seats), Budgam (10), Pulwama (nine), Anantnag, Kulgam (12) and Ganderbal (11). It is short of one seat from a clear majority in Baramulla, Shopian and Bandipora districts. However, Srinagar district, which saw seven seats (50% of total seats) won by Independents, is up for grabs. Fighting elections for the first time, the J&K Apni party has managed to win three seats in Srinagar. In the Jammu division, the Gupkar alliance is dominating the Chenab valley’s Ramban and Kishtwar districts by winning six seats in each district. In the Pir Panjal valley, the alliance is dominating in Rajouri with six seats. The Congress, which has won 17 seats in the Jammu division, will play an important role in allowing the Gupkar alliance to achieve majority to head the districts. In the Pir Panjal's Poonch district, eight independents have been declared victory, leaving little chance for the BJP or the alliance to choose a chairman. The BJP has managed to win five councils in the Jammu region, including Kathua (13 seats) and Samba (13), Jammu (11) and Udhampur, and Doda (eight). It is likely to win Reasi district with the support of Independents, as the party has managed to get seven seats.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Close watch on visitors from U.K.||Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary, reviewed the status of passengers coming from the U.K. to India and found positive in the States/UTs of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Goa, Punjab, Gujarat and Kerala, and the States’ response measures, in a meeting held through video conference on Wednesday. The States were advised to co-ordinate with the respective Airport Health Offices (APHO) and surveillance officials in their State in order to ensure adherence to the SOPs for Epidemiological Surveillance and Response in the context of new variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus detected in United Kingdom. States/UTs were also advised to access the details of passengers from U.K. to India from the online portal AIR-SUVIDHA and the Bureau of Immigration, and send the samples of those found positive to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing. Six labs The list of six identified labs along with the contact details of their nodal officers was also shared with the States. The labs identified for genome sequencing are CSIR - Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi; CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad; DBT- Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar; DBT - InStem - NCBS, Bangalore; DBT - National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani, West Bengal; ICMR - National Institute of Virology, Pune. The Ministry in its release noted that the number of such designated labs would increase over time and their details would be shared with the States/UTs.
24 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Khaps’ spearhead agitation in Haryana||Though the farmers agitation in Punjab is primarily led by farmer unions with substantial political support, “Khaps”, the community organisations representing a clan or a group of related clans, spearhead the movement in Haryana, which has witnessed a late surge in agitation. Four days after the November 26 farmer unions’ call for “Dilli Chalo”, hundreds of farmers from across 59 villages in and around Charki Dadri district in Haryana held a “panchayat” under the aegis of “Sangwan Khap” to express their solidarity with the agitators. The “Sangwan Khap”, one of the first few community organisations in Haryana to extend support to the agitation, also persuaded its president and Independent Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan to resign as the Chairman of Haryana Livestock Development Board and withdraw support to the BJP-JJP coalition government. “Around 1,500 people in 300-odd vehicles, including cars and tractor-trolleys, reached the Tikri border to hold a permanent sit-in on December 1. Later, two batches of 500 farmers each from among them went to Shahjhanpur and Dhadsa (Badli-Najafgarh) borders to hold sit-ins. Another batch of around 300 farmers is expected in a couple of days,” said Narsingh Sangwan, general secretary, “Sangwan Khap”. He added that support to the agitation from Haryana had grown over the past three or four days.  Harnarayan Boora, president of “Boora Khap”, with presence in around a dozen villages in Hisar, said the villagers supplied flour, vegetables, milk, tea leaves and other essential items to the protesters in Delhi on alternate days. The “Dalal Khap” has set up a “langar” (community kitchen) at Sarai Aurangabad near the Tikri border, serving around 4,000 people every day. One of the largest “Khaps” in Haryana, it has presence in 172 villages in Rewari, Jhajjar, Jind, Rohtak, Sonipat and Charki Dadri.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Army chief reviews situation at the LAC||Amid the prolonged stand-off with China in Eastern Ladakh, Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane on Wednesday visited the forward areas and reviewed the ground situation along the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake), where the Indian Army had dominated several unoccupied peaks on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in August-end. “The Chief of Army Staff [COAS] visited forward areas of the Fire and Fury Corps, including Rechin La, and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC. Gen. Naravane also undertook an on the spot inspection of the habitat of the troops on the forward line of defences at Rechin La,” the Army said. He appreciated the efforts made by the formation to make troops comfortable along the LAC, it stated. Gen Naravane was briefed by Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon, 14 Corps Commander, and other commanders on the operational preparedness of the forces. During the one-day visit to the Leh-based 14 Corps, he also visited forward base Tara and interacted with the local commanders and troops. In a pre-emptive move on August 29 and 30, the Army occupied some unoccupied heights in the Chushul sector from Thakung to Rechin La within the Indian perception of the LAC, foiling the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempts to dominate the heights. The Army had said that PLA troops carried out aggressive moves on the night of August 29 to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) and those have been thwarted. Since then troops of both sides are facing off in close proximity with tanks deployed a few hundred metres apart in some locations. Eight rounds of Corps Commander-level talks in addition to diplomatic talks have so far failed to reach any breakthrough in disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC. With no end to impasse, the Army has built extreme weather habitat to accommodate the thousands of troops sitting in high altitudes and extreme weather in the winter. Temperatures have already dropped in some locations to minus-30 degrees, an officer said. With harsh winters, it was now a game of wait and watch and holding on to the positions for the next three months, the officer noted. The Army has deployed around 50,000 troops in addition to tanks and other equipment along the disputed boundary in Eastern Ladakh to match the Chinese deployments since the beginning of the stand-off in early May.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Curtains down on a 28-year-old case||A little before noon on Wednesday K. Sanilkumar, CBI Special Judge, brought the curtains down on the 28-year-old Sister Abhaya case with a terse statement. “Accused number one (Fr. Thomas. M. Kottoor) and three (Sister Sephy) are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs. 5 lakhs for the offence under Section 302 of the IPC (murder).” he pronounced. The priest and nun stood in the rear of the court. They appeared stoic. The police had escorted them to the court from prison after the judge cancelled their bail on Tuesday. Before delivering his verdict, the judge heard the accused. Fr. Kottoor said he ailed from prostate cancer. Sister Sephy cited ill-health and said her aged parents required support. Both pleaded for clemency. Outside the third-floor courtroom, few nuns of the Knanaya order huddled in grim silence. The brevity of the proceedings belied the ups and downs and long legal meanderings of the case. It took more than 28 years for the Abhaya case to reach the trial stage in August last. Mr. Sanilkumar seemed to encapsulate the Abhaya case saga by quoting 19th-century British historian Lord Macaulay. “At first thrillingly dramatic, soon became interminably long, cumbersome, and dull. The trial dragged on for years and years, during which the judges retired innumerable times to their chambers to discuss the points of law that arose again, and again and again, and then marched back to the Court Hall. The judges walked, and the trial stood still,” the judge said. Outside the court premises, a phalanx of television camerapersons and journalists waited for the judgment. A five-year-old stand-off between journalists and the Bar Association prevented newspersons from reporting the open court proceedings. Most relied on information conveyed to them from inside the court by friendly lawyers on their mobile phones. Soon, Jomon Puthenpurackal, the public interest litigant, who championed the “Justice For Abhaya” cause arrived in front of the news cameras and broke the conviction news.  The convicts were served a copy of the judgment. Officers took their height and weight and identified their physical features in the court office. Soon, Prisons Department officials arrived. Jail wardens took Sr. Sephy to the Attakulangara Women’s Prison and Fr. Kottoor to the Central Prison, Poojappura by afternoon. The defence counsel said he would appeal the verdict in the High Court.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||A tight slap to terrorism and separatism, says BJP||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir should be commended for “issuing a tight slap to terrorism and separatism” and for “asserting their faith in democracy and development” after the successful conclusion of the District Development Council (DDC) election. “This is a victory for India, for India’s democracy, of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and of hope and development,” he said. At a press conference at the BJP’s national headquarters in New Delhi, Mr. Prasad said that the number of people who came out to vote and the emergence of a “new political leadership at the grassroots” were a matter of happiness for the country. He read out polling percentages of areas which were considered hotbeds of terrorism. The large turnout in these polls in comparison to the Lok Sabha election and the 2018 panchayat election was a sign that people in these areas had realised that “democracy leads to development”, he said. Large participation “After the 2018 panchayat election, held under President’s Rule, money, for the first time in the Union Territory, was sent directly to the bank accounts of the panchayats and the works to done with those funds clearly written on boards at the panchayat offices. People have realised that democracy can lead to development and we saw, despite a propaganda against the removal of Article 370 and 35A as well as calls for boycott by terror groups, that people participated in large numbers,” he said. “This is a recognition by the people of what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been saying all along — that the culture of ‘rulers’ is gone and only those who wish to serve the people will prevail,” he said. The BJP emerged as the single largest party among non-alliance parties, while the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has the largest number of seats. The DDC polls were conducted in eight phases and results were declared on Tuesday.  This is a victory for India, for India’s democracy, of the people of J&K... Ravi Shankar PrasadUnion Law Minister
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||NIA arrests man for alleged bid to revive Sikh militancy||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested a Punjab resident at the Delhi airport on his arrival from Cyprus for allegedly “hatching a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy for ultimate aim of formation of a separate state of Khalistan”, The accused, identified as Gurjeet Singh Nijjar, has been living in Cyprus since 2017. The NIA had registered a case in January 2019 under various Sections of the Arms Act and the anti-terror Unawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “Investigation has revealed that the absconding accused Gurjeet Singh Nijjar was the main conspirator of this case. Accused Gurjeet Singh Nijjar, Harpal Singh and Moin Khan were active on social media platforms and hatched a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy for ultimate aim of formation of a separate state of Khalistan,” the NIA said in a statement. The NIA said the accused used to post videos and images containing praises of militant Jagtar Singh Hawara (convicted for the assassination of Beant Singh, former Chief Minister of Punjab), Operation Blue Star of 1984 and pro-Khalistani posts related to proscribed organisation Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) with the “sole intention to motivate like-minded Sikh youths and others to join the Khalistan movement.” The NIA said Khan came in contact with Jagtar Singh Hawara when he was lodged in Tihar Jail from 2013-2016. “Subsequently, as planned, accused Moin Khan sent friend request to Facebook ID, Khalistani Jindabad Khalistan, from his Facebook account. By joining this Facebook account, Moin Khan came in contact with Harpal Singh and Gurjeet Singh Nijjar. Accused Gurjeet Singh Nijjar motivated Moin Khan by discussing about atrocities committed against the Muslims and Sikhs in India and convinced him to work for separate Khalistan state. Gurjeet Singh Nijjar directed Moin Khan to purchase a pistol and ammunition in 2018 to carry out their nefarious designs,” the NIA said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Remove Yediyurappa: Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday demanded the immediate removal of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, a day after the Karnataka High Court refused to quash a corruption case against him. The party also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “eloquent silence” on the issue. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, citing the High Court order of Tuesday, alleged that Mr. Yediyurappa had been delaying the investigation of graft charges against him in the case. “Karnataka and corruption seem to go hand in hand and are intertwined, and there is culpable conspiratorial silence of all the powers that be, including our extremely eloquent Prime Minister, BJP president J.P. Nadda and the party’s former chief, Amit Shah. All of them maintain silence on this very special arc of immunity accorded by the BJP to Mr. Yediyurappa, the sitting Chief Minister of Karnataka. It is mysterious, inexplicable and shocking,” Mr. Singhvi said at a press conference which he addressed via videoconference. The Karnataka High Court questioned the Lokayukta police and the State apparatus on how they allowed a person to remain not even under investigation with the probe not proceeding at all for five long years from early 2015 till the end of 2019.  “The Congress, with all the force at our command, calls for the resignation, removal, stepping down of the Chief Minister, ” he said.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tolerable safety outcomes in Covaxin Phase II trials||COVID-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), showed tolerable safety outcomes and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, according to interim findings of Phase II trials shared in a pre-print paper. In Phase 1 trial, the vaccine candidate produced “high levels of neutralising antibodies that remained elevated in all participants three months after the second vaccination.” Titled ‘Safety and immunogenicity clinical trial of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152 (a phase 2, double-blind, randomised controlled trial) and the persistence of immune responses from a phase 1 follow-up’, the paper was shared on medRxiv, a free online archive and distribution server for complete but unpublished manuscripts (pre-prints) in the medical, clinical, and related health sciences. “The safety profile of BBV152 is noticeably lower than the rates for other SARS-CoV-2 vaccine platform candidates. The 6 microgram Algel-IMDG formulation was selected for the phase 3 efficacy trial,” the paper said. Pre-prints are preliminary reports of work that have not been certified by peer review. Phase III trials for Covaxin got underway last month. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Tuesday had said that 13,000 of the 26,000 volunteers, who will be part of Phase III trials, had been recruited.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,||ED attaches cash and FD of Swapna and other accused||On the eve of filing chargesheet against M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary of the Chief Minister, in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached the cash that was found in the bank locker of Swapna Suresh and her fixed deposits. Cash and fixed deposits amounting to Rs. 1.85 crore were thus attached. Of this, Rs. 1 crore was the amount paid as commission to Sivasankar by Unitach builders, the agency that won the contract for constructing houses under LIFE Mission at Vadakkanchery, the ED said. The investigation into the alleged payment of commission in various government projects, including the LIFE Mission, had earlier kicked up political controversies. The fixed deposits in banks in the name of of Swapna, who is also an accused in the case, was also attached by the agency. The cash in the bank accounts and the fixed deposits, which the agency describes as proceeds of the crime, were part of the commission paid to the accused. The agency will file the chargesheet on Thursday.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,||She would not have ended her life: judge||The murder case of Sister Abhaya had everything that would put a sex-crime thriller to shame. It was a case spiced with allegations of sex and murder where the alleged sexual act of the two accused was a relevant fact in the case, according to the CBI court. Recreating the sequence of the events through evidences, K. Sanilkumar, Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (SPE/CBI), concluded it was “inexorable to infer that A1 (Father Thomas. M. Kottoor) entered the ground floor of the convent building with the help of A3 (Sister Sephy) to carry out their sexual activities and on witnessing the same by Sister Abhaya, she was attacked with a blunt weapon.” “Normally, the sexual antecedents of an accused do not matter, they only matter when they give a bearing to the fact in issue of the case.” Here, the “alleged sexual act of A3 and A1 was the cause of the murder and the murder was the effect,” he concluded.  Deductive reasoning The “assertion of the prosecution that while both accused were in flagrante delicto, the witness, Sister Abhaya, was attacked by the accused with a blunt weapon is apposite here.” When “the proved circumstances are against the accused persons, it is inevitable to take an inference by applying deductive reasoning that Sister Abhaya was attacked by both the accused with a blunt weapon,” he noted. The presence of Fr. Kottoor in the St. Pius X Convent Hostel on the night of 26/27 March 1992 and the solitary presence of Sr. Sephy in her ground floor room of the hostel on the night was proved, the order said. It was proved that Fr. Kottoor had admitted his relationship with Sr. Sephy, who “underwent hymanoplasty almost on the eve of her arrest by the CBI.” She “utilised medical intervention to shape artificially her body as that of a virgin,” the court noted. Resurrecting the character of Sr. Abhaya from the heap of allegations of the defence, the judge relied on the evidences to conclude that she was “a very smart, pious, honest, simple, perseverant and punctilious girl, meticulous in all respects. She was leading a happy and altruistic life, and also proved that it was simply impossible for her to have ended her life on her own.” On several witnesses turning hostile, the judge noted that the “witnesses connected to the congregation, including the inmates of the St. Pius X Convent Hostel, en masse turned hostile to the prosecution without rhyme or reason.” It is “gleanable that a systematic, organised effort was exerted sub rosa by the powers that be to subvert the prosecution case and prevent it from reaching its logical conclusion,” the court noted.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cabinet approves merger of four film and media units||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the merger of four government-run film and media units — the Films Division, the Directorate of Film Festivals, the National Film Archives of India and the autonomous body Children’s Film Society, with the National Film Development Corporation. A statement from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said that the merger of Film Media Units under one corporation will lead to convergence of activities and resources and better coordination, thereby ensuring synergy and efficiency in achieving the mandate of each media unit. “This will lead to reduction in duplication of activities and direct savings to the exchequer,” it added. The Films Division, which was established in 1948 and is the oldest of the four units, was created primarily to produce documentaries and news magazines as publicity for government programmes and to keep a cinematic record of Indian history. The National Film Archives of India was established in 1964 with the primary objective of acquiring and preserving Indian cinematic heritage. The Directorate of Film Festivals was set up in 1973 to promote Indian films and cultural exchange. The merger also brings into the fold an autonomous organisation, the Children’s Film Society, which was founded in 1955 with the specific objective of providing children and young people value-based entertainment through the medium of films. “While undertaking this exercise of convergence, the interests of employees of all the concerned Media Units will be fully taken care and no employee will be retrenched,” the Ministry’s statement said.
24 December 2020||Chennai,||The Hindu Group bags WAN-IFRA awards||The Hindu Group won two golds and two silvers at WAN-IFRA’s South Asian Digital Media Awards. The awards are presented in recognition of outstanding work done by news publishers in digital media.  The Hindu #KeepTheHabit campaign won a gold and silver in Best Native Advertising/ Branded Content Campaign and Best in Audience Engagement, respectively.  Sportstar ’s website (sportstar.thehindu.com) won a gold in Best in Lifestyle, Sports, Entertainment Website or Mobile Services and The Hindu ’s website (thehindu.com) won a silver in Best Paid Content Strategy (including pay wall, membership or crowd funding models). BBC News, Malayala Manorama , Mathrubhumi , ABP, NDTV Convergence, TV18, and The Quint also won awards. Commenting on the recognition, L.V. Navaneeth, Chief Executive Officer, The Hindu Group, said, “The endorsement of our efforts by an eminent jury is very encouraging. This is a result of our focus on a reader-centric approach across all our products including digital and our commitment to the communities we serve. This recognition from WAN-IFRA’s eminent jury is heartening and we are grateful for the awards in the four categories.” Innovation and content The awards recognise news publishers who have adopted digital media and mobile strategies as part of their total product offering to meet the major challenges in how people consume news and information today. “When it comes to success in digital news publishing, innovation, on top of quality content, is the key. This was what was reflected in the winning entries,” said Magdoom Mohamed, managing director, WAN-IFRA South Asia. The World Association of News Publishers, or WAN-IFRA, is the global organisation of the world’s press.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala yet to state reason: Khan||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's on Wednesday earned a rejoinder from Governor Arif Muhammad Khan. Mr. Vijayan had written a letter to Mr. Khan on Tuesday stating that the Raj Bhavan had "unconstitutionally" disallowed the government from convoking the Assembly for an emergency one-day session on December 23 to discuss and pass a unanimous resolution against the Centre's farm laws. In reply to Mr. Vijayan, the Governor said the government had not "spelt out the reason" for the Assembly's convening in short notice (24 hours) on Tuesday nor explained the exigency for bypassing the mandatory 15-day minimum notice period. It merely stated that the Assembly had some "serious issues" to discuss. Mr. Khan asked the government for more specificity. In response to the note, the government "opened up partially". It "admitted" that the important was the ongoing protest by farmers around New Delhi. "It became clear that you (Chief Minister) wanted this special session to discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution,” Mr. Khan said. Assertions Mr. Khan said Mr. Vijayan had made several assertions about constitutional issues, which he never raised. He was pained to see Mr. Vijayan's confidential letter to the Governor leaked to a news channel before it reached him. The Chief Minister had not replied to his queries but dwelled on extraneous issues instead. Mr. Khan reminded Mr. Vijayan that he had held back the approval for an Ordinance to amend the Kerala Police Act to curb libellous posts for three weeks hoping the government would reconsider it. “But finally I signed it, and the public outcry forced you to withdraw it within one week,” he said. The Congress-led UDF and the government had found themselves on the same page for once in their opposition to the Governor’s decision not to give his assent for the special session. UDF MLAs convened in front of the Assembly under the leadership of Oommen Chandy. They passed a resolution criticising Mr. Khan’s refusal. The Chief Minister-led LDF Ministers and legislators staged a protest against the farm laws at the Martyr’s Column. They did not openly criticise Mr. Khan.  It became clear that you (Chief Minister) wanted this special session to discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution
24 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal chief calls for united fight||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday called for a united nationwide initiative for fighting autocratic tendencies and for the setting up of a genuinely federal structure in the country. In a letter to West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee on the eve of the Trinamool’s Kisan rally, Mr. Badal said Punjab and West Bengal had always led the nation’s fight for a genuine fiscal, executive and political autonomy to the States for making India a strong federal country. He said like-minded parties must be invited to take a stand for a genuine federal structure in the country.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sailors still stranded off Chinese ports||China on Wednesday said it had been in touch with the Indian authorities over the plight of Indian sailors stranded in ships off its ports, but offered no immediate way out amid a continuing stalemate that has left Indian seafarers stranded for months. Ships carrying Australian coal have been unable to offload their cargo after China essentially banned coal imports amid deteriorating relations with Australia. China has said the ships are free to leave and has placed the responsibility on freight forwarding companies for resolving the impasse. The companies do not want the ships to return as they stand to incur huge costs having already taken the coal off the hands of Australian exporters, and have appeared unable to find other buyers to offload their cargo. Chinese officials said last month the freight forwarders “do not want to adjust the plans for the vessel due to commercial interests which is the real cause of the situation”. Caught in the stalemate are around 1,500 seafarers, according to Australian estimates, who have been unable to leave their ships. China hasn’t allowed the crews to be replaced and prevented them from disembarking citing COVID-19 protocols, preferring the ships to leave. There are 23 Indian sailors on bulk carrier MV Jag Anand , which has been stuck off the Jingtang port on the cold waters of the Bohai Sea in northern China since June, and 16 others on MV Anastasia , which has been off the port of Caofeidian, since September. MEA statement The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said last week it was in touch with the Chinese authorities to address the humanitarian needs of the crew and that the vessels were not allowed to change crew because of COVID-19 restrictions. “The owner of these shipping companies as well as the receivers of the cargo had been made aware of the reasons for the delay in unloading the cargo,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. Asked why China wasn’t allowing the crew to leave on humanitarian grounds, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said there were “clear requirements on epidemic prevention and control at ports and on quarantine of crew members”. “Local authorities been in close communication with the Indian side,” its spokesperson Zhao Lijian said.
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,||CM playing communal card, says Jamaat||Taking umbrage at a Facebook post of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the IUML is dominating the UDF, the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind State ameer M.I. Abdul Aziz has said Mr. Vijayan was churning a communal polarisation for temporary political gains in the State. At a news conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Aziz likened the statement of the Chief Minister to that of an RSS pracharak and that it would help the fascist agenda of the RSS. The CPI(M) leadership was trying to demonise the entire Muslim community and its organisations with an aim to secure the votes of Christian and Hindu communities, he said. He said the CPI(M) was also deliberately trying to create an Islamophobia view and anti- Muslim sentiments which the imperialist forces were doing at the global level and the BJP- Sangh Parivar at the national level, Mr. Aziz alleged. Replying to questions, he said the Welfare Party of India (WPI), was an independent entity and that the Jamaat endorsed its political decisions from time to time. ‘Using Muslims’ He alleged that the CPI(M) had been using the Muslim community and the organisations for political gains under various circumstances. That party, which had always stood for secular values, was now unfortunately treading a wrong path, he added.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Appointing same officer as head of MCC, MSCL leads to conflict of interest: Karnataka High Court||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday asked the State government whether it would like to continue the practice of giving concurrent charge of the post of Managing Director of Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL), a special purpose vehicle set up by the government to implement smart city projects, to the Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) even though it leads to conflict of interests. Can the Commissioner of MCC initiate action as per the law if the MSCL illegally carries out certain works when the same officer occupies the both the posts, the court questioned, on noticing that MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar has been given concurrent charge of the post of MD of MSCL. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on the issue of 2019 incident in which solid waste slipped at the Pachhanadi waste dumping yard in Mangaluru caused damage to neighbouring properties. Earlier, the HC expressed displeasure over not enforcement of Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016, by the MCC as well as non-registration of MSCL and the contractors executing smart city project under these rules. It was pointed out by counsel representing KSLSA that a lot construction work were being carried out in Mangaluru under the smart city project without adhering to the C&D Waste Management Rules. Meanwhile, the HC also gave three weeks to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to process the applications received by the MSCL and the contractors for registration under the C&D Waste Management Rules. The KSPCB had earlier informed the court that neither the MCC not the contractors were registered as per the rules. Earlier, Akshay Sridhar, MCC Commissioner and MD of MSCL, who appeared before the HC through video conference, admitted that infrastructure under C&D Waste Management Rules was not fully in place.
24 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Knanaya church terms allegations unbelievable||Terming unbelievable the allegations against Fr. Thomas Kottoor and Sr. Stephy, who have been convicted in the murder of Sister Abhaya, the Knanaya Catholic Church on Wednesday asserted the right of the accused to go for an appeal and prove their innocence. “The death of Sr. Abhaya was indeed a sad and unfortunate episode. The special CBI court has found that she was murdered by Fr. Thomas Kottoor and Sr. Sephy and has awarded them life imprisonment. The allegations are unbelievable. However, the Knanaya Catholic Archeparchy of Kottayam honours the court order. The accused have the right to go for an appeal and prove their innocence,” the archdiocese said. Expressing happiness over the judgment, Sister Abhaya Action Council convenor Jomon Puthenpurackal said he would not rest until the appeals to be filed by the convicts are rejected by the higher courts.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Online fraudsters impersonate IPS officer||Online fraudsters used the profile picture of D. Roopa, Home Secretary to the Government of Karnataka, to cheat people. Ms. Roopa has posted on her profile asking people to be cautious and not give money. The Facebook account was created a few months ago in the name of Sankholeena Choudhary Sarma, who used Ms. Roopa’s picture posing as a civil servant from Assam. Using the fake profile, the account holder contacted many people seeking financial help for social work. One of them, who was cheated, identified the picture and communicated this to Ms. Roopa. ‘Received calls’  Ms. Roopa, in her post, said that she got calls from people from Assam informing her about this. “An FB account is using my pictures and using a woman’s voice calling people and cheated them. I have flagged it to cybercrime cell and urge people to be cautious,” said Ms. Roopa in her post.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Two youths with 10 kg of marijuana arrested||An inter-State drug racket was busted by the J.C. Nagar police this week. Two unemployed graduates were arrested on Monday when they were caught while they were allegedly trying to hand over a drug consignment to their contacts after receiving the parcel from Visakhapatnam. The accused Sannad and Mohammed Bilal, both 24 years old, are from Kerala, and stay in Chandapura and HSR Layout, the police said on Wednesday. As many as 10 kg of marijuana and cash of Rs. 1,000 were recovered from them. The duo are commerce graduates and unemployed. While looking for a job, they were approached by an unknown person offering money for a simple job to collect parcel and hand it over to another person. D.R. Nagaraj, Inspector, J.C. Nagar police station, along with his team, raided a place on Millers Road and caught the duo while they were waiting for their contacts to deliver the consignment. Probe Inquiries revealed that the two were assigned the job to receive the parcel from a goods vehicle coming from Visakhapatnam and hand it over to their contacts on Millers Road. The accused said the job was assigned to them over phone and they had not seen their handler. They were promised Rs. 5,000 each for the job and given the mobile number of the person to whom the parcel had to be delivered. They were told to send the location details to the number given and hand over the parcel only after confirming the contact numbers. “It is an inter-State racket and the accused were used as mules. They confessed that it was their first time. However, we are investigating to ascertain criminal background while efforts are on to track down their handlers,” a senior police officer said.  It is an inter-State racket and the accused were used as mules. They confessed that it was their first time. However, we are investigating to ascertain criminal background while efforts are on to track down their handlers. Senior police officer.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Night curfew imposed in Karnataka till Jan. 1||Amid global fears over the new mutation strain of coronavirus, Karnataka has clamped night curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. starting from December 24 till January l (till 5 a.m. on January 2), 2021. As per the new order of the State government, the movement of individuals would remain strictly prohibited between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m., except for essential activities. While Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa earlier said that it would an eight-hour night curfew starting Wednesday night at 10 a.m., and the schedule was changed later. During curfew hours movement of long distance night bus, train services, and air services would be permitted. There would be no restriction in movement of all types of goods through trucks, goods vehicles or any goods carriers, including empty vehicles, the government said. To and fro movement of taxis and autos has been permitted for dropping/pick-up of people to/from bus stops and railway stations/airports. The movement would be allowed on displaying valid tickets. Midnight Christmas Mass on December 24 night would be permitted as per guidelines issued on December 17, 2020. Similarly, celebration of Christmas and New Year festivities would be allowed as per the guidelines issued on December 17, 2020. For industries All industries/companies/organisations which required operations at night would be permitted to operate with 50% staff. Movement of employees of such organisations should be allowed on producing valid ID cards issued by their respective organisations/institutions, said an order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. The order said industries/factories which required 24x7 operations would be allowed to operate without any restrictions. The order asked all heads, including BBMP Commissioner, to strictly implement the guidelines. Earlier, the Chief Secretary held a videoconference with deputy commissioners and sought their views on implementation of the night curfew. With this, Karnataka has become the second State after Maharashtra to announce new restrictions this week as fears grow over the new strain, which has been detected in the United Kingdom.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Cabinet nod for changes to SC scholarship plan||An investment of Rs. 59,048 crore, of which Rs. 35,534 crore would be the Centre’s share, was approved for the next five years. Acknowledging the delays that have plagued the scheme, Mr. Gehlot said now the amount would be sent to the beneficiaries’ accounts directly. Poorest students Social Justice Secretary R. Subrahmanya said the changes approved by the Cabinet were aimed at enrolling the poorest students, ensuring timely payments and maintaining accountability. He said an estimated 1.36 crore students who would otherwise drop out after Class 10 would be brought into the higher education system under the scheme in five years. A campaign for enrolling students from the poorest households would be carried out, he said. States would be asked to carry out verification of the students’ eligibility and caste status and collect their Aadhaar and bank account details. “Transfer of financial assistance to the students under the scheme shall be on DBT [direct benefit transfer] mode, and preferably using the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System. Starting from 2021-22, the Central share [60%] in the scheme would be released on DBT mode directly into the bank accounts of the students as per fixed time schedule, after ensuring that the State government concerned has released its share,” the statement said. The Secretary added that community audits of the scheme would be conducted to make sure the benefits were reaching the students. “The Central assistance, which was around Rs. 1,100 crore annually during 2017-18 to 2019-20, would be increased more than five times to be around Rs. 6,000 core annually during 2020-21 to 2025-26,” the statement said.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Cairn Energy wins arbitration award||The tribunal ordered the government to desist from seeking such a tax and return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. The government was asked to compensate Cairn “for the total harm suffered,” together with interest and cost of arbitration, according to the order. While the order does not contain a provision for challenge or appeal against the award, the government said it would study the arbitration award and “will consider all options and take a decision on the further course of action, including legal remedies before appropriate fora.” Cairn, according to people aware of the matter, can use the arbitration award to approach courts in countries such as the U.K. to seize any property owned by India overseas to recover the money if the award is not honoured. In a statement, Cairn Energy said it had been awarded $1.2 billion damages plus interest and costs. Sources said the total amount payable by the Indian government, including $200 million of interest and $22 million of arbitration cost, is $1.4 billion (about Rs. 10,500 crore). This is the second loss the government has suffered in three months over the retrospective levy of taxes. In September, the U.K.’s Vodafone Group won an international arbitration against the demand of Rs. 22,100 crore in taxes. However, Cairn was the only company against which the government took action to recover retrospective taxes. During the pendency of the arbitration, the government sold Cairn’s near 5% holding in Vedanta Ltd., seized dividends totalling Rs. 1,140 crore due to it from those shareholdings and set off a Rs. 1,590-crore tax refund against the demand. Besides Cairn Energy, the government also slapped a similar tax demand on its erstwhile subsidiary Cairn India (which is now part of Vedanta Ltd.). Cairn India too has challenged the demand through a separate arbitration. In the case of Vodafone, the government took no such action. In an unrelated case of penalties levied on Reliance Industries for producing less than targeted natural gas from KG-D6 fields, the government stopped issuing notices soon after the Mukesh Ambani-led firm initiated arbitration against such move. Foreign investors will watch the government’s response to both the Cairn and Vodafone awards. The BJP government and its Ministers have, in the past, denounced the introduction of a retrospective tax amendment in 2012 by the previous Congress government as tax terrorism. Confirming the award, Cairn in a statement said: “The tribunal established to rule on its claim against the Government of India has found in Cairn’s favour.” Cairn had challenged the Indian government seeking taxes over an internal business reorganisation using the 2012 retrospective tax law, under the U.K.-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. Sources said the government had so far not appealed against the arbitration loss in the Vodafone case and the Cairn arbitration award may hasten a decision on it.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Samyukt Kisan Morcha rejects offer for talks||It said the farmer unions had made it clear to the government during several rounds of negotiations that such amendments were not acceptable to them. Mr. Yadav said the agitating farmers and farmer unions were ready for talks and were waiting for the government to take forward the process of negotiations with an “open heart”, “open mind” and “good intentions”. “We urge you to send a concrete proposal in writing, instead of repeating the rejected proposals of meaningless amendments, so that it could be made an agenda to resume the process of negotiations at the earliest,” he said. ‘Bid to derail movement’ The letter from the government was an attempt to defame the farmers’ movement. The government was dealing with them as political opponents and not a group of distressed citizens. “Besides, the government holding parallel discussions with so-called farmer leaders not existing on the ground is an attempt to derail the movement,” he said. Bharatiya Kisan Union national general secretary Yudhvir Singh said farmers had categorically told the government that anything less than the withdrawal of the laws was not acceptable, but the attitude of the government and this letter were mere attempts to prolong things and break the willpower of farmers. He warned the government, saying farmers represented 60% of the population and not listening to their concerns could have disastrous repercussions. All-India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah reiterated that farmers had come to Delhi and were holding an agitation in extreme cold conditions to talk and find solution. The Working Group of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a press statement said that claims made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Aligarh Muslim University on Tuesday were not in harmony with the ground reality. On the call of the farmer unions and the AIKSCC, the farmers and their supporters observed the birthday of former PM and farmer leader Charan Singh as “Kisan Diwas” by skipping lunch, said the press statement. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, at a press conference during the day, urged the agitating farmers and the farmer unions to try and understand the intent and the provisions of the three laws. “If the farmers have any objections, the government is ready discuss it with them with an open mind. I am hopeful that we will soon head towards an amicable solution. Talks are the only way to end stalemate,” he said.
24 December 2020||Jaipur,||BTP withdraws support to Cong. in Rajasthan||Two weeks after severing ties with the Congress, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) on Wednesday announced withdrawal of support to the ruling party in Rajasthan over the issue of the latter allegedly blocking the election of a BTP-backed independent candidate to the post of Zila Pramukh in Dungarpur during the recent panchayat body polls. BTP State president Velaram Ghogra said in Dungarpur that the party would shortly send letters to the Governor and the Assembly Speaker informing them of the withdrawal of support. A miffed BTP’s executive took the decision to snap the alliance with Congress at a meeting held earlier this week. As an ally of the Congress, the BTP voted for the Congress’ candidates in the Rajya Sabha election in June this year and backed Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during the political turmoil in the next two months. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ram Prasad supported the Congress during the confidence vote in the Assembly.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aero India to be held for three days only||In view of COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions, the 13th edition of Aero India scheduled to be held in Bengaluru in February next year will be held only on three business days and the public will be able to witness the air display only in virtual mode, the Defence Ministry said on Wednesday. This was decided at a meeting to review the planning for Aero India-21, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “The event has witnessed tremendous interest, with the space being sold out and 500-plus registered exhibitors. In view of the challenges due to COVID-19, Defence Minister directed that the event be held for business days only, February 3 to 5, 2021, with the essence being to achieve traction for the Aerospace and Defence industry, which has faced numerous challenges in the year 2020 due to lockdown and embargo/restrictions on travel,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement.
24 December 2020||Pune,||Permission for another ‘Elgaar Parishad’ sought||Retired Bombay High Court judge B.G. Kolse-Patil, who was among the chief organisers of the controversial Elgaar Parishad in December 2017, has submitted an application to the Pune police to hold a similar event on December 31, 2020. In his application submitted to the Swargate Police Station, Mr. Kolse-Patil has sought permission to hold the Elgaar Parishad at the city’s Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. “We expect 700-800 people to attend including speakers. We have already booked the premises and have applied permission to local police authorities. They said they would be forwarding it to their superiors,” said Justice (Retd.) Kolse-Patil. Speaking to The Hindu , he further said that if the State Home Department denied permission, he would seek recourse to the Bombay High Court for permission and was even willing to petition before the Supreme Court to hold the event. Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik, while remaining non-committal on permission for Mr. Kolse-Patil’s event, said that lockdown regulations must be strictly adhered to at all costs owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. “B.G. Kolse-Patil has been a former high court judge and knows the law. While there is no restriction on anyone’s freedom of speech and the right to hold events, let me point out that despite the unlock phase, there is a restriction on political gatherings to prevent the spread of the contagion. The State Home Department will take a call on this and only then decide on whether or not to give the green signal,” Mr. Malik said. Expressing strong reservations about Mr. Kolse-Patil’s event, Shambhuraj Desai, Minister of State for Home (Rural), said any large gathering during the time of a pandemic was not salutary from the health point of view. “Everyone will have to follow rules in this case and strictly adhere to COVID-19 regulations. As to the question of giving permission or not, it will be decided at an appropriate time by the State government,” he said. More than 250 progressive social outfits, including several Left-leaning and Ambedkarite groups across Maharashtra, and individuals like Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani, Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangha chief Prakash Ambedkar, Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid, among others, had participated in the Elgaar Parishad on December 31, 2017 in Pune’s Shaniwar Wada.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||No ad hoc promotion to police: HC||The Telangana High Court passed an order permitting the State government and DGP to undertake only regular promotion to posts of Additional Superintendents of Police (non-cadre) and Superintendents of Police (non-cadre, conferred IPS and ex-cadre) in compliance with the combined seniority list prepared by Andhra Pradesh. The exercise of regular promotions should be completed within three weeks of receiving the order, a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Vinod Kumar said. Disposing of some interim applications relating to promotions and seniority lists of police officers, the bench passed the order. The bench observed that it was not proper to give ad hoc promotion instead of regular promotion when final seniority lists were available though they were being challenged in the courts.
24 December 2020||Srinagar,||Vote against Centre’s steps, says Farooq||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday alleged that her colleagues, friends and family members were being targeted by Central investigating agencies as the BJP had failed to “fight her politically”, while National Conference (NC) president Dr. Farooq Abdullah said, “No coercive tactics will dilute or dent our collective resolve.”  She alleged that PDP youth president Waheed Parra, who won the DDC polls, was interrogated by the NIA and asked “to depose against” her. “Parra was tortured to accept the militant links,” she added. NC leaders met in Srinagar and addressed the workers. Dr. Abdullah said the people had made known their rejection of the August 5 measures.
24 December 2020||Srinagar,||Six injured in grenade blast in Kashmir||Four CRPF jawans, a policeman and a civilian were injured in a grenade explosion at Ganderbal in central Kashmir on Wednesday evening. A police official said militants lobbed a grenade at a joint party of the CRPF and the police at Tawheed Chowk in Ganderbal. It exploded on the road and injured six people. “The condition of one injured CRPF jawan is critical,” an official said. Syed Nasrullah, who works in the Rural Development Department, was injured. His condition is said to be stable. Six arrested Meanwhile, the police said six persons were arrested in south Kashmir for their alleged involvement in grenade attacks and pasting of election boycott posters. The youth were arrested from Tral and Sangam in Pulwama district. “This network of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) was involved in grenade attacks. The arrested (militant) associates have been in contact with Pakistani handlers. They were also involved in pasting of election boycott posters,” the police said. Meanwhile, Special Police Officer (SPO) Zakir Hussain Malik from Yarpora in Kulgam has gone missing in Kulgam along with his AK-47 service rifle. Efforts are on to locate him and bring him back, an official said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Republic Bharat gets fined in U.K.||Republic Bharat, the Hindi news channel of Republic TV, was on Tuesday fined £20,000 — approximately Rs. 19 lakh — by the United Kingdom’s communications regulator Office of Communications (Ofcom) for broadcasting content that involved “hate speech”. The sanctions were imposed on Worldview Media Network Limited, which holds the licence for airing Republic Bharat in the U.K.
24 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Lions maul girl to death in Gujarat village||A pair of lions mauled a 17-year-old girl to death in a village near Junagadh late on Monday, as a growing population of wild cats is increasingly venturing out of the traditional habitat. The lions pounced on Bhavna who, accompanied by her cousin, ventured out around 10 p.m. to answer nature’s call. The lions dragged her for nearly 100 m and ate parts of her body. The victim was from a family of migrant agriculture labourers from the tribal district of Panchmahal and had shifted to the village near Junagadh. In another incident, a pride of 10 lions entered a cowshed and killed around eight cows in a village near the Junagadh forest range. Recently, a group of lions was seen roaming in villages of Rajkot district.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Dharna in front of I-T office: HC sets aside separate FIR against political leaders||In a temporary relief to political leaders H.D. Kumaraswamy, D.K. Shivakumar, and G. Parameshwara, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday set aside a separate first information report (FIR) registered against them for holding a demonstration in front of the office of the Income-Tax Department, Bengaluru, in March 2019 based on a private complaint. However, the court gave liberty to complainant Mallikarjuna A. to record his statement as a part of another FIR registered in connection with the same demonstration. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing the petitions filed by Mr. Kumaraswamy, former Chief Minister, and Dr. Parameshwara and Mr. Shivakumar, former Ministers, who were part of the demonstration held to protest against the Union government for alleged “selective” searches conducted by the I-T Department on political leaders of Opposition parties. The separate FIR was registered, specifically against several politicalleaders, including the three petitioners, following a direction issued by the Special Court set up to deal with criminal cases registered against MPs and MLAs based on a private complaint given by Mr. Mallikarjuna. Now, Mr. Mallikarjuna can register his statement under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure before the investigation officer of the Commercial Street police station as part of the earlier FIR registered in connection with alleged violation of the model code of conduct that was in place for the Lok Sabha elections by holding the demonstration. The earlier FIR had references only to JD(S) and Congress workers and secretaties and had arraigned the secretaries of both the parties as accused without naming them.
24 December 2020||Guwahati,||Denial of treatment to non-COVID patients: court notice to Centre, Assam||The Gauhati High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre and the Assam government over alleged denial of proper treatment to non-COVID-19 patients during the peak of the pandemic in the State. A Division Bench gave the government as well as Assam’s Health and Family Welfare Department three weeks to respond.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Special survey of flyers landing in Mumbai||The Maharashtra health department will be conducting a special survey of passengers who arrived in Maharashtra from United Kingdom between November 25 and December 23. This move comes in wake of a new variant of coronavirus detected in that country. The authorities will conduct RT-PCR test and samples of those testing positive will be sent to Pune.
24 December 2020||Kochi,||Filmmaker Shanavas is dead||Filmmaker Shanavas Naranipuzha died in Kochi late on Wednesday night. He was in his mid-thirties. The director, who was admitted to a hospital in Coimbatore after collapsing while working on a script of a new film at Attappady in Palakkad a few days ago, was brought to Kochi on Wednesday night for treatment at a private hospital here. The maker of the critically acclaimed film Karie , which was a darkly humorous take on caste oppression, and more recently, of Sufiyum Sujathayum , which early this year became the first Malayalam film to be released directly on an OTT platform, reportedly suffered a cardiogenic shock following which he was declared brain dead. The friends of the filmmaker, however, remained hopeful and thought it would be better to shift him to Kochi for further treatment. While being brought to Kochi, he suffered another heart attack and attempts made to revive him did not succeed. He died at 10.20 p.m., an official said. While rumour was rife in the morning of Shanavas’s demise, producer of the film actor Vijay Babu made a Facebook post saying that his heart was still beating and requested all to pray for him. Shanavas is survived by wife and a child. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the premature departure of the promising filmmaker.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Eminent poet-activist Sugathakumari no more||Eminent Malayalam poet, conservationist and women’s activist, Sugathakumari, 86, who tested positive for COVID-19, died at a hospital here on Wednesday. She is survived by daughter Lakshmi Devi. Fondly called ‘Sugatha Teacher’, she was known for her poems filled with empathy, sensitivity and philosophical quest. She led the fiercest environmental campaign seen by Kerala — against a proposal to set up a hydel project in the Silent valley in the Western Ghats three decades ago.PTI
24 December 2020||Mysuru,||Tigress rescued and shifted to Mysuru||A tigress was trapped in a snare laid for a boar at Balele village in Kodagu district on Wednesday. It was tranquillised and later shifted to Chamundi Animal Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at Koorgalli on the outskirts of the city. The trapped tigress was thrashing around and came to the notice of a few farmers early in the day who discovered that it had been trapped in a snare. The Forest Department was alerted and they reached the spot and tranquillised the animal. A decision was taken to shift it to Koorgalli for further observation. Officials said the tigress may have strayed from Nagarahole National Park as the village in the Virajpet sub-division is at a distance of around 5 km to 6 km from the forest boundary. Local villagers who first sighted the tigress saw it thrashing around under a tree in an agricultural field but it was unable to move from the spot. They suspected that its legs may have been ensnared and informed the officials. Assistant Conservator of Forest Uthappa said the tigress was found in the vicinity around 15 days ago and a cattle kill was also reported from the region. It would be in the rescue centre pending a decision on whether it could be released back into the wild or not, he added.
24 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab actor sends legal notice to BJP||Perturbed over his photograph on a poster of Punjab BJP’s official Facebook page showing him associated with the BJP’s pro-farmer policies campaign, actor Harpreet Singh, who is participating in the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws at Singhu border, has sent a legal notice to the BJP to tender an apology “for misusing his photo without consent”. The State unit of the BJP, meanwhile, passed the buck to the Central government, stating that the content and photograph were shared by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. “It’s [photograph] there on our Facebook page. The Agriculture Ministry [Central government] had sent the content [on successful government purchase of crops at Minimum Support Price in 2020-21] in which the photograph was also there, and we uploaded it. It’s for them to verify whose photograph has been used,” Janardhan Sharma, a spokesperson of the Punjab BJP, told The Hindu on Wednesday. Mr. Harpreet Singh’s counsel Hakam Singh said a legal notice had been sent to the BJP, asking the party to remove the photograph from the social media platform [Facebook] and tender an apology.
24 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata speaks to protesting farmers in Delhi||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday reached out to the protesting farmers in Delhi and assured them the support of her party in the protests. This is second time in this month that she is speaking to the farmers protesting against the farm Bills passed by the Centre and sent a delegation to meet them. During the day, a five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress MPs met the farmers in Delhi. The delegation comprised Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque . “Many farmers in small groups had an interaction on the telephone with Mamata Banerjee who assured them of full solidarity with their movement. Some farmers also requested her to visit the dharna site,” a press statement issued by the party said. “Please come & join our dharna it will give us more strength, said a farmer on the phone to @MamataOfficial. A 5-member delegation of @AITCofficial MPs visited Singhu border again to express solidarity with protesting farmers. Bengal CM spoke to multiple groups #KisanDiwas,” Mr. O’Brien, party national spokesperson, tweeted. On December 4, Ms. Banerjee sent a delegation to meet the protesting farmers and reached out to them over telephone. The Trinamool Congress leadership, including Ms. Banerjee had hit the streets in Kolkata in protests against the farm Bills Earlier in the day, Ms Banerjee said her party “observes December 23 Kisan Diwas or National Farmers Day to celebrate the contribution of our brothers and sisters to the country’s economy”. She also referred to the Krishak Bandhu Scheme started by her government, where Rs. 5000 is given to 73 lakh farmers. Later, at an event in Kolkata, Ms. Banerjee said there was no place for those who wanted to divide society. “
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Cabinet okays EWS quota for Marathas||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday decided to extend jobs and academic admissions to Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) applicants under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. The SEBC category was created by the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the State to provide reservation in jobs and education to Maratha community. However, the Supreme Court put a stay on it. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been reiterating his government’s committment on reservation to Marathas. According to an official, “The central government has extended 10% reservation to EWS category. As per the earlier government’s decision, candidates taking benefits in SEBC category would not have beeen able to avail benefits under the EWS category. Now that the Supreme Court has stayed the reservation, the government has decided to extend EWS certificate to SEBC candidates who fit in the criteria,” said an official. A special cell at the local level will provide certificates to eligible candidates based on last year’s income. Taking reservation under the EWS category is voluntary and not mandatory for SEBC candidates. The candidate who avail benefit of EWS category in job or studies, cannot take benefit under the SEBC category, the official said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||CBI files charge sheet against ex-NDA Principal||The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a charge sheet against a former principal of the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Maharashtra’s Khadakwasla in connection with fraudulent appointments to various posts of the institution’s civilian faculties. The agency had registered the case against Om Prakash Shukla and others on May 8, 2018.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Maiden test of MRSAM for Army successful||The maiden test of the Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM) for the Indian Army, being jointly developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Israel Aircraft Industries (IAI), was successfully conducted on Wednesday. The launch was from the integrated test range of Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha.
24 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Class X, XII exams postponed to June||Class X and XII State board examinations in West Bengal have been postponed to June 2021. Usually, the examinations are held in February-March. There is no announcement of when school classes will resume. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said the government had made it clear that the exams could not be held in the present circumstances. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Examination that conducts Class X (Madhyamik Pariksha) exams and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, which conducts the Class XII exams, have agreed to conduct the examinations in June. Usually, over 10 lakh students appear in Class X exams and over six lakh in Class XII exams. Besides COVID-19, Assembly polls scheduled in 2021 is considered to be another reason for postponing the exams to June. The next government is likely to be formed by May-end. In another important development, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said instead of giving tablets, which was promised to all Class XI and Class XII students, the government would give Rs. 10,000 cash. “It is not possible to arrange so many tablets in such a short time. At best we can arrange one to one and a half lakh tabs. Therefore, we have decided to give cash to students. They can buy tabs or smart phones,” she stated.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. team meets EC on Manipur MLAs case||Congress leaders have appealed to the Election Commission to decide the matter of disqualification of 12 Manipur legislators in the office of profit case at the earliest. A delegation from the State unit recently met the Election Commission.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||When will India get a vaccine, asks Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked when India would get a COVID-19 vaccine. “23 lakh people in the world have already received Covid vaccinations. China, US, UK, Russia have started...when will India’s turn come?” he tweeted.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four zones with U.K. returnees will be under strict monitoring||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started monitoring 449 residents who have returned from the United Kingdom. Many streets where the passengers’ residences are located will be monitored by Corporation workers to prevent them from coming out of their homes. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash held a meeting with officials of Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam, Teynampet and Adyar, zones where the largest concentration of such passengers. Some wards in Anna Nagar have received over 20 passengers from the United Kingdom in the past few days. As a result, volunteers on such streets have been asked to conduct surprise checks at homes to prevent violations of norms pertaining to quarantine. “COVID-19 is on a declining trend. But we have to be vigilant,” an official said. Owing to the decline in the number of cases in the city, the Chennai Corporation had asked the doctors from other districts to return to their hometowns. The civic body has also reduced the number of FOCUS volunteers from 3,500 to 800 in the 15 zones of the Corporation. The number of ILI survey workers, too, have been reduced from more than 11,000 to 5,000. Volunteers and workers will be directed to monitor the passengers who have returned from the United Kingdom. “Those who returned from the U.K. have to be put under 14 days quarantine. If they are symptomatic, they will be tested for COVID-19. We are also trying to test passengers from Europe, who reach the city by connecting flights from cities such as Mumbai. We get information from the Public Department to identify such passengers who reach the city,” an official said.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiruvalluvar varsity teachers to stage protest against V-C||Thiruvalluvar University professors and teachers from affiliated colleges have decided to launch a series of protests against the non-appointment of a permanent Registrar, Controller of Examinations and a financial officer for the institution. The association has decided to stage a demonstration on January 6 in front of the Regional Joint Directorate of College Education and on January 11 in front of the university to reiterate their various demands. They also plan to raise various other issues, including malpractice in the university. The professors said though S. Thamarai Selvi was appointed Vice-Chancellor two years ago she had not made any efforts to improve the functioning of the institution. The professors alleged that the V-C had overlooked experienced professors and appointed an assistant professor with five years’ experience to the post of Registrar. Although the post had been advertised for and interview conducted on December 4, all the applicants had been rejected after “they were found ineligible”, the University Teachers’ Association alleged. The 18-year-old university does not have a statute of its own, the teachers’ representatives said.   The teachers also alleged largescale violation of rules in developing infrastructure at the institution, besides malpractice in the evaluation of answersheets of five candidates. Though the details were given to the V-C, no action had been taken, alleged association general secretary Prince Prabhakar. The local fund audit objections to the tune of Rs. 95.47crore had not been rectified as yet, the association said. Also, teachers had not been paid remuneration for the evaluation they did in the previous semester. In 2007, the Governor and the Dr. Ambedkar Foundation had approved the launch of the Department for Dr. Ambedkar Studies, but till date the Dr. Ambedkar Chair had not been created. The department itself had not been instituted, the teachers said.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal to levy tax for waste collection opposed||Residents’ welfare associations and social activists have opposed the proposal by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to levy charges for solid waste management in the city. The civic body had announced that resident owners and traders would have to pay user charges for solid waste collection from January 1. V. Rama Rao, secretary, People’s Awareness Association in Nanganallur, said the proposal to collect user charges was undemocratic. Mr. Rama Rao said the handing over of the conservancy operations in seven zones for a sum of Rs. 6,000 crore for eight years exceeded the powers of the civic body. Levying tax without opting for the scientific disposal of waste went against the tenets of the Solid Waste Management Act, 2016, he added. DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday also criticised the Corporation’s decision to tax people at a time when they were struggling to cope with the pandemic. “After collecting property tax, penal tax and electricity tariff, the AIADMK government has imposed more burden on the people,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. People had lost their livelihood, small and medium industries were going through an economic crisis, and commercial complexes, theatres and hotels were yet to feel any relief. Mr. Stalin said the GCC should have elicited public opinion before making the decision. “It is atrocious that the government has used an IAS officer to introduce a new tax. It is not sure whether the move will be only in Chennai or will be extended to other Corporations in the State,” he said.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RTI invoked to solve mystery of ‘missing’ village||In a significant order, the Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC) has directed the State authorities to computerise all revenue records since 1864 and make them accessible to the public in digital format through e-Seva centres. The judgment stems from a petition filed by N.P. Venkateswarlu, of Raichur in Karnataka, who alleged that a property owned by his grandfather in Nedumaram village near Tiruttani in Tiruvallur district was illegally transferred in the names of some other persons, and sought copies of the documents that facilitated the patta transfer. Appeal before TNIC Unsatisfied with the replies of the Public Information Officer, Archives and Historical Research Department, and the First Appellate Authority, Government of Tamil Nadu, the petitioner filed an appeal before the TNIC, seeking its intervention in getting the Old Settlement Register (OSR), Resettlement Register (RSR), Survey Land Register (SLR) and A-register documents relating to his query. In a telephonic inquiry held in view of the COVID-19 situation, the PIO stated that the village (Nedumaram) was not found in the revenue records of Tiruvallur district. The official said that since the village had not been included in the jurisdiction of Kancheepuram district as well, the petitioner, when informed about the same, sought the A-register data and details of other revenue transactions made in the survey number mentioned by him. However, the information sought by the petitioner was not available on record. Since the village records were not available in Tiruvallur, it was possible that they could be available in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the PIO said. Mr. Venkateswarlu claimed that he had copies of the documents in the name of his grandfather pertaining to lands located in Nedumaram, which was a village in Tiruttani division in Tiruvallur district. Struggle to access files His prayer was to access the documents that facilitated the patta transfer. After hearing both sides, State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj observed that a large number of people who were residents of the erstwhile Madras Presidency were struggling to access property documents, since some parts of the then Presidency were now in Andhra Pradesh. While inquiring into RTI petitions seeking such revenue records, it was noted that such documents were preserved and maintained in the Madras Record Office or the Tamil Nadu Archives. Though the Revenue Department had said in its policy note that all revenue records would be computerised and made accessible to the public in digital format, it appeared that the assurance was yet to be implemented. Mr. Muthuraj directed the Secretary to Government, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, the Commissioner of Land Administration and the Commissioner, Tamil Nadu Archives and Historical Research Department, to computerise all revenue records — OSR of 1864-1898, RSR of 1901-1938, SLR of 1950 and A-register data of 1979 — and make them available to the public through e-Seva centres within two months.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NABARD projects farm credit above Rs. 1.45 lakh cr. in 2021-22||Tamil Nadu may witness the disbursal of crop loans of at least Rs. 1.04 lakh crore during 2021-22, according to a projection made by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in its State focus paper (SFP) for the next financial year. The SFP, the theme of which was “Collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income”, was launched by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam at an event on Wednesday. Additional Chief Secretary (Rural Development and Panchayati Raj) Hans Raj Verma, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Chief General Manager of NABARD S. Selvaraj were among those present on the occasion. In total, the component of farm credit, which also covers activities in areas like water resources and farm mechanisation, would be around Rs. 1,45,510 crore. It would account for 42% of the total exploitable credit potential of about Rs. 3,43,452 crore for the priority sector. In 2019-20, the amount of crop loans disbursed was about Rs. 1.05 lakh crore — 89% of the target. During 2020-21, the target figure was nearly Rs. 1.06 lakh crore. Alluding to the widespread practice of providing agricultural jewel loans under the garb of crop loans, the NABARD suggested that the banks implement the Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) initiative in letter and in spirit, and increase disbursements as “pure crop loans”. It called for the popularisation and adoption of the revised guidelines for providing farm credit to all eligible farmers under KCC. 2 more components Under the overall segment of agriculture, there are two more components — agriculture infrastructure and ancillary activities. Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) estimates for the two components are Rs. 9,607 crore and Rs. 11,053 crore, respectively. Another segment which has been projected to receive substantial credit next year is that of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), for which the estimate is about Rs. 1.02 lakh crore.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu vegetable traders demand a monthly holiday||Koyambedu vegetable traders are not in favour of the weekly holidays declared for the wholesale market. Instead, they prefer a holiday on the last Sunday of the month. Various sections of the Koyambedu market were reopened from September in a phased manner with COVID-19 safety norms in effect. When the vegetable market was shifted back from Thirumazhisai to Koyambedu, Sundays were declared as holidays for maintenance. However, merchants now want a holiday on the last Sunday of every month as weekly holidays affected the business of semi-wholesalers. They are planning to make a representation about their demand to the Koyambedu Market Management Committee (MMC) and the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. D. Rajasekaran, president of the Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market, said though most shops had shifted to Koyambedu, some merchants were continuing trade in the Maduravoyal and Poonamallee belt. On days when the market is closed, semi-wholesalers will lose out on business. “We also want the business to be extended till noon instead of the present 9 a.m. We plan to request MMC authorities to carry out maintenance work till 10 p.m.,” he added.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bakeries in the city are hoping for the best this holiday season||With the food industry slowly recovering, bakers in the city are hoping for some improvement in business in the next couple of days due to Christmas and New Year. “Though regular customers have been coming in, we have been doing only 30%-40% of our business so far. Bakeries are preferring to take orders and then begin baking cakes, rather than keeping them ready. Since plum cakes will remain fresh, they are being baked,” said P.P. Subramaniam, Tamil Nadu Bakers’ Federation. C.N.R. Selvaraj, who runs Master Cakez in Anna Nagar, said over the past few months, the industry has had to rebuild confidence among customers. “All of us follow proper safety protocols since we deal with food. Customers are coming in and now have started asking for new varieties. We have dates and coffee, apricot and raisin tea cake as new arrivals this year,” he said. K.M. Abdul Salam, who runs Victory Brothers Bakery in Royapettah, said they expected a slow improvement in numbers. “Regular customers are coming in since we have been here for quite sometime. People are mostly picking up plum cakes since that is the flavour of the month,” he said. Mr. Subramaniam also acknowledged the fact that home bakers entering the market meant there were more players in the field than before.  Though customers have been coming in, we have been doing only 30%-40% of our business. Bakeries are preferring to take orders and then begin baking.  P.P. Subramaniam  Tamil Nadu Bakers’ Federation
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,066 fresh cases, 12 deaths recorded in State||As many as 1,066 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 8,10,080. At the same time, 1,137 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 7,88,742. The number of active cases stood at 9,314, while 12 more deaths took the toll to 12,024. In Chennai, 302 persons tested positive and 306 were discharged. The district also reported five deaths. As of Wednesday, 3,022 persons were undergoing treatment, including those under home quarantine. As many as 2,23,209 cases have been recorded and 2,16,214 persons discharged in Chennai till date. The toll stands at 3,973. Apart from Chennai, the only other district that had a high case load was Coimbatore, with 109 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. While Perambalur and Ramanathapuram recorded no fresh case in 24 hours, 11 districts reported less than 10 cases each. One of the 12 persons who died had no pre-existing condition, health officials said. A 60-year-old woman from Chennai, who had been admitted to a private hospital on December 12, had tested positive for COVID-19 after complaining of fever, loose stools for two days, cough for a week and breathing difficulty for a day. She died on December 22, and her death was recorded as having occurred due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/COVID-19 pneumonia. Those who did have co-morbid conditions were in the 58-86 age group. A total of 1,06,290 persons aged above 60 have contracted the virus so far. As many as 70,911 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,36,59,300. With 70,534 persons tested on Wednesday, the total number of individuals tested so far touched 1,33,58,824.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners call off strike||Lorry owners in the State have called off the indefinite strike demanding withdrawal of orders relating to installation of new speed governors, reflective stickers and GPS instruments in their vehicles. This follows a meeting of Transport Department officials with representatives of various associations in the city on Wednesday, during which a committee comprising government officials and transporters was formed to sort out issues on a regular basis. Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners’ Association State president M. R. Kumaraswamy said they were satisfied with the government’s acceptance of their demands. Truckers now need not provide renewal certificates for speed governors or show authorisation letters from the company that sold them reflective stickers. It is enough if the RTOs verify the speed governors. As for the stickers, purchase bills can be shown. On the reduction of VAT on diesel, the department said it would discuss the issue with the government.  Truckers now need not provide renewal certificates for speed governors or show authorisation letters from the company that sold them reflective stickers
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||German MPs accuse KfW of funding ECR SWD project in violation of norms||Five Members of Bundestag, the German Parliament, have written to German Development Bank, KfW, expressing their concern over financing the construction of an integrated stormwater drain (SWD) network along the East Coast Road (ECR) in Chennai, allegedly without assessing the environmental impact. This comes after a representation from residents of various welfare associations along the ECR, who are against the project being executed by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). According to a press release, German MPs Michel Brandt, Heike Hansel, Caren Lay, Eva-Maria Schreiber and Zaklin Nastic had also raised the issue with the German Federal Ministry. In his letter, Mr. Brandt wanted the German Federal Ministry “to advocate for an immediate halt of construction or financing” of the sustainable rainwater management project in Chennai. ‘Ecologically unnecessary ’ Noting that the project reportedly did not have the necessary approval or social and environmental impact assessment, he said several civil society players in Chennai had complained of the KfW financing a project that was ecologically unnecessary and could endanger the breeding grounds of the Olive Ridley turtle. KfW was accused of violating its own guidelines in its assessment of various aspects and of not providing opportunities for the locals to participate. Funding was approved despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) prohibiting construction without approval, he said in the letter. R. Balakrishnan, treasurer, VGP Golden Seaview Residents’ Welfare Association, ECR, said: “We had written to the KfW and also several German MPs about the issue and to support halting of the project that would be more of a hindrance to groundwater recharge.” Residents said work to build the SWD network continued along the ECR. Moreover, the joint committee with representatives from various government agencies, which was appointed by the NGT to evaluate the project, is yet to be formed, they added.  We had written to KfW and also several German MPs to support halting of the project that would be more of a hindrance to groundwater recharge R. Balakrishnan Treasurer, VGP Golden Seaview Residents’ Welfare Association
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annaatthe shoot postponed after crew members get infected||The shoot of Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe, produced by Kalanithi Maran under his Sun Pictures banner, has been postponed, after four crew members tested positive for COVID-19. “Superstar Rajinikanth and other crew members have tested negative,” Sun Pictures said in a tweet from its official handle. According to the tweet, during routine testing at the Annaatthe shoot, four crew members tested positive for the infection. To ensure utmost safety, the shoot has been postponed, it said. Last week, Mr. Rajinikanth took a chartered flight from Chennai to Hyderabad for the shoot. He was accompanied by his daughter Aishwarya Dhanush. Directed by Siruthai Siva, major portions of the film are being shot at the Ramoji Rao Film City in Hyderabad. Mr. Rajinikanth and his daughter are now under quarantine. Sources at the Ramoji Film City told The Hindu that the actor might leave for Chennai, by Wednesday evening or Thursday morning, on a special flight. Almost 80% of the shoot was completed before the lockdown, and the rest was being shot here, in adherence to COVID-19 protocols, said sources.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petitioner points out delay in counselling||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court, complaining about the delay in conducting counselling for undergraduate courses in Indian medicine. The litigant said many students do not join the courses because of the delay. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha on Wednesday directed a special government pleader to take note of the PIL petition and ensure that a status report on the counselling for admissions this year is filed in the court by February 8. In his affidavit, A. Sathish Kumar, a document writer from Salem, said admissions for MBBS, as well as the courses in Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy, Siddha and so on, were being given in the State on the basis of marks obtained in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). However, every year, the government conducts all-India counselling, followed by State counselling, first for MBBS and then BDS admissions, and then starts the admission process for the courses in Indian medicine. Almost one semester gets lost in the process, Mr. Kumar said. The litigant also stated that many students end up joining other regular pure science courses because they do not want to waste time by waiting for Indian medicine counselling, without being about whether they will get a seat or not. Saying that States such as Bihar conduct counselling for both MBBS and Indian medicine courses, together, the petitioner sought for a direction to government authorities to consider his representation and conduct simultaneous counselling.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK president criticises launch of mini-clinics||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said the mini-clinics, launched by the State government, were nothing but a scheme to “swindle money”. “There is no need for mini-clinics if the government sets right the functioning of primary health centres. The scheme is a ploy to swindle money. It has not benefitted people as there are no doctors and nurses there,” he said. Mr. Stalin was addressing a gram sabha in Kunnam, Kancheepuram district, as part of the DMK’s ‘We reject AIADMK’ campaign. He said the AIADMK government was cheating the people in the name of mini-clinics and PHCs, at a time when people were struggling to cope with COVID-19. “People should be given medicines, but the government is indulging in corruption in the purchase of bleaching powder,” he said. Mr. Stalin recalled that the DMK had submitted a memorandum to Governor, seeking action against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other Ministers. “We have presented adequate documents to the Governor and he has promised to action. If he hesitates to initiate action, we will approach the court. Moreover, the DMK will come to power soon and its first job will be to probe corruption charges against the Chief Minister and his Ministers,” he said. Recalling the days, when as a Deputy Chief Minister, he visited districts to distribute welfare schemes to the women’s self-help groups, Mr. Stalin said the objective was to infuse confidence and ensure self-reliance among women. “It was the DMK government that enacted legislation to ensure equal share for women in family properties, 33% reservation for them in local bodies and their appointment as teachers in primary schools,” he said. He expressed hope that the DMK will come to power in four months, and problems of SHGs will be resolved. “You seem to be more confident than us that the DMK will come to power,” he said.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police crack down on begging||The police conducted a special drive to stop the use of children to beg at traffic signals and road corners in the city on Wednesday. Special teams of police personnel have been formed to monitor children who are begging on roads, and rehabilitate them. A series of raids were conducted at Parry’s corner, Nungambakkam, Thousand Lights and Porur, and children who were begging at important junctions were rescued. H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner, Crime Against Women and Children Wing, said, “We conducted a mass drive to prohibit and curb child begging and to render rehabilitative measures across areas in Greater Chennai.” Accordingly, special teams, comprising police personnel of the Juvenile Aid Police Unit 1 and 2, conducted raids and searches across all vulnerable places where children were employed to beg, she said. “Pursuant to the raids, seven children were rescued and produced before the child welfare committee. Following this, all of them were sent to child care institutions,” Ms. Jayalakshmi said.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers show solidarity with farmers||A section of lawyers in the Madras High Court expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers in the country by observing a day long fast on Wednesday, which marked Kisan Diwas. Senior counsel R. Vaigai and advocates Anna Mathew, Sudha Ramalingam, T. Mohan, S. Devika, D. Nagasaila, A.J. Jawad, N.S. Tanvi, S. Parthasarathi, R.S. Akila and Anees Jawad participated in the fast and said they were deeply inspired by the peaceful protests. In a joint statement, the lawyers said that the recently enacted farm laws were unjust and prejudice the interests of the farmers and agricultural labourers. “These laws would cause severe distress to the agricultural sector which is the backbone of Indian economy,” the statement read “The Central government should heed to the demands of the farmers and roll back the legislation which seek to advance the interests of the corporates over the rights and livelihood of millions of farmers and farm labourers,” it added.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why is law not considered for Nobel Prize, asks Chief Justice||The Chief Justice of Madras High Court Amreshwar Pratap Sahi on Wednesday urged lawyers to ponder over the reason for the subject of law not being considered for the Nobel Prize. In his reply to an official farewell address by Advocate General Vijay Narayan, he said that with competition and growth of law, there was a lot of rush in the courts and a surge in litigation. Lawyers, big and small, now had the opportunity to serve the public at large. Sounding a word of caution, he said that equally, there was also a rising disbelief and inherent hesitation when one went to engage a lawyer. Noting that lawyers were expected to be an embodiment of faith, he said disciplined conduct was essential to dispel any such disbelief. Recalling his personal visit to the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota, the Chief Justice said the first thing that struck him while interacting with the scientists there was their humility. “They were far more academically superior than me. Yet, the humility they displayed is the first trait that a lawyer should try to inculcate. Second thing I noticed was their simplicity. Their hair had grown haywire. They had worn slippers and no formal dress. “They were very simple with no airs, no egos. They took us around [the premises] with such passion as if they had received someone as a special guest,” the Chief Justice said, adding that lawyers must compare themselves with scientists and imbibe their good qualities. Pointing out that almost all subjects, including social sciences, economics and literature, get their share of the Nobel Prize, he asked lawyers to analyse why law had been left out, though lawyers too come up with so many original thoughts. “I believe it is the passion of scientists, their absolute devotion to their subject and the sense of achievement that can be perceived thereafter that appears to be the reason for Nobel Prizes to be reserved for them,” he said. Question to lawyers “Is the legal profession and the entire legal fraternity today embalmed with such devotion, passion or erudition so as to enable them to claim a prize among the Nobel winners?” the Chief Justice asked the gathering of judges and lawyers and urged them to give it a thought. Though Justice Sahi is due to retire only on December 31 on attaining the age of 62, he was accorded an official farewell by the High Court on Wednesday since it was the last working day before the commencement of the Christmas vacation. Commending the erudition exhibited by Justice Sahi on the judicial side through his insightful verdicts on a host of complex issues, the A-G said he had disposed of 1,877 main cases and 2,671 miscellaneous cases during his stint in the Madras High Court.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean Consulate praises city-based K-pop group’s video||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea has expressed their gratitude towards Dream Kpop, a Chennai-based K-pop enthusiast group, for showering their support on the Korean people during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a video, they sang two songs — Butterfly , a popular Korean song, and Hum Honge Kamyab . The songs were aimed at encouraging the Republic of Korea to not lose hope in fighting the pandemic and to boost confidence in economic revival and public safety. The Consulate, as a mark of its gratitude, posted the video on its Facebook page. Hong-yup Lee, Deputy Consul General of the Republic of Korea, expressed his gratitude to the young music group. In a message, he said the current situation, being the darkest moment before the dawn, was a time when the people of Korea should stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of south India in overcoming the pandemic.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside single judge’s order on Pachaiyappa’s Trust||The first Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday set aside a judgment passed by a single judge of the court on December 18 modifying the scheme of administration of the renowned Pachaiyappa’s Trust and ordering that the president of the trust board should not be elected from among members, and instead be appointed by the High Court. Disposing of appeals preferred against the verdict, Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the single judge had taken the decision without a proper trial. They ordered a rehearing of the issue by the judge and expected a final decision preferably within three months. Further, accepting a request made by the interim administrator of the trust to relieve him from the responsibilities, the first Bench ordered that the management of the trust should be taken over by the High Court’s Administrator General and Official Trustee who, in consultation with the Advocate General, would administer the properties until the judge takes a decision.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC succeeds in resolving Ilaiyaraaja’s recording theatre dispute amicably||The Madras High Court on Wednesday succeeded in solving amicably a dispute between music composer Ilaiyaraaja and the owners of Prasad Laboratories over accessing a building used by him for more than three decades to compose and record music. Justice N. Sathish Kumar permitted the composer to visit the building for a day along with his assistants and take away all his belongings after preparing an inventory with the assistance of court appointed Advocate Commissioner V. Lakshminarayanan. The judge also directed the Commissioner of Police to provide protection at the site on the day of the visit since there was apprehension of a large crowd gathering due to the huge fan following that Mr. Ilaiyaraaja commands. He recorded the submission of senior counsel P.S. Raman, representing the composer, that the latter would withdraw the criminal complaints as well as the civil proceedings initiated against the landlords for abruptly preventing his access to the recording theatre. Though Mr. Ilaiyaraaja refused to personally file an affidavit to that effect, he agreed to abide by the undertaking given by his counsel.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners call off strike||Lorry owners in the State have called off the indefinite strike they had announced to demand withdrawal of orders relating to installation of new speed governors, reflective stickers and GPS instruments in their vehicles. This follows a meeting of Transport department officials with representatives of various associations in the city on Wednesday during which a committee comprising government officials and transporters was formed to sort out issues on a regular basis. Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners Association State president M.R. Kumaraswamy said the owners were satisfied with the government's acceptance of their demands. Truckers now need not provide renewal certificates for speed governors or show authorisation letters from the company that sold them reflective stickers. It is enough if the RTOs verify the speed governors, and purchase bills can be shown for the stickers. As far as reduction of Value-added Tax on diesel is concerned, the department said it would take it up with the government.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK seeks apology from Maran within 24 hours||PMK president G.K. Mani has sent a legal notice to former Union Minister and DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran seeking an unconditional apology from him within 24 hours for having allegedly commented that the party was bargaining for money to join an electoral alliance. The remarks were allegedly made by him in Salem on December 21. “The scandalous and scurrilous imputation made by you through your poisonous words on the said occasion have been widely published and telecast by the print and the electronic media respectively and also in the social media throughout Tamil Nadu and across the world,” said the legal notice sent by PMK spokesperson and advocate K. Balu.  ‘IPC provisions’ Mr. Maran’s act of making such defamatory statements would ex-facie attract penal provisions of Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the notice contended. The notice claimed that the remarks had caused incalculable damage to the PMK and its leaders.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban online app-based loan firms: Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss on Wednesday called for the banning of app-based firms lending loans, in the wake of the suicide of a man who was termed a “thief” by one such firm for allegedly not paying back a sum of Rs. 4,000. “Many have ended their lives due to these mobile app-based loans firms. I had insisted on banning these firms. These firms have to be banned without any delay,” Mr. Ramadoss said in a series of tweets. A man from Palayanoor village in Madurantakam, who worked as a load man for a private firm, had taken an instant loan of Rs. 4,000 through an app-based loan firm after his father fell ill. ‘Illegal activities’ As he was yet to repay the loan, a representative from the firm called him up for payment. Eventually, some contacts of the man received messages that he had taken a loan and failed to repay them. It went on to say that he was involved in illegal activities. Mr. Ramadoss also urged the State government to grant solatium of Rs. 25 lakh each to the families of two workers who died of electrocution in a private company where they were employed. While three employees were involved in maintenance work in an automobile component manufacturing company at Thirumudivakkam SIPCOT Industrial Estate, two were electrocuted when the ladder they were using came in contact with a high-tension live wire. Mr. Ramadoss wanted Rs. 25 lakh each for families for each of the workers who died and Rs. 5 lakh compensation for the person injured in the incident.  Those in need of counselling may contact the State health helpline -104 or call Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline - 044-24640050.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. cannot make illegal appointments, says HC||It is not open to the government to make illegal appointments, opposed to public policy, and then take cover under the smokescreen of the doctrine of pleasure, enunciated under Article 310 (2) of the Constitution, the Madras High Court said on Wednesday. Justice V. Parthiban held that the State government appeared to have shown “extraordinary favour” to an individual on “extraneous consideration”, by accommodating him in a top post in the Municipal Administration Department, after displacing an existing employee. The judge agreed with senior counsel P. Wilson that the government had miserably failed to explain what special qualification the individual possessed. He pointed out that the present writ petitioner, N. Natarajan, joined the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service in 1983, served for 35 years, and rose to the position of chief engineer in the office of the Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA) in 2018. On the other hand, Pugazhendi, who was serving as chief engineer in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), was due to retire from service on attaining the age of 58, on June 30, 2016. He made a representation on June 21, 2016, seeking an extension of service. On the same day, the then GCC Commissioner wrote to the government, recommending a two-year extension for Mr. Pugazhendi, since his services were required for ongoing projects. The government accepted the recommendation and extended his services by two years, after upgrading his post as principal chief engineer. In June 2018, his service was extended by two years, on similar grounds. A problem arose on December 12, 2019, when a G.O was issued directing Mr. Natarajan and Mr. Pugazhendi to swap their positions, by way of a transfer, though the post in GCC was lower in rank. Though the former challenged the G.O. through the present writ petition, the tenure of the latter came to an end on June 30, before any interim order could be passed. However, on the same day, another G.O. was issued, appointing Mr. Pugazhendi as chief engineer in the office of CMA, on contract basis. Immediately, the petitioner amended his prayer and challenged the June 30 G.O. too, on the ground that Mr. Pugazhendi was not eligible to be appointed as chief engineer in the office of CMA. The judge quashed the December 2019 G.O. through which Mr. Natarajan was transferred, and the June 30 G.O. by which Mr. Pugazhendi was appointed.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M to help Rajasthan govt. improve road safety||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has signed an agreement with the Rajasthan government to implement a framework to improve road safety in the State. Rajasthan government’s Transport Commissioner Ravi Jain and IIT-Madras’ Dean for Industrial Consultancy and Sponsored Research Ravindra Gettu signed the agreement recently. Mr. Jain said Rajasthan was one of the pilot States to implement the Integrated Road Accident Database. According to Rajasthan Transport Minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas the institute’s Rehabilitation Bioengineering Group (RBG) laboratory in the Department of Engineering Design would help implement the Tamil Nadu model of road safety in his State. The aim is to reduce road fatalities by half by 2030. The institute would develop a registry and help build data-driven trauma care. Mr. Gettu said the Institute would build the capability of various stakeholders in the Rajasthan government. The collaboration would involve various State departments, including the Public Works, the National Highways Authority of India, the police, health and medical services. Capacity and capability Venkatetsh Balasubramanian, faculty in-charge of RBG labs, who is coordinating the initiative said Rajasthan would develop capacity and capability. It would be essential in implementing and using the information from the IRDA of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, he said. MoRTH Secretary Giridhar Aramane said the ministry had been backing RBG labs to take its structured data-driven system approach across the country. He expressed hope to see the initiative have a major impact in Rajasthan.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man from West Bengal held for stealing gold jewellery||The Pondy Bazaar police arrested a 34-year old man from West Bengal, who had allegedly stolen gold jewellery and diamonds from a jewellery making unit in the area. The police said complainant Mahaveer Jain, 53, is a resident of Krishna Street, and runs a jewellery making unit in Pondy Bazaar. The suspect Pran Chander, 30, a native of West Bengal, was working in the unit for the past year. On verifying inventory, Mr. Jain last week found that 400 g of gold jewellery and diamonds worth Rs. 40 lakh were missing. Chander was also missing, and his mobile phone was switched off. Following a complaint from the owner of the jewellery making unit, the police took up the matter for investigation and arrested Pran Chander. They recovered the stolen jewellery and diamonds from him.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New testing facility to be set up at Chennai airport||A new COVID-19 testing facility will start functioning inside the Chennai airport for passengers who are symptomatic and those who want to get themselves tested. This laboratory has been in the works for a few months and sources said it could be opened next week. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said a government authorised lab would set up this COVID-19 facility in the international arrival hall. “We have already spoken to them and arrangements are being made now. It will be up and functioning latest by next Monday. This lab will be open for a year. We have instructed them to fix prices for tests based on the government’s instructions,” an official said. International passengers landing at the airport have been carrying a COVID-19 negative certificate for a few months now. But after the news of emergence of a new mutant strain emerging in the U.K. and a temporary suspension of flights in the last two days, the State government has started taking samples from passengers. “Though this lab was planned earlier, it is now even more significant. Any passenger who is symptomatic or wants to get tested because they do not have a COVID-19 negative certificate can do so here. We have found a place inside the terminal to isolate passengers till they get the results,” another official said. In the last one week, nearly 200 passengers from the U.K have arrived. Flights were suspended with effect from December 22 to December 31.  This lab will be open for a year. We have instructed them to fix prices for tests based on the government’s instructions AAI official
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two Amma Mini Clinics inaugurated||The Chennai Corporation has opened two Amma Mini Clinics in Teynampet zone in the city. The two clinics were inaugurated in Kodambakkam by Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Wednesday. He inaugurated the clinics at Trustpuram and said they would play a vital role in providing free medical assistance to economically downtrodden people.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambattur police arrest 2 for assault||The Ambattur police on Wednesday arrested two youth for harassing a woman and assaulting her husband. The police said Yuvaraj, 30, a resident of Menamedu, was walking with his wife in the area. Two youth, who came there, harassed her.  Attacked with stones When Mr. Yuvaraj intervened, the duo pushed him and his wife down before attacking them with stones, the police added. Mr. Yuvaraj, who was injured in the attack, was admitted to a private hospital. On his complaint, the police arrested the duo, who were identified as Deepak, 19, and Karthik, 21, and remanded them in judicial custody.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot elected president of MEASI||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, has been unanimously elected the president of the Muslim Educational Association of Southern India (MEASI) for the second term. He will be the president for a three-year tenure. The Nawab was elected president in the 118th annual general body meeting of the MEASI held on Wednesday. Elias Sait, chartered accountant and secretary general, Seafood Exporters Association of India, and M. Haja Najimuddin, businessman, have also been elected unopposed, as honorary secretary and honorary treasurer of the association, along with other office-bearers and executive committee members. The MEASI, situated on Peters Road, Royapettah, is the parent body of several educational institutions.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20 seats allotted in veterinary courses||A total of 20 candidates were allotted seats under the special category seats in undergraduate veterinary programmes on the first day of counselling on Wednesday. P. Kumarasamy, controller of examination at the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said all the 118 candidates who had applied under the special categories such as persons with disabilities, candidates under sports quota and wards of ex-servicemen had been called. Only 59 candidates had turned up for counselling. Mr. Kumarasamy said if candidates forgo their seat it would be offered to those on the waiting list. All vacant seats would later be added to the general pool. TANUVAS will conduct online counselling for general category from Thursday. Counselling will be held from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 28. Eligible candidates may register for online counselling based on their cut-off marks. Details of cut off are provided in the university websitewww.tanuvas.ac.inorwww2.tanuvas.ac.in.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||About 196 g of gold was seized at Chennai airport by the Air Customs. A press release said Subam Kumar, a passenger from Dubai, was detained at the exit and officials recovered 196 g of gold from him in the form of a paste. In one more case, officials found 290 g of gold cut bits concealed in black adhesive tapes within the hollow pipes of a baggage trolley.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Heed the demands of farmers’||The DMDK, an NDA ally, urged the Central government to consider the demands of farmers protesting in Delhi against the three farm laws. “Only if the farmers set foot on the fields, can we put our hands on food. So the Central and State governments should come forward to resolve the issues faced by farmers,” DMDK founder Vijayakant said in a statement. He also urged the State to grant compensation to farmers whose crops were affected by the cyclones.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK against extension of postal ballot to select voters||The DMK has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court, challenging a decision taken by the Election Commission of India (EC) to permit voters aged over 80, physically challenged persons and those under quarantine to opt for postal ballots for exercising their franchise. Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan on Wednesday adjourned the case to January 7, at the request of senior counsel P. Wilson, who urged the court to tag it along with a similar petition. The party apprehended that creating a new class for postal ballots might pave way for malpractices. In his affidavit, DMK’s organising secretary R.S. Bharathi said the Representation of the People Act, 1951, permitted only a select group of people to cast their votes through postal ballots. However, Section 60 (c) empowered the EC to notify a new class of voters for postal ballots. Urging the court to declare Section 60 (c) of the Act unconstitutional, the party wanted all consequential statutory rules made thereunder, and notifications issued by EC to be declared illegal. It sought for an interim order, restraining EC from processing applications for postal ballots under category of “absentee voters”.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||FPS staff seek thorough check of PoS machines||Ahead of the distribution of Pongal goodies, fair price shop (FPS) employees were worried about the efficiency of point of sale (PoS) machines that the State Government had given them. The connectivity was so poor that the employees found it difficult to quickly attend to customers, complained G. Rajendran, State president, Tamil Nadu Arasu Gnyaya Vilai Kadai Paniyalargal Sangam (an association of fair price shop employees). The government had given them only machines with 3G network connectivity. The machine and the bandwidth available at several places delayed authenticating the customers’ fingerprint. This was more pronounced in Mettupalayam and a few other pockets in the district in the last two days after the government had ordered the employees to resume using the machines. The government had earlier suspended the use of machines after complaints, the association president said and added that the government that launched the use of machines under the ‘One Nation One Card’ scheme ought to have thoroughly tested the utility of the machines while conducting the pilot study in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. With the employees about to launch distribution of tokens for distribution of Pongal goodies from December 26 and the distribution of goodies from January 4, the government would do well to do a thorough check, he demanded. Sources in the district administration said the connectivity-related complaints received from a few pockets in the district were temporary and was solved. It happened for an hour after the shops reopened on Monday and Tuesday and by Tuesday noon all issues were sorted out. The problem was with the server and the administration was keeping a close tab, the sources added.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Private colleges demand representation in BU Syndicate||The Association of Self-financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu has urged the Bharathiar University to increase the Syndicate strength by accommodating more secretaries. Petition submitted In a representation, submitted a few days ago to Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj, the association said at the time of enactment of the Bharathiar University Act in 1981 there was a balanced representation of University and affiliated colleges. Then there were only 22 colleges and 10 departments in the university. With the passage of time as the number of university departments increased, the number of university representatives increased in the Syndicate in keeping with the norm that there shall be a representative in the Syndicate for every 10 heads of department. But when it came to affiliated self-financing colleges neither the university nor the State Government followed a similar yardstick. And, the number of representatives from affiliated colleges remained static at two for principal and two for teachers from affiliated colleges. At present, there were 99 self-financing colleges, their faculty strength was around 15,000 and students nearly two lakh. The association further said that to date the secretaries of the self-financing colleges did not have any representation in the Syndicate. When it moved the Madras High Court seeking better representation in the Syndicate, the court observed that in all fairness, Syndicate must be a miniature of all stakeholders and that when the number of self-financing colleges had increased so should their representation. In keeping with the court’s observation, the university should take steps to have one secretary in the Syndicate for every 10 self-financing colleges, which would be on a par with the representation provided to university heads of department, the association said and reminded the Vice-Chancellor that it had been a year since the court made the observation.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Demobilisation parade held in city||Around 800 personnel from the Coimbatore City Armed Reserve Police participated in the annual demobilisation parade held here on Wednesday. Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan inspected the parade held at the AR Grounds in P.N. Palayam. The parade is part of the demobilisation training given to the AR personnel on tackling various situations, police sources said. While the City AR Police has 961 personnel, around 150 did not participate. Later, around 260 police vehicles were checked as part of the annual routine. The condition of the vehicles and the status of fitness certificates were inspected, according to the sources.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PLCP projects higher credit outlay for next fiscal||The credit outgo next financial year (2021-2022) in Coimbatore district is expected to be Rs. 22,965.47 crore according to the potential-linked credit plan (PLCP) . District Collector K. Rajamani on Wednesday released the plan prepared by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. The plan looks at 11.72 % higher credit outgo next fiscal compared to the current year. This will include Rs. 8,038 crore for agriculture sector, Rs. 9,982 crore for MSMEs, and Rs. 4945 crore for other sectors. Mr. Rajamani said that with mechanisation in the farming sector, improvement in agri infrastructure, and better irrigation facilities, farmers will realise higher income. The Collector also held a separate meeting here to discuss ways to improve exports from the district. He said at the meeting that industrial growth was important for economic development and Coimbatore was a major industrial centre in the State. It had a lot of manufacturing units and exporters. He urged officials of various government departments to create awareness among students, self-help group members, MSMEs, and industries on the government schemes and benefits of exports. He pointed out the need to encourage first generation entrepreneurs and exports.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation lifts samples from UK returnees||The Coimbatore Corporation has identified and lifted samples from 75 persons, who travelled to the city from the United Kingdom. Sources familiar with the development said following instruction from the Central and State governments, the civic body had identified the persons who had travelled in the last 10 - 15 days. Though they had tested negative at the time of entering the city, the civic body had again lifted samples. At the time of lifting samples, if any of the family members of those who had returned from the UK exhibited symptoms, the Corporation also lifted samples from them. It then had advised the persons and family, wherever necessary, to stay indoors. The collected samples have been sent for testing. The Corporation had closed the five triage centres that had been started when the COVID-19 cases were high. The sources said the civic body had opened five such centres to act as nodal points for persons who showed symptoms or had tested positive. It was from here that the Corporation sent such persons to government or private hospitals. Likewise, the Corporation had also brought down the strength of medical personnel at COVID-19 care centres as the number of positive persons had declined. Only a hall in the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex was active. The case count as of December 23 stood 97 with the daily count hovering around eight to 12 a zone. But the Corporation did not surrender all the halls or wedding halls it had taken possession of for establishing the care centres as it would need those for exigencies, sources added.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for attempt to sell tusks||The Forest Department have arrested six persons, including an anti-poaching watcher (APW), on charges of attempting to sell a pair of elephant tusks. Officials said on Wednesday that the six accused -- APW K. Samiyappan (30), a temporary worker with the Forest Department, A. Kathavarayan (50), brokers M. Sikendhar Basha (37), P. Manikandan (38) and A. Nanthakumar (39) and a security guard at a private farm K. Sarathi (67) were arrested on Tuesday evening. In a joint operation with Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Forest officials from Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) raided a pets shop on Pollachi-Valparai Road on Tuesday evening and seized the tusks. The raid followed inputs from the WCCB officials in Chennai. Investigations revealed that Samiyappan and Kathavarayan removed the tusks from a decomposed elephant carcass in the Pollachi forest range during a patrol. They intended to sell it to meet personal expenses, the officials said. They sought the help of Basha, who helped them bury the tusks in a private farm with the assistance of the security guard, Sarathi. The tusks were later stored at the pets shop with the help of brokers Manikandan and Nanthakumar. Samiyappan had been working as an APW for the past seven years at ATR, the officials said. The six accused were booked under various sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and remanded in judicial custody at the Coimbatore Central Prison.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cinema theatres introduce private screening to attract audience||With cinema theatres being open to audience for over a month, a few theatres in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have introduced private screening to attract viewers as COVID-19 cases see a decline. In Tiruppur, Sri Sakthi Cinemas in Valipalayam will allow 25 members to occupy an entire cinema hall for birthday parties and any gathering of family or friends. S. Karthikeyan, Director of Sri Sakthi Cinemas, said that amid the pandemic, the audience will feel “more secure” if they are surrounded by their family members or friends. The offer begins at Rs. 4,000 for 25 members and additional members will be charged extra, he said. With eight screens available in the theatre, private screenings will be held in parallel to regular screenings, according to Mr. Karthikeyan. Meanwhile, the multiplex PVR Cinemas at Brookefields mall in Coimbatore introduced private screening on its reopening on November 10, said K. Srinath, General Manager (Coimbatore) of PVR Cinemas. “Till date, we have done more than 40 private screenings,” he said on Wednesday. With six screens, one of them is dedicated to private screening while regular shows will take place in the rest, Mr. Srinath said. The cost of each private screening starts from Rs. 2,750. As per the response, private screenings might continue into the next year, he said. K.G. Cinemas, another popular theatre in Coimbatore, will begin private screenings from January. A theatre official said that the screens see only “10%” of seating, even though the footfall has seen a relative increase since November. Feasibility issues President of Coimbatore Film Distributors Association K. Rajamannar said that the private screening initiative will be feasible only for multiplexes. Over 100 smaller cinema theatres in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts are yet to see a substantial increase in the arrival of audience and cannot afford to have private screenings, he said.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six held for trying to sell tusks||The Forest Department has arrested six persons, including an anti-poaching watcher (APW), for attempting to sell a pair of elephant tusks. In a joint operation with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Forest Department officials from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve raided a private pet shop on the Pollachi-Valparai Road on Tuesday. Inquiries revealed that K. Samiyappan, an APW, and Kathavarayan, who was assisting him, came across a heavily decomposed elephant carcass in the Pollachi forest range during a patrol earlier in December. The tusks were removed from the carcass by the duo, officials said.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||GoAir adds Coimbatore to its domestic network||GoAir will launch direct, daily flights between Coimbatore and Mumbai on December 24. Adding Coimbatore to its domestic network, GoAir will link Mumbai to Coimbatore with a daily direct flight (Airbus 320neo) that will have a seating capacity of 180 passengers. GoAir flight G8 0331 will depart from Mumbai at 12.40 p.m. and arrive at Coimbatore at 2.30 p.m. On return, GoAir flight G8 0332 will depart from Coimbatore at 3 p.m. and arrive at Mumbai at 4.50 p.m. According to a press release, the schedule of the flight has been planned to allow quick and convenient connections to Coimbatore. Kaushik Khona, Chief Executive Officer of GoAir, said, “Our entry into Coimbatore is in line with the growth strategy that we adopted for domestic markets. The domestic air travel demand is witnessing a continued recovery, with passengers increasing 10% month-on-month to around 63.54 lakh in November. Responding to the demand, we are delighted to announce the launch of new daily direct services to Coimbatore," he said. Passengers can also choose from a range of GoHoliday packages from Coimbatore. They can choose a package to the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal or both. In the future, GoAir will consider offering to those from Coimbatore the facility to book to international destinations. However, this facility will depend on the destination and pass through city, he said. Soon, GoAir will look at adding more domestic destinations that can be connected with Coimbatore, he added.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIYF members removed||City Police removed 122 members of the All India Youth Federation (AIYF) who staged a demonstration in front of a Reliance-owned outlet near Peelamedu on Tuesday. They demanded the repeal of the farm laws. They were detained at a hall and released in the evening.
24 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA holds ward committee meeting||Singanallur MLA and DMK’s Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik on Wednesday held ward committee meeting for Balasundaram Layout, Iyer Layout and areas that fell in Ward 62 of the Corporation. He listened to the people who highlighted poor drinking water supply, faulty street lights, bad roads, slow pace of underground drainage work and mosquito menace as their grievances. At the end of the meeting, people also participated in a signature campaign that the party had organised, said a press release from Mr. Karthik.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PRS counters timings||The Salem Division of Southern Railway announced on Wednesday that all the Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters operating in railway stations will function for only one shift on Friday for Christmas. The PRS counters will be open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Friday, a release said.
24 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul Collector reviews arrangements for ‘Thai Poosam’ at Palani temple||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said that all precautions would be in place for the Thai Poosam celebrations, which begin at the famous Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple, Palani from January 22 with flag hoisting. Presiding over the meeting, attended by officers from various departments in the district, including the HR&CE Joint Commissioner B Kranti Kumar Pati, police, fire and health, she said that the crowd management had to be strictly as per the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government. The guidelines with respect to COVID-19 have to be adhered to during the festival time. She appealed to the media to create awareness and educate the devotees visiting the shrine. Though the Covid-19 had been brought under control in the district, Ms. Vijayalakshmi said that they cannot be negligent and sought cooperation from each stakeholder. The police would install 12 watch towers for easy and precise viewing of crowd movement in and around the town from the beginning of the celebrations. The number of men and women to be deployed on bandobust duty was discussed during the meeting. Similarly, the fire and rescue services personnel said that they would position the vehicles in vantage locations. The devotees, who may take a dip at the Idumbankulam and Shanmuganadhi, would have to cooperate with the volunteers at the spot, the officials said and added that 12 dormitory halls in the Melagiri Veedhi, with sufficient bathrooms and restrooms would also be in place. The officials from HR&CE department said that for the benefit of the devotees, eight special counters to issue tickets would be opened and mobile sheds would be put up. Apart from drinking water facility, they have also planned to have first aid kits/staff to assist the needy during the visit to the shrine. The holy flag would be hoisted on January 22 at 7 a.m. marking the commencement of the Thai Poosam. The celestial wedding would be performed on January 27 at 7.30 p.m. and the grand Thai Poosam would be held on the following day and the float (Theppa Ther) would be on January 31, with which the festival would conclude.
24 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Swab samples lifted from 16 U.K. returnees||Swab samples were lifted from the sixteen persons who returned from the United Kingdom to the district in the last two weeks, and they were home quarantined on Wednesday. All the 16 had tested negative in Britain. They boarded the flight to Bengaluru and arrived here from December 15. However, swab samples were not lifted from them at the airport and they had reached various destinations in the district by car. Following the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the U.K., the Union Health Ministry had directed the health departments to isolate them and lift swab samples for testing. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that the swab samples lifted from the 16 persons were sent to the laboratory at the Government District Headquarters and Hospital at Perundurai. “They are instructed to remain under home isolation and are being monitored,” she added. If the returnees had symptoms such as fever or cough, they are asked to alert the health officials immediately, officials said. The officials are in the process of preparing a list of persons who had returned from the U.K. in the last one month.
24 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||52.47 lakh free laptops given to school students so far: Minister||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said that the State Government had from 2013 to till date given 52.47 lakh free laptops to school students in the State. Distributing bicycles to the tune of Rs. 27.32 lakh to 692 students of various schools in Gobichettipalayam here on Wednesday, the Minister said that the government was providing 14 items free of cost to students. In 2013, the then Chief Minister Jayalalitha had inaugurated the distribution of free laptops to school students, and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran had started the noon meal scheme to encourage students attend schools regularly.  Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the new syllabus introduced by the School Education department would ensure jobs for students once they completed Plus-Two. Steps were taken to convert 80,000 black boards into smart boards, he said and added that work was under way to establish 742 Atal Tinkering Lab in the schools. Bhavani Sagar MLA S. Eswaran, Gobichettipalayam RDO Jayaraman, Chief Educational Officer R. Murugan and other officials were present.
24 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances redress meet on Dec. 29||The monthly farmers’ grievances redress meeting will be held through video-conferencing at 10.30 a.m. on December 29. District Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that farmers and representatives of farmers’ associations can participate in the video-conferencing by visiting the Office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture at each taluks or at the Office of the Joint Director of Agriculture in Erode. Farmers can also submit their grievances as petitions to the Assistant Directors at each taluks. Petitions received will be forward to the officials concerned for necessary action.
24 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Karavaikal line, December 23 (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.): Kandampalayam and Karavaikal areas. Market and Town lines, December 24 (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) : EVN Road, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam Road, Periyanna Street, Vamalai Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Nachiappa Street, Bharathi Street, Set Colony, Thillai Nagar, Bus Stand, Cauvery Road, Marapalam Road, NMS Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, T.V.S. Road, Nethaji Street, Jinna Street, Periyar Mandram, Cutchery Street, Manikoondu, Indira Nagar Layout, Kuppakadu, Janaki Ammal Layout, Muthurangan Street, Ramasamy Street, Venkatachalam Street and Agraharam areas.
24 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Vacant land abutting service road turns dumpyard in Krishnagiri||The Swachh Bharat Mission appears a far cry as one passes through the service road of NH-44 on the Krishnagiri-Bengaluru national highway near the Collectorate.  The vast expanse of land abutting the service road in the vicinity of the Anjaneya temple has been turned into a dumpyard, with allegations traded between the panchayat and municipality as to who is the polluter. The garbage dumped in all forms, including scrap, on the plot abutting the service road spills over on to the road, with stray animals foraging for food as vehicles zoom past. The area on the fringes of Kattiganapalli panchayat is also where the jurisdiction of Krishnagiri Municipality ends. There lay the problem, says Govindaraj, husband of the panchayat president Gayatri Devi. “Hotels and municipality residents dump their waste here. Earlier, our panchayat residents would dump garbage here. But over the last four months, that was stopped and there is door-door collection of garbage. We have a solid waste management system in place,” claims Mr. Govindaraj. According to him, poultry waste was getting dumped on the site, with it being border and no monitoring. “There is a significant amount of hotel waste that gets dumped.” “Kattiganapalli panchayat waste gets disposed off in the garbage shed near housing board Phase II and not here. Besides, there are 2,500 households and 6,000 votes in the nearby villages and their waste is properly collected and segregated at source through biocarts,” says Mr.Govindaraj.  Kattiganapalli panchayat is also in the process of setting up incinerators to dispose off waste. “This needs to dealt with though I do not know if the municipality is aware of this dumping of their waste here,” says Mr. Govindaraj. However, a municipality official said that the area belonged to the panchayat and the municipality had no control over what happened outside of their limits.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bull owners, tamers welcome nod||Organising committees, bull owners, tamers and residents across Madurai district welcomed the State government’s decision to conduct jallikattu, a popular bull taming sport held during Pongal. Members of Alanganallur Jallikattu Committee distributed sweets and burst crackers near the vaadivasal (entry point to the arena) to celebrate the government’s announcement. “We were anxious that jallikattu would not be held this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Fortunately, the government has permitted conducting the event this year,” said V. Balaji, vice-chairman of Alanganallur Jallikattu Committee. It would be ensured that all safety precautions mentioned by the government were strictly followed, added Mr. Balaji. According to the SOP mentioned by the government, a maximum of 300 bull tamers could participate in the event and all players must produce COVID-19 negative test reports. Spectators would be allowed only up to 50% of the total strength of the gallery to ensure that personal distancing norms were followed. All spectators must undergo thermal screening and compulsorily wear face masks. There would be practical difficulty in ensuring that spectators followed personal distancing norms during the event, said A.K. Manoharavel Pandian, treasurer of the jallikattu organising committee of Palamedu. “Usually, thousands of spectators throng the venues to watch jallikattu. Adequate infrastructure arrangements have to be made to regulate the crowd,” he said. B. Manikandaprabu, a bull tamer, said the government must arrange for multiple centres to test bull tamers to avoid overcrowding. Arrangements must be made to avoid crowding both at holding yards as well as collection points.
24 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sattur woman will be given Siddha treatment’||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that Rasagandhi Mezhugu , Amukkara Choornam and Nellikkai Legiyam (RAN) Siddha therapy would be given to the Sattur woman who was transfused with HIV-infected blood at a government hospital in 2018. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi had earlier sought to know if Siddha treatment could be given to the woman. The court was also informed by the State that her appointment to the post of Office Assistant at Sattur Government Hospital was regularised as per the direction of the court. However, with regard to appointment to the post of Junior Assistant, the State told the court that it came under the purview of Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC). Taking into account the fact that there would be only a difference of Rs. 4,000 in the salary drawn, the court accepted the submission. Further, taking note of the fact that the woman would be drawing a salary of around Rs. 20,000 per month, the court directed allocation of additional financial assistance of Rs. 7,500 to her per month from January 2021, as she would have to spend Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 on nutrition per day. Earlier, she was paid a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh as per the court’s direction. Apart from the compensation amount, the State had constructed a house for the woman and she was also provided a two-wheeler on the orders of the court. The court directed the State to ensure that medical experts continued to provide periodical counselling to her husband and her neighbours as they had boycotted her. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions that sought a direction to the State government to provide the woman an appropriate compensation. The court directed the case to be posted for further hearing after four months.  Ensure that medical experts continue to provide counselling to her husband and neighbours Madurai Bench
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK leaders interact with villagers, listen to grievances||As part of a State-wide initiative, DMK leaders on Wednesday conducted meetings with villagers at various places across the district. Madurai East MLA P. Moorthy, who held a meeting at Poigaikaraipatti, said residents complained about irregularities in supply of commodities at ration shops. There was also discussion closure of a TASMAC outlet and delay in receiving old age pension. Former minister and DMK Madurai Urban (North) Secretary Pon. Muthuramalingam held a meeting with residents At Andhaneri village. Mr. Muthuramalingam said a majority of the residents belonged to the Scheduled Tribes. “They used to tell fortune using the traditional kudukuduppu for a living but have moved to different professions. The residents stressed on the lack of job opportunities for many of them.” They also complained about the difficulty in procuring community certificates. Open drainage and lack of burial ground and toilets were the other issues highlighted by them, added Mr. Muthuramalingam. DMK’s Madurai Urban (South) secretary G. Thalapathi held a meeting with residents of Solai Alagupuram.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online MSME programme||Madurai Extension Centre for MSME-Technology Development Centre, an autonomous body of the Central government, is organising an online programme from December 27 to 31. The programme will focus on providing guidance on starting a business. It is aimed at catering to the needs of entrepreneurs aspiring to start a business, skilled workers, homemakers, educated youth and students interested in starting their own business. E-certificates will be issued to those who complete the programme. Interested persons can contact 8870990816 or 8667065048.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||194 kg ganja seized; two women arrested||Sindupatti police seized 194 kg of ganja stealthily stocked in a house at Echampatti and arrested two women on Tuesday. The police said that they raided the house of T. Jayakumar (42) and found that the contraband, reportedly bought from Andhra Pradesh, was stocked in the house. Though Jayakumar was absconding, the police arrested his wife, Jeyasudha (38) and his mother T. Ranjitham (65), in this connection. The police are on the lookout for the absconding accused.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Indian rupee devalued thrice since 1947: RBI tells HC||The Indian rupee was devalued thrice: 1949, 1966 and 1991. Reserve Bank of India made the deposition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday. The court was hearing an appeal preferred by a group of SI post aspirants. The appeal was preferred against the order of a single judge, who held that the Indian rupee was devalued three times since 1947, while deciding a writ petition that challenged an expert committee’s answer to the question: four times. The court directed the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) to award the marks to the petitioners. The bone of contention: How many times was the Indian rupee devalued since 1947? While the preliminary answer key gave it as three times, the final answer key mentioned it as four. The single judge held that the expert committee also took into account the demonetisation of currency in 2016. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that it appeared to be a tricky question. Strictly speaking the Indian rupee was devalued three times, but since two steps were involved in 1991, it could be construed as four. Hence, both parties should get the benefit. The court directed TNUSRB to award marks to both parties who gave the answer as three and four times. It directed authorities to rework the process and proceed with the selection. The appeal was disposed of by the Bench.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advocates given two-wheelers||Eight young advocates – four men and four women – practising in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court have two-wheelers now, thanks to the goodwill and support of their colleagues. Four women advocates similarly benefited last year. The fund for purchase of the vehicles was generated from remuneration turned down by advocates appointed as advocate commissioners to assist the court. Contributions were also made by other advocates towards the fund. Administrative Judge of the HC Bench Justice N. Kirubakaran, who mooted the idea of setting up the fund, handed over the keys to the eight advocates on Tuesday. He appreciated the advocates of Madurai for extending their support to the idea and also helping the needy during the lockdown. Last year, Justice Kirubakaran had suggested that a common fund be created to help needy and deserving advocates, who could be identified with the help of bar associations. He appealed to senior advocates and other lawyers to come forward to help their counterparts in need. Following the suggestion, the advocates came together for the noble cause.
24 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Do not wear black coats, gowns during strikes: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to direct advocates not to wear black coats, gowns and neck bands during strikes. The court said the advocates’ dress code should not be misused, and made it clear that it did not endorse strikes. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi passed the direction in a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Tiruchendur, who had sought a direction to the State Bar Council to ensure that advocates follow the dress code during court proceedings and did not wear gowns and neck bands during strikes. In his petition, the advocate said that a dress code was prescribed for advocates under the Bar Council of India Rules. However, some advocates were not following the rules.
24 December 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 77 cr. allocated for renovation of Thengaipattinam harbour: CM||The Tamil Nadu government has allocated Rs. 77 crore for renovation and expansion of the Thengaipattinam Fishing Harbour in Kanniyakumari district, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has said. Participating in the 23rd Christmas celebrations at Arumanai on Tuesday night, Mr. Palaniswami said tThe AIADMK government, which was fulfilling the genuine demands of the Christians, would continue to do so as the contributions of Christians to the fields of education and healthcare were unrivalled. As the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa took care of the Christians’ welfare, his government would also follow the path. Utilizing the subsidy being given by the Tamil Nadu Government, 4,125 Christians had visited the Holy Land and the subsidy for going to ‘Jerusalem pilgrimage’ had been increased from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 37,000. For the renovation of as many as 22 churches across Tamil Nadu, Rs. 55 lakh had been given as grant and the assistance of Rs. 1 crore for beautifying churches increased to Rs. 5 crore, he said. As the Chief Minister arrived at the spot shortly after 9 p.m., he was received with fireworks and 42 cultural events performed by different troupes roped in from Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Kerala. Former Bishop of Kottar Diocese Most Rev. Peter Remigius, Vicar General of Kuzhithurai Diocese Rev. Fr. Russel Raj and others spoke. When Mr. Palaniswami arrived at the Inspection Bungalow here earlier in the evening, 13 government higher secondary school students who have got admission to medical colleges, thanks to the 7.50% horizontal reservation, met the Chief Minister and thanked him in the presence of Collector M. Aravind and Dean, Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College, Dr. Suganthi.
24 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Parties seek same-day polls in T.N., U.T.||The AIADMK and the DMK have asked the Election Commission (EC) to hold the Assembly elections on the same day in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The party leaders raised the demand while presenting their memorandums separately to an EC delegation led by Umesh Sinha, Secretary General. The delegation is in the Union Territory to review measures ahead of the elections scheduled next year. The two parties contended that simultaneous elections in both places were warranted as several regions in Puducherry and Karaikal in the Union Territory were geographically contiguous with Tamil Nadu. The delegation agreed to examine the demand and take a decision accordingly. The political parties also asked the delegation to purge the names of the deceased from the voters’ list as the State Election Department had failed to do so. In a memorandum, AIADMK leaders A. Anbalagan and Om Sakthi Sekar urged the EC to bifurcate polling booths that had more than 1,000 votes in view of the COVID-19 situation. The AIADMK also sought the deployment of new Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) in polling booths. DMK leaders R. Siva and S.P. Sivakumar, in their memorandum, urged the EC not to allow postal ballots for people above 80 years as their votes could be misused. The leaders wanted a special passage provided for them to come and vote in the booth. The DMK also appealed for the bifurcation of polling booths with more than 1,000 votes. The Congress, represented by A.V. Subramanian, Puducherry PCC president, along with other the parties, wanted officials with knowledge of the Tamil language to be posted as election officials. The BJP, in its memorandum submitted by Embalam R. Selvam, had also raised this demand. However, the EC said it would not be possible. CPI(M) leader R. Rajangam, in a memorandum, sought the replacement of the District Election Officer and other election officials who were hand-picked by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. Before it it met representatives of various political parties, the EC team held discussions with Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh, District Election Officer Purva Garg, Karaikal District Election Officer Arjun Sharma and other officials.
24 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sees 34 new virus cases, 44 recoveries||The Union Territory of Puducherry logged 34 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, while 44 patients were discharged. No deaths were reported in the Union Territory. Meanwhile, a woman who was on the same flight as the U.K. returnee who had tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival in Chennai from Delhi, has been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI) here. Though asymptomatic, she will be monitored over a two-week quarantine period as per the Health Ministry guidelines, an official said. The new cases in the U.T. were detected from 2,975 samples. Puducherry saw 20 new cases, Mahe 11 and Karaikal three. No new cases were reported from Yanam. The active cases in the U.T. stood at 350. Of these, 178 were in hospital and 172 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.14%, the case fatality rate 1.66% and the recovery rate 97.41%. The number of samples tested by the Health Department to date came to 4,61,245, of which 4,15,945 were negative. Cuddalore cases Meanwhile, Cuddalore district reported 14 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,554. While 24,172 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 69. In Villupuram district, 13 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 14,905. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases, taking the overall tally to 10,778.
24 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi, CM spar over New Year celebrations||Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday rejected Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi’s letter seeking a ban on New Year celebrations in the Union Territory on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in the context of the emergence of a mutant strain of the virus. Ms. Bedi, in a letter to the Chief Minister, had cited the recent Supreme Court order calling on States not to grant permission for celebrations. The Tamil Nadu government has also banned New Year celebrations at restaurants, clubs and resorts, and has prohibited entry into beaches/thoroughfares on December 31 and January 1. “The limited geography at the tourist-thronging areas pose a challenge that may be unsurmountable. All the good work done to contain the COVID-19 spread is likely to be at peril if the administration takes the risk of permitting New Year celebrations,” Ms. Bedi wrote. According to Ms. Bedi, if Puducherry did not align with Tamil Nadu, beaches here would be overrun with visitors from the neighbouring State. “The question is whether we are ready to compromise health safety for just two days’ business,” she added. In response, Mr. Narayanasamy said the apex court had given broad directions to States/U.T.s after taking into account the COVID-19 situation in respective places. According to him, it was amply clear from the observation of the Supreme Court that strict guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the Central government should be observed for celebrations. Taking into account the directions given by the Supreme Court, the Puducherry State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) had taken a decision not to ban but regulate gatherings and celebrations, Mr. Narayanasamy said. As far as the new strain that was discovered in the U.K. was concerned, there were clear reports that it has not been found in India, he added. Most of the States in India have not banned New Year celebrations, he said. Puducherry was a tourism destination and the livelihood of the people engaged in tourism activities would be severely affected if celebrations are curbed, the Chief Minister said. It was the duty of the Police Department to ensure compliance of the guidelines issued by the Home Ministry, the Health Ministry and the SDMA, he said.
24 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PU to give distance learners two chances to complete course||Pondicherry University (PU) has allowed two extra chances for distance learners to complete their course by taking the online examinations scheduled for January and June next year. A press note from the University said the online examinations were being scheduled as a special gesture from the Vice-Chancellor on the basis of several requests from students. It would enable those who are yet to complete their courses through the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE), and also through the twinning programmes, to finish their programmes. The first online examination has been scheduled from January 18 to February 23. The question papers would be made available online and the students would be writing their examinations from home as a safety measure against COVID-19. The extra chance would benefit all MBA students of the academic year 2005-06 to the 2016-batch and students of M.Com, MA (English, Sociology, Hindi) from the 2014-15 batch to the 2016-batch, who have already exhausted the maximum prescribed period for completing the degree. Another examination session has been scheduled for June for students to complete their courses by re-registering themselves. The procedure for re-registration is uploaded on the University website. The last date for submission of examination application forms and re-registration is December 31 2020. Students who have already registered for the II and IV semester, but have arrear papers in the I and III semesters and wish to write the January examinations, can also apply. Students have to send another application form for the I and III semester arrear papers, along with a requisite fee. The examination details for the June 2021 session would be informed by May 2021. Students are requested to follow the website for notifications. The University said during the last two months, the DDE had been conducting personal contact programme classes in the form of webinars. A large number of students have participated in the online classes. Recorded video lectures are also available on the DDE website so that students who missed the classes could listen and learn, the University said. Study material online All the study material have been made available online so that students could access them during the pandemic. The revised timetable is uploaded on the University website. For exam-related queries, students can contact Arvind Gupta, Assistant Director (DDE Exams), at 0413-2654444 or email: arvindpondy@rediffmail.com. For more details, visit the University website.
24 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Around 2,800 returnees from London being monitored’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Wednesday said around 2,800 persons, who had arrived in the State from the U.K., over the past few days, were under complete observation. These persons were under “three-pronged observation”, he said. Their particulars have been provided to the police and the Health Department, besides local body authorities, he said, speaking to reporters in Veerapatti village, Annavasal block, in Pudukottai district, after inaugurating an Amma Mini Clinic. Asked whether these persons would be subjected to RT-PCR tests again, Mr. Vijayabaskar said the tests had already been done and that they had tested negative. They are under observation to check if they have any symptoms, he said. Appealing to the people not to panic or fear over the rapid spread of a new strain of the virus in the U.K., Mr. Vijayabaskar said the infection continued to be under control in the State. People should strictly adhere to the guidelines laid down by the Health Department, he said. As many as 22 persons who arrived from other countries were tested on Wednesday to rule out the possibility of them being infected with the mutated COVID-19 virus. Health workers lifted samples from persons returning to the State by flights. Of these, 12 passengers arrived in Chennai from Dubai, and nine from Delhi by Air India flights. One person who arrived at the Tiruchi airport was also tested. The person hailed from Thanjavur, according to health officials. On Tuesday, 24 persons coming from various places by flights were tested. Of the 37 samples tested so far, the result of just one has returned positive. The test results of four others are awaited, officials said.  Officials have identified 15 passengers, including those who were seated behind or adjacent to the passenger who had tested positive. His test result is awaited from the National Institute of Virology in Pune.
24 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||19 peafowls found dead||Peafowls were found dead at two villages in Keeranur range. Nine peafowls were found dead in an agricultural field at Veerapatti while 10 were found dead in an unused farm well at Pallanatham on Monday. Samples were taken and sent to Tiruchi to determine the cause of death. Though poisoning was suspected in both cases, the exact cause of death was not known now. Cases have been registered under the The Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972.
24 December 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) continues stir against bad roads in Rajapalayam||Continuing their series of protests against the bad condition of various arterial roads in Rajapalayam town, Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadres on staged a novel protest highlighting dangerous state of roads that were resulting in loss of lives on Wednesday. The cadres conducted a “final procession” here with the demand to immediately set right Chathrapatti road. The party has been conducting several protests, including to lay siege to the Rajapalayam municipal office, as the roads dug up for laying underground drainage, drinking water pipeline scheme were left in a poor state. Even after the digging works have been completed on several roads the municipality was not showing a lackadaisical attitude in re-laying the roads. The recent rains also made life of the road users miserable. The party town secretary, B. Mariappan, participated in the protest in which they enacted the final procession of a road user who died due to the bumpy road.
24 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Dhanushkodi opens to public after 274 days||After 274 days of curfew, Dhanushkodi was thrown open to the public and tourists on Wednesday. The most sought after destination in the Ramanathapuram district, Dhanushkodi was closed for the public on March 23 after the COVID-19 pandemic surfaced. During the curfew, the absence of movement had made the spot wear a deserted look. Though the devotees visiting Rameswaram now were unable to come here as the curfew continued. When the State government had opened up spots like Mahabalipuram, Marina Beach, Courtallam and other tourist spots in Tamil Nadu, the non-opening of Dhanushkodi figured in the media following which the government had ordered opening of the tourist spot. On the first day (Wednesday), people from far and near arrived here and expressed satisfaction over the decision to open up. The tourists and devotees visited Arichalmunai, Muhundarayar Chatram, Kothandaramar Temple. The TNSTC had also commenced bus service here, officials said and added that many devotees performed pujas at the "Sethu Theertham" here.
24 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Festival expo on at Poompuhar||An exhibition to mark Christmas, New Year and Pongal, “Festival Expo”, began at Poompuhar showroom at Anna Pattu Maligai, near Valluvar Statue, here on Wednesday. A Christmas crib, rosewood panels, rosewood 3D paintings, dolls, saris, decorative and gift items for the festival season are on display at the exhibition that was inaugurated by T.G. Vinay, Director, Sericulture Department. Other items include wood products and toys for children. The new arrivals are sari varieties such as Madurai sungudi, Chettinad cotton, silk cotton, Madurai ritham and Pochampalli and towel varieties. Poompuhar has also launched tumbler, bowl, water bottle, plate, children’s tether and tiffin box that are made from neem. Officials said that a sales target of Rs. 5 lakh had been fixed for the exhibition and a special discount of 10% was being offered on all purchases. The prices of products ranged from Rs. 100 to Rs. 5000. All debit and credit cards will be accepted without service charge. In Erode,  the exhibition with similar products, including the Christmas crib, began at Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road. It will be on till January 18, next year. Officials said the prices of products ranged from Rs. 50 to Rs. 15,000.
24 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents, establishments told to pay taxes by December 31||With special camps for tax collection under way in all the four zones, the Salem Corporation has urged the residents and commercial establishments to pay taxes by December 31. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that the special camps were being held from December 15 to 31 to enable people and establishments to pay property tax, drinking water tax, vacant land tax, shop rent, deposit for underground sewerage scheme, deposit for drinking water scheme and other taxes. Special camps have enabled collection of Rs. 3.80 crore, he said and added that people can pay taxes at the mobile tax collection centres or via online atwww.tnurbanepay.tn.gov.inby December 31, 2020. The Commissioner said that individuals whose taxes are outstanding for a longer period were met directly by officials and encouraged to pay the taxes without delay. They were also informed that further delay in paying the taxes will result in action by the Corporation. On Wednesday, Corporation officials disconnected water supply to two shops located on the new bus stand premises, as they had a due of Rs. 2.50 lakh, and sealed the shops. Water supply was also disconnected to four houses in Suramangalam Zone and one house in Ammapet Zone. Mr. Ravichandran urged the people to pay taxes on time and help the Corporation in implementing development projects.
24 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Salem||A history-sheeter was hacked to death by unidentified persons at Kitchipalayam here on Monday night. Police said that P. Chelladurai (40) of Kitchipalayam was involved in over 20 cases including murder, attempt to murder and PDS rice smuggling. Chelladurai reportedly left home in his car at 7.15 p.m. on Monday. A car rammed Chelladurai’s car and at the same time, a few others who came in another car, hacked him, police said. Kitchipalayam police recovered the body and sent it to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. Special teams were formed to nab the accused.
24 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Emergency Care and Recovery Centre opened in Sivaganga||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, a 50-bed Emergency Care and Recovery Centre (ECRC) has been opened here at the Old Government Hospital campus here on Wednesday. Khadi and Village Industries Minister G. Baskaran, who was the chief guest, told reporters that the State government had taken a number of measures to give treatment to the needy, especially, the poor. One among the welfare programmes was the ECRC, he said. The National Health Mission, The Institute of Mental Health, The Banyan and Tamil Nadu government have come together to establish the ECRC in 12 districts across the State in a phased manner. Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy said that the public, who had information about any mentally ill person wandering in any locality in the district, can call 102, 89409-91401 and 90034-11714. The objective of the ECRC is to rescue the persons with mental illness, rehabilitate them and after successful intervention, they would be helped to rejoin their families, said Deputy Director Archana Padmakar of Banyan-ECRC, Chennai. Apart from Sivaganga, it has been proposed to set up the ECRC in Madurai, Cuddalore, Tiruchi, Tenkasi, Erode, Nilgiris, Thanjavur, Thoothukudi, Krishnagiri, Coimbatore and Kanniyakumari district respectively, she said and added that they would enter into an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in this connection with the district administrations. The GH Dean Rethnavel said that 50 beds have been earmarked for the treatment of the patients here at the Old GH campus. Apart from the contribution of social workers from the Banyan, they would also guide in the process of rehabilitation. The Health department officials said that after treatment, as a part of rehabilitation, the patients can be given skill based training by the NGOs and social workers. By doing so, the persons can be useful economically in the family. Thus, reunion and economic well being would help the families to rebuild for a better future, they added. The government would provide monthly assistance, identity cards and among other facilities for the inmates during the treatment time in the ECRC. National Health Mission Program Officer Dr Naganathan proposed a vote of thanks.
24 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||DMK president takes a dig at CM||The DMK president M. K. Stalin has said that the Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who claims to be a farmer, has only been "harvesting wealth" and not foodgrains, here on Wednesday. Speaking through a video-conferencing facility as a part of " Thamizhagam Meetpom" at Karaikudi, he charged the CM, Deputy CM, and the Ministers with being corrupt. "We have given a memorandum to the Governor. This is just a beginning...Many more such memoranda about corruption will follow," he said. This general election would be a crucial one for the DMK as never before in history, Mr. Stalin said and added that when the DMK was in power, it had established a medical college and brought in the Cauvery integrated drinking water project. "I can list out many such programmes implemented then. Can they (AIADMK) tell us of one such programme done for the people of Sivaganga district," he asked. The AIADMK had no locus standi to claim it as friend of minorities when it supported the BJP, which had brought in new laws against the interests of the minorities in the Parliament. The CM was not worried about the people of Tamil Nadu and minorities too were no exception, he charged. Earlier, former Minister KR Periakaruppan, district secretary, presented Rs. 10,000 cash each to 502 senior functionaries in the party from various parts of the district, which also contained a medal, certificate and a shawl. As many as 108 places in the district were connected in which thousands of party functionaries attended, the organisers said.
24 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘We have revolutionised farming, education, industry’||The Tamil Nadu government, despite the prevailing unfavourable situation, has revolutionised the farming, higher education and industrial sectors, taking a range of meticulous steps, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday. Addressing a private function at Sankarankovil, Mr. Palaniswami said his government had been taking “revolutionary steps”, in a sustained fashion, for uplifting the rural poor. The recently enacted 7.5% horizontal reservation has ensured admission of poor government school students to medical colleges, taking the gross enrolment ratio in higher education to 49%, the highest in the country, he said. Thanks to the horizontal reservation, 313 government school students were able to bag seats in MBBS courses, this year. “At a time when poor students becoming doctors is not an ordinary thing, the AIADMK government has made it possible by bringing in the reservation,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The ‘kudimaramathu’ works, being implemented across the State as part of its water management programme, has increased the storage of water in irrigation tanks, lakes, ponds and ooranis . Besides increasing the area under cultivation, ‘kudimaramathu’ works have improved the water table, guaranteeing better drinking water in rural areas. In the industrial sector, the State, thanks to its investor-friendly policies, has attracted industrial investments to the extent of over Rs. 60,000 crore, even during the pandemic. “We have revolutionised vital sectors, including education, farming and industries, in Tamil Nadu, while taking care of the rural poor through people-friendly healthcare policies and development programmes,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said the jallikattu would be organised as part of Pongal celebrations, and hoped the AIADMK registers a resounding victory in the Assembly polls.
24 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI assails CM for Pongal gift||The Chief Minister extended Pongal gift with an eye on the forthcoming elections to the Assembly, State secretary of Communist Party of India R.Mutharasan said on Wednesday. The AIADMK’s intention is to win the elections with money power. It ignored the CPI’s plea for financial assistance to the people when they were badly hit by Gaja cyclone. The government remained silent when its help was sought by the people who had lost their houses and when farmers suffered heavy losses due to the recent cyclone, he told reporters. On Election Commission’s proposal to extend postal ballot facility for octogenarians, he said that the party apprehended that things could go wrong since most of the postal ballots cast during previous elections had been rendered invalid. Assailing Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswamy for supporting Farm Laws, he said the State government was attempting to crush protests by denying permission to opposition parties. The proposed rally and the public meeting to be organised by farmers’ associations demanding withdrawal of farm laws and the Electricity Amendment Bill would be held as per the plan even if the police refused permission, he said.
24 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers stage demonstration||The CITU members among employees of the District Rural Development Department and Municipal Administration Department staged a demonstration in front of the office of Corporation on Wednesday in support of former sanitary workers and those engaged for sanitary work on contract basis. K.Anbu, district deputy secretary, and others raised slogans condemning the civic body for not releasing leave surrender benefits to workers for the past three years, pension benefits to retired employees and not filling up vacancies. They demanded disbursement of salary to sanitary workers before the 5th of every month without fail and regularise the service of contract employees. Demanding that the dearness allowance arrears be disbursed immediately, they urged the civic body to consider and clear the backlog in the appointment of workers on compassionate grounds.
24 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mutharasan criticises CM on Pongal gift announcement||The Pongal cash gift announcement was made by the Chief Minister with an eye on the forthcoming election to the Assembly, CPI State secretary R.Mutharasan said on Wednesday. The AIADMK's intention is to win the elections with money power, he said. The ruling dispensation, in the past, ignored the CPI’s plea to extend financial assistance to the people when they were badly hit by Cyclone Gaja. The government remained silent when its help was sought by people who lost their houses, and by farmers who suffered heavy losses due to the recent cyclones, Mr. Mutharasan said during an interaction with reporters. On the Election Commission’s proposal to extend the postal ballot facility for octogenarians, Mr. Mutharasan said the party apprehended that things might go wrong. He cited instances of most postal ballots cast during previous elections being rendered invalid. Assailing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for supporting the farm laws, the CPI leader said the State government was attempting to crush democratic protests by Opposition parties on the issue through refusal of police permission and other means. “The proposed rally and the public meeting to be organised by farmers' associations demanding the withdrawal of farm laws and the Electricity Amendment Bill will be held as planned,,” he said.
24 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Alumnus donates property worth Rs. 2 crore to school||A former student of Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School here has donated a property worth Rs. 2 crore that generates a monthly rental income of Rs. 58,000 to the 85-year-old school. The donor of the generous contribution does not wish to reveal his identity. The school has coeducation in the primary level. “I wish to provide uninterrupted education for underprivileged girl children. I am happy that Subbiah Vidyalayam has accepted to take over the responsibility on my behalf,” said the U.S.-based donor. Though Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School, catering to the educational needs of the underprivileged children, was not one of the leading schools in the port town till a couple of decades ago, the entry of a few academicians such as the former Principal of Kamaraj College, the late Prof. S. Selvaraj, into the governing body of the school, has done wonders for it. Tireless and selfless work by an able administration has collectively propelled the school to an enviably leading position among all the government and government-aided schools of Thoothukudi district. The donor, who had his primary schooling here, left the school in Class VI. However, the basic education provided by the teachers of the school motivated him to do something significant for the school. When the donor discussed the idea with his brother, a Thoothukudi-based businessman, the latter instantly suggested making a contribution to benefit the Tamil medium students of Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School. Going with this suggestion, the Indian-American has donated the property to ensure a monthly rental income, which is likely to go up at regular intervals. Another alumnus, a software engineer, developed a software for streamlining donations and informing donors of their utilisation transparently. “The transparent system we have put in place while handling donations has, in fact, attracted more donors,” said R. Murali Ganesan, also an alumnus of the school, who initiated a scholarship scheme by donating Rs. 6.8 lakh, apart from encouraging his brother R. Kannan and a relative, Mangai Subbiah, to contribute Rs. 5 lakh each. Three toppers of every Tamil medium class in the school are given Rs. 500-worth nutrients a month, and the tuition fee of deserving students from poor families is being paid from the generous contributions of donors. “We have so far received Rs. 9.3 lakh to pay the tuition fee for poor deserving students ever since the scheme was launched last year,” said Mr. Murali Ganesan. The school has also created an endowment fund, the interest from which is being used to give cash awards to students with outstanding academic achievements or those possessing unique talents. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the school gave Rs. 1,000 each to 201 students’ families as the lockdown had rendered parents jobless. When 20 students could not attend the online classes during the lockdown, they were provided with smartphones to ensure unhindered studies, and another Rs. 50,000 was earmarked for recharging their mobile phones for data.  I wish to provide uninterrupted education for underprivileged girl children Former student
24 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Anonymous alumnus donates property worth Rs. 2 crore to school||A former student of Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School here has donated a property worth Rs. 2 crore that generates a monthly rental income of Rs. 58,000 to the 85-year-old school. The donor of the generous contribution does not wish to reveal his identity. The school has coeducation in the primary level. “I wish to provide uninterrupted education for underprivileged girl children. I am happy that Subbiah Vidyalayam has accepted to take over the responsibility on my behalf,” said the U.S.-based donor. Though Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School, catering to the educational needs of the underprivileged children, was not one of the leading schools in the port town till a couple of decades ago, the entry of a few academicians such as the former Principal of Kamaraj College, the late Prof. S. Selvaraj, into the governing body of the school, has done wonders for it. Tireless and selfless work by an able administration has collectively propelled the school to an enviably leading position among all the government and government-aided schools of Thoothukudi district. The donor, who had his primary schooling here, left the school in Class VI. However, the basic education provided by the teachers of the school motivated him to do something significant for the school. When the donor discussed the idea with his brother, a Thoothukudi-based businessman, the latter instantly suggested making a contribution to benefit the Tamil medium students of Subbiah Vidhyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School. Going with this suggestion, the Indian-American has donated the property to ensure a monthly rental income, which is likely to go up at regular intervals. Another alumnus, a software engineer, developed a software for streamlining donations and informing donors of their utilisation transparently. “The transparent system we have put in place while handling donations has, in fact, attracted more donors,” said R. Murali Ganesan, also an alumnus of the school, who initiated a scholarship scheme by donating Rs. 6.8 lakh, apart from encouraging his brother R. Kannan and a relative, Mangai Subbiah, to contribute Rs. 5 lakh each. Three toppers of every Tamil medium class in the school are given Rs. 500-worth nutrients a month, and the tuition fee of deserving students from poor families is being paid from the generous contributions of donors. “We have so far received Rs. 9.3 lakh to pay the tuition fee for poor deserving students ever since the scheme was launched last year,” said Mr. Murali Ganesan. The school has also created an endowment fund, the interest from which is being used to give cash awards to students with outstanding academic achievements or those possessing unique talents. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the school gave Rs. 1,000 each to 201 students’ families as the lockdown had rendered parents jobless. When 20 students could not attend the online classes during the lockdown, they were provided with smartphones to ensure unhindered studies, and another Rs. 50,000 was earmarked for recharging their mobile phones for data.
24 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Anonymous alumnus donates property worth Rs. 2 crore to Thoothukudi school||A former student of the Subbiah Vidyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School here has donated property worth Rs. 2 crore that generates a monthly rental income of Rs. 58,000 to the 85-year-old school. The donor does not wish to reveal his or her identity. “I wish to provide uninterrupted education for underprivileged girls. I am happy that Subbiah Vidyalayam has agreed to take over the responsibility on my behalf,” said the U.S.-based donor. Though the school, catering to the educational needs of the underprivileged, was not one of the leading schools in the port town till a couple of decades ago, the entry of academicians like the former principal of Kamaraj College, the late Prof. S. Selvaraj, into the governing body of the school has done wonders. The donor, who did his or her primary schooling here, left the school in Class VI. However, the education provided by the teachers of Subbiah Vidyalayam motivated him or her to do something significant for the school. When the donor discussed the idea with his or her brother, a Thoothukudi-based businessman, the latter suggested making a contribution to benefit Tamil-medium students of Subbiah Vidyalayam Girls’ Higher Secondary School.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Mini Clinics inaugurated||Minister for Tourism Vellamandi N. Natarajan inaugurated three Amma Mini Clinics here on Wednesday. They will function at Thennur, Sangiliandapuram and K. Sathanur. The clinics will supplement the 18 Urban Primary Health Centres functioning in different parts of the city. Speaking at a function held at Sangiliandapuram, Mr. Natarajan said that the Amma clinics had been opened where there were no primary health centres and where a large number of poor people live. Each clinic would have a doctor, a nurse and an assistant. The clinics would enable the people, particularly poor, to get quality treatment free of cost at their doorstep. He said the clinics would function from 8 a.m. to noon and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The patients could get treatment for fever, cold, head or body ache. They could check blood pressure, haemoglobin levels, blood sugar levels and test urine samples. Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare S. Valarmathi, Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian and others participated.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||86 fresh cases, no death||The central region on Wednesday reported a drop in COVID-19 cases with 86 patients testing positive. No fresh case was reported in Perambalur district for another consecutive day while no death was reported across the central region. Tiruchi reported 25 fresh cases, the highest in the region on Wednesday. Among the 25 to test positive were local index cases with no travel or contact history or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Meanwhile, nine patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. Tiruvarur district reported a slight spike in cases with 23 patients testing positive for the infection. All other districts in the region reported below 15 fresh cases. Thanjavur and Karur reported an equal number of cases with 11 patients testing positive. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Pallapayalam, Vijayanagar and Periyakulathupalayam. Inter-district travellers too tested positive. Nagapattinam and Pudukottai reported seven fresh cases each. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. One patient tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, no new fresh case was reported, continuing the trend of low cases reported in the two nearby districts. Meanwhile, 376 throat swabs were lifted in Perambalur from people with symptoms and sent to the testing facility for processing.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bad roads irk residents||Roads leading to the Vekkaliamman Temple in the city lie in a dilapidated condition much to the dismay of residents and pilgrims. With devotees visiting temples for Vaikunta Edakashi and New Year, residents say the temple in Woraiyur remains neglected. The road leading to the temple, which can be approached from Kuzhumani Road has many potholes. With the recent rain, the pits have been filled with sewage water from nearby houses and shops. An important structure of the Chola era, the temple is located in the heart of the city. Devotees from far and wide visit the temple. However, the temple has not been considered on a par with other prominent temples, a devotee said. ‘The road was laid four or five years ago. It got damaged very soon. However, authorities continue to ignore it,’ a vendor near the shop said. The recent rains further damaged the road and residents nearby were forced to live with it. When the civic body began underground drainage (UGD) work in the area, problems worsened. ‘They dug up roads for UGD work but did not re-lay them properly. Many visitors stay away from the temple because of bad roads,’ the vendor said. Garbage is being dumped near the temple. It has got accumulated during the lockdown period. Residents throw garbage on roadside but the civic body ignores it, a resident said.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Government ignores public grievances’||Terming the opening of mini clinics by the AIADMK government as an “election gimmick”, senior DMK leader K.N. Nehru on Wednesday said that the people would teach a fitting lesson to the ruling party in the Assembly elections. Speaking to reporters after participating in the gram sabha meeting organised by the DMK at Peruvalanallur near Lalgudi and Kuratheru in the city, he said that unemployment had emerged as a major issue among the youths in urban and rural areas. The people in rural areas were fed up with lack of basic infrastructure such as proper road, drinking water and street lights. Instead of addressing their grievances, the AIADMK government had been trying to deceive the people by opening mini clinics, which was nothing but an election gimmick. The DMK, he said, had submitted a list of corruption charges against the AIADMK Ministers to the Governor for suitable action. The DMK would explore legal remedies if action was not taken against them. The cases against the former DMK Ministers was vendetta politics by the AIADMK. However, the prosecution had failed to prove the motivated charges against them and most of them had been acquitted. The Pongal gift hamper with Rs. 2,500 to the ration card holders would in no way fetch votes to the AIADMK, he said. On Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Hassan invoking the name of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, he said that Mr. Hassan would, otherwise, get no votes. As per the direction of DMK president M.K. Stalin, the DMK organised gram sabha meetings in more than 150 villages in the district, he said. The grievances aired by the people would be compiled and redressed once the DMK was voted back to power, he said. In Pudukottai district, the DMK organised gram sabha meetings in 30 villages. DMK district organiser Chellapandian and party functionaries participated in the meetings. They collected signatures of the people against the AIADMK government.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers observe fast||Farmers under the banner Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Sangankalin Kootamaippu observed a fast here on Tuesday demanding withdrawal of the farm laws and to express their support to the farmers protesting near Delhi opposing the same laws. Around 400 farmers belonging to different associations participated in the fast organised at Melachinthamani and led by its state president Cauvery Dhanapalan. The fast was organised in an open place as permission was not granted by the police to erect ‘pandal.’ Five farmers swooned during the course of the fast apparently due to heat and were rushed to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment, said S. R. Kannan, the district coordinator of the forum. The president of the Uzhavar Uzhaipalar Katchi Chellamuthu, Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam state president Ayyakannu, the Kootamaippu treasurer Ravindran and farmers belonging to different associations took part in the fast.
24 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi starts new programme||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi, inaugurated the first batch of the Post-Graduate certificate programme in Business Analytics and Applications (PGCBAA) earlier this week.   The one-year programme will be offered in a device-to-device mode in association with delivery partner, Jaro education. It is designed to help working professionals to learn the required skills and knowledge for asking meaningful questions, addressing it with analysis of data, and finally make decisions with insights gained from analysis. It provides a framework for transforming data into business acumen to create an effective business decision making process, a press release said. Dr. Godwin Tennyson , Director in-charge, IIM Tiruchi; Satish Maheswarappa, Chairperson, Executive Education and Consulting, and Programme Director, PGCBAA; Gajanand M.S., Programme Director, PGCBAA; and Sanjay Salunkhe, Chief Executive Officer, Jaro Education, addressed the batch of 131 students enrolled for the programme. K. Ganesh, Senior Knowledge Expert and Global Lead - Manufacturing and Supply Chain Center of Competence, McKinsey & Company, Inc., highlighted the need for professionals to develop capability to apply analytics in business. He dwelt on post COVID-19 impact on business and how organisations have transformed to integrate analytics in the decision-making process.
24 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi continues electioneering||Thoothukudi MP K. Kanimozhi continued her second day electioneering in Radhapuram, Nangnueri and Ambasamudram Assembly segments where she met people from various walks of life. Ms. Kanimzohi, who started her second day electioneering in the coastal hamlet of Koottapuli, met the fishermenand the parish priest at his official residence close to the church. She opened additional classrooms built in Sri Muthuramman High School at Kannankulam on an outlay of Rs. 25 lakh released from her Local Area Development Fund. Since a good number of youth from Koodankulam area, who are facing cases for reportedly participating in the anti-Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project struggle, cannot get passport and hence, cannot even apply for overseas assignments, Ms. Kanimozhi met them at Koodankulam and Chettikulam. When Ms. Kanimozhi, after meeting the traders at Kaavalkinaru Junction, came to Valliyoor around noon, a huge crowd received her and she addressed the crowd from her campaign vehicle. At South Kallikulam, she interacted with college students and met beedi rollers, farmhands and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme labourers at Parappaadi near Nanguneri. After visiting Ervadi and Kalakkad, Ms. Kanimozhi participated in the DMK’s gram sabha meeting held at Karisalpatti.  Tirunelveli MP S. Gnana Thiraviam, former Speaker R. Avudaiyappan, former Radhapuram MLA M. Appavu and former District Panchayat chairman M. Gramaham Bell accompanied Ms. Kanimozhi.
24 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC arrests milk procurement manager||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Wednesday arrested an Aavin milk procurement manager of the Vellore District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union for reportedly demanding bribe to clear payment dues. According to DVAC sources, Deputy Superintendent of Police K.S. Hemachitra and team arrested the manager in Sathuvachari based on a complaint from Murugaiyan, 50, a resident of Sorakolathur in Tiruvannamalai district. Mr. Murugaiyan collects milk from societies and deposits them in chilling centres. However, he was yet to receive payment dues of Rs. 1.81 lakh for last year. It is reported that the manager demanded a bribe to clear the dues. Mr. Murugaiyan lodged a complaint with the DVAC and a trap was set. The manager was caught red-handed while taking the bribe. Further investigation is on.
24 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||29 test positive for COVID-19 in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,071 with 29 new infections reported on Wednesday. While 19,499 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 233. The district’s death toll is 339. In Ranipet district, 10 persons were reported positive, taking the total to 15,846. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,387 with two persons testing positive on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total number to 19,056. Of this, 18,670 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 106.   In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total number to 19,056
24 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK has no locus standi to speak about corruption’||Tamil Nadu Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Wednesday said the DMK had no locus standi to say anything about corruption since it held the dubious distinction of introducing corruption in the country. Reacting to the “corruption list” submitted by DMK president M.K. Stalin to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, he said the DMK, which could not prove the corruption charges it had earlier levelled against the AIADMK government, had now hurriedly met the Governor and levelled similar charges. Reading out the list of cases registered against former Ministers, Members of Parliament and sitting Legislators of the DMK, he said as many as 368 cases were pending. “As many as 22 former Ministers of the DMK were facing 101 cases on charges of corruption, land-grabbing and cheating. On the contrary, we have nothing to fear.” “The DMK has filed cases against the AIADMK in various courts and we will face them. The investigation will only establish that the AIADMK is not involved in any case of corruption,” Mr. Shanmugam told presspersons here. Referring to the DMK’s allegations of huge corruption in the award of government tenders to private companies for laying fibre optic cables in the State, the Minister said the tender bids were yet to be opened and no participant in the bidding process had challenged the process. The DMK had filed a petition in the Madras High Court alleging irregularities purely out of political vendetta and keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly election. Replying to a question on BJP vice-president K. Annamalai’s remark that the State government was seeking to disburse “stolen money” to the people, he questioned the source of the Rs. 6,000 distributed by the party to farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme.  The DMK has filed cases against the AIADMK... The probe will only establish that the AIADMK is not involved in corruption C.Ve. Shanmugam Tamil Nadu Law Minister
24 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Applications for economic development schemes invited||Virudhunagar district administration has invited applications from Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes persons, aged 18 years to 65 years, for various economic development schemes under Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation. The annual family income has been raised from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh, said Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, in a statement. Besides,, the project cost can be increased based on the eligibility of the applicant and based on the project present. The subsidy is Rs. 30,000 per lakh and the maximum subsidy under the scheme is Rs. 2.25 lakh. Eligible candidates can apply for buying land, developing land, tatkal electricity connection scheme, and for setting up petrol bunks and gas stations under entrepreneur development scheme. They can also apply under self employment programme for youth for setting up hospitals, pharmacy, opticals, physiotherapy centres, clinical laboratories. Subsidy under self help groups economic loan assistance and for discretionary funds of the District Collector and Managing Director, assistance of Rs. 50,000 for preparing for UPSC and TNPSC Group I mains examination and to set up offices by Law graduates, chartered accountants and cost accountants. Online applications should be uploaded throughhttp://application.tahdco. com The applications should be enclosed with photograph, proof of residence, community certificate with number, date of issue, and issuing authority and office. Other details like family annual income, family card, ration card, GST number and project report along with patta/chitta (for buying land and its development) should be provided. For uploading the applications at the office of District Manager (TAHDCO) a fee of Rs. 60 has to be paid, the statement said.
24 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLAs present ‘charge sheet’ against AIADMK at ‘makkal sabha’||‘Makkal sabha’ or ‘people’s council’ conducted by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam with a single point agenda of “Reject AIADMK” attracted good crowd in Virudhunagar district. All the four MLAs, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu, A.R.R. Srinivasan, and S. Thangapandian took part in the meetings held at 34 places across the district. The MLAs presented before the people a charge sheet against the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. ‘Failures’ “Though there are innemerable failures of the present Government on various fronts, we listed before them 10 major failures on law and order, how Tamil Nadu had been betrayed on education and employment front. We also explained to the people how inefficient was this Government,” Mr. Thennarasu said. Stating that the financial mismanagement has led to lot of corruption in the State, he said the AIADMK Government had failed on education front that could not steer clear of NEET that has claimed several lives in the last 10 years. Rights denied Besides, the Government opened up the State Government employment opportunity to the North Indians, thus denying the rights to the local youths, he said. After reading out the chargesheet, it was let for a voice vote wherein people voted in favour of the charges with the slogan of rejecting the AIADMK. During the interaction, many women complained about the recent steep hike of cooking gas price often. “They rued that the quantum jump in the cooking gas price had a telling effect on their finances,” Mr. Thennarasu said. The party cadres also distributed the pamphlets containing the chargesheet against the AIADMK government to all the houses.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s intervention sought in building culvert near Uthapuram||Villagers of the SC community in Pottalpatti under Uthapuram panchayat have sought intervention of the district administration in construction of a bridge over a drainage channel. The panchayat sanctioned Rs. 6.75 lakh for construction of the culvert on government poramboke land in 2019-20. However, whenever the contractor tried to clear the land to start work, caste Hindus blocked it, they said. In his petition, Paraiyar Uravinmurai president K. Rajendran said the caste Hindus were irked after the SC community bought two acres of land for their use. “The caste Hindus wanted to buy the land. Since we bought it, they have a grudge against us.” After three rounds of talks at tahsildar and revenue divisional officer level, when the officials arrived to start work for the third time on Monday, they were stopped by the caste Hindus, M. Muthupandi, another leader, said. A local resident, C. Muniyandi, 43, said the culvert would help them reach the bus stand in the shortest time. “At present, caste Hindus of 18 houses on the other side of the drainage use our street for all routine work such as going to school and work and also to take cattle. Neither have we objected nor there was any altercation between the two groups,” he said. If the culvert was constructed, it would be a public pathway that would benefit even the caste Hindus. “We fear if construction is further delayed, officials might shelve the project. The BDO says the funds cannot be kept indefinitely without taking up the work and they have to surrender it,” he added. The issue was taken up with the Collector even during a recently held district-level Vigilance and Monitoring Committee meeting.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Actor Katrina Kaif pitches for contribution to Madurai school||A post by actor Katrina Kaif on Instagram has sparked interest about a school located in Dhoddappanaiyakanur panchayat of Usilampatti taluk in Madurai district. In the post, she urges people to contribute to build additional classrooms for Mountain View Nursery and Primary School run by Relief Projects India (RPI), in which the actor’s mother, Mary Susanna Turcotte, is Education Advisor. According to the fundraising website shared by the actor, RPI is a registered charitable trust which aims to promote health and education of children, especially girls, in the Usilampatti region, which was notorious for female foeticide and infanticide. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Susanna says, “Although, instances of female infanticide might have come down in Usilampatti, the 2011 census shows the skewed sex-ratio of children under the age of 6. Educating the girl children is one of the ways to improve gender equality in the region.” Jesse Joseph Tincher, executive director of RPI, says the Mountain View Primary and Nursery School, which was inaugurated in 2015, provides English-medium education to children of underprivileged families. M. Nelson Chandrasekar, who takes care of the operations at the school, says they collect nominal fees, which can also be paid in installments, from students. “In cases where the families cannot afford to pay tuition fees, we offer scholarships to the students.” The school has around 230 students from LKG to Class 5. “At present, we have 10 classrooms and there is a need to build additional classrooms,” says Jesse. Following the success of the school, the community wants the school to be expanded up to Class 8. “So we need to build an additional 10 classrooms, a science lab, computer lab, teachers’ room and library,” says Jesse. The fundraising website says that around Rs. 1.90 crore is required to build the additional rooms. More than Rs. 8 lakh has been donated by over 50 people as on Wednesday evening. “Our school works towards rural development and is not aiming to earn profit,” adds Jesse.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two get life term for sexual assault||A special court here on Wednesday awarded life sentence to two men on charges of sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl in 2019. R. Govindaraj (37) and A. Marimuthu (55) were driver and helper respectively of a school bus. On January 29, 2019, the two sexually assaulted the victim, who was studying in LKG in the school after allegedly sedating her. They were booked under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and were arrested by the Thudiyalur All Women Police. Judge J. Radhika sentenced the duo to life imprisonment till their natural death and were levied a fine of Rs. 50,000 each, the sources said.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports one death, 36 cases||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 109 new cases on Wednesday, which took the overall tally to 51,596 cases. A 65-year-old man died during treatment, taking the district's toll to 641, the Health Department said. A total of 49,977 patients have recovered and 978 were active cases. On Wednesday, 121 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery from the disease. Tiruppur district reported 52 fresh cases, taking its tally to 16,742 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 16,074 patients have recovered and 454 were active cases. The district reported 214 deaths overall. On Wednesday, 73 patients were discharged. Salem district reported 36 cases taking the tally to 31,222. While 40 persons were discharged, 310 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 456. Erode district reported 32 new cases taking the tally to 13,414. While 25 persons were discharged, 309 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 23 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,836. The number of deaths remained at 43, while 143 people are undergoing treatment. Being monitored The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, said that 16 people from the United Kingdom, who had landed in India over a month ago, are currently in quarantine and are being monitored in the Nilgiris. Ms. Divya said that all international travellers had been traced by the district administration. "A total of 550 international passengers as well as 16 passengers from the U.K. have been tested and none of them proved positive so far," Ms. Divya said. In Namakkal, 21 cases were reported taking the tally to 11,037. As many as 31 persons were discharged, while 196 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 108. Krishnagiri recorded 11 new cases and 26 persons were discharged. This has taken the total number of current cases to 87 and the total number of nfections in the district to 7,765. Dharmapuri recorded nine new cases and 16 discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 80 cases and total number of infections to 6,329 cases.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In a tangle||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sweet tribute||
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No ban on bus, train, flight operations||Major transport services will remain largely unaffected due to the night curfew as it will not apply to operations of long-distance night buses of the KSRTC and private operators. Train and flight operations are also exempted. The guidelines issued by the government on Wednesday also state that to and from movement of taxis and autorickshaws are permitted for pick up and drop of passengers from bus stops, railway stations and airports. The guidelines further state that passenger movement will be allowed on displaying valid tickets while travelling in autorickshaws and taxis. KSRTC and Railways A KSRTC official said, “Allowing night bus services is a big relief for passengers. Last year, we had a ridership of 26,000 per day during the Christmas and New Year seasons. This time, booking has dropped to around 12,000. Those planning to travel in night buses can travel without any difficulties as per the order of the State government.” Option to stay in stations Chief PRO of SWR E. Vijaya told The Hindu that only three or four trains are operated from Bengaluru after 11 p.m and they will run as per schedule. “With regard to those who are arriving from other points during curfew hours, we have decided to allow them to stay inside the stations if they find it difficult to get a taxi or an auto. They can leave stations after the curfew hours,” she said. BMTC, Metro unaffected BMTC officials maintained that night curfew will not have a major impact on bus services in the city. “The number of buses operated after 11 p.m is very few,” an official said, adding that airport services to Kempegowda International Airport will run as usual even during the curfew hours. Namma Metro services will not be affected as they are operational between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. currently. Radhakrishna Holla, President of Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, said that night curfew is unlikely to impact the taxi business: “The guidelines say those who have valid travel tickets can book taxis during curfew hours. However, we see problems in some of the district administrations banning entry of tourists to tourism points. This is unwarranted as people have already made travel plans for the season.” The State government’s decision to impose night curfew received mixed reactions from passengers. Avinash, a commuter, said, “The government should have announced the curfew after looking into all the aspects. First, the CM said it will start from 10 p.m and then changed it to 11 p.m. Why are they confusing the general public?” Many on social media also raised questions about how the spread of pandemic will get contained only by imposing a night curfew. However, those in favour said the decision is much needed to contain the spread of the virus.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘GP polls witnessed unprecedented social crowding rather than distancing’||With the first phase of gram panchayat (GP) polls witnessing “social crowding” instead of social distancing, experts have emphasised the need for greater caution ahead of the second phase of polling on December 27. The State Election Commission (SEC) had announced elections to 5,762 gram panchayats in two phases on December 22 and 27, after the High Court asked it to announce the schedule. This was despite the Health Department’s request seeking postponement of the elections. Worried about surge With social distancing and other COVID-19 protocol hardly being followed during the first phase, the Health Department is now worried that it may result in a surge in the number of cases. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, expressed concern that the first phase polling was marked by unprecedented “social crowding” rather than social distancing.“Apart from door delivery of the virus during campaigning, there is every possibility of the infection having spread during polling too as people neither wore masks properly nor maintained social distance,” he said. “While strict enforcement has to be there, the onus is also on people. They should understand that COVID-19 is here to stay. Just because the numbers are declining, it does not mean that the virus has disappeared. There should be stricter enforcement and greater awareness at least during the second phase,” Dr. Manjunath added.  The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had warned that the GP polls may lead to door delivery of the virus. Following this, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had written to the SEC requesting postponement of the polls. “If the elections were not held till March, certain things could have been controlled. We tried from our end but it is unfortunate that our request was not considered,” the Minister told The Hindu on Wednesday. “Given the onset of winter and the emergence of the new mutant variant of COVID-19 virus in the U.K., the next three months are crucial for us. The government will take all necessary precautions and strictly enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour during the second phase. I appeal to all political parties, candidates, and workers to follow precautions and cooperate with the government in containing the spread of the virus,” the Minister added.  If the elections were not held till March, certain things could have been controlled. We tried from our end, but it is unfortunate that our request was not considered. K. Sudhakar,Health Minister
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police officer told to clean public road for not registering FIR||In a unique instance, a police officer of Station Bazaar Police station in Kalaburagi has been asked to clean a public road in front of the police station for a week for failing to do his duty of registering First Information Report (FIR) when a woman approached the station stating that her son had been abducted. “I am ready to comply with the direction issued by the court. I render my unconditional apology for not registering the FIR and assure the court that I will not repeat this in future,” the Station House Officer (SHO) gave a written undertaking to the court. A Division Bench comprising Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav and Justice P. Krishna Bhat passed the order recently at the Kalaburagi Bench of the High Court, directing the SHO to comply with the undertaking while disposing of a habeas corpus petition filed by 55-year-old Tarabai of Manja Tanda in Kalaburagi. The Bench observed that the SHO had failed to either make note in the diary or register a FIR as per the mandatory requirements in law though he was conscious that a cognisable offence of abduction was committed. “The entire development in the case after the petitioner’s son went missing discloses to us a very disturbing facet of the functioning of the police stations in this area of the State. The problem, primarily, is one of police officers not complying with the procedure prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure, which places a high premium on the guarantee of liberty of the individuals,” the Bench observed in its order. The government counsel, appearing for the SHO, admitted that there lenient view may be taken for the violation of the procedure notwithstanding the serious implications for the liberty of the petitioner’s son while stating that the SHO was prepared to file an undertaking to do some community service to atone for the same. Accepting the undertaking, the Bench directed the Superintendent of Police, Kalaburagi district, to hold a workshop or orientation course for all police officers working within the district on the subject of FIRs as per the apex court’s guidelines. The Bench closed the petition as the petitioner’s son Suresh was produced before the court.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic effect: It’s going to be a quiet Christmas this year||As with most festivals this year, Christmas too will be a low-key affair in Bengaluru due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With the State government banning parties, dance programmes, among other public events from December 20 to January 2, Christmas will be less festive than usual. Though a night curfew will be in place from Thursday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa made it clear on Wednesday that there will be no restrictions on the midnight mass to be held on December 24. A government order said, “Midnight Christmas mass on 24th night shall be permitted as per the guidelines issued on December 17. Celebration of Christmas and New Year festivities shall be as per the guidelines.” “It’s going to be a silent Christmas this year,” said Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bengaluru. “The buzz will be missing. I don’t remember a time when there were so many restrictions on the festival. But we have to accept the situation we are in, and we need to follow the rules to keep ourselves and people around us safe.” Meanwhile, the State Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar appreciated the gesture of the church. “The Archbishop of Bengaluru has conveyed a message to me that they are not conducting any celebrations this time. I have written a letter thanking the Archbishop for this gesture.” The last service on Christmas eve, according to the Archbishop, will be at 7 p.m. “I am planning to request the Chief Minister to ask the police to go easy on the people who return from the Christmas eve service. Some people come from faraway places. And, in case they exceed the curfew by a little, they should not be punished,” he added. Restrictions The gathering at churches will be restricted to 100 (indoors) or 200 (outdoors and more spacious auditoriums), he said. For those celebrating at home, the Archdiocese will be streaming carols, masses and other Christmas videos on their Youtube channel, Bangalore Archdiocese and their official app, Archdiocese of Bangalore. The Archbishop has appealed to the people to help the poor celebrate Christmas. “It has been a tough year. A lot of people don’t have the means to even buy sweets or clothes. So, I hope the community helps them this festival season.”  It has been a tough year. A lot of people don’t have the means to even buy sweets or clothes. So, I hope the community helps them this festival season Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bengaluru
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No home isolation for positive U.K. returnees, irrespective of symptoms||Passengers from the U.K., who test positive after arriving in the State, will not be allowed home isolation irrespective of symptoms till their genome sequencing is completed. The genome sequencing of the positive samples (done to ascertain if they are infected with the new strain of the virus) is likely to take at least four days. “Till then, those who test positive will be isolated in a separate unit in an institutional isolation facility,” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) told The Hindu on Wednesday. If the report of the genomic sequencing is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol, including home isolation/ treatment at facility level as per case severity, will be followed. “However, if the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new variant of SARS CoV-2 then the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. The patient will be tested on the 14th day, after having tested positive in the initial test. In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, further samples will be taken until his/her two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative,” he said. While Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that nearly 2,500 passengers had arrived from the U.K. in the State from December 1 till date, the media bulletin shared by the Health Department stated Tuesday’s figure of 2,127 passengers. “Two flights per day arrived during this period. Details of all the passengers are available and every single passenger is being kept under strict vigilance,” he said. He said the genome sequencing will be done free of cost in four institutes in Bengaluru including IISc., NIMHANS and NCBS.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC observations on Lokayukta police reignite debate on ACB||The recent observations of the High Court of Karnataka regarding lapses on the part of the Lokayukta police in investigating an old case against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has reignited the debate on the formation of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), which is argued to have resulted in the weakening the Karnataka Lokayukta. The erstwhile Congress government formed the ACB, taking away the Lokayukta police’s powers to take up suo motu cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, in 2016. Though the Lokayukta police was independent of the judicial wing of the Karnataka Lokayukta, it was the police wing that gave teeth to the organisation and has since then been a pale shadow of its former self. The ACB reports to the State government. Promise not kept The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had opposed the formation of the ACB and had promised in its 2018 election manifesto that it would abolish the bureau and strengthen the Karnataka Lokayukta. The Congress had also promised to restore the Lokayukta with powers to take up suo motu cases. However, neither has made any moves towards implementing it while in power. There are multiple public interest litigation (PIL) petitions pending before the High Court challenging the formation of the ACB. “The Karnataka Lokayukta has also filed an affidavit before the court arguing that the formation of the ACB is not sustainable under law. The case has come to the stage of final arguments. We have filed an application seeking listing of the case at the earliest as the case has not come up for hearing since the lockdown,” said Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty, refusing to comment on the particulars of the case. Another petitioner before the High Court, social activist S.R. Hiremath, hoped the court would get to the root of the problem and strengthen the Lokayukta by abolishing the ACB. ‘All guilty’ Pruthvi Reddy, State convener, Aam Aadmi Party, said restoring investigation powers to the Lokayukta police and ensuring they are independent and are provided with ample resources are the need of the hour, but there is little hope of it happening. “The denotification case involving the Chief Minister, now ordered to be probed, is a case in point. It has Mr. Yediyurappa from the BJP andR.V. Deshpande from the Congress as accused and the denotification dates back to when H.D. Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) was the Chief Minister, indicating all three major parties were hand in glove when it comes to corruption. We have no hope of anybody strengthening the anti-corruption watchdog, unless we change the political culture of the State,” he said. Another anti-corruption activist Ravi Krishna Reddy of the Karnataka Rashtra Samiti saidcontrary to the political rhetoric by the BJP, the party’s governments at the Centre and the State had done little to strengthen the anti-corruption watchdog.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After meeting, APMC traders decide to wait and watch||Traders from the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) across the State, who had threatened to go on a strike against the hike in market cess, have now decided to wait and watch over Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar’s assurances of a favourable resolution. The Minister met stakeholders from APMC yards from across the State in the city on Wednesday over the issue. “The Minister claimed the hike of market cess from 0.35% to 1% had happened without his knowledge. He assured us that he would discuss the issue at State Cabinet meeting on December 28 and promised a favourable resolution. So we have decided to wait till then,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of the Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The State government had slashed the market cess from 1.5% of the sale of farm produce to 0.35% in July 2020, when APMC yards across the State shut down in protest against amendments to the Karnataka APMC Act, 1966, that allowed for private yards, which pay no cess. However, the government revised the cess to 1% on December 15, prompting the APMC traders to cry foul that they felt betrayed as the government had hiked the cess after the amendments came into effect. “We are not shying away from competition, but are only demanding a level-playing field between private yards and APMC yards. The market cess we are forced to pay will be passed on to consumers, which puts us at a disadvantage with the private players. Our demand is to roll back the recent hike and ensure a uniform cess for both private and APMC yards in the State,” Mr. Lahoti said. Protest by Hamalis Operations at the Yeshwantpur APMC yard were partially impacted as some of the unions of Hamali labourers went on a daylong strike in support of the farmer’s agitation against farm laws, on account of Kisan Diwas on Wednesday. Murthy, president of the Yeshwantpur Yard Hamali Workers’ Association, said the farm laws that allow private yards would eventually kill APMC yards and that would not only affect farmers but the Hamalis too. “Nearly 10,000 of us work as Hamalis, loading and unloading farm produce at the Yeshwantpur yard alone. Imagine, how many of us will be affected if APMC yards across the State are weakened and die a slow death,” he said.
24 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||XIME holds its 24th convocation||The 24th convocation of Xavier Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship (XIME) was held recently at Bengaluru. Addressing graduating students as the chief guest, Kamal Bali, President and Managing Director, Volvo Group, India, said that a single country was accounting for 30% of 4 trillion dollar-worth global manufacturing activity, which will undergo a major rebalancing in the post pandemic world and the countries such as India are going to be major beneficiaries of such rebalancing. Future business models are more idea-led than brick and mortar. Structural shifts are taking place in the way people live the lives, make purchases and do the work, he said. J. Philip, Chairman, XIME, emphasized the 6 Cs — curiosity, continuous learning, comfort with technology, contribution, concentrate on the chosen field and the need to collaborate to be successful in the careers. Vice Chairman C.P. Ravindranathan was also present. Mr. Bali presented PGDM certificates and excellence awards to the students.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SDGs Vision 2030 calls for increase in women work participation, land claim||Increasing women’s work participation to 100% from the existing 20.4%, ensuring 50% joint ownership of farm land by women from the current 1.2%, and improving social and health indicators are crucial for Karnataka to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030, according to vision document. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who released the State government’s SDGs Vision 2030 here on Wednesday, said a sum of Rs. 10 lakh crore was needed to meet SDGs targets in the next 10 years. Increased women’s work participation would be possible by strengthening women SHGs, cooperatives, promoting schemes that encourage women entrepreneurship, providing infrastructure and support facilities (credit, legal) for women, and facilitating entry of women in skilled jobs, it said. The United Nations adopted 17 SDGs in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure peace and prosperity to all people by 2030. The Niti Aayog released its SDG India Index for 2019 and Karnataka had a composite score of 66 out of 100 and ranked 6th in the country, the report pointed out. However, there was scope for improvement in social, health indicators, infrastructure development, and gender equality, the State’s report said. “Karnataka SDG Vision 2030 provides details of important strategies and action plans to bridge the gaps between our current performance level and the targeted level for 2030,” the 400-page document said. The State’s SDGs Vision pointed out the necessity of reducing infant mortality rate to 10 from 24 per thousand live births (2019) through mother and child care for the first 1000 days of childbirth maternity benefit scheme. It said maternal mortality ratio should be reduced to 50 from 97 per lakh live births (2019) through schemes such as Matrupoorna Yojane, maternity benefit schemes. It stressed the need for universal coverage of the Ayushman Bharath scheme to reduce health expenses borne by the poor. The document called for reducing unemployment to less than 1% from 4.8% (2019) by establishing industries to process farm produce under ‘Atmanirbhar’ scheme.  On sexual crimes The SDGs would be achieved by reducing sexual crime against women (42 per lakh) and girls (62 per lakh) to zero by training police officials, provision of special courts, women police force, and police stations. It advocated improving conviction rate and reducing the pendency rate to zero from 86.8%, besides introducing modules on gender equality in schools and colleges. The document brought out by the Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics headed by Shalini Rajneesh, sought reduction in the dropout rate at the secondary level to zero from 26.18% by regulated management of the Village Education Register as stipulated by the Right to Education Act.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Varthur Prakash kidnap case cracked, six arrested||The Kolar police cracked the kidnap case of former minister Varthur Prakash and arrested a gang of six habitual offenders. Seemanth Kumar Singh, Inspector General of police, Central range, who supervised the investigation, said that the accused Kaviraj is a habitual offender with over 10 criminal cases in and around Bengaluru and Tamil Nadu. The accused is from Himachal Pradesh but had settled down in Hosur, working as a real estate broker. He identified people with money and abducted them for ransom, the police said. Recently, he came to know about Prakash’s business venture and decided to target him. He abducted Prakash and his driver and demanded Rs. 30 crore before settling for Rs. 48 lakh. The police analysed the CCTV footage at the coffee shop where the ransom was paid. The police also analysed call record details of suspects before zeroing in on the accused, identified as S. Likhith, Ullas, Manoj, Raghavendra and Praveen. The police have seized a bike used to get the ransom amount, two cars, lethal weapons and Rs. 20.5 lakh from the accused. Mr. Singh said that five special teams have been formed to probe the case. Kaviraj was operating from outside and giving instructions to his associates over the phone. After his associates were arrested, the police used one of the accused to track down Kaviraj. The associate was asked by the police to call Kaviraj to Madurai for a meeting. Kaviraj came, but suspecting something fishy, he tried to escape. However, after a chase, he was caught and arrested.
24 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book exhibition||Exhibition-cum-sale of books organised by Books By Weight starts on Tuesday at Safina Plaza,
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One more returnee positive||Another 45-year-old male U.K. returnee from the city’s West Zone, who arrived in the city on December 20, has tested positive on Wednesday, according to BBMP officials. Earlier, a mother and a daughter had tested positive. They have been isolated in Victoria Hospital. A total of 980 swabs have been collected so far from U.K. travellers.
24 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Concessional bus pass for persons with disabilities to be issued from January 15||Concessional bus pass for persons with disabilities will be issued from January 15, 2021 instead of December 26, 2020. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) in a press release stated that persons with disabilities have to apply for the pass through Seva Sindhu portal only. Further, the release stated that passes issued for the year 2020 would be valid up to February 28, 2021.
24 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seat allotment results||The results of the second extended round of seat allotment under UGCET 2020 for admissions to engineering, architecture, farm science, horticulture, veterinary, B-Pharm, naturopathy, and yoga courses have been hosted on the Karnataka Examinations Authority website. The KEA in a press release said that candidates who have been allotted seats can pay the fees and report to respective colleges.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaikunta Ekadashi at ISKCON||ISKCON Bangalore will celebrate Vaikunta Ekadashi on Friday. However, the temple will remain closed for the public owing to the pandemic and the precautionary measures as mandated by the government in the interest of safety, a release said. Resident devotees will conduct the festival keeping in mind all safety protocols. Live webcast of the festival will be available on the temple’s official website,www.iskconbangalore.org, the release stated.
24 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Student found dead||A final year student of Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences in Shivamogga was found dead in her hostel room on Wednesday morning. She has been identified as Lalitha, 22, a native of Bhadravati. K.H. Shivakumar, Chief Administrative Officer of the institute, said the incident came to light on Wednesday morning as she did not open the door. The hostel security staff opened it and found her dead. Doddapete police have registered a case.  ((Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)
24 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Swami objects to setting up of medical college on mutt land||Sri Dingaleshwara Swami, head of Balehosur Mutt, who claims to be the successor of the historical Moorusavir Mutt in Hubballi, has objected to the plan of the Belagavi-based KLE Society building a medical college on the land donated by the mutt in Hubballi. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, ahead of the bhoomi puja of KLE Society’s medical college on Thursday, the Swami said that being the ‘successor’ of the mutt, it was his duty to protect the mutt and its property and prevent it from being handed over to others. He has often been in news for the wrong reasons on several occasions and his claim to be the successor of the mutt has been questioned in the court of law. The swami said that precious land belonging to the mutt measuring about 24.3 acres had been donated to KLE Society for building the medical college and hospital and he believed that the present seer had agreed to the donation under duress. The swami who declined to name any person, alleged that those who had opposed his entry to the mutt were behind this donation and they were bent on grabbing the mutt’s property. He said he would appeal to the management board of KLE Society to build a medical college and hospital in Hubballi but not on the land belonging to Moorusavir Mutt. “A medical college is required for Hubballi and I want KLE Society to establish it in Hubballi. But let the society build it on another site not on the mutt’s land,” he stressed. Clarifying that there was no malafide intention behind speaking out now after being silent over the land deal executed nine years ago, the swami said he just wanted to protect the mutt property and now that construction was about to begin, it was his duty to raise objections. On the next course of action, he said he would meet the devotees of the mutt and elders of the community. He also said that he didn’t want a confrontation and would appeal to the society to sort out issues through dialogue. However, he declined to comment on the controversy over the mutt’s successor.
24 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||U.K. returnees to Dharwad test negative for COVID-19||Much to the relief of the residents of Dharwad district, five people who had arrived here from the United Kingdom tested negative for COVID-19. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that all the five persons who arrived in the district on December 21 were subjected to RT-PCR test as per the government order. After taking nose and throat swabs, the UK returnees were asked to undergo home isolation. Mr. Patil said that on Wednesday, they received the test results of all the five persons and all of them had tested negative for the infection.  Meanwhile another woman from Britain who had arrived in Belagavi district also tested negative for the infection. Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath told presspersons that they had taken the nose and throat swabs of the woman on Tuesday and received the report which ruled out COVID-19 infection late at night. Mr. Hiremath also said that they were yet to receive the list of people who had returned from the U.K. and after receipt of the list, steps would be taken to conduct the tests. He also appealed to the people to continue using face masks, sanitisers and maintain physical distancing.
24 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||GP elections: High polling percentage in first phase||After the voters turned up in large numbers to cast their votes in the first phase of the gram p anchayat elections in the districts of North Karnataka on Tuesday, the ballot boxes were moved to the respective counting centres under security and kept under strict vigil. The four districts, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttar Kannada, recorded an average polling percentage of over 80% on Tuesday. The election officials announced the final polling percentage on Wednesday after compiling data from every polling station, including those where polling was delayed due to last minute rush. In Dharwad district, where polling took place at 412 polling stations for electing members to 872 seats in 65 GPs, the final polling percentage for the first phase of election stood at 83.13%. Of the total 2,81,299 eligible voters, 2,33,430 exercised their franchise, said Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil after data compilation. The highest polling percentage of 91.9% was recorded at Belavantara GP. Kalaghatagi taluk recorded 85.65% followed by 84.19% in Alnavar taluk and 81.93% in Dharwad taluk. In Gadag district, a total of 1,96,863 cast their votes on Tuesday recording 79.43% polling. Gadag recorded highest polling of 80.04% followed by 79.24% in Shirahatti and 78.18% in Laxmeshwar. Haveri district recorded a polling percentage of 84.03% with Hirekerur taluk recording highest polling of 86.72% followed by 84.78% in Rattihalli taluk, 83.24% in Ranebennur taluk and 83.14% in Haveri taluk. In all the four taluks, the ballot boxes have been moved to the strong rooms and kept under strict vigil. Uttar Kannada district, recorded a comparatively lesser polling percentage with 74.83% with 3,33,278 voters turning up to vote on Tuesday. Honnavar taluk recorded the highest polling of 76.17% followed by 75.84% in Ankola taluk, 75.03% in Kumta, 74.63% in Bhatkal and 71.22% in Karwar taluk.
24 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Withdrawal of farm Bills demanded||Demanding that the Centre withdraw the farm Bills passed by the Parliament, members of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and the Raita Karmika Dalita Ikya Horata Samiti staged a protest near Mahatma Gandhi Statue outside the Indira Smarak Bhavan in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Former legislator B.R. Patil and Congress leader Allam Prabhu Patil demanded that the Union government withdraw the three new farm Bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020, that were passed in Parliament. Mr. Patil stated that with the passage of the contentious farm Bills, big corporates will have the freedom to stock commodities which may lead to farmers getting low prices for their crops. Furthermore, by bringing in more potential buyers, the new Bills may weaken the prevailing MSP system and favour ‘big farmers’ and corporates at the expense of smaller producers.
24 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kyalakonda selected for Vaidya Sahitya Award||Considering his contributions to healthcare, Karaveera Prabhu Kyalakonda, a Bagalkote-based doctor has been chosen for the Dr. P.S. Shankar Shrestha Vaidya Sahitya Award for 2020. Narendra Badasheshi, secretary, Dr. P.S.Shankar Pratishtan, said the award, which consisted of a cash prize of Rs. 5,000, a medal, and a citation, would be presented to the doctor at the 21st anniversary of the Prathishtan scheduled for January 1, in Kalaburagi. Dr. Kyalakonda served as District Surgeon in Koppal. He authored several books on medicine. He was State president of Karnataka Rajya Vaidya Sahitya Parishat.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore varsity to recognise colleges as research centres||Responding to a long-pending demand of senior college teachers, the Academic Council of Mangalore University in its meeting on Wednesday resolved that eligible teachers in its affiliated colleges, irrespective of the category, can be recognised as research guides and affiliated colleges meeting all the requirements can be granted recognition as research centres. At present, constituent colleges of the university, which are owned by the university, and teachers in these colleges are allowed to guide researchers pursuing Ph.Ds. With the council’s latest decision, eligible teachers in private, government, and government aided private colleges affiliated to the university can guide the researchers once the university revises its statute governing recognition of institutions as research centres. Eligible colleges, irrespective of the category, can also be recognised as the research centres. Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya told the council that the university would initiate the process of revising the statute. Registrar (administration) K. Raju Mogaveera said that if the statute was not revised, it might lead to legal complications once the Ph.D. is awarded to researchers who have registered through those research centres and who have completed their research under the guidance of teachers in those colleges. The V-C said that a committee of the deans of the university will prepare guidelines to recognise teachers as research guides and colleges as research centres. He said that a committee of the university would visit colleges to review the infrastructure and academic facilities before recommending the university for the recognition. Prof. Yadapadithaya said that many affiliated colleges have qualified and talented teachers who should be given a chance to guide researchers. They should not be deprived of the opportunity just because they are not in the university. At the same time, many colleges had good infrastructure facilities to be centres of research. He said that from 2021 onwards, the government has made it mandatory that if a teacher is to be recruited they should compulsorily have a Ph.D. and should have passed either the national or state level eligibility test. Hence, there is a need for more research guides and research centres. The fruits of research should benefit all. He said that the university will not compromise on quality while giving recognition.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL adopts captive animals at Pilikula for a year||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) has adopted the wild animals at Pilikula Biological Park for one year. MRPL and Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama, which manages the park, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the same on Tuesday. Elango M., Executive Director (Refinery), MRPL, and Gokuldas Nayak, Executive Director of Nisargadhama signed the MoU. Accordingly, MPRL will spend Rs. 4.16 crore on fodder for 1,200 wild animals and also veterinary facilities and medicines to the animals at the park. An MRPL release said that since the park had lost its revenue due to the lockdown, the company felt the need to adopt the captive animals on a recommendation by the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada. The company is spending the amount from its corporate social responsibility fund. MRPL is associated with the nisargadhama since 2016 wherein an agreement was entered into for creation of Green Belt by planting 2,000 plants at Pilikula on 20 acres. Further, another agreement was signed in 2017 to plant another 2,000 plants on 30 acres. Sanjay Varma, Director (Refinery), Pomila Jaspal, Director (Finance), Rajeev Kushwah, Chief Vigilance Officer, B.H.V. Prasad Executive Director (Projects), MRPL, and H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, park director, were among those present at the signing in.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Celebrate low-key Christmas: Bishop||Calling upon people to celebrate Christmas in a low-key manner, Mangalore Bishop Peter Paul Saldanha said on Wednesday that money saved thus should be donated to people hit hard due to COVID-19. Talking to reporters, Mr. Saldanha said there will be no large gathering at churches in Mangalore Diocese for Christmas. Devotees will be called ward-wise to churches at different time slots during the day. Cultural programmes will be muted, he added. Expressing his concern over the ongoing agitation by farmers, Mr. Saldanha said farmers generally do not go on agitation. “Authorities should show patient hearing of their concerns and redress it. It’s only with a compassionate attitude that a society can develop,” he said and added that conflict resolution is possible only with loving dialogue.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel: State farmers to also get Kisan Samman income support on Dec. 25||Farmers from Karnataka will be among the 9.5 crore farmers from the country who will receive the first instalment of Rs. 2,000 of the Rs. 6,000 income support from the Centre for the third consecutive year of the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme on December 25, said Dakshina Kannada MP and BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kateel said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will initiate the process of transferring Rs. 2,000 to farmers’ bank accounts and address the nation around noon on the occasion of ‘Atalji Smaran and Kisan Samman Day’. The Centre has been releasing Rs. 18,000 crore in three instalments every year for the 9.5 crore farmers, he said. “As this is Central scheme, the code of conduct (for ongoing GP elections) will not come in the way of transferring the amount to farmers in Karnataka,” Mr. Kateel said and added that the State government’s contribution of Rs. 4,000 will be released at a later date. Select beneficiaries from urban areas and taluk headquarters from DK, which are outside the GPs, will be called for a function to be held at T.V. Raman Pai Hall in the city on Friday at noon, he said. The Central and State governments, he said, were working for the welfare of farmers. The Central Ministers are in touch with farmer leaders, to resolve concerns. “We are hopeful of an early end to the ongoing agitation,” he said.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||22 new cases||Dakshina Kannada reported 14 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. With 35 patients being discharged after treatment, the active cases in the district stood at 415. Udupi district reported eight new cases. The active cases here stood at 75.
24 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two dead||Two people died in separate accidents in Karkala Rural and Belthangady Traffic Police station limits. The deceased are Noonaiah, 61, a labourer, and Shivashankar Kamath, 53, who worked in a grocery store. Noonaiah, who was riding a bicycle, was hit by an autorickshaw when he stopped in Abbenjalu of Mudaru village around 7.30 p.m. on Tuesday. He was declared brought dead at Government Hospital in Karkala. Shivashankar Kamath got out of a car near Sriram Service Station in Kalmanja village of Belthangady taluk around 9.30 p.m. As he was crossing the road, a two-wheeler hit him. He succumbed to the injury on Tuesday.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Night curfew in people’s interest’||The night curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. imposed across the State from Thursday till January 2 is as per the guidelines by WHO and the Centre to curtail the spread of the new strain SARS-COV-2. No communal colour should be given to this decision, said Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel here on Wednesday. He said for the State government, each life wais important. It has been imposed in the interest of people. “It’s not just Christmas celebrations but a host of events. Yakshagana shows and Brahmakalashas at temples too will be affected. All have to follow guidelines,” he said, and added that Yakshagana shows should end on time, he said.
24 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana melas to perform shorter shows||The night curfew from Thursday till January 2 has forced Yakshagana melas (touring troupes) in the coastal belt presenting all night shows to switch to short duration performances that end by 11 p.m. Of over 40 troupes in the coastal belt, half have already commenced their tours. Many are set to begin in the next week and in the first week of January. Some of the troupes such as more than the century old Dharmasthala mela and the new Pavanje mela have been performing shorter shows. DC of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu that the melas can perform from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. More than a century-old Yakshagana mela, Mandarthi Sri Durgaparameshwari Dashavatara Yakshagana Mela in Udupi district, with its five troupes is yet to begin its tour of all night shows. It presents stationed short duration shows on the temple premises in Mandarthi itself. The temple managing committee president H. Dhananjaya Shetty said that the melas will begin their tours from January. With the curfew, the mela will perform from 5.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. instead of 7 p.m. to midnight. The century-old Kateel mela, presenting all night shows, will cut down the timing and perform from 4 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
24 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||18 travellers from U.K. test negative||A day after the government issued strict guidelines with regard to the tracing and screening of travellers from the United Kingdom, the Mysuru district administration on Wednesday said surveillance had been stepped up and all precautionary measures are in place. In the wake of reports of the discovery of new strain of SARS-CoV2 in the U.K., the returnees from Britain are under watch and RT-PCR tests had been made mandatory for them. A total of 137 people had returned to Mysuru from the U.K. since December 1. They include 119 passengers between December 1 and 20 and 18 travellers on December 21 alone. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said those who returned on December 21 underwent the COVID-19 test. The swabs of some travellers who had returned before December 20 had been collected and sent for testing. “All 18 travellers had tested negative to COVID-19,” the Deputy Commissioner said, adding that all those who returned before December 20 must undergo the test. A separate counter will function at the Town Hall here on Thursday for carrying out the tests of all U.K. returnees. The counter will be operated from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Information had been shared with the returnees by the COVID-19 War Room. The district administration has made the test mandatory for the contacts of all 137 returnees irrespective of the symptoms. “The test is mandatory to all of them,” Ms. Sindhuri said. The Deputy Commissioner, in the light of new strain of SARS-CoV2, held a meeting with the health officials on Wednesday and collected information on the steps taken in this connection. ZP CEO Paramesh, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Director and Dean Nanjaraj, District Vector Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar and other health authorities attended. Relief The swab samples of 18 travellers testing negative has brought relief to the health authorities. As many as 4,000 RT-PCR tests are being done in Mysuru district per day. About 600 rapid antigen tests are carried out daily in a bid to contain the virus spread. In Kodagu and Chamarajnagar too, U.K. returnees had been asked to report to the Health Department in response to the government directives. Chamarajnagar Deputy Commissioner B.P. Ravi said the district administration and the Health Department have sought the information from the travellers and tourists. “Anybody arriving to the district from Britain and staying in hotels or resorts can report their travel details to the authorities,” he said in a statement here. Kodagu District Health Officer Mohan said information had been sought about the U.K. travellers. So far, there is no information about the travellers staying in Kodagu. Moreover, there is nobody from Kodagu in the list of travellers sourced from the government. Nevertheless, the department was on alert and issued the advisory, he said. Information can be given to 9449843263.
24 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Homestay owners see a revival||After nearly eight months, homestays across Kodagu have received bookings — for Christmas and the year-end. Nearly 50 to 60% occupancy has been recorded since the beginning of this month in registered and active homestays, say industry insiders. Many resorts, especially the high-end ones, have been booked till the year-end even as the Kodagu district administration has issued guidelines to the hospitality sector on the dos and don’ts for New Year’s Eve revelry.  Kodagu Homestays’ Association founder secretary and past president Karumbaiah said, “Homestays are getting more bookings from couples and families and not group bookings like earlier. With curbs on celebrations and gatherings, playing music, bonfires, and dancing in place, homestays have been told to stick to the guidelines.” Last year, all homestays were booked for the entire December. As of now, about 50% are booked, it’s a big improvement when compared with previous months. “More enquiries are coming from Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kerala, and also from Maharashtra,” he added. However, there is a shortage of rooms in some places as not all registered homestays have opened. Many have decided to take bookings only from the next year. B.G. Ananthashayana, president of the association, said the 2018 and 2019 calamities devastated tourism in Kodagu and this year it is the turn of the pandemic. “But there seems to be signs of revival, going by the bookings for the New Year. People are now coming out to holiday in Kodagu without any fear. This is a big relief for us and homestays have been told to take all precautions,” he added. He clarified that there is no bar on tourists coming to Kodagu but there are curbs on celebrations. While homestays and resorts are getting bookings, it is not the case with hotels. The response is poor for budget hotels, said B.R. Nagendra Prasad, president of the Kodagu Hotels, Restaurants and Resorts Association. “The hotel sector does not have high hopes for the New Year since curbs have been imposed. We knew this and therefore we are not investing much since not many tourists will be coming to celebrate,” he said, adding that it may take some more time for tourism to revive fully in Kodagu.
24 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Train timings revised in Mysuru division||The timings of a few trains operated by the Mysuru railway division have been revised. by the authorities. A release said Train No. 06581 Hubballi–Mysuru Festival Special Express will depart from Hubballi at 6.20 p.m. and reach Mysuru at 8.55 a.m. the next day with effect from the journey commencing on December 23 from Hubballi. The corresponding service Train No. 06582 Mysuru–Hubballi Special Express will depart from Mysuru at 6.35 p.m. and reach Dharwad at 10.25 a.m. the next day with effect from journey commencing on December 23 from Mysuru. Train No. 06210 Mysuru–Ajmer Weekly Express Special will depart from Mysuru at 7 p.m. on Tuesdays to reach Ajmer at 3.10 p.m. on Thursdays. The revised timings of the train was with effect from December 22 from Mysuru. Train No.06209 Ajmer–Mysuru Express Special will depart from Ajmer at 6 a.m. on Sundays to reach Mysuru at 2.15 a.m. on Tuesdays and the revised timing of the train departing from Ajmer came into effect from December 20, the release added.
24 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bishop’s Christmas message||The Bishop of Mysuru, K.A.Williams, has extended Christmas greetings and said that the current COVID-19 pandemic calls for greater human solidarity. In an address here on Wednesday, he said this year’s Christmas is unique just as 2020 has been unique in many ways as the pandemic has put the entire world into a state of disarray. The pandemic has affected millions and taken a toll of a large number across developed and developing nations and the world economy has crashed,,rendering a large number of people unemployed. He said Christmas against this background becomes significant and the only solution to the pandemic was greater human solidarity. Christmas is the time to create a new world where one can learn to live as a single family.
24 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC warns against illegal cutting of roads||In a warning to those engaged in indiscriminate road cutting, the Mysuru City Corporation on Tuesday said that it would levy three times the fee fixed for road cutting if it was done without taking approval. If the person or an agency failed to set right the cut road to its original state after necessary works, then such parties have to pay double the charge fixed for road cutting. It is mandatory for those planning to cut a road to seek its permission besides pay the prescribed fee depending on the kind of road they are going to cut open for carrying out the works. In view of frequent road cutting for works related to buildings, drinking water connection, UGD connection and electricity connection, the MCC has fixed road cutting fee and approval for the same from the respective zonal offices was mandatory, said MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde. The road cutting fee is Rs. 1,200 for asphalt road besides 10% deposit and 18% GST; Rs. 2,000 for concrete road besides 10% deposit and 18% GST, and Rs. 800 for footpath besides 10% deposit and 18% GST.
24 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||No arrivals from U.K. in Yadgir, Raichur||No travellers have come to Yadgir and Raichur districts from U.K. so far, Deputy Commissioners of Yadgir and Raichur R. Ragapriya and R. Venkatesh Kumar told The Hindu on Wednesday. RTPCR tests will be done on seven persons who came from U.K. to Kalaburagi between December 6 to 18 on Wednesday, though they tested negative before they arrived, official sources have said. Both the district administrations have been taking initiatives. Mr. Kumar also released a press note stating that the need to conduct RT-PCR test of returnees from U.K. from December 15. They should inform the Health Department officers, tahsildars of respective taluks and call on 08532226383 or toll free number 1077.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dual problem of inequality and lack of emotional connect||The news about the pandemic started to trickle in during the very first month of 2020, and by April, 190 countries had closed down their educational institutions to avoid the spread of the infection and to protect the young. UNICEF estimated that the closure of schools affected the learning of more than 1.6 billion learners around the world. These were the early days of the pandemic and we were not sure whom the disease was affecting the most. India took a severe step of going for a complete lockdown as that seemed the most prudent course of action at that time. Now, almost after a year of living through the pandemic, we can claim to understand it a little better. Data shows that children are the least affected. A meta-analysis released this month in the European Journal of Epidemiology states that the infection fatality rates (IFR) is as low as 0.002% for children at age 10 and 0.01% at age 25 as compared to 0.4% at age 55. Based on these learnings, many countries have begun to open their educational institutions. The extended closure of educational institutions has had many ramifications. Among the most critical is the fact that there has been a serious disruption of learning. A paper by Brown and Virginia University scholars during the early days of the pandemic, estimated that the drop in learning among learners in the U.S. could be as high as a third of expected scores in reading and almost half of the expected level in Maths. Access to resources Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the view that Education Technology [EdTech] should be used to mitigate this problem has gained traction around the world. However, evidence points out that not only is the access to technology severely limited, but also inadequate for accomplishing any good educational endeavour. The severity and complexity of access to appropriate technology has also been severely under-estimated. UNICEF’s recently released report, ‘How many children and young people have internet access at home?’ estimates that 2.2 billion people below the age of 25 in this world do not have an internet connection. EdTech has been touted as the solution without understanding the essential nature of education as a social process which happens best when children are directly connected with each other and the teacher. The digital mode is ineffective because of the basic character of education, and not merely because of lack of access to the net and online resources. Educators would agree that education requires physical presence, attention, thought and emotions, all to be sewn towards learning goals, step-by step, often back-and-forth, and differently for each student. This requires verbal and non-verbal interactions which is possible only in actual classes. Azim Premji Foundation conducted a study titled ‘Myths of Online Education’ in five States covering 1,522 schools to understand this issue in India. It reiterated poor access to online learning for many children, and revealed the ineffectiveness of online learning solutions, coupled with the professional frustration of teachers. Most teachers expressed the impossibility of maintaining an emotional connect with children in this mode and half the teachers participating in this study reported that children were unable to complete assignments shared during online classes, which in turn led to serious gaps in learning. How Karnataka fared Computers and laptops are required for optimum use of the digital mode in education. However, the NSSO 75th round provides the data which indicates that the availability of these resources in Karnataka is very poor. Overall, there are less than 20% with an internet connection and only around 10% of households reported possession of a computer. Though data from NSSO and the education department survey varies, particularly on the availability of internet, it is very clear that the optimum resources required to provide distance education using digital resources does not exist in Karnataka. Hence, the government's initiative of a face-to-face engagement through Vidyagama is the best way forward. The digital mode only exacerbates existing inequities and does not bridge gaps. Hence, as we come to the end of 2020, we are staring at the possibility of learning loss among all our children that could last a lifetime. As we prepare to begin the new year with renewed hope and optimism, planning for bridging the learning gaps assumes top priority.  (Rishikesh B.S., Associate Professor at Azim Premji University)
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New Year plans go awry||News of the night curfew has come as a dampener for citizens who had hoped to ring in the New Year in hotels, bars and restaurants in the city. However, the hotel industry has expressed its support to the move in the interest of public health. Manu Chandra, who heads the National Restaurant Association of India, acknowledged that many New Year plans had been hit. “However, we support the government, which is putting in place various measures to check the spread of pandemic. That said, we really wish that such decisions are taken with a modicum of understanding, especially since the industry has already taken a big hit this year,” he said and added that the move was not anticipated in Karnataka, where the number of COVID-19 positive cases seemed to be on the downturn. P.C. Rao, president of Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association, said that for many hotels, pubs, restaurants, most business happens post 10 p.m. on December 31. When the government announced the night curfew, Mr. Rao had requested to impose it after 11 p.m. Hotels, restobars and others that had planned events were taken by surprise. A restobar in H.S.R. Layout was only offering regular dine-in service, which too will close by 10 p.m. The live music event that had been planned stands cancelled and booking made are now redeemable for food and drinks, said the manager. A brewpub in Whitefield, which had booked a celebrity DJ from Mumbai, has now booked a DJ from the city. While the earlier packages have now been cancelled, the cover charges remain fully redeemable. Sanjar Imam, president of Karnataka Tourism Forum, said that while bookings made at homestays and resorts may not be affected, many New Year plans and standalone Christmas celebrations had been impacted.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Forum calls for addressing workers’ mental health issues||Alternative Law Forum, a lawyers’ collective given to research and intervention on social issues, has come out with a series of recommendations for the government and factory managements to address workers’ issues. The recommendations are a fallout of a study of a closure of a textile factory in Srirangapatna during the peak pandemic and lockdown and is reckoned to be timely in view of the recent protests by workers in Bengaluru and elsewhere. The forum has pointed out that Karnataka was currently experiencing industrial turmoil due to “increasing suppression of workers’ rights’’ and ‘abdication’ of the State’s responsibility in enforcing the law on “errant companies’’. A release issued by the Forum said the strike at an automobile plant, the incidents at Wistron and long strike by workers of a factory of another leading textile brand are symptoms of the same cause. The Forum expressed concern that this is the situation with the existing labour law regime which was strong at least on paper. But with the new labour code, the rights of workers will be further threatened as also the stability of the industrial sector. The Forum has recommended that counselling services for the workers’ mental health be made a public health priority and the State government establish a helpline to address the desperation and distress of women workers. It suggested that the Labour Department empower workers by creating greater awareness of their rights. Training in labour laws and anti-sexual harassment laws must be undertaken for all garment workers through the Department of Women and Child Development. Calling for strengthening the Labour Department, the Forum recommended that it should be more pro-active in terms of undertaking inspections, examining the terms of agreement and compensation where factory closures have taken place and act in ways that increase the confidence of workers and unions that the State is protecting their rights. Calling for universal income and food support for workers, the Forum said the government should undertake a survey of working class households, identify key issues around income, health and food security and address them.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||FKCCI seeks govt. intervention to stop surge in steel prices||Trade body FKCCI that represents medium, small, and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in Karnataka demanded immediate government intervention to stop further surge in steel prices. MSMEs, which consume high amount of steel, are yet to recover from the COVID-19-affected business losses and a steel price hike by 35%-40% in the last few months has put them under further distress, it said. Perikal M. Sundar, president of FKCCI, said immediate intervention of the government was the need of the hour to stop surge in steel prices. He urged the government to enforce a ban on steel export for at least six months and also lift import duty on steel. “We, as a trade body, request the government to save the domestic industry by imposing an export duty on steel so that prime steel producers can cater to the domestic market. It is also necessary to form a steel regulator so that prime steel producers can’t increase prices arbitrarily. The provision of the Essential Commodities Act can be invoked to check the malpractices by prime steel producers,The 5% customs duty on import of iron and steel scrap should also be reduced. The government may also think of subsidising steel prices,” Mr. Sundar insisted.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP restrictions for Christmas, New Year||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued an order in view of Christmas and New Year celebrations around the corner. According to a circular issued by BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Monday, nodal officers have been appointed to ensure that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and restrictions are followed. No gathering will be allowed on roads in any part of the city. This will also be monitored by police teams constituted by the Police Commissioner. Meanwhile, parties, meetings and others, including dance parties, DJ music, will not be allowed from December 30 to January 2. Entry into pubs, bars, restaurants and other places should be allowed only after thermal scanning of patrons. Citizens will have to mandatorily wear masks, sanitise their hands frequently and maintain social distance, apart from not spitting in public places.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||GP polls: Voter turnout crosses 85 per cent||The first phase of Gram Panchayat elections in Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar registered a big turnoutwith the polling in the three districts crossing 85 per cent. The consolidated details of the number of votes polled in the districts was released, giving the break-up of the taluk-wise polling. In Mysuru district, 85.50 per cent was recorded with the highest voting recorded in K.R. Nagar with 87.18 per cent. Out of 6,10,514 people who voted, 3,11,405 were male and 2,99,109 were female. In total, 148 GPs went to polls in 1,100 polling booths. The break-up of the poll percentage in other taluks: Hunsur 86.29; Periyapatna 86.16; H.D. Kote 82.01 and Sargur 84.17. A total of 77 GPs went to polls in Chamarajnagar and Gundlupet taluks, registering a turnout of 85.70 per cent - 1,69,391 men and 1,68,349 women and four others had cast their votes. The total number of people who voted was 3,37,744. In Chamarajanagar district, polling was held for 43 GPs in Chamarajnagar taluk and 34 in Gundlupet taluk in the first phase. In Gundlupet, the turnout was 88.26 per cent while it was 83.94 per cent in Chamarajnagar taluk. In Mandya, where the election was held for 125 GPs in Mandya, Malavalli and Maddur taluks, the overall poll percentage was 86.72. Out of 5,24,193 voters, 2,64,395 men and 2,59,792 women cast their ballots. The highest turnout was registered in Mandya at 88.04 per cent. Maddur recorded 87.05 per cent polling and Malavalli recorded 84.80 per cent. The total number of segments that went to polls was 921.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS gets new Director||M.V. Padma Srivastava, professor and head of Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, has been appointed as Director of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) for a period of five years. She will take over from in-charge Director G. Gururaj, senior professor of epidemiology. Tenure completed Dr. Gururaj was appointed in-charge Director from October 4 for a period of three months or till a regular Director is appointed. This was in the wake of B.N. Gangadhar, senior professor of psychiatry at NIMHANS, completing his tenure as Director.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restoring a piece of history||Citizens are elated as the Krumbiegel memorial inside the Lalbagh Botanical Garden is taking shape. The original 100-year-old Krumbiegel Lecture Hall was demolished after a portion of the structure collapsed during the rains in 2017. The reconstruction began in 2019. The Horticulture Department had said they would keep reconstruction true to the original structure in all aspects, including dimensions and the colour of the facade.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Christmas spirit||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||958 new cases, 9 deaths||The State on Wednesday reported 958 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,12,340. With nine deaths, the toll rose to 12,038. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,206 persons were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,86,547. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.96%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.93%.
24 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||431 in Alappuzha||Alappuzha logged 431 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. It also recorded three deaths. The fresh cases include 423 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another eight people remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 270 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease recovered. The active caseload in the district is 4,343.
24 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Anchunadu farmers in mission mode||Around 30 farmers, mostly tribespeople of Marayur and Kanthallur in Anchunadu, are on a mission to revive paddy cultivation and protect their endemic rice varieties ‘Nadan Kuruva’ and ‘Kunjunju’. They have achieved a good yield in 20 ha cultivated with the two varieties. Marayur was the rice bowl of Anchunadu over two decades back, before land was converted for sugar cane, areca nut, coconut, and other crops. Farmers say Marayur sugar cane fields were once widely cultivated with traditional rice varieties and the rise in production cost and shortage of workers resulted in a shift in cultivation to areca nut, pepper, and other cash crops. Depletion of groundwater was another reason. UNDP help However, the good yield from the newly cultivated area has enthused them. The project for promoting traditional paddy cultivation was launched by the Agriculture Department in association with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Haritha Keralam Mission. Marayur grama panchayat and the Marayur Krishi Bhavan supported the venture diverting works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Farmers say they used to cultivate hybrid rice varieties which were sensitive to the extreme climatic conditions there. It was also a reason for shifting to sugar cane cultivation. “It is a return to the traditional seed varieties and clusters of farmers will be formed. Soon more areas will come under the two rice varieties,” says Vinayakan, president of the Marayur Padasekhara Samiti. “The cultivation was based on organic methods and the harvested paddy will be primarily used as seeds. Harvesting is still under way in the paddy fields of Mazhi,” says a farmer of the Kandakkayam tribal settlement. Engagement of more local people under the MGNREGS compensated for the shortage of workforce. The increase in area under paddy will also benefit dairy farmers, says Mr. Vinayakan. Suited to climate Kanthallur agriculture officer Satheesh K.R. says the two rice varieties have been found congenial to the climatic conditions of the area, which often witnessed heavy wind. “Due to the dwarf nature of the varieties, they will not fall easily. The two rice varieties are also known for their unique taste. However, they need 180 to 190 days of growth. The seed of the Kunjunju variety was collected with much effort and a seed bank of the variety will be in place soon,” he says.
24 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Many rave parties held in State: Police||The gang that organised a rave party at a resort in Wagamon from where narcotic items were seized on Monday had arranged nearly 10 similar parties in the State and it was the model who invited the young girls to it, according to the police. Of the 59 arrested, 50 were sent away with parents and relatives with stern warning. They were not directly involved in the gang or narcotic business. Social media used Among those arrested was Bristi Viswas, a Tripunithura-based model who has acted in films. They had used social media to arrange rave parties. Nabeel, a native of Malappuram, and Salman from Kozhikode were the organisers of the party. Ajmal from Thodupuzha provided the drug items arranged from Bengaluru for the night party. The police will take the arrested into custody for detailed interrogation regarding the source of the drugs. Police inquiry The police are also inquiring into whether resort owner Shaji Kuttikkadan has any link to the drug mafia. The narcotic items seized included ISD stamps, hashish oil, ecstasy tablets, and ganja. There were12 women in the rave party, including the model.  The resort was owned by Shaji Kuttikadan, Vagamon local committee secretary of Communist Party of India, and former Elappara grama panchayat president. After the incident, the party expelled him from its primary membership.
24 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||2 youths arrested||The Upputhara police have arrested two youths in connection with the death of a 17-year-old girl at Edapookkulam on October 8. Upputhara Circle Inspector S.M. Riyas said the arrests were made after recovering the girl’s gold ornaments pawned with a private financier at Mattukatta. One of the accused had swindled her out of gold ornaments and cash by professing love. When the girl asked him to return the ornaments, she was threatened. She was found dead hanging at her house. The police identified the accused as Kizhakke Mattukatta resident Pulimoottil Christy P. Chacko, 18, and Vellilamkandam resident Puthanpurackal Jikkumon, 19. The girl was a Plus Two student and the accused were her seniors. They were produced before the magistrate court and remanded.
24 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Steps sought to end crop raids||The Wayanad Action Committee to Prevent Wildlife Attack, a farmer organisation in the district, has urged the government and three-tier local bodies to adopt effective steps to mitigate the increasing man-animal conflict in the district. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, T.C. Joseph, the chairman of the organisation, said year after year, the man-animal conflict in the district was escalating considerably. Though successive governments had been implementing various measures such as digging of trenches, erection of power fencing, rail fencing, Mankulam-model crash guard rope fencing and construction of rock walls on the fringes of forests in the district, the issue had not been tackled yet, he said. The most effective measure taken was the setting up of crash guard rope fencing as it could prevent the entry of wild animals such as tiger, elephant, gaur and various species of deer to the adjacent properties of farmers to a certain extent, said Mr. Joseph. Moreover, the fencing was also cost effective. The government had granted Rs. 615 crore to three-tier civic bodies in the 2018-19 fiscal for various development projects and it was expected that the amount would come to about Rs. 700 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, he said. Nearly 40% of the amount was used for agriculture and allied sectors. If the amount, except the funds for the dairy sector, was utilised for the construction of fencing in the district, the issue of man-animal conflict could be addressed to be a great extent, he said. Mr. Joseph urged the government to execute effective minor irrigation projects to utilise the water resources in the district by coordinating with various departments and using the services of the MGNREGA workers. Though the Cauvery tribunal had granted 9-tmcft water from the Kabani river and its tributaries, the successive governments had failed to utilise even 1.5 tmcft of water so far, he alleged.
24 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Preparations on for vaccine distribution||District Medical Officer (DMO) Narayana Nayak has said that preparations for distribution of COVID-19 vaccine have started in Kannur. Inaugurating an online training programme for health workers on Wednesday, Mr. Nayak said vaccination had been planned in three stages. In the first phase, health workers in the private sector will be vaccinated. As many as 22,773 health workers have been registered for the purpose. In the second phase, volunteers and those above 50 years of age as well as people with lifestyle diseases will be vaccinated. All other categories will be considered in the third phase. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer-in-Charge Dr. B. Santosh, COVID-19 District Nodal Officer Dr. Vasu Anand, and District Mass Media Officer Hamza Ismali were present.
24 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Couple held||The police have arrested the son and daughter-in-law of the 69-year-old man who had reportedly fallen to death from a hospital building. Santhosh, 36, and his wife P.J. Asha, 29, of Kuttikol Paduppu Villaram Vayal were arrested on Wednesday. The police registered a case against the couple for attempted murder on a complaint lodged by Lalitha, the wife of the deceased. She had alleged in her complaint that Santosh and his wife had beaten up Lakshmana Gowda. Gowda was later admitted to a private hospital in Karnataka following the incident.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kudumbashree members make it big in polls||Around one-third of Kudumbashree workers in Ernakulam, who contested the civic body polls, passed the electoral test. According to data compiled by the District Kudumbashree Mission, 602 of the total 1,918 candidates won the elections held for the Kochi Corporation, district panchayat, and block and grama panchayats. Those who clinched victory include members of neighbourhood groups, chairpersons of community development societies, vice chairpersons of societies, chairpersons and members of area development societies, president, secretary and executive committee members of neighbourhood groups. Besides, vice chairpersons and executive committee members of community development societies have made it to the ruling and Opposition benches in the new councils. Of the 602 who won, over half are members of neighbourhood groups. Around 360 women in the above category came out successful in their wards. Executive committee members of community development societies showed their grassroots-level connections after 75 of them were declared winners. As many as 31 executive committee members of area development societies won the election, while the corresponding figure of presidents of neighbourhood groups who turned councillors and ward members was 23. Twenty-nine secretaries of neighbourhood groups entered grama panchayats, blocks, and municipalities as representatives of their wards. A majority of women entrepreneurs and self-help group members won elections held for grama panchayats. Around 450 of the district mission members will now be part of the decision-making process in grama panchayats. Kochi Corpn. Nearly 110 made it to municipalities, while the representation of mission workers in blocks was around 30. Five of the Kudumbashree workers won the election held for the Kochi Corporation. Members of the mission put up an impressive performance in Kalamassery and Eloor municipalities. In Kalamassery, 17 of the new councillors will represent the Kudumbashree Mission, while the corresponding figure in Eloor is 14. Ten in the new council in Maradu will also be women, who had gained ground-level experience in their roles as Kudumbashree workers.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Winning bouquets for poetry, brickbats for views||Five years ago, when cow vigilante groups began to unleash terror in the north, poet Sugathakumari wrote an article in a newspaper in which she took beef eaters for Muslims, putting the onus on them not to provoke cow-worshippers. Around the time, she also gave audience to then Bharatiya Janata Party national president Amit Shah who was touring the State ahead of the impending Assembly elections. While her article decried political and religious violence, there was no reference to the violence fomented by Hindutva outfits which attracted criticism. But when writer Zacharia described her as a guerilla fighter of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, it pained her. So much so that, she went to the press to declare that she believed in openness and that her role models were Mahatma Gandhi and Swami Vivekananda. For someone who steadfastly followed in the footsteps of her father, Gandhian-poet Bodheswaran, Sugathakumari stayed committed to her dharma, which was Hindu and puritan. That is what made her political views problematic. As a poet, Sugathakumari was deeply meditative and lyrical. Born to a freedom fighter and a Sanskrit scholar, she immediately took to books and writing. While the first poems were written taking cover of her cousin’s name, Sreekumar, an accidental publication of the same poem in two names made her reveal her identity. Poet and editor N.V. Krishna Warrier was instrumental in that. This was in the early 1950s. . In the late 1970s, however, an article by M.K. Prasad on the imminent destruction of a patch of rainforest in Silent Valley caught her eye. Upon enquiry, she came to know about the dangers posed by a proposed hydroelectric project there. She mobilised writers, including ONV, Kadammanitta, NV and Vishnu Narayanan Nampoothiri, politicians like K.V. Surendranath and activists to campaign against the project. What was launched as Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi (environment protection forum) also fostered her poetry to branch out to areas so far untrodden by her. In the poet’s own words, the parallel between nature and women and the plundering both suffered made her talk of them, without the poetry sliding into mere sloganeering. It is the 12-year meditative trance of the deep blue hills that results in the iridescent blooming of the Kurinji flower, she wrote in Kurinjippookkal . Face of conservation She remained at the forefront of most environmental struggles — Mavoor, Koodankulam, Aranmula, you name it — often inviting criticism for her views. More recently, her views on allowing women to enter Sabarimala temple earned her brickbats. For her, it was not an issue of gender equality, but of the crowds overshooting the carrying capacity of the fragile hills. A dreadful sight of helpless, persecuted, suffering women at the Government Mental Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram inflicted deep anguish following which she founded Abhaya, for destitute women, which spawned Athani, for homeless girls; de-addiction centres, care homes for little children and the like. She forced the government to put an end to the squalid single cell system of mental hospitals. As chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission, she earned laurels for her proactive interventions. Compassion, in life as well as poetry, came naturally to her, but that was tempered by ‘her’ sense of Hindu dharma, which was evident in her vegetarianism, call to ban alcohol, call for purity of language and a much-loathed view about controlling the influx of migrant workers. She learned to live alone, as she says in the poem Ottayku , and the death of her younger sister Sujatha a few years ago struck a deep blow from which she never really recovered. Compassion to all beings Compassion to the hope-driven fickleness of human character, which was in full view in Pavam Manava Hrudayam , got extended to all creatures on earth in her twilight years — her concern for the temple elephants of Kerala remains an example. As someone who did not want to have any post-death adulation and State honour, she realised the end was near after two heart attacks. Poet Balachandran Chullikkad, who saw her as an elder sister, said in a couplet: The cold palm that you placed on my feverish forehead has fallen; may your anxieties, suffering quieten .”
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Periyar pollution sources being identified||A picture of the potential sources of pollution of the Periyar is expected to emerge by January. The report identifying the sources responsible for the pollution of the river will be filed by the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) in response to a stringent directive from the southern bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on restoring the river to its original state. An expert committee appointed by the tribunal has completed survey of the Idukki stretch of the river under the first phase of the project. The collection of samples from the tributaries, streams, and drains on the Thrissur-Ernakulam stretch was completed two days ago. Besides the board officials, the team consists of representatives from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), and the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority. The third phase of the initiative had focused on the stretch from Aluva to Eloor ferry, covering the industrial areas in Eloor, Edayar, and Kalamassery. The pollution load assessment is expected to provide information on possible sources of pollution. The physical and chemical analysis of the samples will be done in government labs. Going by the assurance given by the board to the NGT, the expert team will inspect all industrial units, hospitals and other establishments, waste dumping grounds, and drains in the impact zones. The officials will collect samples from all applicable sources. Nearly 10% of the samples will be duplicated for cross-verification by either the CPCB or the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute. However, the board officials clarified that inspecting all units along the banks of the river would not be viable in the pandemic times. “But we will definitely look at the polluting industries based on the analysis of the samples,” they said. According to the action plan drafted by the board, the final report on re-mediation of the Periyar covering Idukki, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts will be ready by January 15.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mukkom in LDF’s kitty||The wrangling over capture of power in Mukkom Municipality, which threw up a tie between the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF), has finally ended, with the lone IUML rebel backing the Left parties in the civic body. Mohammed Abdul Majeed, the IUML rebel candidate, who won from the Irattukulangara ward, said the LDF had accepted his suggestions for the development of his ward. The past five-year rule of the LDF was also satisfactory. However, he maintained that he was still an IUML activist. His decision to return to the party depends on whether the IUML leadership quashed his suspension and accepted his suggestions, Mr. Majeed said. He had secured 328 votes against his nearest opponent, the IUML’s Abdul Sheriff, who received 312. Other candidates — BJP’s E.P. Ravindran got 112 votes, while three Independents, A.P. Shalu (40), P. Sheriff Mohammed (2) and Mohammed Sheriff — drew a blank. In the 33-member Mukkom Municipality, the LDF secured 12 seats and the UDF, 11. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) got one. The remaining nine members who contested as Independents belong to the UDF, LDF, and the NDA. In total, the LDF has the backing of 15 members, while the UDF has the support of 15 members and the NDA, one. Blow to WPI The IUML rebel’s decision has come as a blow to the Welfare Party of India (WPI), the political wing of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, which supported the UDF. Three WPI candidates too won in the municipality. In the 2015 local body polls, the WPI, with three members, had supported the LDF, though the Left coalition had a majority with 18 members. Then the UDF had 10 seats and the BJP and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), one each. This time, the UDF reached an electoral understanding with the WPI to capture the municipality. It gained a seat, but the unexpected victory of an NDA member thwarted the calculations of both the rival fronts, especially the UDF. Political uncertainty For the LDF, more than ending the political uncertainty that lasted more than a week, it has helped the front retain the Mukkom Municipality. The development comes when the front had lost Ramanattukkara and Payyoli municipalities to the UDF. The UDF has retained Koduvally, while the LDF, Vadakara and Koyilandy, the other three out of the seven municipalities, in the district.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Voices of dissent in V4 Kochi||Just days after putting up a performance scuttling the prospects of major fronts in numerous divisions in the Kochi Corporation, V4 Kochi, the apolitical outfit that emerged just months before the local body polls, seems to be floundering under the weight of internal squabbles. Foji John, one of the founding members of V4 Kochi, and Jesme Jose, coordinator of its women’s wing, returned to the Aam Admi Party (AAP), which they regarded as the mother organisation, with what they claim to be around 50-odd members exposing chinks in the nascent outfit. The decision to expand the movement at the State-level under the nomenclature ‘V4 Kerala’ seems to have triggered the rebellion. Nipun Cherian, campaign controller of V4 Kochi, however, claimed that only Mr. John, who was on the verge of being ousted, had left the movement while waving away the departure of Ms. Jose as inconsequential. “AAP does not even have a proper structure to be revived here and is simply dancing to the tune of the CPI(M), which, worried over the impact of our proposed State-wide expansion, has activated its contacts in that party to pull off this stunt. The move has little consequence for us, as we are busy expanding our movement ahead of registering it as a political party with national ambitions,” he said. Shooing away the allegations, Jose Chiramel, coordinator of AAP in Ernakulam, said there would be an exodus of members from V4 Kochi in the coming days. “V4 Kochi was formed temporarily by our members eager to contest the polls, as authentication from the AAP headquarters in Delhi for contesting in the local body polls in Kerala was slightly delayed. Though the permission eventually came, we chose not to field any candidates within the corporation limits out of regards for V4 Kochi,” he said. Mr. John added that the State-wide expansion was never on the agenda while dispelling allegations that he was on the verge of being ousted from V4 Kochi. “I had already put in my papers on the eve of the counting. More members, including the founder-members of V4 Kochi and from its 16-member core team, will leave the collective shortly,” he said.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||People connect to prove beneficial||The people connect they had established in their role as Kudumbashree workers will prove beneficial in their new task as elected representatives of various local bodies, according to an assessment by the Kudumbashree Mission. The strengthening of local bodies as an associate agency figures top among the goals set by the mission. The election of its members is expected to expand the possibilities of stepping up this mutually beneficial relationship. “Kudumbashree workers hold the advantage of having close ties with the local population. As elected representatives, they can play a key role in identifying beneficiaries of government projects,” said Renjini Sukumaran, Kudumbashree District Mission co-ordinator. Dual roles Those elected are expected to perform their dual roles as elected representatives and members of the mission. Those who were holding executive roles like president, secretary, and chairperson of the various arms of the Kudumbashree network will have to step down from those roles and continue as members. “Training for elected members is given by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration. However, they already have a clear idea about their new roles thanks to the training sessions we have been organising,” said Ms. Sukumaran. Sindhu Manoj, chairperson of the community development society in Vadakkekara, who won from Ward 16 of Vadakkekara panchayat, hopes to evolve programmes for women. “The training and experience that I have earned as chairperson of the community development society in Vadakkekara for six years will help me in implementing welfare measures for beneficiaries,” she said.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Naval sailing expedition to Androth flagged off||A round trip sailing expedition to Androth in the Lakshadweep archipelago is being undertaken by the offshore sailing club under the aegis of the Southern Naval Command (SNC). The Indian Naval Sailing Vessel (INSV) Bulbul was flagged off from Naval Base, Kochi, on Wednesday by Rear Admiral Antony George. The expedition will culminate in Kochi on December 28, after covering a distance of 400 nautical miles. Team Bulbul comprises mixed crew of six officers skippered by Captain Atool Sinha, an Asian Games medallist with over 22,000 nm of ocean sailing experience. The five-member crew includes two women officers, the senior-most being Rear Admiral Arti Sarin, Command Medical Officer, SNC. The officer has volunteered to be part of the expedition to encourage women officers to participate in adventure sports and ocean sailing. Lieutenant Commander Tulika Kotnala, the second woman crew, is an Air Traffic Control officer who is an ocean sailing expert. She recently participated in the Bay of Bengal Sailing Expedition covering over 4,500 nm. Captain U.S. Charan, an aviator, is a recreational sailor. Sub Lieutenants Aviral Keshav and Ojhas Kulkarni are upcoming yatchmen, who are on their maiden ocean sailing voyage.  INSV Bulbul is a 40-foot, LC-40 design racing cruiser capable of independent ocean voyages. The expedition aims to inculcate a spirit of adventure, hone nautical skills, and foster ocean sailing among young naval personnel.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Action plan to to be ready by February||The State government has assured the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it will prepare a comprehensive action plan for the restoration of the Periyar river by February, 2021. The southern bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, had asked the Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary, Environment, in November to come up with a proper action plan against pollution of the river. The State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management appointed by the tribunal had submitted a detailed report identifying the causes of pollution and the need to act swiftly against violators. In a report filed before the tribunal, the Chief Secretary had pointed out that a comprehensive action plan for the Periyar would be evolved with the active participation of all the departments / authorities concerned. The government had sought time till February-end to prepare a comprehensive report. The Periyar traverses through Idukki, Ernakulam, and Thrissur. The pollution of the river can be addressed comprehensively with the active cooperation of Industries, Irrigation and Local Self Government departments, and the State Pollution Control Board and the district administration, the report said. The tribunal had made it clear that it was the responsibility of the government to put an end to the dumping of untreated sewage or effluents into the river by supporting local bodies to set up treatment plants. It had pointed out that dumping of effluents was a major cause for pollution of rivers.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cop turns Good Samaritan for woman||An 85-year-old woman from Parampusserry near Chengamanad has a cop to thank for her subsistence now, though she has two sons and three daughters, all married with children. P.D. Benny, a Sub Inspector, who joined the Chengamanad station a few months ago, has offered the woman a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 from his salary at least for the next six months on learning about her travails. It all started with the ailing woman’s children petitioning the police against one another about not taking proper care of her. She has been living in a small house attached to her youngest son’s house. Mr. Benny mediated among the siblings and persuaded them to make an amicable arrangement. However, the attempt failed, and the youngest son said he would take care of his mother provided the others contributed Rs. 500 each every month. “But none of them was agreeable to the suggestion, while the youngest son, who has health issues, said his family earned just enough to make both ends meet. That is when I decided to make a monthly contribution,” said the officer. He also handed over six cheques for Rs. 2,000 each from his salary account to the woman’s grandson with the direction to encash it every month. Incidentally, the experience was not new for Mr. Benny who got promoted after serving at the emigration desk of the Kochi airport for over seven years. He has been helping three families with Rs. 1,000 each for the past one year. “The last of those cheques were presented when the woman’s hardships came to my notice. So, it was a natural decision to help her,” said Mr. Benny.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Held under POCSO Act||The Perumbavoor police on Wednesday arrested a person on the charge of sexually abusing a minor girl from a migrant family. The arrested is Sajeer, 29, of Karunagappally. The police said he had lured the victim through Facebook seven months ago and sexually abused her. He was charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Sajeer was also charged with making away with Rs. 30,000 by stealing the ATM card of a migrant worker from Perumbavoor and snatching the chain of an aged woman at Changanassery. He had gone into hiding after dumping his SIM card to avoid detection by the police. The police had arrested two relatives and a friend of the accused in that connection.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Keep minimum wage order in abeyance: HC||The Kerala High Court has ordered that the notification revising the minimum wages for employees of petrol pumps be kept in abeyance for three weeks. The interim order was passed on a writ petition filed by the Petroleum Traders Welfare and Legal Service Society, Ernakulam. According to the petitioner, the notification was illegal as it was issued without hearing the petroleum traders. Though the traders had filed a representation in this regard, it was not considered.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||2 held for assaulting migrant||The Perumbavoor police arrested two persons on the charge of attempt to murder. The arrested are Muneer, 29, of Karikkanakudy, and Praveen, 26, of Koovappady. They stand accused of assaulting a migrant worker over time spent in an ATM counter while withdrawing cash. The incident took place at the ATM counter near Manjapetty. The victim, a native of Assam, is under treatment.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||953 persons test positive in Ernakulam||Of the 953 new COVID-19 cases recorded in the district on Wednesday, the source of infection could not be traced in 212 cases. While Rayamangalam recorded 34 new cases of infection, Thrikkakara saw 32, Ayyampuzha 29, and Chengamanad registered 28 new cases. Nine health workers and two CISF personnel have also tested positive. The district recorded 709 recoveries on the day. Meanwhile, preparations are under way in the district in anticipation of having to administer the COVID-19 vaccine. The registration of health workers is progressing, and around 64,000 of them will receive the vaccine in the first phase. A vaccine storage facility exists at the Ernakulam General Hospital. Another storage facility is being readied at Edappally. The distribution was discussed at a meeting of health officials chaired by the District Collector on Wednesday.
24 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cigarettes worth Rs. 38.4 lakh seized||A special squad of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Wednesday seized 32 bundles of cigarettes worth Rs. 38.4 lakh brought in by train, allegedly evading Goods and Services Tax at the South railway station. The consignment from Nizamudin in Delhi reached here by a train around 6.45 a.m. The cigarettes were meant for sale in the State. Inspections by the RPF special squad have been intensified following the introduction of more special trains after lifting of COVID-19 curbs. Tax evasion Prima facie, the tax evasion was to the tune of around Rs. 23 lakh. The consignment has been handed over to the GST authorities for further action.
24 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Magistrate told to vacate TDB’s rooms||The Kerala High Court has ordered the Additional District Magistrate, Sabarimala, to vacate the rooms of the Travancore Devaswom Board’s (TDB) administrative office-cum-guest house at Nilakkal. The directive came on a petition filed by the TDB challenging the District Collector’s order taking over possession of the building for the functioning of the office of the Additional District Magistrate. The TDB said that there were three rooms in the building. During the pilgrimage season, urgent board meetings were held in the building. The guest house was required for its essential activities. The board expressed it inability to allot rooms when the District Collector sought to spare space for the office of the Additional District Magistrate. Instead, the board offered to provide three rooms in its hotel complex, adjacent to the guest house. Collector’s order However, the District Collector issued an order taking over the the building invoking powers of the Disaster Management Act.
24 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Enforcement activities stepped up in Kollam||The administration has stepped up security measures and launched joint inspection across the district to check food adulteration and inflow of narcotics and hooch during Christmas and New Year. “Food safety will be ensured by keeping prices under the scanner. Strict action will be taken against those indulging in speeding and drunk driving. Merchants who violate weight and measure norms will be proceeded against,” said District Collector B.Abdul Nasar at an online meeting held to coordinate the enforcement activities of various departments. So far action has been taken against more than ten business outlets for not displaying price charts and charging extra. While some business operators were slapped with penalty others were served notice after the joint inspection conducted by the Civil Supplies, Health, Food Safety, and Legal Metrology departments. RDOs in charge Revenue divisional officers (RDOs) will be in charge of coordinating enforcement activities. Since there are chances for illegal land filling during the holidays, monitoring will be strengthened and legal measures will be taken against those who breach the laws. While the Forest Department will step up surveillance near border areas, police teams will intensify vigil in tourist hubs and beaches. Night patrolling and vehicle inspections at check-posts will be strengthened .  Officials have been asked to keep a tab on prices. While coastal security will be given special attention, fishing boats and ferry services will be monitored. The district administration has also ensured the presence of life guards and fire and rescue personnel on beaches in the district. Meanwhile, the Health Department will continue with the ‘zero infection, zero transmission and zero death’ campaign to curtail the spread of COVID-19. As part of the drive, settlements of migrant labourers, destitute homes, old age homes, major markets and harbours will be monitored.
24 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||499 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 499 new cases of COVID-19 and 186 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 490 contact cases, one NRI, five persons who had come from another State, one health worker, and two cases with no known source. The district has 13,952 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,54,337. A total of 1,268 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday.
24 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Seats vacant at college||Ayyankali Memorial Arts & Science College, Pathanapuram, under the University of Kerala, has vacant seats in BA English, Economics, BSc Mathematics, BCom Co-operation and Accounts, and Data Science courses in community quota. The last date for accepting applications is December 30 and the rank list will be published on December 31. For details call 0475-2220555 or 7012631785.
24 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vocational training courses at BSS centre||The Bharat Sevak Samaj (BSS) Kollam centre has invited applications from women in the age group of 14 to 48 years for various vocational training courses. Applications should reach Bharat Sevak Samaj, High School Junction, Kottamukk Road, Kollam -13 by December 24. For details, contact 0474-2797478.
24 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||642 more test positive in Kottayam||As many as 642 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 633 contracted the virus through local contact. With 66 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 42 cases. With 530 recoveries during the day, the district has 6,351 active cases. In view of the situation, the District Collector has urged the public to exercise caution during festival celebrations.
24 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Projects have put State on development path: CM||The implementation of several projects over the past four-and-a-half years by the Left Democratic Front government has put the State on the path of development, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Interacting with representatives of different sectors in Kottayam as part of his Kerala tour, Mr.Vijayan said the GAIL pipeline project was set to be inaugurated in January. Though all projects promised by this government was to be completed in the first four years with the final year slated to witness the launch of a new set of projects, unprecedented situations, including the COVID-19 outbreak, caused a delay in implementation of some of these projects. On the occasion, the Chief Minister lauded the Meenachil -Meenanthara - Kodoor river linking project in Kottayam. Senior CPI(M) leader Vaikom Vishwan presided over the meeting, which also paid tributes to poet Sugathakumari. Jose K. Mani, MP, Thomas Chazhikadan, Mani C. Kappan, MLA, were among those present.
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Final report on shigella infection likely to be delayed||The final investigation report on the shigella bacterial infection reported in Kozhikode Corporation, being prepared by the Community Medicine Department of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, is likely to be delayed by a couple of days. The medical team was expected to submit its report to the district administration on Wednesday. It is learnt that the medical team is awaiting some more lab results on the stool samples collected from the infected persons. They are also assessing the range of infection reported among local residents in Kottamparamba-Mundikkalthazham in Mayanad and adjacent areas. A 11-year-old boy had died, nine others had got infected and over 30 people had symptoms. Boy’s funeral According to sources, the boy got infected from one of his relatives, who reportedly did not have any complications. Doctors, however, believe that the infection led to a shock in the boy, leading to worsening of his condition. Those who attended his funeral were served lemon juice, which was reportedly made using unhygienic water collected from a local well. It led to the infection spreading among some of the attendees, the sources added. In its preliminary report, the Community Medicine Department had suspected unhygienic water resources for the infection. Meanwhile, an expert team from the Directorate of Health Services recently visited the areas affected by the infection. They interacted with the local population to figure out if they had consumed food from outside, if the water sources were polluted. The team is expected to submit its report within a week.  In its preliminary report, the Community Medicine Department had suspected unhygienic water resources for the infection
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Jailed journalist’s wife seeks CM’s intervention||Raihanath Siddique, wife of New Delhi-based Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan, has sought Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s intervention for her husband’s release. Mr. Kappan is in a Mathura jail at present after the Uttar Pradesh police booked him under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on October 5 while he was on his way to report the rape and murder of a girl in Hathras. She told the media here on Tuesday that the family would stage a dharna in Thiruvananthapuram in the first week of January, raising the demand. Ms. Siddique claimed that the U.P. government had tried to humiliate the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), when it sought bail for him in the Supreme Court. Mr. Kappan is the secretary of the unit. “The police asked him to confess that he had gone to Hathras following the direction of CPI(M) leaders. Mr. Kappan was also beaten up demanding that he throw the names of two CPI(M) MPs,” said Ms. Siddique. They asked him why had he had gone to U.P. from Kerala, and why he was interested in covering the issues of Muslims and Dalits. The next hearing is on January 22. The police arraigned him as a Popular Front of India activist having links with the banned Students Islamic Movement of India since Mr. Kappan did not oblige to their demand, said Ms. Siddique. He was also accused of conspiring to engineer riots in Delhi following protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. ‘Fabricated stories’ “These are all fabricated stories. They are coming up with new stories every day. Initially there was a story on his links with a website, then some thing on a Rs. 100-crore transaction, and now the story is on some Rs. 2.5 crore,” she said. She claimed that an inspection of his bank accounts would help uncover the truth. “He is just another journalist who wanted to cover a human rights violation in Hathras. He is not part of the PFI or the CFI or any political party. Mr. Kappan knows leaders of all political parties as a journalist,” claimed Ms. Siddique. When the family approached the Chief Minister’s Office seeking help, they were told that since the arrest happened in another State, the Kerala government could not interfere in the case, she said.
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||605 more test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode||As many as 605 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. The District Medical Officer said in a release that there were 580 locally acquired infections and the source of 15 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 124 cases of local transmission, Koyilandy 29, Kuruvattoor 26, Chathamangalam 24, and Kunnamangalam 23. A total of 5,504 samples were tested on the day. There were 640 recoveries, and the active caseload from the district is 6,138. Three deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday, and four people died on Tuesday. In Wayanad A total of 260 people tested positive for the virus in Wayanad district on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 258 patients, including five health workers, were infected through local contact and two persons had returned from other States. The district recorded 152 recoveries on the day. There are 2,341 active cases in the district and 9,760 people under observation. The Health Department in association with Arogya Keralam, Wayanad, will launch a vehicle rally from Thursday to sensitise the public. “The programme is aimed at containing the spread of the pandemic in the wake of the escalating COVID-19 cases in the district recently,” said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. District Police Chief G. Poonguzhali will flag off the rally at 10 a.m.
24 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||How her classic poem reached the masses||Poetry is not, by any stretch of imagination, the most popular form of literature. Still, there are some poems that capture the imagination of the public. Sugathakumari’s Krishna Neeyenne Ariyilla is one such poem. It was first published in 1977 in her anthology, ‘Ambalamani’. It did not take the poem long to bowl the reader over. But, some three decades later, it achieved astonishing popularity when playback singer G. Venugopal’s expressive rendition of the poem, set brilliantly to music by Jaison J. Nair, was released. Lovers of music listened to it on the loop, serious readers went back to the nearly forgotten lines, composers came up with different tunes, and dancers choreographed it for their shows.  Krishna Neeyenne Ariyilla deserves all the attention it has received. The poem, about an unknown admirer of Lord Krishna, vividly paints an unforgettable picture of a Gopika who loves Krishna from afar. She has not looked at him with eyes lined with kohl of love; she has not danced with him; she has not requested him to return the clothes he had taken away while she was bathing in Kalindi river; her clever friend has not told him of her love for him. And yet, on the day he leaves Ambadi for Mathura, his chariot stops in front of her hut. He smiles at her. ‘Krishna, do you know me?’ she asks him, incredulously. Venugopal is justifiably proud that he could play a role in taking it to the masses. “I remember her making several suggestions after she listened to the song’s track,” he told The Hindu.   G. Venugopal’s rendition of Krishna Neeyenne Ariyilla helped it capture public imagination
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Court seeks treatment details of Maoist suspect||The District and Sessions Court, Manjeri, has asked for a report from the Superintendent at the high security prison at Viyyur in Thrissur on the treatment given to Rajan Chittilappilly, a suspected Maoist activist, who was arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad of the Kerala Police from a hospital earlier this month. The move follows a petition filed by Chittilappilly urging the court to issue directions for “specialty treatment” and proper care for him, considering his physical condition. Details of the medical condition of Chittilappilly too were sought to be produced in the court by December 29. The case came up for hearing on Tuesday, and Chittilappilly was represented by K.K. Abdussamad. It was pointed out that Chittilappilly had met with a road accident on December 7 and was seriously injured. He sustained fracture on his shoulders, and there were injuries to his head, knee, and chest. Chittilappilly is diabetic and is unable to do routine chores by himself, according to the petition. He was arrested while undergoing treatment at the hospital. ‘Not given medicines’ Chittilappilly alleged that the authorities at the Viyyur jail were reluctant to provide medicines to him and were preventing him from consulting a doctor. The medicines entrusted with the jail authorities by the family were not allegedly reaching him. The petition also sought his admission to a specialty hospital. Chittilappilly had been presented before the Sessions Court, through video conferencing, which remanded him in judicial custody till January 8. The police were allowed to question him for five days. Though Chittilappilly was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, he was taken to the prison after five days. Chittilappilly is reported to be a member of the Western Ghats Special Zonal Committee of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). He had been booked by the Edakkara police in Malappuram in 2016 on the charge of participating in a meeting of the CPI(Maoist) in the Nilambur jungles, raising a red flag, and receiving salutes from the party cadre in 2015. This was revealed after video recordings were reportedly recovered from the site where Maoist leaders Kuppu Devaraj and Ajitha were gunned down in an alleged encounter in 2016.
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rafi award to be presented||District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao will present the Mohammed Rafi Award - 2020, instituted by the Kozhikode-based Mohammed Rafi Foundation, to young singer Saurav Kishan at the Mohammed Rafi Park and Museum Centre here at 6.30 p.m. on Thursday. Deputy Mayor-designate C.P. Musafir Ahammed and councillor S.K. Aboobacker will attend the function being organised to commemorate the 96th birthday of the legendary singer, which falls on December 24, T.P.M. Hashir Ali, president of the foundation, said here. A concert by Saurav Kishen and Gopika Menon will also be held on the occasion, he added.
24 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML must foot bypoll bill: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has termed the decision of the IUML to field its leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, for the coming Assembly polls as ridiculing the voters of the State. At a press meet here on Wednesday, he said the decision of the IUML could not be considered as an internal affair of that party. If it was so, the IUML leadership should foot the bill for the election expense, Mr. Surendran said.
24 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta logs 406 cases||As many as 406 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta district on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 367 contracted the virus through local contact. Of them, the contact source of 58 cases were yet to be identified. Among local bodies, Adoor municipality reported 31 cases and Eraviperoor 25 cases. With 229 recoveries, the district has 4,132 active cases.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Father Kottoor, Sister Sephy sentenced to life in Abhaya case||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) here on Wednesday sentenced Father Thomas M. Kottoor, 71, and Sister Sephy, 65, to life imprisonment for the murder of 21-year-old novice Sister Abhaya, who was found dead in a well at Pious X convent run by the Knanaya Catholic order in Kottayam in March 1992. CBI Special Judge K. Sanilkumar found the priest and nun guilty of murder and destruction of evidence under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). On top of the offences, the judge imposed a second life sentence on Father Kottoor for house trespass to murder under Section 449 of the IPC. The court said both the life sentences would run concurrently. The judge fined the accused Rs. 5 lakh each. He slapped an additional penalty of Rs. 1 lakh on Father Kottoor for house trespass. The convicts would have to undergo further two years of simple imprisonment if they neglected to pay the fine. Father Kottoor and Sister Sephy pleaded for clemency. Father Kottoor said he had prostate cancer (Stage IV). Sister Sephy had aged parents to care for and suffered from deep vein thrombosis. Both had no criminal antecedents, and the offence was not a premeditated one. CBI prosecutor M. Navas said the victim was a hapless novice under Sister Sephy's care. The accused had carried out systematic and comprehensive destruction of evidence to make Abhaya's murder appear as a case of suicidal drowning. The judge said the case did not fall under the rarest of rare category. The convicts did not warrant capital punishment. “His (Father Kottoor) nocturnal misadventure had paved way to the cold-blooded murder of the victim,” the court observed. The convicts appeared stoic as they heard the judge pronounce the verdict. Mr. Sanilkumar said Crime Branch officials K. Samuel and K.T. Michael had destroyed material objects in the case. The law enforcement should make them accountable for their “misdeeds.” The accused had killed Abhaya after the novitiate found them in objectionable circumstances when she went to collect drinking water from the convent's kitchen on the night of March 27.  The case, plagued by legal wrangling, had meandered gratingly through various judiciary levels for almost 28 years before reaching the trial stage in August last.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green cover in capital to miss her shade and care||Every time a tree is felled in the capital city in future, Sugathakumari teacher, who died on Wednesday due to COVID-19, will be remembered. A tree lover here says such acts of felling trees would have the poet and activist stand up in fierce opposition. Thiruvananthapuram will always treasure the memories of Sugathakumari who, apart from being a celebrated and oft-quoted poet and sought-after environmental activist, was the driving force behind social initiatives such as ‘Abhaya’ and ‘Athani’. Saviour of trees On Wednesday, several people recalled how she, along with others, fought to save the Mahogany trees at the University College from the axe. “Hers was a phone number we could always dial with confidence even for the cause of a single tree. She had that rare capability to unfailingly comprehend the heart of things,” says Anitha Sharma, convener of the city-based Tree Walk. On an eventful night in 2010, a small group including Sugathakumari, senior CPI leader Binoy Viswam, and noted architect G. Shankar faced the wrath of a crowd to rescue the huge trees at Sasthamangalam junction. “They wanted the trees cut down for road development. It was past midnight. She advised us to remain calm in the face of their anger. She has written about that episode,” recalls Mr. Viswam, who was Forest Minister at the time. Ten years later, the busy junction continues to savour the cool shade of the canopies of the trees there. “It was through her poems that people like me became aware of the tenderness of nature and the frailties of life. The Silent Valley agitation became a model of resistance for the entire nation,” says Mr. Shankar. A refuge ‘Abhaya’ was formed in 1985 as a refuge for the destitute, mentally ill, and women and children in distress. It was ‘born out of a deep concern for the helpless mental patients of the Government Mental Hospitals of Kerala. The relentless efforts of Abhaya focused the attention of the public, the government, and in particular the judiciary, on the pitiable conditions of the mental hospitals’, notes the institution’s website. ‘Athani’ was designed as a short stay home for women in distress. “It was her sheer willpower that took institutions like Abhaya and Athani forward,” says poet O.N.V. Kurup’s son Rajeev. “To my father, she was like a sister. She visited often. I remember how, on his 80th birthday, she came to our home to kick off the campaign against the Aranmula airport. We have lost a member of our family,” says Mr. Rajeev. “Hers was a heart that beat for the injured, whether it be women, nature or the Malayalam language. And she was always prepared to speak up for them. That beating heart has gone still all of a sudden. It leaves us with the apprehension that we are now alone,” says Soorya Krishnamoorthy, to whom Sugathakumari was more like a mother. Years ago, their families were neighbours on Forest Lane at Vazhuthacaud. “It was she who brought me, who was born in a Tamil family, close to Malayalam, its literature and culture,” recalls Mr. Krishnamoorthy.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The poet of silent valleys and silenced voices||When a young Sugathakumari began writing poetry in the early 1950s, she chose to hide herself behind a pseudonym, until she was discovered by poet N.V. Krishna Warrier. But in the decades that followed, until her passing away at the age of 86 on Wednesday, she lived a life much more public than most other poets of her generation, being in the forefront of many an environmental and social movement, with her poetry and her presence. Born in Aranmula in 1934, the early sparks of language and concern for society came from her father Bodheswaran, poet and social reformer who took part in Vaikom Satyagraha and the freedom struggle and her mother Karthyayini Amma, a Sanskrit scholar. In those early days, her poetry was filled with romantic themes, with her devotion for Krishna coming through in some of these works. Yet, the sorrow and pathos that marked much of her poetry were visible in the early days too. Nature as a theme began entering her poetry when she became involved with the Save Silent Valley Movement of the 1970s, spearheaded by John C. Jacob, M.K. Prasad and others. Her Marathinu Sthuthi (Ode to a tree) became the movement’s anthem. The movement led to shelving of the proposed hydroelectric dam project which would have destroyed the evergreen forest. A shelter for women In 1986, a visit to the Government Mental Hospital at Oolanpara here, during which she witnessed the appalling living conditions of the inmates, led her to launch Abhaya, an organisation for destitute women and mental health patients. “Young women were stuffed inside box-like cells. Many of them were naked and others were in dirty clothes. I left the place in tears. That was the second turning point in my life, after the Silent Valley agitation,” Sugathakumari told The Hindu in 2016. Her interventions opened up the mental hospitals in the State to public scrutiny and led to a sea change in the living conditions there. Within a few years, she set up Abhayagramam on 10 acres of land in the capital, which became a shelter for victims of abuse, chronically mentally ill women patients and children from low-income families. All these issues that she intervened in reflected in her poetry, which was filled with deeply moving laments for the trampled upon. Amid all her activism, she continued to pen lines which fetched her accolades from all around.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister advises high vigil during festival season||The Health Department has asked the public to maintain a high state of vigil as COVID-19 cases are already on the rise in the State and Christmas and New Year celebrations can lead to further amplification of the virus in the community. The threat posed by the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2, which is said to be 70% more transmissible, cannot be dismissed, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said in a statement here . The local body poll campaigning began in the State right at the time when COVID-19 cases began showing a downward trend in the State. The active caseload in the State, which had gone up to 97,000 plus cases in the last week of October, had been brought down to 57,000 by December 14. However, after the polls, as predicted by experts, cases are on the rise again. The State has already witnessed a surge in cases after Onam celebrations. Hence the public should take more care to keep themselves safe during the Christmas and New Year celebrations and all religious functions should be performed strictly as per the COVID protocols, the statement said. Do not ignore symptoms People should not ignore any flu-like or respiratory symptoms that they may develop and should seek immediate medical attention and go into self quarantine without delay People should avoid all congregations and celebrations in public places and use three-layered cloth masks or N-95 masks. People who go shopping should take all precautions and maintain physical distancing with others and clean their hands occasionally. They should take care to avoid touching their face and should not engage in conversation with people by lowering the mask.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,169 new cases in State, TPR at 10.04%||Kerala reported 6,169 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, when 61,437 samples were tested, taking the State’s cumulative burden to 7,21,510 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) touched 10.04%. The State’s active case pool, which has been rising for the past one week, now has 62,802 cases. With 4,808 recoveries reported on Wednesday, the cumulative number of recoveries in the State now stands at 6,55,644. The graph of new COVID-19 cases has been rising in the State since the second week of December. Health Department’s weekly epidemiological report states that when the State reported 32,938 new cases between December 7-13, it went up by over 3,600 cases to report 36,539 new cases between December 14 and 20. Between December 14 and 20, new cases reported per week went up significantly in Ernakulam, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Thrissur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, and Wayanad, when compared to the previous week. In the same week, the TPR increased significantly in Ernakulam (10.2%), Kollam (9.4%), Kottayam (13%), and Pathanamthitta (9.2%). TPR was the lowest in Thiruvananthapuram (6.3%) and Kasaragod (6.9%). On Wednesday, 22 more deaths were added to the official COVID death list, taking the State’s COVID toll till date to 2,892. Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram reported four cases each, Kollam and Alapuzha three each, Kasaragod two, and Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Palakkad, Wayanad, and Kozhikode reported one death each. 841 in ICUs Official bulletin puts the number of critically ill COVID patients in various ICUs in the State at 841, with 221 patients on ventilator support. Of the 6,169 new cases, a history of travel outside the State was reported in 98 cases while the remaining 6,071 are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraced in 662 cases.  Health workers The number of health-care workers who contracted COVID-19 amongst this is 60. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 953 cases, Kottayam 642, Kozhikode 605, Thrissur 564, Malappuram 500, Kollam 499, Alappuzha 431, Pathanamthitta 406, Thiruvananthapuram 404, Palakkad 367, Wayanad 260, Idukki 242, Kannur 228, and Kasaragod 68 cases.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State human rights panel orders for renovation works||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered for renovation works to be carried out urgently on the Kurinjilakkode-Kariyam road in the Kallara gramapanchayat. The road that was built by the local residents three decades ago is in disrepair now. The SHRC in its order said that the district panchayat or the grama panchayat should renovate the road and install new streetlights under one of their projects. None of the 25 electric posts along the road have streetlights. Panchayat’s argument The commission did not accept the panchayat’s argument that no suggestions for the renovation of the particular road came up in gramasabha meetings. The commission went through photographs of the road and news reports on its conditions and came to the conclusion that the claims made by the complainant Thembammoodu Sahadevan were true. The Kallara panchayat secretary informed the commission that the district panchayat had prepared estimates for development of the road in the previous years. The road renovation works require a huge amount, which is impossible to be met from the gramapanchayat’s fund.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 testing kiosk at Padmanabhaswamy temple||A COVID-19 testing kiosk has been set up at the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple for devotees. The kiosk was set up by public sector company HLL Life Care in association with the Health Department. The kiosk will start functioning at the East Nada from Thursday onwards, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily. In addition to the devotees, the public can also make use of the kiosk. Sabarimala pilgrims as well as those heading abroad can use the test results from the kiosk as a document. Those who need to carry out the test should produce their Aadhar card or passport as an identity document. The cost for antigen test is Rs. 600, while that for RT-PCR test is Rs. 2,000. The results of the antigen test will be known within an hour, while that of the RT-PCR test will be available in 24 hours. Other places Similar kiosks have already been set up near the KSRTC bus stand at Thampanoor, at the district taluk hospitals, the Kattakada and Varkala branches of Devi scans, and the DDRC laboratory opposite the Kilimanoor bus stand.  The cost for antigen test is Rs. 600, while that for RT-PCR test is Rs. 2,000.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ordinary bus fare goes down by Rs. 2||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to do away with the cess on tickets being collected from commuters in the ordinary buses for six months. Those commuting in ordinary buses of the fleet up to 47.5 km and paying ticket fares up to Rs. 49 will not have to pay the cess and this will result in the bus fare going down by Rs. 1 to 2. At present, the KSRTC is not collecting any cess on passenger tickets up to Rs. 14. With the new decision, the Rs. 1 cess collected on tickets from Rs. 15 to Rs. 24 and Rs. 2 cess collected for tickets from Rs. 25 to Rs. 49 will be avoided. The cess on passenger tickets above Rs. 14 in the buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and the Kerala Urban Road Transport Corporation (KURTC) was rolled out from April 1, 2015. It was being collected primarily to mobilise funds for the employees’ pension fund. It was in addition to the Rs. 1 collected on all tickets in the KSRTC fleet towards accident insurance. The Assembly had passed a Bill ‘the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (Passenger Group Personal Accident Insurance, Improved Passenger Amenities, Employees Social Security and Cess on Passenger Ticket Bill 2014’ by approving the cess. Transport Minister, A.K. Saseendran said on Wednesday the government had given approval to the proposal mooted to this effect by the Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of the KSRTC. The Minister said the loss being incurred by avoiding the cess in ordinary buses would be overcome by the increase in patronage and by operating more Fast Passenger buses as BonD services. The KSRTC management was also of the view that avoiding cess would result in more revenue from the ordinary buses.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MPs take up issue of free treatment of infants under RBSK||Members of the Parliament from the State, K. Muraleedharan and Kodikkunnil Suresh, have written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, demanding that the Centre intervene to resolve the impasse between National Health Mission (NHM) and Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), which has virtually put a halt to the free treatment offered to children with critical congenital illnesses at the SCTIMST under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK). In separate memorandums written to Dr Harsh Vardhan, both MPs pointed out that it was deplorable that technicalities and bureaucratic tussles were being allowed to come in the way of the treatment of infants with critical congenital illnesses from poor families, leaving their lives hanging in balance. Package rates Mr. Muraleedharan requested Dr Harsh Vardhan to look into the long-standing issue of non acceptance of package rates of Centrally sponsored programmes by the SCTIMST, which was affecting the treatment of poor patients. Earlier also, the institute had refused to accept the treatment package rates under Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY health insurance scheme, Mr. Muraleedharan pointed out. Need for a mechanism Both Mr. Muraleedharan and Mr. Suresh asked Dr Harsh Vardhan to evolve a mechanism by which the treatment of poor children from other States could be reimbursed to the NHM from the RBSK funds that is available to the respective States.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Counterfeit note racket busted in Varkala||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have busted a fake currency racket based in the tourist destination of Varkala and other areas that border Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. Three persons were arrested from separate locations with alleged possession of counterfeit notes of over Rs. 7.75 lakh. The Varkala police identified the accused as Ashiq Hussain alias Ashiq Thonakkal, 35, of Pattathil in Melthonnakkal, Muhammed Haneefa alias Mammu, 23, of Ramanthali in Varkala, and Achu Sreekumar, 20, of Villikadavu in Ayiroor. Having been apprehended a day ago, they were remanded to judicial custody on Wednesday. The police got a whiff on the unfolding racket after being alerted by a few migrant traders based in areas frequented by tourists in Varkala. Suspecting the circulation of fake notes of Rs. 2,000 in the region during the last week or so, they feared the damage it could cause on their businesses. Based on a tip-off, the police apprehended Muhammed Haneefa and Achu from a resort on the Varkala cliff. They were caught with alleged possession of some counterfeit Rs. 2,000 notes. Upon interrogation, the duo revealed the whereabouts of the Ashiq Hussain, who allegedly masterminded the operation. He was subsequently caught from a rented house in Melevila in Kattayikkonam. Along with counterfeit notes of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500 and Rs. 200 that amounted to Rs. 7.75 lakh, the police confiscated a printer, paper bundles, and holograms for watermarking that were allegedly used to manufacture the fake notes. According to Varkala Inspector station house officer (SHO) G. Gopakumar, the gang used to trade fake notes of Rs. 1 lakh in return for Rs. 40,000. Ashiq, a habitual offender, used to pass off as a philanthropist and would circulate such notes. He has several cases including those pertaining to murder attempts that are pending against him in Mangalapuram and Attingal police stations.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||404 cases in capital||The district on Wednesday reported 404 new COVID-19 cases, even as the number of recoveries stood at 312. The active case pool in the district stands at 3,578 cases, according to the district administration. Local transmission accounted for 284 cases on Wednesday, while the list also included 12 health workers. In December alone, more than 120 health workers have tested positive. No deaths due to COVID-19 were reported by the district administration on Wednesday. At present, 21,767 people are quarantined including 1,164 persons who were prescribed quarantine on Wednesday. In all, 1,159 persons completed the observation period without developing symptoms.
24 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala tests positive||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Mr. Chennithala apparently has no symptoms and is being kept under observation. His wife and son tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, following which Mr. Chennithala had gone on quarantine. Senior Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran is also at the MCH for COVID-19 treatment.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tributes pour in for Sugathakumari||Poet Sugathakumari played the role of a sentinel of the environment and Malayalam language during seven decades of being active in the State’s public sphere, Culture Minister A.K. Balan has said. He was speaking at an event organised at the Ayyankali hall on Wednesday evening in tribute to the poet who passed away earlier in the day. “Sugathakumari loved the soil, humans and the mother tongue. She was one of the earliest proponents of the environment protection movements in the State. Her tenure as the first chairperson of the State Women’s Commission became a turning point in that sphere,” said Mr. Balan. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that her passing away was an irreparable loss to Malayalam literature as well as for social and environmental activism. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby, CPI leader Pannian Raveendran, filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, and others spoke. Poet Madhusoodhanan Nair recited a poem in tribute to Sugathakumari. Offering tributes Several persons, including her admirers took part in the event, which was organised by following all COVID-19 protocols. As the body was not kept for public viewing, owing to COVID-19 restrictions, a photograph of her was kept at the Ayyankali hall in the afternoon for the public to pay tributes. Political leaders, cultural figures and people from various walks of life paid tributes to her throughout the day. Cremation Her body was taken directly from the Government Medical College Hospital to the Shanthikavadam electric crematorium at 4 p.m. The cremation was done with full State honours. Five of her close relatives, Minister Kadakampally Surendran and district collector Navjot Khosa, all of them clad in PPE kits, were present.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Matsya Bhavan begins work in region||The first interior-region Matsya Bhavan in the district, aimed at increasing fish production in the interior regions, has started functioning near the Kulathummal Government Higher Secondary School in Kattakada. I.B. Satheesh, MLA, inaugurated the facility on Wednesday. Fisheries deputy director Beena Sukumar and other officials were present. The State government plans to open 16 such centres across the State, especially in the interiors and hilly regions. The fish farmers from Kattakada and Nedumangad taluks will benefit from the centre opened at Kattakada.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Karunakaran remembered||K. Karunakaran’s memory gives the Congress the energy and spirit in its journey ahead, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee President Mullappally Ramachandran has said. He was speaking after offering floral tributes at the Karunakaran statue, on the occasion of the 10th death anniversary of the former Chief Minister. He said that Karunakaran was a far-sighted leader who could motivate the party workers in crisis situations and keep the party united.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elected members to take oath on Dec.26||Elected members of the local bodies who were not sworn in on December 21 will take the oath on December 26, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. They will take the oath before the oldest member of the council at 10 a.m. The commission has also issued the guidelines for the elections of heads and deputy heads of the local bodies. The elections will be held on December 28 and December 30.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Spot admissions at nodal polytechnics||Spot admissions will be conducted at the nodal polytechnics in the districts to fill vacancies in various polytechnic colleges. Applicants can register online viawww.polyadmission.orgusing the link ‘Spot admission registration’ from Thursday to Sunday. Spot admissions will be conducted from December 28 to December 31.
24 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Devaswom Board poll results published||The results of the elections to the Devaswom Boards have been published. One member each from the ST, SC categories have been elected to the Travancore and Cochin Devaswom Boards and two members in the general category to the Malabar Devaswom Board. P.M. Thankappan was elected to the Travancore Devaswom Board, and Ayyappan V. to the Cochin Devaswom Board. M.R. Murali and K. Mohanan were elected to the Malabar Devaswom Board.
24 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur reports 564 fresh cases||Thrissur reported 564 COVID-19 cases and 420 recoveries on Wednesday. There are 6,015 active cases in the district and 123 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 70,911 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 64,389 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 546 people, including 10 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 81 patients are above the age of 60 and 29 children are below the age of 10. In all 4,119 patients are under home observation. In all, 176 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Wednesday. In all 5,974 samples were collected for the test on Wednesday. 953 cases in Ernakulam Of the 953 new COVID-19 cases recorded in the district on Wednesday, the source of infection could not be traced in 212 cases. While Rayamangalam recorded 34 new cases of infection, Thrikkakara saw 32, Ayyampuzha 29, and Chengamanad registered 28 new cases. Nine health workers and two CISF personnel have also tested positive. The district recorded 709 recoveries on the day, and 7,329 samples were sent for testing. As many as 28,737 people remain in quarantine. The active case load stands at 8,741 cases. Meanwhile, preparations are under way in the district in anticipation of having to administer the COVID-19 vaccine. The registration of health workers is progressing, and around 64,000 of them will receive the vaccine in the first phase. A vaccine storage facility exists at the Ernakulam General Hospital. Another storage facility is being readied at Edappally and will be set up by January. The distribution was discussed at a meeting of health officials chaired by the District Collector on Wednesday. Besides the vaccine, the meeting discussed the pulse polio immunisation programme set to take place on January 17, as a part of which 2,09,098 children below the age of five will be given the vaccine in the district, adhering to the COVID-19 protocol.
24 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Maintain COVID protocol, devotees told||The District Collector has issued an order to open Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, for devotees from Thursday by maintaining COVID-19 protocols. Only 2,000 people will be allowed a day through the virtual queue in the first phase. People coming for darshan should produce COVID-19 negative certificates. Only 25 weddings can be conducted a day. A maximum of 12 people, including the bride and bridegroom, can attend each wedding. They should produce COVID-19 negative certificates.  No elderly, children Devaswom and temple workers also should test negative for COVID-19. People above the age of 60 and children below the age of 10 should not attend the temple. The Devaswom should ensure that the temple and premises have been disinfected in regular intervals. People who run businesses around the temple should also be COVID negative. The temple had been closed for the last two weeks after some temple workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Permission for re-opening the temple was given after the rate of spread came down. But it was noted that devotees started thronging the temple without maintaining the COVID-19 protocol. The Collector’s order for maintaining strict protocol came in the wake of a warning given by the district medical officer about possible spread of the pandemic. Strict action will be initiated against people who breach the guidelines, the District Collector said in the order.  People coming for darshan should produce COVID-19 negative certificates
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rush hour||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Staging’ protest||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Support from far and wide||
24 December 2020||Amaravati,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s a huge task, but I’ll handle it, says CS-designate Aditya Nath Das||Chief Secretary-designate Aditya Nath Das finds the new opportunity a big task that requires dexterous handling. Mr. Das is at present Special Chief Secretary, Water Resources and Environment, Forest, Science and Technology. Mr. Das, a 1987 batch IAS officer, will be taking over as the Chief Secretary on December 31 – the day the incumbent Chief Secretary, Nilam Sawhney, will be retiring from service. Post retirement, she will be taking over as the Principal Adviser to the Chief Minister. Speaking to The Hindu at the Secretariat, Mr. Das, referring to the issues concerning several government decisions and legal hurdles, said, “There is always a way to handle things.” “It’s a big task ahead, but I’ll handle it. Like the other things I did, I’ll be able to do it. Once I take charge, I’ll be able to know clearly the expectations of the government. There is always a way to handle things, and we’ll be able to find it. That’s what I’ve leant in life and career,” Mr. Das said. Court cases Several government decisions, whether it is Amaravati lands, or the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and the CRDA Repeal Acts, or the introduction of English medium in government schools, have been challenged in the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The cases are a matter of concern in the backdrop of the court summoning top officials, who included the Chief Secretary and the DGP, and the filing of affidavits and counter-affidavits. Going by the statements of key political leaders, 2021 will be a remarkable year for the new Chief Secretary, as the government, in all probability and after surmounting the legal hurdles, is expected to shift the Secretariat to the Executive Capital, Visakhapatnam. This apart, the COVID-19 vaccination drive, continuation of the numerous welfare schemes amid financial constraints, and securing funds from the Union government are among the many challenges ahead for the new Chief Secretary.
24 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CCI intervenes to stabilise cotton prices||The market intervention announced by the State government with regard to the purchase of cotton in Kurnool, Anantapur, and Kadapa districts has helped stabilise prices in the open market and dissuade the growers from taking their produce to Ballari. The prices saw a low of below Rs. 4,000 a quintal last year in the absence of government market intervention and several farmers finding it difficult to dispose of their produce even eight months after the season. In Anantapur district, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) purchase centres were opened this year after a gap of five years, and during the past 20 days since the opening of the centres at Gooty and Tadipatri, the corporation was able to buy 8,000 quintals valued at Rs. 4.40 crore. However, this quantum is minuscule compared to the total expected production of 10.45 lakh quintals from 11,6139 acres sown. From December 2, Tadipatri and Gooty CCI purchase centres have been buying quality cotton at Rs. 5,825 per quintal for 29 mm staple length and 8% moisture content. But, against the State government’s wish to take services to the farmer’s doorstep, here the cotton farmer is required to register his crop at the Village Secretariat through e-Crop booking. From there, he has to bring a sample to the nearest CCI purchase centre, where the quality is checked and verified online if he is a genuine registered farmer. The farmer then needs to transport his produce, and the limit of quantity accepted is nine quintals per acre of the sown area registered in the e-Crop booking. A cotton farmer in Midthur village, Mallikarjuna, has sown crop in four acres, but does not take his produce to the CCI purchase centre as he gets Rs. 5,150 to Rs. 5,200 per quintal on his farm, which saves him a lot of effort, expenditure and time. “I do not have to wait for the payment here, but at the CCI centre, there is a delay of at least 15 days in getting the payment. We also need to invest on transport, loading and unloading charges,” Mallikarjuna tells The Hindu . ‘Payments cleared’ CCI Assistant Commercial Purchase Executive D. Sarath Babu said that they had cleared payments till December 16 and were scheduling 10 farmers a day for bringing their produce. But for the past two days, the purchases were stalled and many farmers had to wait for three days at the Gooty Marketyard till Tuesday evening and there were 10 more tractors waiting with the bags of cotton.
24 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing woman found dead; prime suspect nabbed||The Dharmavaram Rural police on Wednesday nabbed the prime suspect in a woman’s missing case, which turned out to be a murder. M. Snehalatha, a 19-year-old outsourced employee of State Bank of India credit card division at Dharmavarm, used to commute from Ashok Nagar in Anantapur to Dharmavaram for work. On Tuesday, she went to the office in the morning and at 6 p.m. called her parents to inform them that she was starting back for home, but meanwhile, a man, Gutti Rajesh, said to be her lover, asked her to come to a place to have some chat. When Snehalatha did not arrive till 9.30 p.m., her parents approached the Dharmavaram Rural police to lodge a complaint. Dharmavaram Rural Circle Inspector Chinna Peddaih said that his staff immediately launched search in and around Dharmavaram after collecting all details from the family members. The body of Snehalatha was traced to a field at Badannapalli along the Anantapur-Dharmavaram road on Wednesday morning. Preliminary investigation revealed that the victim was invited to the spot by Rajesh and allegedly killed her on Tuesday evening between 6.30 p.m. and 9 p.m., the Circle Inspector said. The Circle Inspector said that some papers were burnt on the body as a result of which the body was partially burnt. The mother of the deceased accused that Rajesh along with another boy used to pester her daughter to fall in love with him. The police are interrogating the prime accused to find out if there were any accomplices involved in the entire planning and perpetration of the crime.
24 December 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||New variant sending shivers down the spine of people||Even as people started breathing a sigh of relief with the city and the State limping back to near normalcy following a significant drop in cases of the COVID-19, a new strain that surfaced in the UK and South Africa is sending shivers down the spine of everyone. Medical experts, however, say citizens can breathe easy if they diligently follow the health protocols like wearing a face mask in public places, maintaining adequate physical distance and observing personal hygiene like frequent washing of hands with soap or using sanitiser. Thankfully, scheduled international flights are not being operated from the airports in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada ever since the lockdown. Visakhapatnam International Airport had operated Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad in the past but at present VBM flights are being operated only to and from Vijayawada. “New strain has been detected but there are no conclusive studies, so far, on the variant and its virulence. On the positive side, irrespective of the virus strain, the prevention strategy has not changed,” says P.V. Sudhakar, COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC). He attributed the present drop in COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh to the strict observance of health protocols during June and July. “The efficacy of the COVID vaccine on this mutant is not yet determined and until it is done, there is no alternative but to take preventive measures,” he says. “Though the incidence has declined, there may be asymptomatic carriers, who can infect others. This aspect underlines the importance of wearing masks and maintaining safe distance from others. Any negligence can once again lead to a spurt in cases,” Dr. Sudhakar cautions. “Viruses mutate frequently and the severe cold during winter may aid in the spread of the disease. The content of the vaccine may have to be changed, if it does not work,” says physician Kutikuppala Surya Rao. “We are getting VBM flights regularly from the Gulf and South East Asian countries. We have handled 300 VBM flights since May 20, this year. When passengers produce a COVID-19 negative certificate, taken not more than 72 hours prior to their arrival, they are allowed to go without further testing. Rapid Antigen Tests are being conducted for other passengers,” Vijayawada International Airport Director Giri Madhusudhana Rao told The Hindu on phone.
24 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||10,000 CCTV cameras to come up in Chittoor||The Chittoor police have embarked on a massive target to install about 10,000 CC cameras under Chittoor municipal corporation limits and nearby surroundings in order to achieve zero-crime rate in the coming 100 days. Deputy SP (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy told mediapersons here on Wednesday that at present, the number of CC cameras both under police administration and public contribution together was 1,300. The public, government departments, banks, educational institutions, function halls, commercial establishments and donors would be involved in a big way to achieve the target in a record time, the official said. A massive awareness campaign would be launched in phases during the next hundred days to prompt the public and commercial groups to cooperate with the police in this mission at their respective premises. What does the Act say? “As per the AP Public Safety and Security Act, any public or private outlet, which attracts more than hundred persons, should compulsorily have CC camera surveillance. Violation of this would result in issuing a notice the concerned party with a fine up to Rs. 10,000. If the same premises continue to ignore the norm, the fine would be up to Rs. 25,000. As this provision is not known to many in the public and even government sector, we want to raise awareness on these before taking corrective steps,” he said. ‘Positive response’ The Deputy SP expressed happiness that within a few hours of launching the “Memu Saitham” public awareness programme on Wednesday, there was immense response from public and officials of various banks and educational institutions. For public convenience, the police would arrange good-quality equipment at a nominal price of Rs. 10,000-Rs. 12,000 through authorized dealers and vendors. Apart from tackling the regular crimes such as chain-snatching, physical assaults, traffic violations, the CC cam network is need of the hour for merchants. “Silent crimes such as drug pedalling, eve-teasing and ragging at the educational institutions would also be checked effectively. We will also hold a series of meetings at the colleges as and when the COVID-19 situation begins to ease out,” Mr Sudhakar Reddy said.
24 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 601 crore saved in land acquisition for housing scheme in E. Godavari: Collector||The East Godavari administration has saved Rs. 601 crore on purchase of land and levelling of house sites that will be distributed among the 3.84 lakh poor families as part of the the Pedalandariki Illu scheme in the East Godavari district, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the distribution of house site pattas at the Komaragiri site at U.Kothapalli village near Kakinada, by unveiling a pylon on December 25. “The government has granted Rs. 3,167.97 crore to the district for the housing scheme. However, we have arranged the land by spending Rs. 2,566 crore, saving Rs. 601 crore. Of the 7,218 acres of land that have been set aside for the housing scheme, 5,362 acres have been purchased,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. The Collector said that of the total 3.84 lakh beneficiaries, more than 2.58 lakh are from rural areas. “A sum of Rs. 2,160 crore will be spent on the construction of the houses in the next 18 months. The house site pattas will be distributed to all the beneficiaries by January 1. However, the distribution of the pattas will be delayed in the case some sites are facing legal hurdles,” he said. As many as 1532 sites have been levelled by spending Rs. 540 crore in the district under the MGNREGS. On Wednesday, SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi deployed police force at the site where the Chief Minister is to address a gathering after unveiling the pilon on December 25.
24 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State moots public insurance company||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said the government is planning to set up a public insurance company for disbursement of crop insurance from the next kharif season. Speaking to the media , he said that the package of Rs. 646 crore would be released on December 29, compensating the damage of crops in above 12 lakh acres during the Cyclone Nivar . “Chief Minister Y.S..Jagan Mohan Reddy will release the package depositing the amount in the accounts of 8.34 lakh farmers affected by the cyclone,” said Mr. Kannababu. He claimed that the government was supplying the seeds of groundnut and paddy at 80% subsidy for those affected by the cyclone and a target has been set to supply 1.5 lakh quintals of seed on subsidy during the rabi.
24 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable from TS dies in accident||A 30-year-old constable of the Telangana State Special Police, 8th Battalion, Kondapur, R.N. Varma, died on the spot when a lorry hit the two-wheeler he was pillion riding on the National Highway near Komanappali in the limits of Mummidivaram police station in East Godavari district on Wednesday. According to Mummudivaram Circle Inspector B. Rajasekhar, the incident occurred while the constable, R.N. Varma, was on his way to home on the two-wheeler which was being ridden by his relative. Varma was received by his relative from the Amalapuram bus station on his arrival from Kondapur on leave. Varma was a native of Kesanakurru in I. Polavaram mandal of East Godavari district. “Varma died on the spot, while his relative survived. The body was sent to the Area Hospital in Amalapuram for post-mortem examination Investigation is on,” said the CI.
24 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bearing removed from infant’s throat||A nine-month-old girl accidentally swallowed a bicycle bearing which was successfully removed through endoscopy at a private hospital here. The baby girl hailing from a nearby village accidentally swallowed a 5 cm ball bearing of a bicycle and faced difficulty in breathing, swallowing anything and was vomiting. The parents noticed it and took her to the hospital immediately. “We doubted some obstruction in the oesophagus and took an X-ray, which helped us identify a foreign object (bearing) in the throat. We made some space in the oesophagus using emergency endoscopy equipment and then removed the bearing with a Maggi Forceps,” said gastroenterologist L. Rajendra Prasad of KIMS Hospital here. “We could save the baby’s life as the parents brought her on time. The baby has recovered and is breathing normally,” said the doctor and advised parents to be careful.
24 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre adopting delay tactics on pretext of talks’||Observing ‘Kisan Diwas’, farmers’ organisations cutting across party-lines on Wednesday resolved to intensify their agitation against the three laws enacted by the Centre. Paying floral tributes to the portrait of former Prime Minister Chowdhary Charan Singh on his 118th birth anniversary at the Acharya N.G.Ranga Bhavan, they recalled the farmer-friendly policies initiated by the late leader, including scrapping of excise duty on raw tobacco. Accusing the Narendra Modi Government of adopting “delay tactics” on the pretext of talks, they demanded repeal of the three Acts which, they opined, would only benefit the big domestic and foreign agri-marketing firms. ‘Doom to growers’ Going forward, the three controversial legislations would pave the way for turning farmers into farm labourers in their own farms, said Acharya N.G.Ranga Kisan Samastha vice-president N. Mohan Rao. Professor V.Zamindar from Vikas group of Educational Institutions said that contract farming would spell doom to the growers. Removal of restrictions on holding of farm produce by companies would pave the way for the return of black-marketing and creation of artificial shortage for food grains. MSP sought Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam (APRS) State General Secretary K.V.V.Prasad demanded the Centre take immediate steps to statutorily back the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime.  Congress party farmers wing state vice-president V.Rajagopala Reddy said his party would fully back the stir by farmers till the three Acts were withdrawn.
24 December 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standalone theatres to reopen tomorrow||For the cine buffs who want to enjoy a movie in single theatres, the wait will end on December 25. The conventional standalone theatres are scheduled to reopen on the day after remaining shut for nearly nine months due to the pandemic. Cinema exhibitors hope that ‘Solo brathuke so better,’ being released on that day, would bring back the audiences to theatres. It may be recalled that notwithstanding the permission granted to them a couple of months ago, the cinema exhibitors decided against reopening the theatres till new films are released. This was because they were in a dilemma whether cinema lovers would come to the theatres in view of the pandemic. Further, the adherence to COVID-19 protocol like leaving a seat empty in between two, thorough sanitisation of the entire theatre premises after every show and compulsory thermal screening in addition to the non-availability of new films due to lack of cinema shootings made the film exhibitors to wait and watch the situation. Multiplex screens have, however, been screening whatever films they were getting and less than half-a-dozen conventional theatres are screening the available content or English films in a bid to retain their patrons. The exhibitors in Visakhapatnam and Andhra Pradesh are raring to reopen their theatres in view of the concessions promised by the State government. “The common man, who goes to the theatres on a regular basis, is a pillar of strength to the cinema industry. The tech-savvy people, who watch movies on OTT platforms and other devices, watch at their convenience, and do not contribute to the promotion of the films,” say L. Satyanand, star trainer. “Around 75% of the theatres in the city are ready to open from December 25 and the remaining are expected to restart from Sankranti (January 15) by which time a few more new films are expected to be released. The few weeks gap for more new releases is making some theatre owners against taking the plunge,” says Prasad Reddy, manager of Sarat theatre. “We are happy with the concessions announced by the State government but the G.O. in this regard is yet to be released. The loan facility announced by the government will help exhibitors tide over the crisis to some extent,” says Madan Mohan Choudhary, president, Visakhapatnam Film Exhibitors Association. “We have two screens and we will open one on December 25 and the second one by January 15,” says Mr. Madan, who owns Venkateswara Theatre.
24 December 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District gearing up to handle new strain||The district is gearing up to handle the new strain and the medical team at the airport has been instructed to check the tickets of all passengers, including of those travelling by connecting flights, to ascertain from where they are coming. If found that they have a travel history from UK, South Africa or Austria, where the new strain has been found, they will quarantined, even if they are tested negative, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. According to him, the strain has so far not been found in India and Visakhapatnam has not recorded the arrival of any passenger from the listed countries, so far. Dr. Sudhakar also said that there is no need to be alarmed, as there is no evidence to suggest that the death rate has increased due to the new strain or the vaccine is not suitable. “The strategy for vaccine and treatment remain unchanged and the only thing that we have to do is to adhere to the three basic protocols of wearing a mask, maintaining personal hygiene and keeping the social distance,” he said. Doctors from KGH also pointed out that the virulence factor of the new strain is yet to be ascertained and investigation is on. Institutes like CCMB and NIV is working on genome sequencing by testing the samples of patients suffering from COVID in different scenarios. Dr. Sudhakar also said that the present testing method of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen holds good, but to know the variants, we need to go for genome sequencing, which can be done only in labs such as CCMB or NIV. “This will be done only if the virus continues to stay in the body for more than 10 or 14 days,” he said. According to him, this is only a different strain and not a different virus and hence the testing and treatment protocol remains the same. This is the first variant of the virus, which has been recognised and investigated, and has been named as VUI202012/01, where VUI stand as ‘variant under investigation’. Genome sequencing of the new strain found in UK, Austria and South Africa has revealed that the new strain has 17 different variants and the notable variant is N501Y. “In this variant Asparagine, a non-essential amino acid, has been replaced by Tryrosine, another amino acid. Some amino acids such as Delta H69 and Delta H70, has been deleted and all these mutations have taken place in the spikes of the virus, thus increasing its spreading capacity by 70% more,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Through the mutations in the spikes, the new strain can now easily finds its way into human respiratory track or the blood vessels.
24 December 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists kill tribal branding him as ‘police informer’||Within 10 days of killing a tribal, members of the banned CPI (Maoist) allegedly took the life of another tribal branding him too as a police informer, in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Chikkudu Satish alias Satya Rao, a resident of Chintagaravu of Pedabayalu mandal in Visakha agency. According to the police, around 40 Maoists of the Pedabayalu-Korukonda area committeearrived at the village past midnight and took him away from his home. They reportedly killed him near Vanagarayi, about 8 km from his village, by slitting his throat, said SP B. Krishna Rao. On December 13, the Maoists allegedly killed Gemmili Krishna Rao of Vakapalli in G.Madugula mandal, after branding him as a police informer. According to the SP, Satish had earlier worked as a milita member . According the police, there were about 10 cases pending against him, including a murder case. Mr. Krishna Rao said, “The recent killings indicate that Maoists are trying to create a fear psychosis among the tribals,” he said. A letter left at the crime scene said that Satish was killed as he was giving information to the security forces on the movement of the Maoists.
24 December 2020||TEKULODDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra tribe’s ‘evil house’, an epitome of menstrual taboo||Along the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border in the Eastern Ghats of East Godavari district lies Tekuloddi village, inhabited by the Konda Reddy tribe. Every house in this village has an adjoining ‘menstrual house’ — a thatched hut where women confine themselves for the duration of their periods. The practice stems from a deep-seated taboo surrounding menstruation and has been prevalent for many generations. The hut is called ‘Keedu Paaka’ (house of evil) and menstruating women have to stay there, shunning themselves of any physical contact with their family members, for the duration of their period. The habitation in Kunavaram mandal consists of 44 households with 139 villagers. The menstrual rooms are mostly built by the women themselves with bamboo and teak leaves that are used for covering the roof. The room is the smallest in the house, smaller than its kitchen or bathroom. The floor is laid with mud and cleaned with dung. Women sleep on the floor. Of late, some families are now placing a bamboo cot in the room. An elderly woman, Kadala Kannamma, narrates the practice: “The menstrual house has been around for generations in our tribe. A menstruating woman is untouchable until her period is over. It is our firm belief that allowing the woman on the period to stay with the family is unacceptable as it invites evil.” Other family members bring food for the woman, who should come out of the house only after cleaning it with dung and water in order to ‘purify’ it, so that it can be used again during her next period, says Ms. Kannamma, adding that the utensils and clothes used by the woman during her period are not touched by anyone. Every house in the village has a Keedu Paaka, she said. The men of the village, however, feel that they have come a long way from the earlier days, when the Keedu Paakas used to be built outside the village. ‘Post-natal home’ The Konda Reddy tribe has also adopted the same practice in the case of puberty and post-natal period. “The mother and the newborn baby need to stay in the menstrual house for 45 days from the date of delivery. In the case of non-institutional delivery, the delivery is conducted in this house itself. In the case of a girl attaining puberty, she is also kept in the menstrual house for nine days,” said Karam Chandramma, a teacher at the local Anganwadi. Kadala Poojitha gave birth to a baby boy on November 12, and stayed at the menstrual house in her in-laws’ house. “I have been staying along with my baby in the menstrual house since the day I have been discharged from hospital. My mother-in-law attends to my needs,” Ms. Poojitha told The Hindu . “An initiative for construction of a community home is being taken with support from the Integrated Tribal Development Agency-Chintoor on a pilot basis. The home aims at providing better facilities and hygiene conditions for the women on the period in the Tekuloddi village, persuading them to realise the consequences of the unsafe practices,” Asha NGO founder Syed Subhani said.
24 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Darshan ticket must for travelling to Tirumala’||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday said that only those who have obtained darshan tickets will be allowed to travel to Tirumala for Vaikuntha Dwara darshan from December 25 to January 3. For the first time in the history of the temple, the Vaikunta Dwara darshan has been extended for ten days after securing the nod of religious leaders. Mr. Reddy said that the TTD has already issued 2 lakh online darshan tickets of Rs. 300 each for the 10-day period. Around 1 lakh offline Sarva darshan tokens have also been made available for the denizens of Tirupati . As the Vaikunta Ekadasi (December 25) is coinciding with Friday, VIPs will be allowed for the darshan from 4 a.m. after the completion of mandatory rituals and weekly Abhishekam followed by the common pilgrims. Anticipating the VIP crowd to be around 4,000 persons, the EO said additional counters have been set up to cater to their needs. Sources said the TTD is mulling implementation of Laghu Darshan (darshan from a distance of 30 feet) for the VIPs and Maha Laghu for other devotees.
24 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP alleges free darshan for ‘YSRCP devotees’||Bharatiya Janata Party has frowned upon the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to deny entry to the common devotees arriving without a ticket via Alipiri, while ‘allowing’ free darshan for over 3,000 devotees, who reached Tirumala on the ‘Annamayya route’ along with YSR Congress leader and former MLA Akepati Amarnath Reddy on Tuesday. At a media conference here on Wednesday, party spokespersons G. Bhanuprakash Reddy and Samanchi Srinivas questioned the rationale behind the TTD’s decision to allow the devotees in large numbers on the porous forest route without any security check or scrutiny. Taking a dig at Mr. Amarnath Reddy’s party affiliation, the BJP leaders dubbed the entire contingent as ‘YSRCP devotees’, who they alleged were ‘first among equals’ for the TTD. “On one hand, the TTD is preventing devotees at Alipiri, but has no qualms in extending darshan to those coming through the forest route without asking any questions. Is Tirumala a Dharmic place or the ruling party’s office?” they questioned. “Allowing 3,000 members into the temple free of cost caused a loss of Rs. 9 lakh to the TTD’s exchequer. The authorities should demand and collect the same from the YSR Congress Party,” Mr. Bhanuprakash Reddy demanded. Mr. Srinivas insisted that the TTD should continue to function as an autonomous body, without bending over backwards to please the government or its ‘political bosses’.
24 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati eyes top position in next Swachh Survekshan||Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) is not only keen on improving cleanliness and sanitation but also in enhancing civic awareness to better the temple city’s ranking in Swacch Survekshan for the ensuing year. The civic authorities have drawn big plans to get to the top three positions in the Swacch Survekshan 2021. The city stood at sixth position in 2020. “Swachh Survekshan team will visit Tirupati by the end of January, by which time the denizens should not only practice source segregation of garbage into dry and wet and dump it in the collecting vehicle at their doorstep, but also attend to the phone calls and provide satisfactory answer to all their queries,” says MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha. Mr. Girisha said the entire city, barring one ward, is covered under the Underground Drainage System (UDS) network, taking the coverage to beyond 95%. Ṭhe MCT has taken up four water bodies viz., Poolavanigunta, Koramenugunta, Konka Chennayagunta and Gollavanigunta for development in terms of bund strengthening, walking track laying and landscaping. During copious rains, water from Tirumala hills flow through the Malavanigundam and Kapila Theertham waterfalls into the tanks located east of the city. Lining of walls Mr. Girisha has announced to take up lining of the side walls of the channels soon to prevent seepage and submergence of low-lying areas in the city.
24 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja staff to be paid COVID-time deductions||The Amara Raja group has announced to pay back the Business Performance Linked Pay (BPLP) deductions introduced in June this year to the employees with salary above Rs. 5 lakh per annum. The BPLP deduction effected during the COVID-19 time was meant to be paid back the next financial year, subject to business performance.  Foundation day During the group’s 35th foundation day celebrations organised recently in the virtual mode, Vice-Chairman Jayadev Galla announced that the amount deducted from June to December 2020 would be paid back to employees in full by January 2021. He appreciated the ‘unstinted support and efforts of stakeholders’ during the pandemic time. Group founder chairman Ramachandra N. Galla unveiled an ‘advanced lithium technology research hub’ and inaugurated the pilot plant for Li cell manufacturing. Recalling the group’s journey, he narrated how the pandemic had made 2020 an unusual year that offered ‘significant learnings’. The event was also marked by the launch of new products of the group’s other businesses such as Mangal Industries and Galla Foods.
24 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP meets OBC leaders ahead of Tirupati bypoll||Ahead of the by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) conducted a meeting with OBC leaders of the region, indicating that they are reaching out to the community. The meeting, attended by State president Somu Veerraju and presided over by State OBC Morcha president B.Venkatasiva Narayana on Wednesday, discussed the state of affairs pertaining to developmental schemes meant for the community. Mr. Veerraju said the country started witnessing robust progress, after it came under the rule of an OBC leader, in a veiled reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He accused the State government of adopting a ‘divide and rule’ policy by splitting the community in the name of welfare schemes. OBC leaders Jalli Madhusudhan, K.Chandrababu Yadav, former Ministers C. Adinarayana Reddy, R.Kishore Babu, MLC V. Narayana Reddy were among those who took part.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No restrictions on Christmas, New Year celebrations in State as of now||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday said that there have been no instances of a new strain of coronavirus reported in the State so far. A new strain of coronavirus, said to be several times more contagious, has been detected in the UK, prompting the Indian government to suspend flights from the UK till December 31. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation on Wednesday, and asked officials to be alert in wake of the outbreak of the new strain of COVID-19, Mr. Sawang said. “Instructions have been given to the Commissioners of Police and Superintendents of Police (SPs) of all Commissionerates and the districts respectively to monitor the situation and report to the officers concerned immediately, if any symptoms are found,” the DGP said. Mr. Sawang said that there was no ban on Christmas and New Year celebrations in the State as of now. “There were no specific instructions on any kind of restrictions on celebrations. But I would like to appeal to the public to maintain social distancing, wear masks, use sanitisers and take adequate precautions. We will be following the instructions of the State and Central governments, if any, in this regard,” the DGP clarified. Public are requested to take measures for their safety and security while celebrating, Mr. Sawang said.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks police to act tough on erring microfinance apps||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the Police Department to book those who are lending money through fraudulent online microfinance apps and harassing the borrowers, and take stern action against them. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the functioning of such apps with Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday, asked the police to respond to the complaints and act tough against the app organisers. Referring to the online call money racket, Mr. Sawang said that instructions had been issued to the Inspector Generals, Range DIGs, Commissioners of Police and the Superintendents of Police to take the complaints seriously and book cases against those responsible for harassment of the borrowers. “The police are making efforts to identify such fraudulent online app organisers. Victims can lodge complaints at their nearest police stations. They can also register their complaints through AP Police Seva app, Dial 100 or ‘112’ helplines,” the DGP said. SOP issued Mr. Sawang released the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) prepared by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) to tackle the complaints pertaining to online instant loan apps, at the A.P. Police Headquarters on Wednesday. “Complaints can be filed with the local police, RBI ombudsman, under Ombudsman Scheme for Digital Transactions, 2019, and also in the local courts under Usurious Loans Act, 1918,” said CID Additional DGP P.V. Sunil Kumar. Problematic apps The CID officials said that ‘Quick Cash’, ‘Loan Cloud’, ‘InstaRupee Loan’, ‘Get Rupee’, ‘ePay Loan’, ‘Panda’, ‘EasyLoan’, ‘Ocash’, ‘Cashmap’, ‘Cash Post,’ ‘Rapid Rupee’, ‘Rupee Loan’, ‘CashTM’, ‘Credit Free,’ ‘Readycash,’ ‘Robocash’, ‘Udhaar Loan’ are some of the problematic digital instant loan apps. The app organisers (lenders) are using abusive language and threatening the borrowers. They are also collecting high interests. Police will take stern action against the organisers, the DGP warned. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said that they had received many complaints and cases had been registered against the app organisers. “We traced the callers in about 70 cases. The accused were traced to Noida, Guaraon, Delhi, Rajasthan and other places. The Cyber Crime Police have identified the accused through their phone calls,” Mr. Srinivasulu told The Hindu . Some people, including several women, took loans worth Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 1.50 lakh through Instant Cash, Star Credit, Quick Money and other apps, said an investigation officer. Mr. Sawang appealed to the public not to borrow loans from private microfinance apps, which were being operated without any permission.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Non-professional UG syllabus revised||The government has given permission to the State-funded universities to introduce four-year Honours programmes with 10 months of mandatory internship, with an exit option at the end of third year, from the academic year 2020-21. A G.O. released on Wednesday said students who opt to exit after three years would be awarded an Under Graduate degree, i.e. BA / B.Sc / B.Com etc., while students who complete the four-year degree programme with a rigorous research project in the major areas of study would be awarded an Honours degree. The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), in collaboration with the academic experts of the Universities and Collegiate Education, has revised the syllabus of the non-professional UG programmes to be implemented from 2020-21 under the Choice Based Credit System, in university colleges and its affiliated colleges. In view of the introduction of the new four-year Honours programmes, all three-year Honours programmes are withdrawn from the academic year 2020-21. Review meet A decision to this effect was taken at a review meeting organised by the APSCHE, and attended by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in August this year. Multiple exit options The move is in adherence to the National Education Policy- 2020, which emphasises on an Undergraduate degree of either three or four years duration, with multiple exit options within this period, with appropriate certificates, i.e. a certificate after completing first year in a discipline or field, including vocational and professional areas, or a diploma after two years of study, or a Bachelor’s degree after a three-year programme. ‘Preferred option’ The four-year multi-disciplinary Bachelor’s programme, according to the policy, shall be preferred option since it allows the opportunity to experience the full range of holistic and multi-disciplinary education, in addition to focus on the chosen major and minors as per the choices of the student. The new policy also moots an Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) to be established to digitally store the academic credits earned from various recognised higher education institutions so that the degrees from a higher educational institution can be awarded taking into account the credits earned by the student.
24 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. issues alert over new strain of coronavirus||The State government has issued an alert on the possible spread of a new strain of the coronavirus (SARS COV-2) through people travelling from the United Kingdom, which has been witnessing a sharp spike in the infection count since the last few days. The State recorded 379 new positive cases in the last 24 hours and three persons died of the infection in Chittoor, Kadapa and Krishna districts during the period. Sample testing A total of 57,716 samples were tested in the State in the last 24 hours and 490 persons were discharged from hospitals upon complete recovery. The total number of samples tested so far reached 1,14,15,246, while the tests per million and positivity rate stood at 2,13,769 and 7.71 respectively. With 84 new cases, Krishna district recorded the maximum single-day spike in the State in 24 hours, while Vizianagaram, with four cases, was at the bottom of the chart. The total number of positive cases in the State has reached 8,79,718, while the number of active cases stands at 3,864. The death toll mounted to 7,085. Meanwhile, the government has initiated measures for enhanced epidemiological surveillance keeping the new strain of coronavirus in view. All the departments concerned have been alerted to be ready to meet any contingency.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Despite challenges, State police made a mark’||Police booked as many as 1.94 lakh cases in the State during 2020, and 1,551 cyberbullying sheets were opened against those who were harassing women online, DGP D. Gautam Sawang said. “Despite several challenges, the AP Police has surged ahead by facing COVID-19. Though there was no SOP and unaware of the roots of coronavirus, police worked hard and there were 109 COVID martyrs in Police Department. Change and transformation is the hallmark of the police who won 108 national awards this year ,” Mr. Sawang said while giving the crime data and the highlights of the Police Department at a press conference at the AP Police Headquarters on Wednesday. The DGP said the police registered about 1.94 lakh cases (up to November) and cognizable crimes reduced by 15% when compared to 2019. Of the total cases, 69,688 were booked by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB). The SEB personnel arrested 89,000 persons, of them 211 were from various State and Central government departments. Safety of women With regard to the safety of women and children, the Cyber Crime police opened cyberbullying sheets against 1,551 stalkers. Under AP Disha Bill, 89 sexual assault (rape) and 256 sexual offence cases were charge sheeted within seven days and 377 ‘Zero FIRs’ were registered. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon launch special investigation vehicles, the DGP said. A.P. stood top in rescuing victims and arresting traffickers under Anti-Human Trafficking drive. In all, 322 victims were rescued and 609 traffickers were arrested. Guntur (Urban), Visakhapatnam City and West Godavari stood top in trafficking cases. The Finger Prints Bureau (FPB) was in first place in India by collecting 9,51,437 finger print records, and there were 49,710 unsolved chance prints in its database, he explained. First of its kind AP Police Seva App, which has over 50 features, was the first of its kind in India. By using technology, investigation in 88% of cases were completed and the conviction rate was 64% till date. A complaints cell with toll-free number would be launched for better transparency , Mr. Sawang added.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students told to focus more on research||Indian National Science Academy president and scientist Raghunath Anant Mashelkar has said that scientific technology can solve any problem in the world, and asked the students to focus on research. The speaker was participating in Koneru Lakshmaiah Deemed to be University (KLU) convocation held in virtual mode on its campus located at Vaddeswaram in Guntur district on Wednesday. COVID-19 killed lakhs of people and destroyed many families across the world and students should focus on it to set right the system with their innovative ideas, Mr. Raghunath Anant Mashelkar said. Stating that the Centre was allocating huge funds for research in science and technology, he called upon the students to focus on investigations and make use of the facility. Students can achieve their goals with dedication, commitment and discipline, Dr. Raghunath said. KLU president Koneru Satyanarayana said the university was providing all facilities for taking up research with world class amenities on the campus. Scientist and Padma Bhushan awardee Dr. Vijay Batkar, KLU deemed university Chancellor S.S. Manda and others presented degrees to 7,620 students, gold medals to 80 merit students and silver medals to 74 students on the occasion. Later, KLU management conferred doctorates on Dr. Raghunath, Dr. Vijay, UGC joint director and secretary Avichal Kapur.
24 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local body polls: HC insists on fresh consultations||The single-judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, while reserving its order on the proposed conduct of local body elections until December 29, has insisted that there be a process of fresh consultation in the matter as directed by the Supreme Court. Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram told the Bench of Justice A.V. Sesha Sai during a hearing on Wednesday that there should be an objective consultation, including the possibility of holding elections, in view of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, and maintained that public health and public interest were the highest considerations in the apex court order. The Advocate-General said that State Election Commission (SEC), which had decided to conduct the elections in February 2021 and started making preparations amidst certain objections raised by the government, agreed with the court’s suggestion that there was a need for all the issues to be dealt with an open mind and all the stakeholders were supposed to reach an amicable solution. In a reply affidavit filed on December 22, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi contended that the SEC neither took the State government’s opinion nor considered the Central government’s guidelines on COVID-19 containment and various reports of the World Health Organisation (WHO). Meetings with only the Chief Secretary, or the Secretary (Health), on COVID-19 could be called a consultative process as contemplated by the Supreme Court. SEC affidavit In his counter-affidavit filed earlier, State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar had stated that Bihar, Rajasthan and Telangana had successfully conducted elections without any consequent increase in the number of COVID-19 cases with the cooperation of the respective State governments, and that Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra were holding the elections between December and February. “A.P. is similarly placed and it cannot give any excuses for not cooperating with the SEC,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar stated. He said the decision taken by SEC in March should not be equated with its present decision because COVID-19 threat was then looming large, forcing the governments all over the world to impose lockdowns, whereas the pandemic “is past its peak in India now.”
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP welcomes probe against TTD employees||Citing a High Court (HC) order that the alleged illegal activities of nine employees of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) would be probed and a report submitted in three months (by the end of February 2021), BJP State secretary N. Ramesh Naidu tweeted on Wednesday that the government should remove non-Hindus working in all temples under the Endowments Department. The High Court had ordered that the Principal Secretary (Endowments) and the chairman and executive officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams should inquire into the illegal acts of the said employees of TTD BIRRD Hospital, TTD Central Hospital, TTD Hospital, TTD Electrical Department, TTD Srinivasam Hospital, Sri Padmavati Women’s Degree College and SV Group of Temples in response to a petition filed by B. Rajesh (writ petition number 14432 of 2020). The employees were accused of working against the interests of TTD and it was alleged that the respondents (principal secretary-endowments and chairman and EO of TTD) did not consider a representation given to them seeking necessary action.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring in creativity, teachers told||A teacher should adopt innovative and creative methods to make their teaching interesting, said B.V. Ramana Reddy from Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi. He was addressing the valedictory of a week-long workshop on ‘Innovative teaching and learning methods for inspiring students’ organised by the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering in SRKR Engineering College, Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. Addressing the students, Prof. Ramana Reddy, who is also a former student of the college, said the new National Education Policy would usher in sweeping change in the education sector. “It is designed to incorporate practical learning and hands-on training mode. Teachers have a pivotal role to play in effective implementation of the new policy.” Prof. Reddy said parents should look beyond marks and ensure that their child was acquiring knowledge through creative and innovative means. College principal M. Jagapathi Raju said the alumni of the institute have offered their support for conduct of events in the college like workshops and thanked them for their gesture.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher transfers: MLCs to stage hunger strike today||Members of Legislative Council from Teacher constituencies V. Balasubramanyam, K.S. Lakshman Rao, K. Narasimha Reddy and others have urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to intervene and set right the anomalies in teacher transfers. In a statement on Wednesday, they said they would stage a hunger strike on Thursday (December 24) in support of their demand that government look into the issues of teachers, specially the ongoing transfers, and do the needful. Their main demands are that the Education Department adopt a rationalist approach and fill all the vacant teacher posts. Academic instructors should be appointed till the time these posts are filled, they said. The MLCs said confusion reigned supreme in the teacher transfers. They said teachers were being portrayed as the enemies of the government. They said amidst the chaos the wait for filling nearly 20,000 vacant posts was getting longer. They said their appeal for Chief Minister’s intervention and his meeting with members of the Legislative Council on the issue had not been responded to. They said before the situation goes out of hand, the government should initiate corrective measures.
24 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: monitor performance of village, ward secretariat staff||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to monitor the performance of the employees of village and ward secretariats, and ensure that the secretariats work efficiently. In a review meeting on the village / ward secretariats on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the ‘1902’ call centre number should be displayed at every village / ward secretariat so that people could register their grievances, and it would help the government in obtaining public feedback. He said the duties of the Sub Registrar should also be carried out by the village secretariats. Engineering assistants in the village / ward secretariats should be imparted training, and tests should be conducted on completion of their training. Officials told the CM that 3.95 lakh staff were working in 15,004 village / ward secretariats, and the system won laurels in the country. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Special Chief Secretaries Aditya Nath Das (water resources) and S.S. Rawat (finance), Principal Secretaries Praveen Prakash (CMO), Ajay Jain (village/ ward secretariats) and A.K. Singhal (health), and Secretary (GAD) Shashi Bhushan Kumar were among those present.
24 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govts. ignoring farmers’ woes will not last long: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has slammed the State government for pursuing ‘anti-farmer’ policies. Accusing the government of not extending support to the farmers who suffered huge crop loss in floods, cyclones and heavy rains in the State, Mr. Naidu, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, claimed that the TDP’s protest in the Legislative Assembly forced it to cough up the insurance premium. “Ironically, the ruling YSRCP members had resorted to counter-protest against the TDP for demanding that the government pay the premium,” Mr. Naidu alleged while extending his wishes to the farmers on the occasion of National Farmers Day. Mr. Naidu said the State stood third in the country in farmers’ suicide. “No government will survive if it ignores the pressing problems in agriculture. The YSRCP government will eventually fall if it hands out a raw deal to the agriculture sector,” he observed. Amaravati protest Stating that the farmers in the Amaravati area had been agitating for the last 372 days demanding that it be continued as the capital of the State, Mr. Naidu claimed that 110 peasants had lost their lives for the cause so far. “It will not be good for the State if the producers of food are subjected to such agony for no fault of theirs,” he said.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC contract workers stage protest||A large number of contract workers from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) staged a protest near Gandhi Statue at GVMC building here on Wednesday requesting the government to pay their three months wages and also to solve long-pending demands. As part of their protest, the workers were seen carrying begging bowls. “We are tired of requesting the officials to release our salaries, so we have gone for such an act,” the protesters said. The workers from sanitary, UGD, and a few other departments, who took part in the protest, alleged that with the delay in release of salaries, they are financially hit. They alleged that despite approaching Municipal Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, the salaries were not released. “Apart from paying salaries, the government also promised to take the contract workers into permanent rolls. Since the last 18 months, the government has not even considered about it,” president of AP Employees & Workers Federation G. Subba Rao said. He said that they would launch a State-wide strike if the government failed to solve problems by December 30.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gelatin sticks, ganja seized at Paderu, one arrested||The Visakhapatnam district police arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting 903 gelatin sticks and 100 kg ganja near Sariapalli village under Paderu police station limits in the Agency area of the district on Wednesday, officials said. Based on credible information, the district police conducted the raid and seized the material. It was also learnt that the arrested person was a ganja smuggler. A case has been registered.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff told to prepare schedule for distribution of house sites||District Collector held a review meeting with special officers and Tahsildars through video conference on Wednesday on the house sites distribution programme to be held from December 25 to January 7. He directed the officials to prepare the schedule for village-wise distribution of the house sites. Levelling of the sites and formation of internal roads should be completed. The officials should finalise the programmes in coordination with the MLAs concerned. The Collector also directed the officials to involve VROs, VRAs staff of Village Secretariats and volunteers in the work. Arrangements should be made to hold public meetings at the layouts and the list of beneficiaries should be prepared. He said that those who have applied till December 15, would be allotted sites.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biotechnology students showcase skills at expo||Post graduate students from the Department of Biotechnology of Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College showcased their skills at an exhibition held here on Wednesday. From developing milky mushroom through in-house culture to making incense sticks from floral wastes and from developing biodegradable plastic using corn starch to making biopesticides and biofertilizers, each team showcased their ability and potential for a viable startup. Showcasing the making of biopesticide and biofertilizer, A. Sandeep, who comes from a farming community, said that the basic nutrients for plant or crop are nitrogen, potassium and sulphur and they can be developed using jaggery, salt, yeasts and water. These are organic products and the farmers need not use chemicals, which can be harmful both for the land and the crop, he said. Biodegradable plastic Varalakshmi and her team members, who developed biodegradable plastic, said that it can be made from corn starch, vinegar and glycerine. After three to six months, the plastic naturally degrades without causing any pollution.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Houses demolished without notice’||Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu on Wednesday called on the people of Krishnapuram and Ramakrishnapuram, whose houses were demolished by the GVMC authorities on Tuesday. The TDP leaders said that a fire had led to the destruction of houses at Darapalem in 1972. The victims were allotted 60 square yard sites at these two colonies. The GVMC officials, without issuing prior notice, had gone to place and threw out their belongings before demolishing 25 to 30 houses, the TDP leaders said.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take up border row with Odisha’||The CPI(M) district committee has appealed to the State government to take up the alleged encroachment of land by neighbouring Odisha at the earliest to prevent the issue from going out of control. About 500 acres of forest land is there in Balakattu, Ballagadda, Dubaraya, Jaraya, Daturu, Tokalaneru, Inukalu and Sangamvalasa villages of Kollaput and Tutangi panchayats in Dumbriguda mandal in the district. The tribal farmers irrigating about 200 acres since generations. The Odisha forest officials had erected survey stones, claiming that these lands and coffee plantations belong to Odisha, party district committee secretary K. Lokanadham said on Wednesday. On November 9, this year, the Koraput Sub-Collector and Pottangi MLA came along with villagers of Jaruguda and Sonabeda came 600 m inside the State border and put up boards.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mercury dips below 5°C in Visakha Agency||For the first time in this season, the temperature in Visakhapatnam Agency has come down below 5° Celsius. Chintapalle area in the district has recorded 4.5° Celsius in the early hours on Wednesday, according to Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS). Officials assume that the temperature in Lambasingi should be between 3° and 3.5° Celsius. According to AP CM Dashboard, while the temperature readings were taken at 7 p.m., Munchingputtu registered the least temperature of 11.67° Celsius in the State followed by Paderu at 12.50° Celsius. Similarly, the temperatures at Dumbriguda, Ananthagiri, G. Madugula, Chintapalle, G.K. Veedhi and Hukumpeta are hovering between 12° and 14° Celsius. Thick fog Thick fog is engulfing the Agency areas till 9 a.m., making it difficult for motorists. Readings taken at 8 a.m. indicate that Paderu registered 8.10° Celsius temperature followed by Chintapalle at 8.73° Celsius. Similarly, the temperatures in Visakhapatnam city limits are also plummeting day-by-day. According to observations recorded by IMD, Hyderabad, at 8.30 a.m. on December 23, Visakhapatnam (Airport) registered 13.8° Celsius temperatures, while Visakhapatnam (Waltair) recorded 18° Celsius.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narrow escape for occupants after car catches fire||The occupants had a lucky escape, when the car in which they were travelling caught fire near Old Gajuwaka, here, on Wednesday. Though short-circuit is suspected to be the cause, police are yet to ascertain it. Traffic was disrupted for sometime on the National Highway between Gajuwaka and Kurmannapalem due to the incident.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goods Complex gets first automobile rake||The renovated Goods Complex at Marripalem received the first automobile rake from Kanakapura at Jaipur in Rajasthan. This goods shed was opened for handling all types of goods, including automobile traffic, after renovation. The special freight train has 30 BFR wagons and brought 120 Tata Ace-Gold vehicles for Andhra Pradesh Civil Supplies Corporation. The initiative is likely to not only generate additional traffic and revenue but also an initiative to handle variety of freight traffic. The newly set-up business development unit of Waltair Division has played a key role in bringing this new traffic.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees directed to follow COVID-19 protocol||Devotees will be allowed to have darshan of Sri Jagannadha Swamy at the temple on the Main Road, on the occasion of Mukkoti Ekadasi on December 25. However, they should follow all the COVID-19 protocols, according to temple Executive Officer Allu Jagannadham. Assistant Commissioner of Endowments Shanti Kalingiri has directed that devotees should not be allowed into the temple without masks.
24 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enhance skills, law students told||Placement officer, Dr. B. R Ambedkar College of Law, Andhra University, K. Sita Manikyam, said that the three-day online training programme helped the students in creating awareness about various career opportunities in law. She was speaking during the valedictory of the programme organised by the placement cell of the college.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive cheer||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winter hues||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive look||
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not giving a hoot!||
24 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Police will work to make State Maoist-free: DGP||The State police will continue to strive with perseverance in pursuit of the goal of "Maoist-free Telangana", said Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy. Maoists operating in neighbouring Chhattisgarh will not be allowed to enter the State under any circumstances, he said, commending the efforts of the district police in conducting anti-Maoist operations successfully in Telangana's most difficult terrain. The DGP was in the coal town of Kothagudem, where he inaugurated a firing range, battle obstacle and assault course (BOAC) track and other facilities at the district police headquarters on Wednesday. He arrived in a chopper along with some senior police officials at the newly constructed helipad at the district police headquarters at Hemachandrapuram on the outskirts of the district headquarters town. Talking to reporters later, the DGP said that the new facilities such as firing range and obstacle track were created at the district police headquarters to develop anti-Maoist operations training infrastructure on a par with the standards of Greyhounds (Telangana's elite anti-naxal force). The district administration's support in allotting land expeditiously helped in developing the requisite infrastructure at the district armed reserve headquarters, he noted. He praised the Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt for effectively organising the anti-Maoist operations relentlessly in the district bordering Chhattisgarh for the past six months. "The district police did exceptionally well in maintaining constant vigil along the inter-State border with Chhattisgarh and conducting anti-Maoist operations in a well coordinated manner," he complimented. The district police showed their sheer commitment and determination to prevent the Maoists from gaining entry into the State, he remarked. The government has laid a special focus on implementing various welfare and developmental schemes in the district, he said, adding that the police will implement the community policing initiatives with a renewed vigour. Later, the DGP flew to Gundala where he interacted with the police personnel at the local police station.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||The year when ‘normal’ was derailed||This was the year when many Hyderabadis had to make do without their regular dose of biryani, streetside dosas, Chinese takeaways, Irani chai and haleem. For months, the restaurants stayed shut, something that didn’t happen even during long stretches of curfew during the 70s, 80s and early 90s. The result has been a devastating blow to the informal food sector, which employs tens of thousands of people in Hyderabad ranging from the tea vendor who walks with a flask and disposable cups to sous-chefs in fine dining restaurants in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills areas. Ramzan during May, which would have meant dozens of Haleem joints minting money, was a washout with zero income robbing thousands of young men and women of seasonal employment. The COVID pandemic and the hastily-imposed lockdown in 2020 gutted the tourism and hospitality sector, which is one of the biggest employers in the informal sector in the city. According to Airport Authority of India statistics, between April and November, Hyderabad saw 91.9% dip in arrival of international passengers and a 77.2% dip in aircraft arrival at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad. While 27,31,545 passengers arrived in the same period in April-November 2019, the numbers were down to 2,19,912 in the same period in 2020. This dip in visitor arrival was a body blow to hotel occupancy and the leisure sector. According to an industry statistical study, the Revenue per available room (RevPAR) dipped by 52.8% between January and September over the corresponding figure last year. Another industry consultancy firm pegged the loss to the industry at Rs. 90,000 crore. The impact could be seen in Hyderabad as dozens of small restaurants and cafes went belly-up or changed ownership as COVID fear saw customers shun dine-in places. But in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, some of these restaurant owners became saviours for the migrant workers. They used their kitchens to rustle up packed hot meals which they distributed in areas populated with migrants and to others walking home on the NH44. But not so lucky were some of the workers in the hospitality sector from Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, who suddenly found themselves jobless without salary. Some of them stayed put near their old workplaces and survived on the hot food served by the Telangana government through its Annapurna meal scheme where the Rs. 5 was waived off. The State distributed a few lakh meals. From the beginning of lockdown till August, 1,30,18,162 free meals were distributed by the civic body, which became a lifeline for hundreds of thousands rendered jobless and homeless due to the lockdown. When the Janata Curfew devolved into a lockdown, every sector in the hospitality and tourism industry was affected. As the lockdown ended in phases, the recovery appeared spirited as the liquor shops were the first to be allowed on May 6. Takeaways provided a lifeline to some restaurants, which did roaring business as citizens tired of their cooking skills searched for a break. If things appeared to go swimmingly well for some restaurants, gig workers employed by an app-based food delivery firm struck work demanding wages they were getting before the lockdown. This gloomy scenario saw the emergence of rough tourism where city slickers were ready to rough it out to get away from the claustrophobic urban spaces. Then there was Kondapochamma reservoir. Miles long vehicles clogged the road leading to the dam that is about 50 kilometres from the city. There were other tourist spots that got created as a bountiful monsoon filled lakes, dams and reservoirs in the region.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration of non-agricultural lands progressing smoothly||Thanks to the government’s decision to revert to land registrations through the old system (Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department), registrations of the non-agricultural lands is progressing smoothly and the number of transactions is increasing by the day. The resumption of registration process after a gap of almost 100 days is however unlikely to fill the gap in the target set for the current year and the quantum achieved so far. Problems for the sector started from the day the Legislature enacted two legislations aimed at overhaul of the Revenue Administration through the introduction of Dharani portal as one-stop solution for land-related issues. The registrations through the portal were launched on November 2 for agricultural lands and December 14 for the non-agricultural lands without addressing the technical issues. According to experts, there is no scope for registration of documents pertaining to different transactions and the software has been designed to handle four transactions – sale deeds, family partition deed, court decree and mortgage. There were then network connectivity related issues in many places that delayed proceedings while it took time to ensure full-fledged functioning of the servers to speed up the transactions. The new software however was reportedly not accepting entry of details of the link documents pertaining to the property as also the details pertaining to the payments made like cheque/DD numbers. Survey numbers of the properties were not being displayed in the documents in spite of their entry into the software while no option is provided for inclusion of the built-up area, number of floors and the type of construction. One of the biggest concern of the real estate dealers is problems related to properties that were hitherto classified under gram panchayats and were subsequently merged to create new municipalities. The problem is said to be more acute in respect of the group housing projects and apartments where the software is not allowing entry of multiple names of buyers. Insistence on the property tax index number is reportedly proving a major hurdle as there is no scope of the PTIN in case of houses under construction as the index will be generated for only properties which are completed. Builders who met the Cabinet sub-committee headed by R&B Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy lamented that the portal is generating its own sale deed format which was not in conformity with the RERA guidelines and there was insistence on payment of full consideration without an option for semi-finished registrations.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID: SCCL loses Rs. 5,000-cr. revenue||The COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge impact on Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) as its coal production and sales amounting to Rs. 5,000 crore were hit both due to production loss and low demand during the lockdown period. This was stated by Chairman and Managing Director of the company N. Sridhar here on Wednesday during the 100th Foundation Day celebrations of the company. He stated that the production and sales were rebounding slowly with phased easing of the lockdown measures. The company had diversified into thermal and solar power generation areas and secured new coal blocks in Odisha as part of its business expansion plans and for longevity of the company beyond the next 100 years, the CMD stated. Speaking at the event, Mr. Sridhar said that Singareni had the capacity to face challenges. In spite of the COVID-19 impact, the company had paid Rs. 540 crore bonus to its employees this year, he said. He mentioned that the company had suffered losses continuously for 20 years till 1998, but the hard work of the employees and workers had made it profitable for the last 20 years. In the changing scenario of coal market, Singareni had to compete not only with other public sector coal companies such as Coal India but also private coal companies too, he stated. To face such challenges, there was a need to reduce the production costs considerably by inducting more machinery and utilising the work hours of employees completely, the CMD said. On the solar power generation by the company, he said establishment of 300 megawatt plants would be completed by 2021-end and another 300 MW capacity floating solar plants would be constructed on reservoirs in the next phase.  Felicitated Felicitation of best employees and presentation of rolling trophies to the best performing coal mines marked the celebration of Foundation Day. The SCCL Director (Operations) S Chandrasekhar, Director (Finance & Planning and Projects) N Balram and others took part in the main ceremony held at the SCCL’s head office in Kothagudem. A water fountain and a waiting hall for visitors were inaugurated at the company head office in the coal town. The Singareni Formation Day was celebrated at Rudrampur, Yellandu, Manuguru and other areas in the coal belt region.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Experts suggest manual updating of land records||As the government faced resentment over the manner in which it tried to enforce land transactions through Dharani portal, stakeholders suggest that the government first take up manual updating of the existing land records and get them approved through gram sabhas before opening up transactions online. A comprehensive land survey to demarcate the borders and protecting the interests of the owners is the need of the hour. They survey will ensure that details of some extents of land which are completely missing in the records are incorporated, thus giving a clear picture of the entire land parcels across the State. Though the government made budgetary allocations for comprehensive survey in the past, it did not materialise. “Detailed survey and settlement of land extents and boundaries will pave the way for a regime of conclusive titles or at least guaranteed titles to owners, at least in the long run,” Nalsar adjunct professor and expert in land laws M. Sunil Kumar said. He welcomed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision on setting up land tribunals by doing away with the existing revenue courts at different levels. Such tribunals should be set up one each at the district-level and one for overall monitoring and supervision at the State-level. One major reform which the government should undertake is bringing about a single law governing the entire land administration issues unlike the more than 80 different legislations in vogue at present.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police freeze four bank accounts of loan apps||In further revelation in the probe into app-based microfinancing companies fraud, the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police have frozen four bank accounts out of 75 identified and blocked Rs. 50 lakh that stood in the credit of those four accounts. The investigators found that all these accounts (both saving and current) in various private sector banks in National Capital Region and Delhi belong to Liofang Technologies Private Limited, Hotful Technologies Private Limited, PinPrint Technologies Private Limited and Nabloom Technologies. “Through these accounts, loan amounts were being credited to the borrowers and were also receiving repayments. They are linked to at least 30 mobile applications,” a senior officer told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. He said that teams were also sent to Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool and Bengaluru in connection with the case. The investigators also served notices to 610 employees working in three call centres at Punjagutta and Begumpet putting them on notice to appear when called for questioning. This has sent shockwaves among the telecallers. “During the course of investigation, if their role is established, definitely they will be called for questioning. We know no telecaller is taken into custody,” the officer said. Police also found that call centres in the city do not have any data or personal information about the customers or the loan amount he defaulted. That was managed at Gurugram. “Here they just provide the phone numbers of defaulters in a specially designed software and ask them to send gentle reminders. Teams in Gurugram have a complete profile of their customers breaching the privacy of the individuals,” the officer said. In Gurugram, the specially trained abusive telecallers would analyse the profile of their customers/defaulters after accessing his photos and contacts, and even on social media to understand the ‘weak point’ before making the threatening or intimidating calls. “They will hand-pick the ‘weak’ customers and threaten to make his private life public in case he does not return the money with a high rate of interest,” police said. And if the telecallers find some private photos or videos in the defaulters account, there is no limit for their blackmailing and even ask the customers to pay double or triple to the loan amount they availed, the investigators said. Police have also written to the Registrar of Companies for business details about the accused firms and their nature of work. “We are still waiting for their response,” the officer added.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Widened roads shrink space around Secunderabad Clock Tower||As vehicles mill around the small traffic island, the clock strikes 4. The sound makes everyone look up, including the workers who have been trimming the hedges and the lawn for years. A deep melodious sound that sets up the theme for the hourly chime of the clock. The clock has once again started ticking at Secunderabad Clock Tower. “It’s a new clock where time is synchronised with GPS. The sound is produced with an amplifier. This kind of accuracy is not possible with older mechanical clocks which require high maintenance,” informs Rohit Chugani of Ramesh Watch Company, which has installed the new clock. While the news about ticking of the clock has created a buzz, work on the clock tower and the park is in progress. A small temple that used to exist on one side of the park now has a fencing and a tall colourful gopuram with a separate entrance. Satellite imagery shows how the park has shrunk considerably over time as the road around it has expanded. Visitors have to cross a road to reach the Telangana Martyrs Memorial. But the biggest change is the appearance of the clock tower with a pristine white coat of paint that contrasts with the stone and masonry structure. The four lions on the towers too have been coated with the paint making them one with the structure and hiding the skill of the sculptor and the ferocity of the lions. “Painting of old stone structure can be termed as pastiche. Paint will be absorbed by pores of the stone and it will be really difficult to remove it completely later. The paint will also act as a barrier for moisture imbibed in the pores of stone and thus damage the stone in the long run,” says a conservation architect. The clock was a gift of a Seth Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal, whose statue is located in another island near the Paradise Hotel. The clock tower is also host to a plaque mounted on a fountain. It informs that the Secunderabad Water Works was opened by the Resident on February 1, 1897. The Resident at that time was Sir Trevor Chichele Plowden who had a 22-year-old daughter Pamela. Posted as a British army officer, a 23-year-old Lieutenant of 4th Queen’s Own Hussars known as Winston Churchill met Pamela and became besotted with her. Archivists have dug out a letter he wrote to his mother about Pamela and a caustically salty remark about Hyderabad: “I was introduced yesterday to Miss Pamela Plowden - who lives here. I must say that she is the most beautiful girl that I have ever seen - ‘Bar none’… We are going to try and do the City of Hyderabad together - on an elephant. You dare not walk or the natives spit at Europeans - which provokes retaliation leading to riots.” Miss Pamela had other ideas about Winston Churchill. But the plaque inaugurated in the Secunderabad Clock Tower park shows a bit of magic to a different generation.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No need to worry about second virus wave: Eatala||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has assured that the State government was prepared to tackle any eventuality arising out of coronavirus and said that people need not worry about reports on the second wave of the virus. The first phase of the pandemic, which had an adverse impact on the lives and employment opportunities of people across the globe, reached its peak and had shown significant decline across the country. Following reports of the spread of the second wave in United Kingdom, adequate precautionary measures had been taken by the State and Central governments to ensure that the virus did not spread in the State. Tests were being conducted on people arriving from abroad and those detected as COVID positive were being sent to institutional isolation for treatment. The Minister however, asked people to be careful and follow all the precautionary measures during the next two months in view of the ongoing winter season. The government, he asserted, was prepared to meet any situation in the coming days and necessary arrangements had already been put in place across the State, he added.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court notices to State govt. over nomination of three MLCs||Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notices to State government in a writ petition seeking to quash the nomination of Goreti Venkanna, Baswaraju Saraiah and Boggarapu Dayanand as MLCs under Governor quota. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed order to serve notices to Chief Secretary along with the three MLCs. The petitioner T. Dhangopal Rao, a social activist, also requested the HC to instruct the three MLCs not to hold the office till it adjudicated the plea. Mr. Rao wanted the court to declare action of the Governor and Chief Secretary in nominating the three MLCs as amounting to violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 16 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner, who filed an application to the Governor requesting for his nomination as MLC, appealed to the HC to set aside the ‘non-speaking and unreasoned order’ of the Governor with regard to his application. Mr. Rao sought a direction from the court to consider his application for nomination as MLC in compliance with the direction of Allahabad High Court verdict with regard to nomination of MLCs in Governor quota. The petitioner claimed that he secured copy of the Recommendation File of the Cabinet Ministers relating to nomination of the three persons as MLCs. The petitioner stated that the Governor acted contrary to the law laid down by Allahabad High Court. As per that verdict, Cabinet has no locus standi to advise the Governor in matters of nomination of MLCs under Governor quota. Hence, the Court has to examine the validity of the action of Governor nominating these three persons as MLCs, the petitioner contended.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sonia to go through PCC selection report today||The final phase of consultations for selection of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief for Telangana will begin on Thursday with the AICC chief Sonia Gandhi to be presented with the report of the AICC incharge for Telangana, Manickam Tagore. AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal and a few senior leaders of the AICC are likely to assist Ms. Sonia Gandhi in discussing the content and observation of the report submitted by Mr. Tagore after a four-day hectic consultations with Telangana leaders -- including seniors, DCC presidents and also stakeholders at the district-level last week. Mr. Tagore presented the report to the AICC leadership last week and later flew to Chennai. He is back in New Delhi but it is not clear whether he will be part of the initial discussions to be held between Ms. Sonia Gandhi and other top leaders. He is likely to give his personal view and understanding of the situation only when Ms. Gandhi seeks. General practice The present TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy is likely to give his views on the candidates already finalised as is the general practice in the party. All the three Congress Members of Parliament - Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and A. Revanth Reddy, apart from Mr. Uttam Reddy, will be in New Delhi on Thursday to be a part of the Congress delegation that is meeting the President of India on the new farm laws. While Mr. Uttam is the outgoing chief -- both Mr. Revanth and Mr. Venkata Reddy -- are strong contenders for the post. They will have an opportunity to meet Mr. Rahul Gandhi but sources said they may not get exclusive time to present their cases one last time. A senior leader involved in the process in New Delhi said more or less the name has been finalised but Ms. Gandhi will have the final say going through the report and observations from different sources.  More or less the name has been finalised but Ms. Gandhi will have the final say going through the report and observations from different sources. Congress senior leader
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Address basic concerns on land-related issues before transition to Dharani’||As the registration of non-agricultural lands through CARD is gathering pace, experts in land issues feel that the government should have addressed certain basic concerns before going ahead with the implementation of Dharani portal, conceived as one-stop solution for land-related issues. The major problem in the effective transition to Dharani portal is absence of unique identification for the land parcels across the State. This is because the government has not taken steps for conducting a comprehensive survey of the lands so that each parcel could be given a unique identification number which can be fed into the software so that there will be ease in transactions. “The government is likely to incur expenditure of close to Rs. 600 crore for conducting a comprehensive survey of the entire State. Given the effectiveness and lasting impact such survey will have on the land administration related issues, it should be done first,” an expert said. The survey is mandatory as the existing records are reportedly in “bad shape” and the documents issued after successful transactions still continues to be presumptive, not conclusive or guaranteed title. Real estate dealers and document writers alike feel that the reform is a welcome one provided it is gradually introduced. Problems like mismatch in the number assigned to a particular land in the revenue records and that actually given at the field level and the possession of same land parcel by different departments should have been addressed first before transition to Dharani, experts said. The new legislations passed by the government ensured that judicial intervention is made mandatory for making even small corrections in the documents, they pointed out.Experts in land laws feel that though conceived with good intentions, Dharani could not achieve the objectives for which it was introduced and the government should at least now take steps to remedy the existing problems before embarking upon introduction of the new system. Introduction of Dharani forms part of the implementation of the parameters relating to the Ease of Doing Business which mandates that the governments – Central and State – take steps to reduce the time consumed for the transactions. A manual related to the EODB parameters examined various aspects related to land registration processes in the country. These areas are: procedures to legally transfer title on immovable property, time and cost required to complete each procedure, quality of land administration based on which ranking would be given to the respective governments. The development follows the considerable delays in completing the procedures for businesses to set up their shop here. Payment of fee in advance and introduction of slot booking are part of the reforms suggested under the EODB, sources said adding the new system however did not consider the difficulties faced by the end users and hence, the scope for problems at the field level.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PV remembered on death anniversary||Raising the banner of ‘son of the soil’, three mainstream parties on Wednesday observed the 16th death anniversary of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao also paid tributes to PV, saying that the latter would go down in the history of the country as an endless reformist. The country was reaping the benefits now of reforms introduced by PV in economic, education and land administration. His firmness in dealing with internal security and external affairs had strengthened India’s unity, integrity and sovereignty. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Legislative Council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, P.V. Narasimha Rao centenary celebrations’ committee chairman and TRS parliamentary party leader K. Keshava Rao were among the several TRS leaders who paid floral tributes at the memorial of PV on Necklace Road. Ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Satyavathi Rathod, Mohammed Mahmood Ali and V. Srinivas Goud and MLC K. Kavitha joined too. State Congress president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and his BJP counterpart Bandi Sanjay also paid tributes at the memorial. Former Congress Minister Ponnala Laxmaiah and J. Geeta Reddy and BJP MP D. Arvind participated too. The three parties observed the occasion separately in batches. Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch. Rajeswara Rao garlanded PV’s statue at the dairy on Wednesday.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Need for centralised recruitment in varsities||State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar has favoured a consortium of universities recruitment board for filling up vacant posts as the individual recruitment was leading to delay due to legal hassles. The Bihar government has created the Bihar State University Service Commission to conduct tests and select a teachers’ pool for all the universities for appointment based on their merit and interests, he said. The experiment should be studied, he felt, arguing that recruitments in varsities were being delayed mostly due to litigations. He was speaking at a seminar on “Higher Education - Post COVID era” organised by Excel India in association with the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) here on Wednesday. He said the Chief Minister has sanctioned permission to fill up 1,061 posts in the universities and centralised recruitment can expedite the work. Mr. Vinod Kumar also said that the appointment of Vice Chancellors was delayed due to COVID-related lockdown and it would be completed hopefully by next month. Commissioner for Collegiate and Technical Education Navin Mittal said that the future would be ‘Phygital’ education (a mix of physical and digital mode of learning) and the Telangana government has done a tremendous job in this area using the unexpected lockdown challenges. He said this was the era of Education 4.0 and despite the digital and adaptation challenges, both teachers and students have to be trained to follow the new path. For this, he felt there was a need for good learning management system and the Telangana government has taken some serious steps in this direction. He explained how courses were now being offered through MOOCs and also the Swayam platform. He also mentioned how the JNTU and Coursera, the online platform, have joined to take advantage of the digital medium.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CM-adopted villages in Medchal in utter neglect’||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy has claimed that three villages adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in Medchal district reflect the callousness of the government as works promised have neither been grounded nor completed. In a letter to the Medhcal Collector, he said the Chief Minister adopted Lakshmapur, Muduchintalapalli and Keshavaram in Medchal district and one expected visible development of these villages. On the contrary, no work assured by the Chief Minister himself has been grounded, he said. He said the Lakshmapur village was adopted on August 4, 2017 with the Chief Minister personally visiting the village and asking officials to prepare a new map of the village. After three years, nothing has been done. Farmers in this village have not been receiving Rythu Bandhu for the last three times as officials failed to provide the passbooks. Five farmers who died were denied Rythu Bheema benefit citing non-availablity of their records in Dharani. Similarly Rs. 15 crores was sanctioned for village development and 120 double bedroom houses were promised -- but nothing is grounded so far, he said. The Member of Parliament said similar is the situation with Mudu Chintalapalli where 100 houses were promised, burial ground with Rs. 32 lakh was assured, apart from a market yard with Rs. 25 lakhs - but they are yet to be completed. In Keshavaram too, 100 houses were promised but not a single house has been built. If such is the situation in the three adopted villages, the Chief Minister has adopted another village Vasalamarri in Yadadri district on November 1 promising Rs. 100 crore. He said the CM-adopted villages should be role models for the State but these are totally neglected and urged the Collector to expedite the works in the villages.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR asks funds for TS projects in 2021 budget||IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao has sought allocation of special funds in the upcoming Union Budget 2021-22 for projects such as Hyderabad Pharma City, NIMZ (Zaheerabad), National Design Centre (NDC), and setting up of Industrial Corridor in Telangana. In a letter to Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goel, he thanked the Ministry of Commerce for including Hyderabad – Warangal, and Hyderabad – Nagpur Industrial Corridors by NICDIT and for considering funding the initial two nodes for the Hyderabad Pharma City (HPC) and National Industrial Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ), Zaheerabad. The estimated project cost for taking infrastructure development in these two nodes is about Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 2,000 crores respectively. He requested the Union Minister to allocate funds to the extent of at least 50% of the project cost in the budget estimates for 2021-22. “The project has received an overwhelming response and the overall investment potential is estimated to be around Rs. 64,000 crore with employment generation of 5.6 lakh jobs,” the IT and Industries Minister said. “We have sought funding to the tune of Rs. 4,922 crore and given the National importance of the project I request you to consider Rs. 870 crores in the Budget.” Mr. KTR also said the NIMZ at Zaheerabad was given final approval by the Ministry of Commerce in January 2016. “It was requested to initially release an amount of Rs. 500 crore for Phase-I development towards external and internal infrastructure out of the total project cost of Rs. 9,500 crore. ” In another letter, Minister KTR requested budget allocations for the National Design Centre (NDC) as the government has already identified 30 acres of prime land in University of Hyderabad campus. He requested a budget allocation of Rs. 200 crore towards the initial Capex.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BoM opens 28th branch in Telangana||Bank of Maharashtra has opened a branch in Miyapur here thereby taking the number of its branches in Telangana to 28. Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan alongwith Divesh Dinkar, Zonal Manager, Hyderabad Zone, BOM, inaugurated the facility located at 2-60/10, Plot no 5-6, Bollaram Road, Miyapur. The branch will cater to all basic banking transactions and also specific needs of customers, offering the entire spectrum of banking products and financial services covering Retail, Agri and MSME sectors, a release said.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||VHP fund-raising for Ram Mandir from Jan. 15||A nation-wide fund-raising campaign to build Ram temple at Ayodhya is to be launched by Vishwa Hindu Parishad in to speed up the construction work. Vishwa Hindu Parishad international working president Alok Kumar told media persons here that the campaign would cover 55 crore people in four lakh villages across the country. People would be encouraged to chip in as little as Rs. 10 per individual and Rs. 100 per household with no restriction on the higher level of contributions. Mr.Kumar said that the VHP had resolved to extend all cooperation to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for collecting monetary offerings. In Telangana alone, the volunteers of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad would reach out to more than three crore people from four lakh families in 9,000 villages. While the nation-wide campaign would commence on January 15 and conclude on February 27, in Telangana it would start on January 20. “The collection would be made by coupons printed in the denomination of Rs. 10, Rs. 100 and Rs. 1,000. For donations above Rs. 2,000, receipts will be issued to enable donors avail Section 80G benefits of the Income Tax Act,” he said. Mr. Alok Kumar said that each collection team would be of five volunteers, and a depositor would be made incharge of five teams. All collections would be deposited in the bank account of the Teerth Kshetra within 48 hours. “We don’t have any target, as we know there will be a overwhelming response,” said Mr. Alok Kumar.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||From a telecaller to centre head||One of the key accused in loan app fraud, Madhu Babu Sangi appointed centre head for Liofang Technologies Private Limited and Hotful Technologies Private Limited a few months ago has an interesting twist to his career. Born at Kothagudem in Telangana, after completing his graduation, Madhu moved to Delhi in search of a job. Soon, he got placed as a telecaller in one such app-based loan company call centres in Gurugram. By taking note of his ‘efficiency and expertise’ in recovering loans from the defaulter virtually, the Chinese pitch-forked him into the limelight and made him a centre head in Hyderabad. Liofang signed a service agreement with Gurugram-based Non-Bank Financial Institution, Aglow Fin Trade Private Limited in January this year. Due to COVID-19 lockdown, the firm postponed their plans and sent Madhu to Hyderabad five months ago to start call centres of Liofang and Hotful at Punjagutta and Begumpet. Later, he appointed Jeevan Jyothi from Nalgonda as HR Manager for Rs. 10,000 per month and she was also made a director for Hotful. Madhu also appointed his brother Selvaraj Singi director. “A special team from Gurugram came to Hyderabad to train them on the software and their nature of work. “Each of them was given separate login IDs and passwords for software,” police said.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Leaving no trail of money||The promoters of two private companies managing the operations and call centres of at least 30 instant loan apps from Hyderabad have designed a well thought-out plan not to leave any money trail. Hyderabad Cyber Crime police probing the alleged fraud by these microfinancing companies told The Hindu that the Liofang Technologies Private Limited and Hotful Technologies Private Limited, entered into several third party agreements for payment of staff salaries, defraying operational costs and other incidental expenses in running their nefarious activities. A policeman said prima facie it appears it is a scam wrapped in riddles and had an explosive impact on the financial systems of households and the working class. There are around 600 employees in these three call centres, whose salaries were being paid by a third party company Focus Training Services, Madhapur, he said. “These accused companies were paying money to Focus through UPI or in cash. The management will be questioned,” the officer said. Further, he said that on Wednesday alone they registered three cases after they received nine complaints against the online loan apps. A woman from Azampura told Cyber Crime police that they availed a loan from one such app, and repaid on time. As the payment was done before the deadline of seven days, the app company deposited Rs. 10,500 in her bank account without her consent. When she cleared that amount on time, the company again deposited Rs. 30,000. As there was no proper response from the call centre executive, she approached police and lodged a complaint. Similarly, a coaching centre owner from Kavadiguda approached Cyber Crime police stating that money lenders were constantly harassing him as one of his friends failed to repay the loan. “They found the coaching centre owner and contact numbers of other people in the defaulters contact list and kept calling them,” police said. Cyberabad Cyber Crime police also registered two more cases against instant loan app companies.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Acid attack on woman in Jagityal district||An unidentified person wearing helmet threw acid on a 22-year-old woman near Thimmapur thanda in Ibrahimpatnam mandal of Jagityal district, nearly 270 kms from here, on Wednesday. The woman sustained burns on her cheek and collar bone. She is out of danger, the police said quoting doctors. The woman was first treated at a hospital in Metpally and then rushed to Nizamabad district for better medical assistance. A mother of two, the woman was walking towards her home around 8 p.m. when the attacker came towards her walking. “The attacker threw acid on her and fled the spot,” Jagityal SP Sindhu Sharma told The Hindu over phone. The SP spoke to the victim who pointed the needle of suspicion on the husband of her younger sister. Police are probing the case from all angles. The victim’s husband died nine months ago. MLC Kavitha rang up the SP on learning about the attack and asked the police to ensure justice is meted out to the woman.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||15 Barn Owls rescued||Fifteen Barn Owls were rescued by the city police after they arrested a 22-year-old ‘hunter’ here on Tuesday. “Kamran Ali Farooqui from Guddi Ka Dawakhana, Teegalakunta in Falaknuma, travelled to Srisailam forest area to catch Barn Owls and sold them in the city for anywhere between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 1 lakh each,” Task Force Additional DCP Chakravarthy Gummi said. “There is a superstitious belief that revolving the Owl around the human body may bring them good luck,” he added.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expect nights to be chilly this week||The winter chill in the twin cities and rest of Telangana is expected to continue the entire week with the minimum temperatures likely to remain between 11-13 degree Celsius. The day is likely to be in the horizon of 29-30 degree C and mist or fog will envelope the landscape during the mornings as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Wednesday. Temperatures recorded on Tuesday night were 11.2 degree C — four degrees below normal and maximum temperature of 28.6 degree C. Adilabad recorded the lowest temperature at 6.7 degree C followed by Medak at 7 degree C. In the rest of Telangana, night temperatures have been between 11 degree and 14 degree C and likely to remain so for the next few days with an overall dry weather.
24 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UK returnees identified||The State government has sounded an alert for UK returnees while gathering their details and monitoring their health status in view of the new strain of coronavirus. As many as 1,200 returnees to the State from UK were identified since December 9. All of them were subjected to health check-ups and none tested positive, a release from the DPH said. He appealed to people who either arrived in the State directly from UK or travelled via that country to give their information on phone number 040-24651119 or WhatsApp number 9154170960. Dr. Rao said the health department was adopting tracing, testing and treating method to check the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, and there was no need to panic.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gold seized from air passenger||A passenger was booked by the Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Wednesday for smuggling 340.16 grams of gold worth Rs. 17.48 lakh. “The passenger who attempted to depart by IndiGo 6E 6468 to Chennai from Hyderabad. He was deboarded and detained for search, which found a trolley bag in his possession,” officials said, adding that the accused passenger arrived at RGIA from Dubai in IndiGo flight no 6E 25. Upon searching the officials found silver coated gold wires of 22 carat gold which was concealed in the inner frame of the trolley bag.
24 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gold seized from air passenger||A passenger was booked by Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Wednesday for smuggling 340.16 grams of gold worth Rs. 17.48 lakh. “The passenger who attempted to depart by IndiGo 6E 6468 to Chennai from Hyderabad was deboarded and found with a trolley bag in his possession,” officials said Te accused passenger had arrived at RGIA from Dubai in IndiGo flight no 6E 25. On search, officials found silver coated gold wire which was concealed in the trolley bag.
24 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana, SAP India ink pact to help MSMEs||The Telangana government and the Indian arm of German software group, SAP, have entered into an MoU to equip micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the State with digital skilling and technologies. Their partnership will work towards promoting entrepreneurship for the enterprises by onboarding them on SAP Ariba Discovery global marketplace, offering digital skilling programmes for their workforce and providing access to affordable enterprise technology, a release on Wednesday said.
24 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Centum sponsors food to 3.6 lakh children in 10 years||Centum Electronics partnered with Akshaya Patra, the world’s largest school feeding programme, for jointly feeding 3.6 lakh school children over a period of 10 years in government and government aided schools. Apparao V Mallavarapu, Chairman & Managing Director said Akshaya Patra’s mid-day meal programme is one that aligns well with their CSR objectives. “We appreciate the qefforts of the foundation,” he said.
24 December 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||A gated community for the poor||Kona Murali, a man in his 50s, used to stay at Prashant Nagar in the district headquarters along with his wife Rajamani and son, after having married off his two daughters spending all his savings. He used to pay around Rs. 2,000 as rent for a two-room accommodation. Now he is the lucky owner of a double bedroom house, being one among the poor who got a house allotted at KCR Nagar, which was inaugurated on December 10 by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The opposite house was allotted to Chotibi, who is staying with her son Afsar.     On December 21, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao along with his wife handed over new clothes and certificates to the beneficiaries at a programme held in the auditorium constructed on the premises. They are being issued five types of documents — for double bedroom house allotment, tap connection, electricity connection, gas connection and house number allotment by municipal authorities — before entering the house. The housing colony has many specialities — gated community constructed in G+2 model with lot of space around the building, round-the-clock piped gas supply and water supply under Mission Bhagiratha, underground drainage, CC roads up to the steps, multipurpose community hall, integrated market, shopping complex, police outpost, Basti Dawakhana, four parks with children play area, soak pits at every block. “In the past you have paid more than Rs. 1.000 as rents and lived in small rooms. Now promise me that you will contribute some amount and hire people to keep the colony clean and neat,” Mr Harish Rao urged the beneficiaries. They were also warned that allotment stands cancelled and criminal cases will be registered if the beneficiaries sell the house or give them on rent.
24 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Top priority for dairy industry: Harish Rao||Minister T. Harish Rao said that top priority is being accorded to dairy industry in the State. Participating in several development programmes in Narayanakhed constituency along with MLA M Bhupal Reddy, he said that the bulk cooling centre established at an estimated cost of Rs. 24 lakh in Nizampet would be of great help to farmers.
24 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Batik artist Balaiah passes away||Famous batik artist Yasala Balaiah passed due to ill-health on Wednesday. He was internationally famous and his paintings represented the rural life. For the past few days, he was not doing well. He was close to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Finance Minister T Harish Rao mourned the demise of Balaiah.
24 December 2020||STAFF REPORTER,TELANGANA||Coronavirus tally in Telangana reaches 635||Telangana reported as many as 635 COVID cases on Tuesday. This takes the total number of positive cases reported thus far to 2,82,982. The media bulletin issued on Wednesday recorded four fatalities. This brings the total number of COVID-related deaths to 1,522. The number of people who have recovered on Tuesday stands at 573. The cumulative recoveries till date has been recorded as 2,74,833. The State tested as many as 45,609 samples on Tuesday, with the total number of samples tested standing at 65,66,602. On the same day, 20,067 primary contacts and 5,473 secondary contacts were tested. While 41,473 samples were tested in government facilities, another 4,136 samples were tested in private facilities. The GHMC limits saw a slight increase in positive cases as compared to the previous day. While 103 cases were recorded in GHMC limits on December 21, as many as 115 were recorded on December 22. Meanwhile, Sangareddy district recorded 57 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri 49, Khammam saw 35, and Karimnagar witnessed 30 cases.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Christmas draw||
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod for ordinance to extend protection to unauthorised colonies||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance to extend the protections given to certain kinds of illegal constructions in Delhi from punitive action for another three years. The protections to unauthorised colonies that were in existence as of March 31, 2002 till June 1, 2014, jhuggi jhonpri or slum clusters (JJ clusters) and constructions on agricultural land were protected from demolition and sealing by the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Act, 2017, till December 31, 2020. Announcing the Cabinet’s decision, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said it would help in the “development of Delhi”. He said unauthorised colonies, JJ clusters and buildings on agricultural land were deemed illegal, leading to courts giving directions to take action against them over the years. In order to address this, the NCT of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2011 was enacted in 2011, following which two three-year extensions were given in 2014 and 2017. Mr. Javadekar said the Cabinet had approved the ordinance as there was no winter session of Parliament this time. President’s sign awaited The ordinance would come into effect after the President signs it, he said. He said legal protections would continue for lakhs of residents. Since the next masterplan was being drafted, the government decided to give the extension, keeping in mind the time needed for the same, he said.
24 December 2020||new delhi,||DDA exemption for RRTS structures||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday recommended a proposal to incorporate operational structures relating to Regional Rapid Transit System corridors in the Master Plan for Delhi – 2021, similar to exemption given to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. “After the notification, all RRTS tracks and buildings will be treated as operational structures and prior approval of local bodies shall not be required for undertaking the construction of these structures,” said the DDA.
24 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Delhi-Meerut RRTS takes shape as construction pace quickens||Work on the Uttar Pradesh side of Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS project is on in full swing. “Visible signs of construction” at Sarai Kale Khan station in Delhi, a senior NCRTC functionary associated with the project said, will begin manifesting in the first quarter of the coming year. The 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is not only the first RRTS corridor being implemented in the country but also the first project of its kind to utilise spherical bearings to enable speeds of up to 180 kilometres per hour and will bring down the travel time between Delhi to Meerut by around 1/3rd. The commute time from Delhi to Meerut will be reduced to less than an hour from 3-4 hours by road at present. The priority section of the corridor is targeted to be completed in 2023 while the entire corridor will be completed in 2025, according to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation. Even as foundation work for a viaduct is being undertaken at a fast pace with over 3600 piles and over 3000 piers having been casted between Sahibabad and Shatabdi Nagar, the launching of the spans of the viaduct is not only progressing but it’s superstructure is now visible on the stretch on the Meerut Road. In fact, about one kilometre of the viaduct is ready on the 17-kilometre-long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai, which will consist of the Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar and Duhai stations. “Civil construction is gaining pace inside Delhi and Meerut and work is in full swing at casting yards in Vasundhara in Ghaziabad here and in Shatabdi Nagar in Meerut,” Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NCRTC, said at the facility in Vasundhara on Wednesday. “As far as the Delhi side is concerned, the resources required for construction on the ground are in the process of being mobilised and the signs of the work being in progress will begin manifesting, to give an estimate, over the next two months,” Mr. Vats told The Hindu. The RRTS station at Sarai Kale Khan — where all the three Phase 1 RRTS corridors of Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut, Delhi-Gurugram-SNB-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat will converge — will be seamlessly integrated with the Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, the Delhi Metro Pink Line’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station and the Sarai Kale Khan Inter State Bus Terminal. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor will have a total of 24 stations and will be elevated for around 70.5 km and 11.5 km of its stretch will be underground. The rolling stock or coaches will be manufactured in Savli, Gujarat under the Make in India initiative.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Congress gears up for local body polls||After being snubbed by the central leadership over its lacklustre performance despite being part of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the Maharashtra unit of the Congress has kick-started preparations for the 2021 local body polls in the State. State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Wednesday appointed a 13-member election management committee to oversee preparations for the upcoming polls in five municipal corporations, two zilla parishads, 13 municipal councils and 83 municipal pachayats. “Irrespective of the Congress being in alliance with two other parties, we are committed to increasing the party’s stronghold. We are striving towards to taking the party to the top position in the State,” a senior Congress leader said after the appointments. He further said that the recent victory of the Congress in the MLC polls had encouraged the party to get on an aggressive mode. According to sources, the State unit of the party received the cold shoulder from Delhi over its defensive stand and lack of inner-party coordination. The unit also came under fire for its poor performance in the first year of the MVA government as the other two allies — Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party — overshadowed it. The State Congress leadership is also under strain as Mr. Thorat is likely to be replaced as president in the coming weeks. The party’s Mumbai unit has got MLC Bhai Jagtap as the new president who has been given the mandate to increase the party’s tally in the 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation poll. Such was the discontent over the State unit from the central leadership that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had to write to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding adherence to the common minimum programme and special incentives for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. Mr. Thorat explained that it was a routine exchange between the two leaders.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani from Dec. 30||A Rajdhani special train will run on four days a week between Mumbai and Hazrat Nizamuddin (Delhi), the Central Railway (CR) said on Wednesday. The CR had suspended its Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani train after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in March. Train number 01221 (Rajdhani special) will leave the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday at 4.10 p.m. from December 30, a release said. The train will reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 11 a.m. the next day. The release further said that 01222 (Rajdhani special) will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin at 4.55 p.m. every Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday from December 31 and arrive at CSMT at 11.50 a.m. the next day. The 19-coach train with one AC first class, five AC-2 tier, 11 AC-3 tier and one pantry car will halt at Kalyan, Nasik Road, Jalgaon, Bhopal, Jhansi and Agra Cantonment stations.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Court dismisses Kangana’s plea||A civil court has dismissed a plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut against the Mumbai civic body’s 2018 notice for demolition of “unauthorised constructions” at her residential apartment in Khar, according to an order made available on Wednesday.
24 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Neral murder case: couple killed Worli resident also for money||Investigations into a murder case in Neral where a banker was killed and then his body chopped by a couple have revealed that the crime was committed also for money as the call centre run by the accused had shut during the COVID-19 pandemic. The victim, Sushilkumar Sarnaik (31), a relationship manager with a private bank and a resident of Worli, had gone missing on December 12 after he left home in the afternoon. He had told his mother that he was going on an overnight trip with colleagues. His murder came to light after his body parts were found in two suitcases along the railway tracks at Matheran on December 16. Using CCTV footage, the police arrested the accused couple — Charles Nadar (41) and Saloni Nadar (31) — on December 17. During the initial probe, it was found that Sarnaik was murdered as he frequently talked ill about Ms. Nadar’s character. “In further investigations, we learnt that the accused who ran a call centre at Badlapur had to shut it down owing to the lockdown caused by the pandemic, and the other motive to kill the banker was to take money from his account,” Anil Gherdikar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karjat, said. After the murder, Ms. Nadar, using Sarnaik’s phone, changed his ATM pin on the banking app and then used the ATM card at Badlapur to withdraw Rs. 80,000. Later, the couple went to Bhayender and purchased gold worth Rs. 60,000 using the victim’s credit card. The couple has a three-year-old daughter who was asked to sit in the bedroom while the duo killed Sarnaik and then chopped the body.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jahangirpuri, Bawana most polluted areas in Nov.||Jahangirpuri and Bawana were the most polluted areas in the city in November and both of them witnessed 18 days each of “severe” air pollution during the month, as per data of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), analysed by The Hindu . Both the areas are part of 13 air pollution “hotspots” in Delhi, with higher levels of pollution compared to the rest of the city. Among the hotspots, Mundka, Rohini, Wazirpur and Vivek Vihar were the second most polluted areas in November with each of them registering 16 days of “severe” Air Quality Index (AQI). During the same period, the city as a whole experienced nine days of severe category air pollution. Same throughout year Jahangirpuri and Bawana are the most polluted areas in the city for the rest of the year also, in terms of concentration of Particulate Matter, PM2.5, a deadly pollutant. In 2018 also, Jahangirpuri was the most polluted area in the city, in terms of PM2.5 levels, and Bawana has been among the top polluted areas, the data showed. Even though these areas are polluted, the annual average pollution levels in all 13 areas have decreased. The average levels in 2019 are less than 2018 and that of 2020 have been less than 2019 so far. “This decrease in pollution levels is due to strict actions taken by the government on these hotspots to reduce pollution,” an Environment Department official said. The air pollution has been less this year also due to the COVID-19 related restrictions, officials said. The reasons for these areas being more polluted ranges from local dust pollution to biomass burning and even difference in wind speed within the city. “In Jahangirpuri, the wind was less than most of the other monitoring stations. Also, the monitoring station is close to Ring Road and there is a slum cluster nearby, due to which there is biomass burning happening,” the official said. Bawana has a lot of unpaved roads and illegal factories, whereas Mundka has open fields and unorganised industries and in Vivek Vihar, the monitoring station has an industrial area and also a railway line near the station nearby. “The effect of stubble burning [in other States] is more or less equally distributed over Delhi. Some areas are more polluted mainly due to local pollutants,” said an official of the central government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The annual average PM2.5 level of Jahangirpuri in 2018 was 164 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) and it fell to 129 ug/m3 in 2019 and 118 ug/m3 till November 2020. Similarly, the values for Bsawana are 140, 132, and 113 and Anand Vihar are 155, 129, and 102. The other hotspots also followed a similar trend. But the annual standard value of PM2.5 is 10 ug/m3, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) and Jahangirpuri’s value is still about 12 times this safe limit..
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||11 people from four U.K. flights test positive for COVID-19||A total of 11 people who travelled from the United Kingdom to Delhi in four flights have tested positive for COVID-19, said Genestrings Lab, which conducted mandatory RT-PCR tests on the flyers at IGI Airport. “Since the directive from the aviation ministry, a total of four flights have landed at the Airport. A total of 950 inbound passengers from London were tested at our lab at T3, IGI Airport, and 11 of them tested positive,” the lab said in a statement. The eleven swab samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for genome sequencing. “We do not know yet if any of these positive (cases) are infected with the new U.K. strain,” the statement said. Also, 50 people have been quarantined.  Lok Nayak Hospital All the infected have been moved to the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital and they are separated from the rest of the patients at the hospital, a Delhi government official said. “Flyers who were in contact with the infected are being sent to quarantine for 14 days. The people who tested negative can go home, but medical teams will call them to inquire about any symptoms,” the official said. “All the people who have travelled from the United Kingdom to Delhi in the past two weeks will be traced, tested and advised quarantine,” added Health Minister Satyendar Jain.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police procure decibel meters to check noise pollution in Delhi||To keep check on noise pollution in the city, the Delhi police have procured 150 sound level meters to identify and prosecute people responsible for noise pollution. Sanjay Bhatia, DCP (Central) said that the real-time monitoring device will help police personnel measure noise and prosecute violations. “The Environment Protection Act, 2000, specifies the zone-wise limits in decibel for day and night time. Delhi Police has equipped field formation with Sound Level Meters [SLMs] to measure and prosecute noise violations,” said Mr Bhatia. He added that the Central District of Delhi Police has used the SLMs for the first time in Delhi and has trained its field officer to use the device to prosecute under section 6 and 15 of Environment Protection Act, 2000. Primarily, the DJ, auto rickshaw and manipulated silencer of motorbike are been prosecuted under environment Act and Delhi Police Act. On December 21, an autorickshaw driver outside Jama Masjid was fined for playing music on the stereo in a loud voice. High volume of the stereo was causing nuisance to the people around. Sound of the stereo was found 108.31 DB when measured on Sound Level Meter. The auto driver was fined. In another case, a police received a call from Chandni Mahal area about a loud sound of DJ. It was checked by Sound Meter and voice found 145.55 db. Subsequently, a notice was issued under to the offender and was fined. Mr. Bhatia said that in residential area 45 dB sound is permitted during night and if violation is found, then the person will be fined for Rs. 5,000. For industries the sound limit is 70 dB during night time. A police officer said that a total of 150 SLMs have been distributed to 15 police districts and other units.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC tells city govt. to prepare SOP for post-COVID complications||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the city government to prepare a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for people who have recovered from COVID-19, but are suffering from post-COVID complications relating to lungs and other vital organs. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad directed an Expert Committee constituted by the Delhi government to examine the post-COVID complications aspect and come up with an SOP. The High Court’s direction came after petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who too was infected with COVID-19, said that people, who have recovered from the infection, continue facing serious health issues and are finding it difficult to go back to normal life. “Needful shall be done within two weeks. A copy of the SOP shall be filed along with the next status report,” the High Court said while posting the case for further hearing on January 14 next year. The court also directed the Delhi government to ensure testing and follow-up in view of the fact that a large number of people had flown into Delhi before suspension of flights from the U.K.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Change ward of inmates who threatened Ishrat’||A Delhi court on Wednesday directed the jail authorities here to change the ward of three inmates who had allegedly threatened and harassed former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, currently in Mandoli Jail after her arrest in connection with a northeast Delhi riots case. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat also directed the Jail Superintendent to personally monitor all security related issues of Ms. Jahan and the activities of other inmates alleged to be involved in confrontation with her. “It needs no reiteration that the Jail Superintendent, being in-charge of jail, must sincerely address with promptitude all concerns/safety issues of inmates lodged in the jail,” the judge said. The direction came after Ms Jahan, charged under the anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, claimed that she was facing “harassment, threats and physical abuse by few women inmates namely Shweta, Gulshan and Pooja Golden.” Ms. Jahan had alleged that one of the three inmates also threatened to ruin her face on Tuesday after she brought up the issue of harassment and beating before the court. She said this was the second such harassment in one month. Claiming to be under immense stress due to the continuous harassment, physically and verbally, Ms. Jahan requested that either they be transferred or she be shifted to Tihar Jail.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tantrik held for duping woman of Rs. 85,000||A 55-year-old occultist was arrested from Meerut for allegedly duping a woman in the name of performing rituals for “domestic peace”, officials said on Wednesday. The police received a complaint where the complainant said that she had come in contact of one Pandit Rahul Shashtri on November 19 through phone, they said. He induced her for performing a pooja for domestic peace that would cost her Rs. 3,500 and also suggested some rituals over the phone. Victim paid Rs. 85,000 During the conversation, the complainant was allegedly lured and she ended up depositing the money in his bank account. The accused managed to get credited different amounts worth a total of Rs. 85,000 to his account, a senior police officer said. When the woman realised she had been duped, she lodged the complaint. She also alleged that he was pressurising her for depositing Rs. 55,000 more in his account, the officer said. “During investigation, the police established the identity of accused as Harun alias Miyaa Shah Ji Bangali, a resident of Zakir Colony, Meerut in U.P., and nabbed him from there on Monday,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said. During interrogation, he said that he works as a tantrik and has a portal named Miyaa Shah Ji Bangali and taught his son Aarif, the co-accused, how to conduct rituals, the police said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Former PNB chief bank manager held for fraud||Former chief manager of a public bank, along with his two accomplices, was arrested in connection with misappropriation of funds through a loan fraud, the police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Shailendra Kumar (63), a resident of Dwarka Sector-10, Ankit Sangwan (29), a resident of Vikaspuri and Sunil Sarki (31), a resident of Vikas Nagar, they said. The police said that a complaint was made by Punjab National Bank, alleging that one Sarki Trading Company, through its proprietor Sunil Sarki, obtained the CC limit of Rs. 2.50 crore on the basis of false credentials and documents in 2013.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality to remain in ‘severe’ category today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated but continued in the ‘severe’ category on Wednesday, and Gurugram’s was in the ‘very poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board. The Capital’s air quality is likely to remain in the ‘severe’ category on Thursday. “Air Quality Index (AQI) may marginally improve to the higher end of ‘very poor’ on December 25 due to slightly better ventilation conditions,” said monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 433 on Wednesday.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Cong. appoints 280 observers to strengthen ground-level organisation||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday appointed 280 observers to strengthen ground-level organisation of Delhi Pradesh Congress. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that out of the 280 observers, 272 have been appointed for the wards and four each for New Delhi Assembly and Delhi Cantt. Assembly.
24 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases drop to 54,573||As many as 7,620 patients were discharged across Maharashtra on Wednesday as opposed to 3,913 fresh COVID-19 cases. As per the State Health Department figures, the number of active cases has dipped below 55,000 to reach 54,573 while the total case tally stands at 18,99,352. As many as 93 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 48,969. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,01,700 while the State’s recovery rate has risen incrementally to 94.51%. “Of a total 1,22,78,476 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,06,371 (case positivity rate of 15.53%) have returned positive with nearly 66,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.57%. In the backdrop of a new strain in the virus, the State Health Department said that health officers at Mumbai international airport had shared a complete list of travellers who arrived in Mumbai from England between November 23 and December 25 in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines regarding surveillance of passengers coming from the U.K.. “The State has segregated this line list and shared it with districts and municipal corporations across Maharashtra. Respective district administrations and civic bodies will search for these travellers and run a RT-PCR test on them. Samples of positive patients will be referred to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for genome sequencing. This test will verify whether the virus is matching with the new variant or not,” Dr. Awate said. He said that RT-PCR negative travellers would be followed up for 28 days from their day of arrival inside the country. Mumbai city recorded 745 new cases to take its total tally to 2,88,561 of whom only 8,094 are active. As many as 14 fatalities saw the city’s death toll touch 11,033.
24 December 2020||Washington,||Trump rejects ‘wasteful’ COVID-19 aid Bill||President Donald Trump on Tuesday rejected a massive COVID-19 economic relief package passed by Congress, branding it “a disgrace” in an act of political brinkmanship less than a month before he must leave office and when millions of Americans are suffering fallout from the pandemic. Mr. Trump dropped the bombshell via a pre-recorded statement made in the White House and sent out on Twitter. It came just a day after his Republicans and the Democrats finally agreed to a $900 billion Bill meant to throw a lifeline to businesses and people struggling to keep heads above water. In his address, Mr. Trump said he would refuse to accept the Bill as it is and demanded changes, notably a big increase in the proposed $600 direct payments to less well-off Americans. “I am asking Congress to amend this Bill and increase the ridiculously low $600 to $2,000, or $4,000 for a couple,” he said. Tapping into his “America First” brand, Mr. Trump also castigated measures added onto the Bill during complex negotiations that would provide funding for projects benefiting U.S. partners abroad and other non-COVID-19 related items such as the environment. “It really is a disgrace,” he said. “I’m also asking Congress to immediately get rid of the wasteful and unnecessary items from this legislation, and just send me a suitable Bill.” Mr. Trump has not yet received the Bill and he did not explicitly say he would not sign. If he actually vetoed the package, Congress would almost certainly quickly override that, given the bipartisan support. The COVID-19 package is wrapped into a $2.3 trillion, almost 5,600-page “coronabus” Bill that includes a so-called omnibus Bill to fund the government for the coming year. A congressional override of a veto would mark an embarrassing defeat for Mr. Trump. In a bind Mr. Trump’s motives in picking the fight with Congress are intertwined with his ongoing struggle to overturn the November 3 poll. Despite courts across the country rejecting his baseless claims of fraud, he has enough allies on the right of the Republican party, and loyal voters, to keep trying to derail the traditionally smooth presidential transition. He claimed again on Tuesday that he won in a “landslide”. His challenge now puts the Republican Party in a bind, forcing lawmakers who angered him by declaring Mr. Biden the true winner to choose whether they dare defy him further and risk wrecking COVID-19 relief.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘U.K. strain unlikely to affect efficacy of vaccines’||The faster spreading coronavirus strain first detected in the U.K. is unlikely to make vaccines less effective as of now but the preventives may need to be appropriately altered if more mutations occur over time, say scientists.  According to Jeremy Farrar, director of the London-based research charity Wellcome Trust UK, there is no indication at the moment that the new strain, VUI-202012/0 that was detected on September 21, would evade treatments and vaccines. “However, the mutation is a reminder of the power of the virus to adapt, and that cannot be ruled out in the future,” Mr. Farrar said in a statement. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) announced on Sunday that the rapid increase of a SARS-CoV-2 variant with multiple spike protein mutations have been observed in the U.K. “Preliminary modelling results suggest that the variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated increase in reproductive number (R) by 0.4 or greater with an estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70%,” it said. R number denotes the expected cases directly generated by one case in a population, while transmissibility is the ability of a virus to be passed on from one person to another. The ECDC, however, said there is no indication of increased infection severity observed related to the variant. The assessment is challenged by the fact that the majority of cases were reported in people under 60 who are less likely to develop severe symptoms, it said. “The new strain of the virus is known to have 13 mutations in the spike protein of which the N501Y mutation is responsible for it spreading 70% faster than earlier versions of the virus,” said Deepak Sehgal, professor and head of department of Life Sciences, Shiv Nadar University.   He said the new variant has mutations to the spike protein that the three leading vaccines are targeting. The vaccines are Moderna, Pfizer and Oxford-AstraZeneca. “However, vaccines produce antibodies against many regions in the spike protein, so it’s unlikely that a single change would make the vaccine less effective,” he said. Over time, as more mutations occur, the vaccine may need to be altered.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal SC forwards petitions to Constitutional Bench||The Supreme Court of Nepal on Wednesday started hearing writ petitions filed against the dissolution of the House of Representatives by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari. The court then forwarded the petitions to a Constitutional Bench. The Constitutional Bench, headed by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher J.B. Rana, will start hearing the petitions from Friday. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli recommended President Bhandari dissolve Parliament after he briefed his Cabinet colleagues during an emergency meeting on December 20. The constitutional Bench will be in focus for the next few days as the Nepal Communist Party appears divided between two factions led by Mr. Oli and co-chair of the party Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’. The Bench will examine the constitutionality of the decision to dissolve the house especially as the 2015 Constitution does not allow for such a move for political necessities. The judiciary’s intervention, however, is unlikely to repair the broken affairs of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) which is now clearly divided between the factions led by Mr. Oli and his challengers Mr. Prachanda and former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal. Warring factions On Wednesday, a special meeting was convened under the leadership of Mr. Nepal and Mr. Prachanda which continued till late in the evening amid expectation that the group will declare the expulsion of Mr. Oli. The warring factions have adopted different tactics until now with the section led byMr. Oli already preparing for general election and the Prachanda-Nepal led faction focussing on the judicial and constitutional route to restore the dissolved Parliament. NCP general secretary Bishnu Prasad Poudel on Wednesday blamed Mr. Prachanda of triggering the current round of crisis and asked the Oli-led faction to prepare for elections.
24 December 2020||Moscow,||Putin expects ties with U.S. to remain same under Biden||With less than a month before Joe Biden moves into the White House, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday he was not expecting much change in Moscow’s ties with Washington, while his aides said they were less optimistic. Mr. Biden is expected to take a tougher stance against Russia than Donald Trump. Mr. Putin was one of the last leaders to congratulate Mr. Biden on his election victory, sending his congratulatory message six weeks after the November 3 vote and saying he was ready for “collaboration”. Mr. Putin told senior Russian officials he was not expecting any change in relations with the U.S. after Mr. Biden takes office, speaking after the President-elect promised to punish Russia for a major cyberattack. “Now about the change of leadership in the U.S. and that it will be more difficult for us. I don’t think so. It will be business as usual,” he said. Senior officials had earlier in the day said they did not expect anything “good” from the Biden administration. Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the Kremlin was expecting “nothing positive” in ties with Washington. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov struck a similar note. “We are definitely not expecting anything good,” he said. “And it would be strange to expect good things from people, many of whom made their careers on Russophobia and throwing mud at my country.”
24 December 2020||London,||Britain, France reopen cross-Channel travel||France and Britain will reopen cross-border travel Wednesday after a snap 48-hour ban to curb the spread of a new coronavirus variant threatened U.K. supply chains. Much of Europe swiftly banned British travellers and U.K. freight entering their nations after the discovery of a more transmissible variant of Covid-19 in Britain. On Tuesday, dramatic images showed hundreds of lorries backed up in Dover, with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson facing growing pressure to resolve the deadlock even as the post-Brexit trade deal deadline loomed. U.K. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps announced late Tuesday that Britain and France had settled on a protocol that “will see the French border reopen to those travelling for urgent reasons, provided they have a certified negative COVID test”. However, he urged lorry drivers not to head to the southern county of Kent in expectations of boarding a ferry or train. French Transport Minister Jean-Baptiste Djebarri also confirmed that air travel, boats and Eurostar trains would “resume service as of tomorrow morning”. “French nationals, people living in France and those with a legitimate reason will have to be carrying a negative test,” he said. Despite the breakthrough in talks, congestion around the key southern port of Dover remains unlikely to recede in the short term.
24 December 2020||Washington,||Two linked to Russia probe among 15 pardoned||U.S. President Donald Trump granted pardons on Tuesday to two people linked to a probe into alleged collusion between his campaign and Russia along with a list of others as time ticks away on his remaining weeks in office. They add to pardons already issued to political allies of Mr. Trump. The White House said in a statement that Mr. Trump had granted full pardons to 15 people and commuted all or part of the sentences for five others. A full pardon was given to George Papadopoulos, a former Trump campaign adviser who admitted lying to federal investigators about his contacts with Russians. Papadopoulos was a member of Mr. Trump’s foreign policy advisory panel when he ran for President in 2016. He pleaded guilty in October 2017 to lying to the FBI about contacts with a professor who promised to connect him to senior Russian officials. He cooperated with investigators led by Robert Mueller, the special prosecutor who conducted a two-year probe into alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Papadopoulos spent 12 days in jail after his guilty plea. “Today’s pardon helps correct the wrong that Mr. Mueller’s team inflicted on so many people,” the White House statement said. Another full pardon was granted to Alex van der Zwaan, a Dutch lawyer who was also convicted in connection with Mr. Mueller’s probe. Full pardons were also granted to four guards of the Blackwater security firm convicted over the 2007 killing of Iraqis. The guards were convicted of opening fire in Baghdad’s crowded Nisur Square, killing 14 civilians and injuring 17.
24 December 2020||Bangui,||Situation in seized C. African town under control, says UN||The Central African Republic's fourth-largest town, which was seized by rebels Tuesday ahead of elections this weekend, is back in the hands of United Nations peacekeepers and national security forces, the UN said. The rebel attacks followed government accusations at the weekend that ex-president Francois Bozize was plotting a coup with armed groups ahead of presidential and legislative elections next Sunday. “The situation in Bambari is under control,” Abdoulaziz Fall, spokesman for the UN's peacekeeping force in the CAR, told a press conference in the capital Bangui on Wednesday. “The civilians are starting to return. The armed groups have been pushed back into the bush.” At the request of the CAR, Russia and Rwanda have sent "hundreds" of military personnel to support the troubled country.
24 December 2020||London,||UK identifies new South African coronavirus variant, tightens lockdown||Two cases of another new strain of SARS-CoV-2 linked to South Africa have been identified in the U.K., Health Secretary Matt Hancock said. "This new variant is highly concerning because it is yet more transmissible and it appears to have mutated further than the new variant discovered in the U.K."
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The ground is shifting below TMC’s feet||A recently concluded study following two months of fieldwork in all the 294 Assembly constituencies of West Bengal revealed one interesting feature about the psychology of the electorate. When asked about their electoral choice and the expected outcome, a few spoke out aloud, while the majority either remained silent or whispered what they thought. People speak out when they are pro-incumbent; they are silent when they have made up their mind to vote for change. In a follow-up question, those wanting “ paribartan (change)” came out overwhelmingly as ex-Communist Party of India (Marxist) and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters. In fact, a majority of the old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters on the ground seemed wary and bitter about the saffron party being taken over by the Left and Trinamool elements, allegedly for ulterior motives. Party to personality The answer to this conundrum lies in the specificity of West Bengal politics. As West Bengal is a “party society”, as Professor Dwaipayan Bhattacharyya calls it, partisanship has remained a political fact even under TMC’s decadal rule, albeit with a difference. While the majority of the Left leaders at the Panchayat level hailed primarily from the teaching community, under the TMC, those who have got prominence are local contractors, businessmen and domineering personalities. They have used the party society mechanism for personal aggrandisement, thereby attempting to change the State’s political culture from being party-driven to personality-centric. This helps explain why most of the ongoing political analysis today on Bengal is an assessment of the impact of personalities like the TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari in Jangalmahal and Purba Medinipur, the BJP’s Mukul Roy, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung in Darjeeling, the Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in Baharampur and Asaduddin Owaisi and Abbas Siddiqui among the Muslims. This also accounts for TMC’s constant attempt to force the organisationally weak BJP to declare a chief ministerial face, thereby making the contest as one between Mamata Banerjee and a regional BJP face. By subtly circumventing the leadership question, the BJP is pushing the election into the rhetorical arena of Narendra Modi versus Mamata Banerjee to acquire the decisive edge. In short, while the hold of the party society is still there, the space for individual personalities is becoming prominent. This is a change of degree if not of kind in West Bengal. This shift from party to personality also signifies disillusionment among the majority of the electorate with the existing political parties. The electoral choices are negative — people want to oust the incumbent rather than reward the new. The alternative is not a positive choice, but rather a default beneficiary. And it is the TMC which is solely responsible for this tectonic shift in the political common sense of the State wherein a majority seem disgruntled with both the institutions of the state and the existing political parties. Three factors account for this state of affairs. Reign of terror, and corruption First, across the State, the marker of the beginning of a systematic anti-TMC sentiment was the 2018 panchayat election. From CPI(M) office-bearers to the common people, everyone narrated how candidates of the Opposition parties were not allowed to vote. An overwhelming majority cited horrifying incidents of physical assault and filing of false police cases against the ones who resisted. Even, Basudeb Acharia, the nine-time MP (Lok Sabha) from Bankura, was not spared when he tried to get his party candidate to file the nomination. The police were reported as acting like they were an extension of the ruling party. Thus, there is a fear psychosis among the opponents, and this has been particularly intense since 2018. This has resulted in a majority, including the Left, to want the election, down to the booth level, to be under the strict supervision of Central paramilitary forces, with no role for the State police. Another factor which fared quite strongly in responses accounting for a mammoth undercurrent against the TMC is the intensification and monopolisation of corruption. Responding in a comparative sense, people narrated how during the Left rule, corruption was dispersed and even the common man used to get a part of the pie. Under the TMC, the majority of local leaders are contractors, businessmen and other dominant sections. So, corruption, as per the ground narrative, meant not only plundering the state resources meant for the public but also depriving the common man from having a share of the same. In the past, under the framework of party society, being affiliated to the ruling party also meant a source of income for a majority of the people in Bengal, especially for the subaltern section in the villages. Under the TMC, the local party leaders have the monopoly, thereby giving a decisive blow to the partisan bonding along party lines. For instance, in the Haroa Assembly constituency, there is reportedly about 55,000 bighas of wasteland which businessmen take for fish cultivation by paying an annual sum of around Rs. 12,000-Rs. 15,000 per bigha to the local office of the local party rather than the government. Earlier, every family used to get Rs. 1,000 annually from the money received. As per the report, under the TMC, the local leaders themselves started cultivating the fish, thereby depriving the party of the sum. By extension, the money being given to the people in the area also stopped. A majority of the respondents who complained of this shift happened to be Poundra Khatri Dalits and poor Muslims. The recent cases of corruption were reported most intensely in areas considered to be strongholds of the TMC where the party held its ground even in the 2019 general election, namely, North 24 Parganas, Kolkata, Howrah, part of Hooghly, South 24 Parganas and East Medinipur in the aftermath of the destruction by Cyclone Amphan. Respondents said that the relief fund was plundered by the local leadership so much that they have started calling it “ Amphan durniti (Amphan corruption)”. Subaltern interface with BJP Finally, the emerging perception that the incumbent is employing the instrument of fear and intensifying everyday corruption has created a scenario of ‘ruling party versus the rest’ in a majority of the villages. It is primarily the Dalits and Scheduled Tribes, accounting for about 30% of the State population, who are at the receiving end. They feel abandoned and hounded by the self-aggrandising local TMC leadership. The CPI(M) and Congress don’t enthuse them, particularly the subaltern youths, due to their dilapidated organisational state and ageing profile of the leadership. Thus, they see the Modi factor as an alternative, even in the countryside. They have minimalist material expectations which in combination with an embryonic charm for Hindutva has created a conducive ambience for the BJP. The saffron party seems to be the default beneficiary in the coming election. Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst and is associated with Peoples Pulse (@PulsePeoples) and IGPP, Delhi
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Free, fair and safe’ as the election motto||“Though there is light at the end of the tunnel, the road ahead is still dark and long.” — Soumya Swaminathan. Truer words than those of the Chief Scientist, World Health Organization, have not been spoken in a long while. They remind me of Saint Cardinal Newman’s great hymn “Lead, Kindly Light” (1833) in which he says: The night is dark and I am far from home,/Lead Thou me on…./O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent, till/The night is gone;....” If the novel coronavirus can mutate on the British Isles, it can do so anywhere, any time. In fact it will be a wonder if it does not. And so, whatever we do individually or collectively, we should know that we do so standing on a razor’s edge. The holding of elections is high on the list of that precarious condition.  Essence of democracy Overlapping with the pandemic, elections have been held across the globe. From the United States to South Korea, straddling India, they have brought massive numbers of people out of lockdowns, isolation and, above all, fear of getting infected and of infecting others, to vote. This calculated risk-taking is part of the ‘moor and fen, crag and torrent’ of our times. It has made the journey hard both in the fight against the virus and in the battle for saving democracy in a world where autocracy is at ease with restriction, democracy uneasy in ‘containment’. Millions have voted in no less than 34 countries since the pandemic broke, to reaffirm their faith in the life-breath of democracy — elections. They have shown that fear of endangering one’s health, one’s very life, is not going to come in the way of exercising political rights, political choice. In other words, millions have shown on continent after continent that life is to be protected but that a life without liberty is not a life worth protecting. Equally, that a life with liberty will be pure theory if a virus of the kind we are gripped by has placed ‘life’ itself in peril. One has to be free in order to breathe, one has to breathe in order to be free. So, it becomes crucial that as and when elections are announced anywhere they are conducted with zeal and — re-doubled care as to the virus’s challenge. Elements that matter There are three players in an election — we the electors, the grid of candidates and the election-making machinery. The three, together, make an election. So also in a pandemic, there are three players — we the protection-needing public, the grid of health care, and the health-policymaking state. If voters are apathetic or un-vigilant, their will can be hijacked, distorted and even made comatose. So also in a vicious pandemic, if the affected public is callous, inattentive to the hazards involved, it can forfeit its discriminating and decision-making prerogatives. The health-care system can then become the non-consultative prerogative of the state. When the two — election and infection — coincide, the citizenry has to exercise its franchise with a commitment to political freedom and a compliance with pandemic fetters — an unavoidable contradiction. But, to adapt a part of Dr. Swaminathan’s words, there is a light in the middle of this tunnel. The elections just concluded in Bihar show us that India can handle that contradiction. The Election Commission of India (ECI) was faced with an existential issue: Should elections be held in a pandemic? Suggestions were not wanting that the Bihar elections be put off — a democratically regressive idea. Fortunately, the ECI did neither stop its mandate nor lose its perspective. A former Chief Election Commissioner, S.Y. Quraishi, has pointed out in his article, “Bihar can be a leading example of how to successfully conduct a poll in difficult times” (https://bit.ly/3mJe931) of November 12, 2020 ( Indian Express ): “To leave nothing to chance, the ECI consulted its counterparts in several countries and asked them to share their experiences before deciding to overrule all objections and go ahead with the elections....” The ECI put in place a protocol in Bihar that kept the ballots moving and the virus held in check. The forthcoming elections With the appearance of a variant of the virus in Britain, plans and prognoses have to be reappraised. Who can tell when and how hard the new variant or others of that kind will occur elsewhere and in India? As the ECI begins preparing for the polls to legislatures in Kerala (140 seats), Tamil Nadu (234), Puducherry (30), West Bengal (294) and Assam (126), it does so in a pall of uncertainty. But if elections do take place as per plan it is imperative that the ECI factors the virus into every step in the preparations and advises everyone concerned, including the voting public to wear masks when not indoors at home from right now. It will have to pay equal attention to both — the election and the infection. Our Constitution, no less, requires that. Its Article 21, famously described by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer as ‘the procedural magna carta protective of life and liberty’ has been elaborated upon in pronouncements of the Supreme Court of India, notably in Sunil Batra vs. Delhi Administration , where it held that the “right to life” included the right to lead a healthy life. Not extra goodwill but a duty When an individual’s participation in a public activity, arranged by the state, supervised and administered by a body set up under the Constitution, is likely to expose that person to a health hazard, it becomes the constitutional duty of the state to reduce the risks of that hazard to as near zero as possible. Steps taken by the state and the ECI to protect voters in the arena of voting are not an ‘extra’ act of goodwill but a duty performed towards a constitutional entitlement of the people. Just as the state would need to give protection to election personnel and to electors against any threat from miscreants, criminals and terrorists, so it is bound to protect them against an epidemic. The number of registered voters in the four States and Puducherry totals 177,450,325 or, around 180 million. The number of polling stations involved in the upcoming elections is 186,976. If we were to multiply the number of officials on election duty and security personnel per station, the figure of human beings exposing themselves to the risk of getting and spreading infection through this exercise of franchise would be immense. But, as I said, the ECI in Bihar has shown the way, reducing the numbers of voters per booth, increasing the number of booths, thermal testing each and every voter. And there has been the salutary step of postal votes being made available to senior voters above the age of 80. Take these steps But more steps need to be taken. I will set out three: One, personnel scheduled to be drafted for election duty, and the number of security staff slated to be deployed should be identified as a priority category for access to vaccination. It would be their fundamental right , as much as that of the Defence Forces, to be protected by vaccines on a priority. Two, every voter entering a booth has to be wearing a mask, not as a desirability but as a desideratum like a voter identity card. If not wearing one, he or she should be asked to go back and return wearing one. Three, senior voters should be advised and enabled to vote in the first three hours of the voting using a separate queue-lane. ‘Free, fair and safe’ should be the motto for the forthcoming elections, assuming they will take place — a big and ardent assumption, post the rising of the new variant in Britain. Elections held in a terror zone are secured against violence. So must elections in a pandemic be rescued from the virus so as to save not just one series of balloting, but democracy itself. The un-democratic temper and emergencies twirl one into the other. Not allowing the virus emergency an ‘election surge’ would be a victory for democracy as much as for public health. When the ‘long and dark tunnel’ ends in a blaze of light we must be voting free and breathing free. Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The tightrope between production, industrial peace||Apple’s decision to place its Taiwanese supplier, Wistron Corp., on probation by not giving new orders — after an audit of the serious lapses in labour practices that led to violence in its facility in Narasapura in Karnataka — is a step forward in corporate accountability and ethical business operations. Pressured by Apple’s response, Wistron has also been forced to apologise to the workers, remove its Vice-President in charge of India operations, and initiate corrective measures to address workers’ grievances. Realities of manufacturing That it took violence — images of which were further amplified in news and social media — for the workers to be ‘seen’ and ‘heard’, and for corrections to be undertaken (measures that needed to be in place at the workplace from the outset), points to the realities of high-tech manufacturing outsourced through supply chains in the global south that is built on precarities of labour involved in them. In fact, many of the suppliers subcontracting in the high-end electronics sector including those for Apple, have been involved in wilful violations of labour standards and practices. It is pertinent to note that unlike the present case, other cases of violent labour contentions in units manufacturing and assembling high-end technological devices in India in the recent past have received scant attention; for instance, two incidents in subcontracting firms assembling smartphones for Chinese brands in the Delhi National Capital Region in 2017 and 2018. Until recently, the default response of the brands has been evasion of responsibility by either shifting the onus to the subcontracting firms or keeping things in silent mode. The prevailing norms of work arrangements practised by the suppliers themselves downstream, was through hired labour from multiple subcontractors/third party work supply firms (the workers at the Narasapura facility, a majority of them young, were sourced from supposedly six subcontractors). This process creates ambiguity in identifying the primary employer and thereby, seriously constrains the workers from getting effective redress of their grievances.  The China experience The labour contention and the resultant violence at the Wistron facility can be comprehended better by taking into cognisance the operations of Taiwanese suppliers/subcontractors over the years in China, manufacturing high-end electronics devices for big brands including Apple. The foremost in this list is Foxconn. Riding on the global transformation of industrial production and increased outsourcing by corporate giants in the United States, Europe and East Asia, as part of the strategies of maintaining lean workforces, the unlimited supply of rural migrant labour at low wage levels, and the Chinese economic reforms propelled the creation of offshore assembly facilities. Further, the huge potential of the Chinese consumer market along with increased investment by the Chinese diaspora also played a role in facilitating the decision, which was further solidified by China joining the World Trade Organization in 2001. Beginning initially from the coast in southern China, these suppliers have gradually expanded across the Mainland, supported by lavish incentives, infrastructural support and preferential policies of local governments, who are eager to showcase development and whose officials’ career progression is indexed to the levels of economic progress. Much trauma for workers As Apple and other brands churn out ‘smart’ devices at increased speeds, and with tight timelines 24x7, the burden falls literally on the shoulders of the workers employed in the supplier factories, forcing them to work under harsh conditions, doing overtime, long tiring shifts without much breaks, and under constant disciplinary monitoring by supervisors. The regimented work practices on the assembly line are matched by low pay and little or no social security, leading to strain and traumatic experiences, both physical and mental. In 2010, Foxconn was faced with a spate of suicides by workers across its facilities in China, thus pressurising Apple to diversify its range of suppliers — wire netting to prevent workers from jumping off terraces is a common sight in Chinese factories and industrial facilities even today. Another prevalent phenomenon is that of unpaid, forced student internships to fill shortages in labour supply and offset costs; students from vocational educational institutions are compulsorily employed, and subjected to the same exploitative conditions as the workers. Since they are not legally classified as workers, there are no obligations to offer social protections. The supply of student-workers is encouraged by local governments, since they are dependent on the suppliers’ support for resources, due to China’s skewed tax and revenue structure favouring the central government. Thus, the local governments are constrained and limited in employing any effective supervisory mechanisms or labour law compliance measures (a recent book, Dying for an iPhone: Apple, Foxconn and the Lives of China’s Workers by Jenny Chan, Mark Selden and Pun Ngai, is a rich, in-depth study of the lived experiences of workers in Foxconn facilities).  Safeguards vs. investments That many of these exploitative labour practices and violations of safeguards could be carried over when these facilities move into the Indian terrain is illustrated by the occurrence in the Wistron facility. In fact, when they combine with the precarities already embedded in India’s manufacturing sector, the consequences are debilitating for labour. This becomes all the more pertinent, in the backdrop of increasing keenness of governments in India to attract Taiwanese investments. However, given the weak legal-regulatory labour architecture and capacities, comprehensive supervision and control of the foreign invested enterprises looks a bridge too far. The passing of the new labour codes further erodes existing modicum of labour protection. The fear of ‘flight of capital’, coupled with weak state capacity in supervision make state administrations reluctant to step in unless things escalate. Prognosis ahead Increasingly, following pressure from the consumers’ side and also being highly conscious of its brand image, Apple has provided a ‘Code of Conduct’ to all its suppliers, seeking to monitor and audit compliance of labour standards and safeguards. However, as demonstrated through the latest incident, there has been no strict adherence to this effect, thereby pointing to the tough balance that needs to be maintained between fulfilling production targets and ensuring industrial peace. In the absence of avenues for workers to channelise their grievances — representative associations and unions — and adequate collective bargaining mechanisms as well as social dialogue, frequent labour unrest including to the extent of violent confrontations, could very well be a daily reality in these high-end manufacturing facilities. P.K. Anand is a Visiting Researcher at the Institute of Chinese Studies, Delhi, and a Non-Resident Fellow under the China India Scholar Leaders Initiative, of the India China Institute, at The New School, New York City. The views expressed are personal
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||An anti-science lawsuit||Three scientific publishers — Elsevier, Wiley, and the American Chemical Society (ACS) — filed a suit against Alexandra Elbakyan of Kazakhstan and others in the Delhi High Court on December 21, 2020. The case will reportedly be heard this week. Most major Indian Internet service providers are named as parties in the case. The publishers want Indians blocked from accessing a site called Sci-Hub, started by Ms. Elbakyan in 2011. Who is Ms. Elbakyan, what is Sci-Hub, and why are publishers chasing her in an Indian court? To answer this, it is necessary to explain how scientific publishing works. How scientific publishing works Scientists are usually paid by their institutions. Their research grants come from various organisations, usually governmental ones. In India, public institutions come under various ministries and departments, and major funding agencies are the Department of Science and Technology, the Department of Biotechnology, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Department of Atomic Energy, among others. On completing any research paper, scientists seek to publish it in an academic journal, such as those run by Elsevier, Wiley, and ACS. The journals seek ‘peer review’ of these papers, that is, reviews by other scientists, and take a decision on publishing. Authors are not paid. Reviewers are not paid. Journals are mostly accessed online. This sounds like a cost-efficient system. Yet, publishers charge libraries exorbitant amounts for journal subscriptions (up to lakhs of rupees annually per journal, often bundled forcibly). Indian institutions each spend crores on subscriptions. It is estimated that about Rs. 1,500 crore is paid for India as a whole annually. Without subscriptions, a single article typically costs $30-$50 (Rs. 2,200-Rs. 3,500) or more. Academic publishing is thus among the most profitable industries in the world: Elsevier’s parent company RELX had profits of over 30% on revenue of nearly $10 billion in 2019. This overwhelmingly comes from taxpayers across the world who have already paid to fund the same research. Adding insult to injury, most journals require authors to transfer copyright to them. Resentment about this situation has built over decades. Alternatives have been explored, including an (equally problematic) open access, author pays model. Many top universities, and entire countries, have cancelled subscriptions to Elsevier en masse . In 2011, Ms. Elbakyan stepped into this mess with Sci-Hub, enabling scientists to search for academic papers from any publisher and freely download them. It is an efficient and easy-to-use site and extensively archives published scientific literature. Sci-Hub violates many copyrights owned by journals. But it is also a vast repository of open access, out-of-copyright, and public domain material, which a blanket injunction would disable. For scientists stuck at home in 2020, Sci-Hub has made literature accessible without navigating institutional VPNs. For journalists and the public, given the obscene per article charges levied by journals, Sci-Hub is the easiest and often only option. A beneficial site Sci-Hub does not operate in India. Indian Internet service providers named as parties are providing a non-discriminatory common carrier service. The content on Sci-Hub does not harm India’s interests and is beneficial to the scientific development of the country. In 2020, leading publishers made COVID-19-related articles free to read. This has resulted in a boom in research and development of dozens of vaccine candidates in a very short time period: a testament to the value of open science. Sci-Hub’s “piracy” benefits the very people who create that content. This is the opposite of the situation in the creative arts where “pirating” music or films deprives creators of royalties; scientific authors get no royalties, and they and their funders want their work to be shared freely. But the keys to this largely taxpayer-funded work are held by private corporations overseas which have chosen to pursue a defendant from Kazakhstan in an Indian court. Is there an alternative to Sci-Hub? Yes. Publishers should voluntarily reform their policies to obviate the need for Sci-Hub. The Indian government has been discussing a ‘one nation, one subscription’ system whereby, in exchange for a fixed and reasonable cost paid directly by the government, scientific publishers would make their entire content available to all readers in India. Some publishers (not the plaintiffs) have expressed interest. Elsevier, Wiley and ACS should drop this misguided case, and join the Indian government in working out an equitable system of access to scientific literature that serves both their commercial interests and the Indian public. Rahul Siddharthan is with the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||No sole spokesperson for Muslims||The modest success of the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e- Ittehadul Muslimeen(AIMIM) in the recent Bihar Assembly elections has provoked a section of India’s secular intelligentsia to express deep concerns over India’s already tattered secular polity. The AIMIM’s future expansion, they argue, will deepen polarisation. One of them described Mr. Owaisi as the new Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Little in common Mr. Owaisi is no Jinnah nor will he ever be. Historic figures like Jinnah or M.K. Gandhi are products of particular political moments. Such leaders shaped political developments as much as they got shaped by them. If Jinnah were present in the current theatre of Indian politics, he would have to play a different game. Though Jinnah and Mr. Owaisi are London-trained barristers, there is little in common between them. First, Mr. Owaisi is a dynast and the AIMIM is a family-run party. Like India’s mainstream politics, its Muslim politics is increasingly becoming dynastic. But Jinnah was a self-made man. Second, Mr. Owaisi is a practising Muslim and wears his religion on his sleeve; whereas Jinnah was a Westernised man and an atheist like V.D. Savarkar. In 1940, Jinnah argued in his Presidential Address to the Muslim League at Lahore that Muslims are a separate nation, not a minority, and that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together. Little did he realise that even Muslims could not live together in his Pakistan as was made evident in 1971 when Bengali Muslims carved out Bangladesh. Mr. Owaisi has never argued for a separate homeland. Instead, he has argued for Muslim-Dalit unity and even forged an alliance with Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi in Maharashtra in 2019. Jinnah never recognised Dalit/ Pasmanda Muslims and barely expressed concern for Hindu Dalits. By inventing an imaginary Muslim — disloyal, militant, hypersexual — the Hindu Right has unleashed a systematic campaign against Muslims since the 1920s. Its politics of polarisation has resulted in enormous electoral dividends since the late 1980s, and will continue to do so regardless of the AIMIM or Mr. Owaisi. Take, for example, Gujarat. Owing to the politics of Gandhi, Gujarat was relatively unaffected during Partition by Hindu-Muslim violence. Muslim migration from Gujarat to Pakistan was insignificant. And yet, the Hindu Right was able to polarise that State vigorously from the late 1960s. Polarisation increased during the 1980s and further deepened from 2002 making Gujarat a model State for the politics of polarisation. The Hindu Right’s propaganda machine works tirelessly in its polarisation project by spreading rumours and false information. The law in Uttar Pradesh against forced conversion by marriage is its latest weapon. Modest success Without doubt, Mr. Owaisi has emerged as a prominent Muslim political leader in Indian politics, a profile he has built up over the years with scintillating performances in Parliament and in television debates. His modest success in Bihar and Maharashtra only suggests that he has been able to convert the AIMIM into an election machine. In 2017, AIMIM failed to open an account in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. Even if it manages to open an account in Uttar Pradesh or West Bengal in the near future, the AIMIM is nowhere close to the Muslim League of the 1930s nor will it ever be, owing to the evolving complex interplay of forces of political economy and sociology of Muslims in various regions. The logic of contiguous areas of Muslim habitation in British India that helped Jinnah to use the Muslim League as a handy platform no longer exists. These are some of the reasons why it would be almost impossible for Mr. Owaisi to become the sole spokesperson for the Indian Muslims. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Vocal for local||The first District Development Council polls in Jammu and Kashmir had rivals, National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Peoples Conference, coming together on one platform, the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. The six-party platform consolidated votes in nine out of 10 districts in the Kashmir Valley and three districts of the Pir Panjal valley and the Chenab valley in the Jammu region. The alliance has won 110 seats out of a total of 280 seats and the BJP, with 75 seats has emerged as the single largest party. The Gupkar alliance and the Congress are likely to have their chairmen in 12 to 13 districts in J&K, out of a total of 20, and the BJP could be leading five to six. Independent winners, 50 of them, will be able to swing some districts in favour of the BJP or the Alliance. The Alliance sees the poll results as a verdict against the reorganisation of J&K into two Union Territories and revocation of its special constitutional status on August 5, 2019. This was the first electoral process after the Centre ended J&K’s special status, and the alliance had pledged to fight for its restoration. The fears of the regional parties that the polls may be rigged were allayed by the final results. However, the withdrawal of security to leaders and candidates of the Gupkar alliance and restrictions on their campaigning had raised concerns about the process. The sudden moves against Valley-based politicians in the Roshni land ‘scam’, cricket scam and other cases by the Enforcement Directorate, and the arrest of PDP leader Waheed-ur-Rehmaan Parra, just days after he filed his nomination, all amounted to undesirable use of the state machinery with a political intent. The polls, however, came to be seen as the restoration of the democratic process in J&K, which saw arrests of most regional leaders last year and the suspension of political activities to a large extent. These polls also stand out for being a rare electoral process in the past 30 years where the militant outfits and the separatist groups did not campaign vigorously for a poll boycott. Frequent encounters and locals joining militancy in the past one year in south Kashmir did impact the turnout, where most segments saw less than 20%. The BJP, which had already made inroads during the previous panchayat and urban local bodies polls in 2018 when the regional parties boycotted, managed a win over three seats in Srinagar, Bandipora and Pulwama. The low turnout notwithstanding, this comes as a shot in the arm for the image of the party. The BJP has also maintained a tight grip in Samba, Udhampur, Jammu and Kathua in the Jammu region. The political process restarted through the DDC election must be given more space. The Centre must appreciate the role of regional parties in moving towards peace and stability in J&K. Restoration of statehood and holding of the Assembly election are vital.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Murder in the convent||The verdict of a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram sentencing to life a former Catholic vicar, Thomas Kottoor, and a nun, Sister Sephy, upon finding them guilty of murdering a 21-year-old novitiate, Abhaya, at a convent in Kottayam, marks a welcome outcome to a long and tortuous investigation and prosecution process. It spells a modicum of relief to the lone surviving kin of Abhaya, her brother, and to those who kept an unflinching faith in the justice system. It was in 1992 that Sr. Abhaya, a pre-degree student, was found dead in a well at the St. Pius X Convent hostel where she was an inmate. The police and the Crime Branch hurriedly concluded it as a case of suicide. But a people’s action council led by activist Jomon Puthenpurackal sought judicial intervention, which resulted in the CBI taking over the investigation in 1993. Despite a forensic report suggesting the possibility of homicide, the CBI found itself up against a wall for want of material evidence that was originally collected by the police but later destroyed. Between 1996 and 2005, it approached the chief judicial magistrate, Ernakulam, thrice with closure petitions. In the first, it said the investigation was inconclusive; it was concluded as a case of murder in the second instance, but without any evidence to track down the culprits; and in the last, the agency again pleaded helplessness in taking the case to its logical conclusion, but the court would have none of it. In 2007, Fr Kottoor, Sr Sephy and Fr Jose Poothrukayil, another priest, were subjected to narco-analysis following which they were arrested a year later by Nandakumar Nair, Dy SP of CBI, who has pursued the case ever since. But the Kerala High Court found gaping holes in the CBI’s contentions and sought to monitor the case for a brief period. There also arose questions, separately, whether the narco-analysis reports and the forensic report of Abhaya’s swab examination had been tampered with. While the CBI also arraigned some Crime Branch and police officers as accused, charging them with destroying vital evidence, they were exculpated citing lack of evidence. The CBI court allowed the discharge petition of Fr Poothrukayil and the High Court said that narco-analysis was inadmissible as evidence. During the trial, eight of the 49 prosecution witnesses turned hostile, but a petty thief who had gone to the convent on the night of Abhaya’s death, stood his ground. The case, which exposed the faultlines in the criminal justice system, is far from closed. The Church has issued an ambivalent statement, as the convicts are planning to go in appeal. The CBI is also moving court challenging Fr Poothrukayil’s discharge without trial. But the conviction brings hope that the powerful and the influential will not be able to get away with murder.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Throwing sulphuric acid||The case in which E.S. Aratoon, an ex-police sergeant, was charged with causing the death of Mr. J.S. Spalding and grievous hurt to Mrs. Spalding by throwing sulphuric acid on them through a window while the two in bed in their residence at Entally came on for hearing before the Police Magistrate of Sealdab [Calcutta, December 23]. Mrs. Spalding said on 1th September last she was lying at bed at 9 P.M. when she felt a smarting sensation on account of some liquid substance being sprinkled on her. Her husband was similarly affected and he got up and shouted for water. Witness noticed the accused disappearing from the ledge outside window. The Magistrate ordered the accused to be released on bail of Rs. 5,000 pending the hearing of the case.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Court order on Tulsi’s book||A Full Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court to-day [Jabalpur, Dec. 24] set aside a State Government order forefeiting all copies of the controversial book “Agni Pariksha” written by the Jain Muni Acharya Tulsi. The controversy over the book erupted into a massive campaign against the Acharya in Raipur during his camp there recently launched by Sanatani Hindus who objected to the characterisation of Sita in the book. Holding that the book did not contain any grossly offensive and provocative matter, Mr. Justice P.K. Tare said, “The test that is to be applied to such cases is not that of an abnormal or hyper-sensitive man, but that of an ordinary man of ordinary commonsense and prudence.” Referring to the argument of the Advocate-General that the attempt in giving the Jain version of Ramayana was proselytisation and, therefore, the book ought to be considered objectionable, Mr. Justice Tare said, “Even if it were to be assumed that the motive of the Jain version of the Ramayana might be proselytisation that by itself cannot be considered to be objectionable.” His Lordship felt that the impugned order of the Government could be said to be justified only if the book came within the mischief under Section 295-A I.P.C. and not otherwise. There had been different versions of Ramayana, His Lordship observed. A propagandist version which did not come within the mischief of the law could in no case be considered objectionable.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NIPFP pegs best-case GST revenue gap at Rs. 1.95 lakh crore||The revenue shortfall for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation payable to States in 2020-21 could be about Rs. 1.95 lakh crore in the best-case scenario, significantly lower than the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore estimated by the GST Council, as per a new research paper by the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP). In a paper titled ‘The Pandemic and GST Revenue: An Assessment for Union and States’, Sacchidananda Mukherjee, an associate professor at NIPFP, estimated that even in the worst-case scenario, the revenue shortfall for GST compensation to States won’t exceed Rs. 2.45 lakh crore. “Though the spread of COVID-19 is on an apparent decline in India, the economic impact of the pandemic is still evolving, as new waves of COVID-19 infection are striking locally. Any estimate on revenue impact, thus, may not be free from shortcoming and constraints. However, as GDP data of the last two quarters is now available, and as GST shows the brightest sign of recovery among all revenue streams, an attempt is made in this paper to project GST revenue for 2020-21,” it said. The maximum GST revenue gaps this year are expected for Goa, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Chhattisgarh, the exercise suggested. “The revenue gap in State GST collections is expected to vary between Rs. 2.85 lakh crore and Rs. 3.27 lakh crore. GST compensation cess collection in FY21 is expected to vary between Rs. 82,242 crore and Rs. 90,386 crore. Therefore, shortfall in GST compensation fund is expected to vary between Rs. 1.95 lakh crore to Rs. 2.45 lakh crore,” the paper concluded.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST: physical verification of premises is now mandatory||The government has introduced mandatory physical verification of business premises for the purposes of obtaining GST registration. The GST Council Secretariat said that the move, aimed at controlling the menace of GST fake invoice frauds, was recommended by the Council’s law committee. “Now there must be in-person verification before registration is granted to an applicant. Further, in case an applicant opts for Aadhaar authentication, he will undergo biometric-based Aadhaar authentication at one of the facilitation Centres notified by the Commissioner,” the secretariat said in a statement. ‘Pay 1% in cash’ Separately, a new rule has been introduced by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs that mandates businesses with monthly turnover of over Rs. 50 lakh to pay at least 1% of their GST liability in cash instead of using input tax credits to discharge their entire liability. The validity of e-way bills has also been tweaked, doubling the distance to be covered for each day of validity, effective January 1. Till now, an e-way bill for transporting goods under GST allowed transporters to cover 100 km in one day. Now, that distance for each day of validity has been increased to 200 km. “While four days were granted in terms of e-way bill validity to cover 400 km, going forward, only two days will be granted for the same distance,” explained Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY.
24 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Loan collections by NBFCs improve, near Jan. levels’||Extensive recovery efforts by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), coupled with the recent uptick in economic activity, has lifted the median collection efficiency ratios to their highest levels in FY21, and near pre-Covid-19 pandemic levels for most asset classes, Crisil Ratings said. Its conclusions were based on the performance of its rated securitised pools for November 2020 payouts (October 2020 collections). Collection of loan instalments had substantially reduced in the immediate aftermath of the stringent lockdown announced in late March 2020, and subsequently too, due to the extension of moratorium on loan repayment to borrowers, it said. Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil Ratings, said, “Economic activity has been gathering steam in recent months, and agricultural activity, which was less impacted, has steadily picked up, too. As cash flows improved, borrowers have started repaying their loan instalments.” Median collection ratios for November payouts for commercial vehicle loan pools jumped to 93% from a paltry 24% in May, compared with 98-99% in January-March. Collection efficiency for mortgage-backed loans were about 96% in October-November versus 99% in March and about 71% in June. However, pools backed by loans to SMEs saw a slight drop in November, as underlying businesses and borrower cash flows were yet to achieve stability, it said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bharti pips Jio again in mobile user addition, Oct. figures show||India’s telecom subscriber base grew to more than 1.17 billion in October with Bharti Airtel maintaining its leadership in mobile subscriber addition, according to the monthly report released by sector regulator TRAI on Wednesday. This is the second consecutive month in which Airtel added the highest number of subscribers. In September, it had regained the leadership position in subscriber addition after a gap of four years. The company added 3.67 million new customers in October, taking its total wireless customer base to 330.28 million, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s (TRAI) report said. Airtel was followed by Reliance Jio, which added 2.22 million new mobile customers, taking its total subscriber base to 406.35 million during the reported month. The other four mobile service providers — Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL), BSNL, MTNL and Reliance Communications — reported loss of subscriber base. VIL lost the maximum mobile customers in the month at 2.65 million subscribers, with its wireless subscriber base dipping to 292.83 million. BSNL lost 10,208 customers, MTNL 7,307 and Reliance Communications lost 1,488 mobile customers. India’s overall telecom subscriber base, however, rose to 1,171.8 million from 1,168.66 million in September.
24 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘PE investment in realty to bounce back to $6 bn’||Private equity investment in real estate is expected to bounce back to $6 billion, registering a 30% year-on-year growth in 2021 on the back of an improving economic sentiment supported by policy reforms and growth in key emerging sectors, Savills India, a global property consultancy firm, said in a report. The next wave of investments will be driven by growth in warehousing, affordable housing and data centres, apart from the commercial office segment which will continue to see steady improvement, the report ‘Beyond The ’20: Private Equity in Indian Real Estate’ said. Savills India’s estimates for private equity investment in the sector are based on factors like overall economic and infrastructure growth, growth in sectors such as manufacturing, logistics and e-commerce. While PE investment in real estate in 2020 is expected to contract at $4.6 billion due to a decline in economic activity, investors are likely to adapt themselves in the altered world order and steadily return to the market with evolved strategies, it said. Savills Research also expects private equity investors to assess an opportunity of about $330 million in the industrial and warehousing segment in 2021.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Amazon bid to control Future violates FEMA FDI’||The Delhi High Court has ruled that U.S. e-commerce giant Amazon’s attempt to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements it has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be violative of the FEMA FDI rules, the Kishore Biyani-led firm said on Wednesday. Giving out its analysis of the Delhi High Court’s December 21 judgment, Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) in a filing with stock exchanges said its board approving a Rs. 24,713 crore deal to sell assets to Reliance Retail has been held “valid in law” by the court. It said the entire legal basis of the emergency arbitration award that Amazon secured to halt the Rs. 24,713 crore deal, “stands vitiated”. The High Court had on Monday upheld Amazon’s right to make representations to statutory authorities against the Future Group-Reliance Retail deal. It, however, made several observations could potentially upend the U.S. giant’s 2019 investment in Future Coupons Pvt. Ltd.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Housing sales to grow 51% in October-Dec.’||Sales of residential properties are estimated to grow 51% across seven major cities during October-December compared with the previous quarter driven by festive demand, property consultant JLL India said. However, demand is likely to fall 48% in 2020 due to the impact of the pandemic, it added. According to the data, housing sales are estimated to rise at 21,832 units during the December quarter as against 14,415 units in July-September. “GDP in July-September quarter of 2020 showed higher than expected recovery. During the same quarter, the housing market showed some initial signs of recovery as well, with sales increasing by 34% on a sequential basis.,” JLL India CEO and Country Head Ramesh Nair said in a statement.
24 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Das tells banks to raise capital, step up lending||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has reiterated the need for banks to remain vigilant and take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity by raising capital and making provisions proactively. He said this during meetings with the MD / CEOs of public sector banks and select private sector banks on December 22 and 23, through video conference “The Governor touched upon the current economic situation and emphasised the importance of the banking sector in supporting the ongoing revival in economic activities,” the RBI said in a statement.
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Retail credit seeing rise in defaults: report||Retail credit has experienced an increase in serious delinquencies, with loans against property and credit cards being the most affected segments, a report said on Wednesday. As of August-end, the loans overdue for over 90 days in the credit card segment were 0.51% up from the year earlier period at 2.32%, while the same for the loans against property was 0.34% up at 3.96%, Transunion Cibil said. “Credit cards delinquency rates reflected the wider economic slowdown, salary cuts and job losses caused by the pandemic. Further, credit cards often have a lower payment priority,” it said.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bharat Forge units reach settlement with Germany’s national competition regulator||Bharat Forge on Wednesday said its three Germany-based subsidiaries have reached a settlement with the country’s national competition regulator in connection with two separate proceedings. “The German subsidiaries have reached settlement in an aggregate amount of €32 million [about Rs. 287 crore] to be paid over the next five years,” a statement said.pti
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||Domestic air passenger traffic grows 22pc in Nov: ICRA||Further relaxation in aircraft capacity deployment, coupled with festive season air travel demand helped recovery in domestic traffic with passenger volume growing 22% sequentially, ratings agency ICRA said on Wednesday. ICRA also said that November’s domestic passenger traffic was close to 50% of the domestic air travel demand seen in November 2019.PTI
24 December 2020||Chennai,||TN T20 team announced||There was a time, 1986-87, when Tamil Nadu played the Subbiah Pillai tournament, away from home, with just 12 players because the State Association wouldn’t permit more. From that extreme to the present times. When Dinesh Karthik leads the team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament — the matches in the group featuring Tamil Nadu will be held in Kolkata from January 10 to 19 — he will have 19 other players with him! The 20-member squad is a direct consequence of COVID-19. Each team is going with five additional players since you can never tell who would be struck down by the virus. Tamil Nadu reached the final last season and is a title contender this time too. Dynamic person “Dinesh Karthik is a positive captain, he is a dynamic person and is the ideal man to lead the side that is a good blend of seniors and young cricketers,” said selection panel chief S. Vasudevan to The Hindu on Wednesday. The former Tamil Nadu Ranji Trophy-winning captain and his colleagues picked the squad in the afternoon. “This is the best squad from the available players. It has got good balance,” Vasudevan said. The team includes Aswin Crist who returns after three years, following a back surgery by the same Kiwi surgeon who performed the operation on former pace ace Shane Bond. Vasudevan said, “Crist bowled well and at a good pace in the two practice games. In fact, Crist and Sandeep Warrier were impressive.” Used to the format The selection panel chief said, “Many Tamil Nadu cricketers such as vice-captain Vijay Shankar, have got experience in the IPL. Others have played in the TNPL. So they are used to the T20 format.” Vasudevan said, “Because there has not been much cricket this season, they are all very keen to play.” The new face in the side is S. Jaganath Sinivas, a pace-bowling all-rounder who has impressed for the State in age-limit cricket. G. Periyasamy, a slinger with a potent yorker, is another exciting name in the side.  The squad:   Dinesh Karthik (Capt.), Vijay Shankar (Vice-capt.), B. Aparajith, B. Indrajith, M. Shahrukh Khan, C. Hari Nishaanth, N. Jagadeesan, K.B. Arun Karthick, Pradosh Ranjan Paul, M. Mohammad, Sandeep Warrier, M. Ashwin, R. Sai Kishore, M. Siddharth, Aswin Crist, L. Suryapprakash, R.S. Jaganath Sinivas, R. Sonu Yadav, J. Kousik and G. Periyasamy.
24 December 2020||MADRID,||Landmark goal for Messi in Barcelona’s victory||Lionel Messi overtook Pele’s record of goals for a single club on Tuesday as Barcelona strolled to a 3-0 LaLiga victoy at Real Valladolid, while Atletico Madrid kept hold of its place at the top. Messi struck his 644th goal for Barca, one more than Brazil legend Pele scored for Santos, in the 65th minute of a routine win for Ronald Koeman’s side, which is now in fifth and eight points behind Atletico. Barca started on the front foot with Messi flashing a curling wide in the seventh minute and forcing a superb save from Jordi Masip in the 20th minute. Barcelona took the lead seconds later when Messi clipped over a beautiful cross which France defender Clement Lenglet headed home. Martin Braithwaite gave the away side a deserved second 14 minutes later. Simple finish Messi got the landmark goal with a simple finish after bursting through to collect Pedri’s delicate backheeled assist. Barca is now two points behind Sociedad and fourth-placed Villarreal, which drew 1-1 at home with Athletic Bilbao.  In Serie A, 10-man Juventus crashed to its first defeat of the season — going down 3-0 at home against Fiorentina. The loss came hours after the champion learned it must play the match against Napoli which was cancelled on October 4 after Napoli decided not to travel to Turin because of COVID-19 cases.  Juventus is fourth and seven points behind leader AC Milan. Napoli is now third. The champion got off to a terrible start with Fiorentina’s Franck Ribery setting up Dusan Vlahovic for the opener after just three minutes. Juventus played most of the match a man down after Juan Cuadrado was sent off on 17 minutes for a reckless sliding tackle on Gaetano Castrovilli. The referee’s yellow card turned to red after a VAR viewing. Not even Cristiano Ronaldo could make the difference. He missed chances in the first half and a header on target after the break ruled offside.   The results:   LaLiga: Real Valladolid 0 lost to Barcelona 3 (Lenglet 21, Braithwaite 35, Messi 65); Villarreal 1 (Yeremy 74) drew with Athletic Bilbao 1 (Williams 19); Real Sociedad 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Hermoso 49, Llorente 74).   Huesca 1 (Ontiveros 31-pen) drew with Levante 1 (Melero 53); Elche 2 (Fidel 46, Carillo 78) lost to Osasuna 2 (Garcia 10, Brasanac 64); Valencia 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Suso 81).   Serie A: Crotone 2 (Messias 24, 44) bt Parma 1 (Kucka 57); Juventus 0 lost to Fiorentina 3 (Vlahovic 3, Alex Sandro 76-og, Caceres 81) .
24 December 2020||Melbourne,||India shifts focus to the red ball||Determined to leave behind the embarrassing defeat in the series-opener, the Indian team, under stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane, switched its focus to red-ball cricket on Wednesday with Shubman Gill and others grinding it out during a net session ahead of the Boxing Day Test. Gill, who was not considered for the opening Test despite scoring 43 and 65 in the pink-ball warm-up match, looked in good nick as he honed his skills along with Mayank Agarwal at the nets, indicating that the duo could be the opening combination for the second Test. The 21-year-old could be favoured over struggling Prithvi Shaw, who returned with scores of 0 and 4 in the two innings at Adelaide. K.L. Rahul, who received the backing of Sunil Gavaskar for the opening slot, had a long stint at the nets as well. Also back at the nets was spin all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja, who had missed the first Test due to concussion. Jadeja went for an hour-long spell at the nets during which he bowled to his Saurashtra teammate Cheteshwar Pujara. He again returned for a second stint later, an indication that he could be included in the playing XI for the Boxing Day Test. The practice session began with head coach Ravi Shastri giving a pep talk to the team members at the MCG. Shastri also had a chat with Rishabh Pant, who came out to bat at the nets ahead of Wriddhiman Saha. Pant, who had smashed a 73-ball 103 in the warm-up, may replace Saha in the second Test. With Mohammed Shami ruled out of the remainder of the series with a fractured forearm, Mohammad Siraj and Navdeep Saini were seen bowling to Rahane alongside Shardul Thakur as the trio look to stake claim for the third pacer’s slot.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||FC Goa pips Jamshedpur in exciting contest||Striker Igor Angulo’s brace was instrumental in FC Goa scripting a 2-1 win over Jamshedpur FC in a thrilling Indian Super League encounter at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, on Wednesday. The Spaniard converted a penalty and headed home another in injury time as Goa took its tally to 11 points from eight matches. The much-needed victory for the Gaurs, after consecutive losses, pushed them up by two places to fifth. On the other hand, Jamshedpur suffered its first defeat in six games and remained sixth with 10 points. Eze strikes Stephen Eze (33rd minute) scored his first goal of the season, connecting with his right leg off an acrobatic stretch from an Aitor Monroy free kick and giving the Goa goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz no chance. The teams went into the break with Jamshedpur enjoying a 1-0 advantage. It was a lively first period with both sides showing attacking intent and the defence holding strong. In the 53rd minute, off a Goa counterattack, Angulo took possession and progressed to the final third, having just the goalkeeper to beat. However, his left-footer sailed over the crossbar. However, Goa equalised in the 64th through a penalty after Alexandre Lima brought down James Donachie. Angulo converted without fuss, sending the Jamshedpur ’keeper T.P. Rehenesh the wrong way. Jamshedpur unlucky In the 70th minute, Jamshedpur was unlucky as replays showed that Nerijus Valskis’ strike had struck the crossbar and gone past the goalline before richocheting on to the field. Unfortunately, the referee and linesman failed to notice it. Even as both teams were looking for a winner, Angulo headed in a corner kick from Edu Bedia, four minutes into injury-time, to spark celebrations in the Goa dugout.  The result :   FC Goa 2 (Angulo 64-pen & 90+4) bt JFC 1 (Eze 33).
24 December 2020||Chennai,||‘Impressive talent in Jaffna’||Hemang Badani believes there is sufficient talent in Sri Lanka for the country to be a force in world cricket again. Badani was speaking to The Hindu after mentoring Jaffna Stallions to a title triumph in the Lanka Premier League (LPL). The former India left-hander said, “I made my Test debut against Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka and they were a great side at that time. The last few years have not been good for them but now I feel there could be resurgence there.” Total surprise The call from the Stallions came as a total surprise for Badani, who was doing IPL commentary at that point. “There is this Tamil Nadu connection with me and the franchise owners are very keen to develop cricket and build infrastructure in and around Jaffna which has received far less exposure to the game than the other part of Sri Lanka,” Badani explained. And then Badani’s record as coach in the TNPL — he has two title triumphs and three finals in four years for the Chepauk Super Gillies — also helped. Talking about local talent from Jaffna, Badani spoke about Vijayakanth Viyaskanth, a leg-spinner of some promise. “His first wicket was Angelo Mathews, caught at long-on. He is the first boy from Jaffna to feature in a televised match. Hopefully, there will be many more.” Exciting prospect Badani was excited about another leg-spinner Waninda Hasaranga. “He is a star for the future. Fifty six per cent of his deliveries for the Stallions were dot balls, which is staggering. And he bowls his leg-spinners, the googly, and the top-spinner with control. I think he is already ready for the big jump.” Badani said, the Stallions, led by international all-rounder Thisara Perera, featured several well known Sri Lankan and foreign players such as Shoaib Malik, Kyle Abott, Duanne Olivier, Johnson Charles, Suranga Lakmal, Avishka Fernando and Dhananjaya de Silva. On his role as a mentor, Badani said, “I think I was able to give them a fresh perspective.” In all, it was an enjoyable experience for Badani. It also had a noble cause — Develop cricket in Jaffna.  The Jaffna Stallions owners are very keen to develop cricket and build infrastructure in and around Jaffna
24 December 2020||Los Angeles,||Durant, Nets open season with rout of Warriors||Kevin Durant’s long awaited Brooklyn Nets debut didn’t disappoint Tuesday, the two-time NBA Finals MVP teaming seamlessly with Kyrie Irving in a 125-99 opening day blowout over the Golden State Warriors. Durant hadn’t played since suffering a devastating torn Achilles tendon playing for the Warriors against Toronto in game five of the championship series on June 10, 2019. He was still recovering from surgery when he bolted for the Nets as a free agent and sat out all of the pandemic-disrupted 2019-20 campaign. Irving scored 26 points with four rebounds and four assists. Durant added 22 points with five rebounds and three assists and all of the Nets starters sat out the fourth quarter with the game well in hand. “It felt good,” Durant said. “I didn’t approach it any different. The pre-season games I kind of felt the same energy, but it’s good to get a win.” Disappointing start The Los Angeles Lakers, meanwhile, didn't have long to savour its 17th NBA title. Little more than two months after the Lakers locked up the 2020 crown with a Finals win over the Miami Heat, they were back to the grind in a 116-109 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers at the Staples Center. Paul George led the Clippers, less than two weeks after signing a four-year contract extension worth a reported $226 million. George scored 26 of his 33 points in the second half as the Clippers kept the Lakers at bay. LeBron on song  Kawhi Leonard added 26 points for the Clippers, who are out to expunge the memory of their agonising Western Conference semifinals loss to the Denver Nuggets, who trailed 3-1 in the series but won in seven games. LeBron James led the Lakers with 22 points. Anthony Davis added 18 and German point guard Dennis Schroder — a new addition — scored 14 points with 12 rebounds and eight assists.  The results:   Lakers 109 lost to Clippers 116; Nets 125 bt Warriors 99.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remove my name from Kotla stand: Bedi||Former Test captain Bishan Singh Bedi has asked that his name be taken off one of the spectator stands here at the Ferozshah Kotla in response to the idea of erecting a statue of the late Arun Jaitley at the stadium. Not known to mince words, Bedi expressed his anguish by renouncing his Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) membership in a hard-hitting letter, spanning over 850 words, to the association’s newly elected president Rohan Jaitley. Unsavoury past He recalled the “DDCA’s unsavoury past” besides the “corrupt durbar of sycophants Arun Jaitley mustered at the Kotla during his stewardship” and much more. Making his point, Bedi stated, “A mere Google search would have helped to know that Late Arun Jaitley's tenure at DDCA was riddled with corruption. You being a lawyer should also know the cases of massive misappropriation of funds are still pending in courts. Late Arun Jaitley, I'm told, was an able politician. So it’s Parliament, and not a cricket stadium, which needs to remember him for posterity. “You need to be educated that sports administrators don’t need to be self-serving. People who surround you presently will never inform you that it’s W. G. Grace at Lord’s..., Sir Jack Hobbs at the Oval..., Sir Donald Bradman at the SCG..., Sir Garfield Sobers at Barbados & Shane Warne of recent vintage at the MCG, who adorn their cricket stadia, with the Spirit of Cricket never out of place. Sporting role models “So when the kids walk into these stadiums these majestic statues/busts enhance & enliven the inspiring stories of these past heroes that their elders tell them. Sporting arenas need sporting role models. “The place of the administrators is in their glass cabins. Since DDCA doesn’t understand this Universal cricket culture, I need to walk out of it.”  The place of the administrators is in their glass cabins. Since DDCA doesn’t understand this Universal cricket culture, I need to walk out of it
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nihal, Rakshitta and Gukesh emerge world champions||Underlining the growing superiority of Indian youngsters in global age-group competitions, the trio of Nihal Sarin (under-18), Rakshitta Ravi (girls’ u-16), and D. Gukesh (u-14) claimed gold medals and Mrinmoy Rajkhowa (u-10) added a bronze from the FIDE Online World cadets and youth rapid chess championship on Tuesday. Nihal, seeded two, claimed his fourth title in three months to end the year on a high note. Having won the Junior Speed Chess, Capechecs Online Karpov Trophy and the Super Juniors Cup recently, Nihal was expected to add another title but eventually needed a slice of luck in both games to emerge as the worthy champion. After winning his rescheduled semifinal earlier in the day, Nihal drew the first game against Armenia’s Shant Sargsyan after defending accurately with black. In the second game, Nihal attained a winning position by the 40th move but three moves later, committed a serious blunder to slip into a grossly inferior position. But Sargsyan’s 49th move turned the tide back in Nihal’s favour and he went on to seal the gold in 54 moves with a 1.5-0.5 scoreline.  Gukesh battled all the way against Russian-lad Volodar Murzin before emerging stronger in the Armageddon game. After two drawn rapid games, Gukesh needed to win with white in the Armageddon game. He produced a dominating performance and sealed it when Murzin ran out of time. Earlier, sixth seed Rakshitta was the first to ensure a gold for India. After a draw against fourth seeded Chinese Yuxin Song, Rakshitta won the second following a tactical blow on the 15th turn that earned her a knight and eventually a 1.5-0.5 verdict. In the din of the gold rush, nine-year-old Mrinmoy Rajkhowa’s brilliant victory in the Armageddon game was pushed to the background. The youngster won the first game against higher-rated American Andy Woodward but lost the marathon second in 107 moves. In the Armageddon game, Mrinmoy played white and toyed with his rival for 57 moves for a 2-1 triumph.
24 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Ashwin is world class, says Lyon||Ace Australian spinner Nathan Lyon said he and India’s R. Ashwin were similar yet different type of bowlers and that comparisons should not made between the two. Lyon spoke highly of Ashwin who, he said, stood out with his variations. “Ashwin is a world-class bowler. I have watched him a lot, especially when I went to India and the subcontinent to try and learn about him. He is a cagey bowler, he has got all the variations,” said Lyon at a virtual press conference ahead of the second Test beginning here on Saturday. “He’s very cagey with the way he changes his pace and is a very talented bowler. “We are similar in a way, but we are very different as well. So I can't really compare myself to him. I think his records speak for him, so hats off to Ashwin,” said Lyon.
24 December 2020||Melbourne,||Warner, Abbott to miss second Test||Star opener David Warner and pacer Sean Abbott were on Wednesday ruled out of the second Test against India, beginning here Saturday, because of a mix of injuries and COVID-19 protocols. Both Warner and Abbott were outside the team’s bio-secure hub to get treatment for their respective groin and calf injuries. The duo was flown out to Melbourne ahead of schedule on Saturday due to concern’s over the recent outbreak of coronavirus in Sydney’s northern beaches. “While neither player has been in a specific ‘hotspot’ on Sydney’s northern beaches as outlined by NSW Health, Cricket Australia’s biosecurity protocols do not allow them to rejoin the squad in time for the Boxing Day test,” Cricket Australia said in a statement.
24 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Ganguly endorsement issue unlikely to crop up||Despite whispers in some sections about Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly’s seemingly questionable conduct of endorsing products of the Board’s sponsors, the issue is unlikely to crop up during Thursday’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Ahmedabad. Ganguly’s alleged conflict of interest or ethical misconduct has neither been listed in the agenda nor has any member representative sought a discussion about it in writing. As a result, if at all it is to be discussed, a State association representative will have to speak up towards the end of the meeting when “other matters” can be discussed with the permission of the chair. “Who will bell the cat has been a permanent problem in BCCI, especially over the last decade,” said a BCCI old-timer on condition of anonymity. “It’s highly unlikely that there’ll be an official discussion on the floor of the house. The same happened during the IPL scandal as well. Nobody wants to offend the office-bearers.” A few representatives were discussing the possibility of one of the six office-bearers questioning Ganguly over his list of endorsements — sometimes even of brands that are direct competitors of the BCCI’s sponsors — since taking over the reins in October 2019. However, not many are optimistic about any action on the matter. Multiple member representatives stated to The Hindu that had there been a revolt brewing, Wednesday’s exhibition match between President XI and Secretary XI wouldn’t have been played cordially at the refurbished Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium in Motera, on the outskirts of the city. Selectors’ interviews The Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) and BCCI office-bearers, along with cricket development professionals, have scheduled interviews with shortlisted candidates for vacant posts in the junior and senior selection committees. While the CAC, headed by Madan Lal, will interview 10 former players for the three posts, the others will interview those who have applied for the four slots in the junior committee. Prominent candidates that have been invited for the senior selectors’ interviews include Ajit Agarkar, Abey Kuruvilla (west), Chetan Sharma, Maninder Singh (north), Shiv Sundar Das, Debasis Mohanty and Ranadeb Bose (east). It is expected that the AGM will ratify the new selection committee members. While the AGM is set to approve the addition of two new teams to the IPL, it is also likely to authorise office-bearers to decide the BCCI’s stance on pushing for cricket’s inclusion in the 2028 Olympics. It is understood that all the members were tested immediately upon their arrival in Ahmedabad and a member from a North-Eastern State was found to be COVID-19 positive. He has been isolated.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Bernardini runs with a good chance in Governor’s Cup||Bernardini runs with a good chance in the Governor’s Cup (1,400m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Dec. 24).  PETER & HYACINTH GIBSON MEMORIAL CUP (Div. III), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Victory Walk (2) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Protea (5) Brisson 58, 3. Pacific (3) Ashhad Asbar 57.5, 4. Parrys Glory (12) Arshad Alam 55.5, 5. Nymeria (6) M. Bhaskar 54.5, 6. Uncle Sam (8) Janardhan P 54.5, 7. Choir (10) Azfar Syeed 54, 8. Break The Silence (7) Umesh 53.5, 9. Chalouchi Girl (4) Antony Raj 53.5, 10. Queen Supreme (13) Muzaffar 53.5, 11. Songbird (1) A.M. Alam 53, 12. Wild Passion (9) Kiran Naidu 53 and 13. Kings Pride (11) B. Nikhil 52.5.  1. VICTORY WALK,   2. BREAK THE SILENCE,   3. PACIFIC   2. RAZZLE DAZZLE PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 2-00: 1. Azzaro (12) B. Nikhil 60, 2. Blue Patent (4) Yash 60, 3. Fun Lover (11) Brisson 60, 4. Marcous (5) Kiran Naidu 60, 5. Medovik (6) Stephen Raj 59, 6. Pragmatic (13) M. Bhaskar 58.5, 7. Dynamite Girl (3) Irvan Singh 57, 8. Jericho (8) Azfar Syeed 57, 9. Symphony In Style (2) Shahar Babu 57, 10. Vulture (14) S. Kamble 57, 11. Be My Light (1) Farhan 55.5, 12. Perfect Support (7) Arshad Alam 55, 13. Oliver Twist (10) Antony Raj 53.5 and 14. Tencendur (9) A.M. Alam 53.5.  1. SYMPHONY IN STYLE,   2. PRAGMATIC, 3. BLUE PATENT   3. TOKYO DRIFT PLATE (2,000m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Royal Commander (9) Nakhat Singh 62.5, 2. Chaitanya (1) Umesh 62, 3. Swiss Agatta (8) S. Kamble 61, 4. Otus (2) Yash 60, 5. Brilliant Script (3) Irvan Singh 59, 6. Royal Dreams (6) Akshay Kumar 59, 7. City Of Sails (5) Kiran Naidu 57, 8. Sifan (10) Antony Raj 56, 9. Icy River (4) P. Sai Kumar 54.5 and 10. Arazan’s Diamond (7) Arshad Alam 50.  1. ROYAL COMMANDER, 2. BRILLIANT SCRIPT, 3. ROYAL DREAMS   4. CHRISTMAS CUP (1,200m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Coup De Etait (3) P. Sai Kumar 56, 2. Eagle Prince (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Glorious Legend (5) Yash 56, 4. Gold Speck (6) Janardhan P 56, 5. Stride Forever (1) Azfar Syeed 56, 6. Tudor (2) Umesh 56 and 7. Race For The Stars (4) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. GLORIOUS LEGEND, 3. TUDOR,   3. EAGLE PRINCE   5. J.H. FOLEY MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Awesome Gift (9) B. Nikhil 56, 2. Cavallo Vincente (1) Umesh 56, 3. Country’s Genius (12) Irvan Singh 56, 4. Flash Star (14) Arshad Alam 56, 5. Majestic Charmer (2) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Salvo (7) Yash 56, 7. Sichuan (3) A.M. Alam 56, 8. Star Symbol (13) Akshay Kumar 56, 9. Sunday Warrior (5) Shahar Babu 56, 10. Supreme Excelsior (11) Nakhat Singh 56, 11. Tender Rebel (10) Janardhan P 56, 12. Fakhrunisa (4) Brisson 54.5, 13. Full Of Surprise (8) S. Kamble 54.5, and 14. Mayflower (6) Farhan 54.5.  1. SALVO, 2. CAVALLO VINCENTE,   3. FAKHRUNISA   6. GOVERNOR’S CUP (1,400m), rated 80 & above, 4-00: 1. Megasthenes (4) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Hope And Glory (5) Antony Raj 59, 3. Bernardini (7) Umesh 57.5, 4. Glorious Destiny (3) Yash 55.5, 5. Tudor Treasure (2) Akshay Kumar 52.5, 6. Chief Of Command (1) Nakhat Singh 52, 7. Versallies (-) (-) 52, and 8. The Champ (6) Azfar Syeed 51.5.  1. BERNARDINI, 2. GLORIOUS DESTINY, 3. TUDOR TREASURE   7. PETER HYACINTH GIBSON MEMORIAL CUP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-30: 1. Copper Queen (12) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Star Fling (9) Brisson 60, 3. Shield Maiden (10) Stephen Raj 59.5, 4. Soaring High (1) P. Sai Kumar 59, 5. Shalem (7) Yash 58, 6. Wakeful (6) Umesh 58, 7. Pappa Rich (2) Irvan Singh 56.5, 8. Trending Princess (4) S. Kamble 56.5, 9. Absolute Authority (11) Farhan 56, 10. Priceless Treasure (8) Rajendra Singh 56, 11. Amicus Curiae (3) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 12. Grey Twilight (13) B. Nikhil 55 and 13. Highland Light (5) Arshad Alam 55.  1. SOARING HIGH,   2. COPPER QUEEN, 3. SHALEM   8. PETER & HYACINTH GIBSON MEMORIAL CUP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Farewell (5) Brisson 60, 2. Fort St.George (9) P. Sai Kumar 58, 3. Glorious Trust (2) Umesh 58, 4. Striking Distance (13) A.M. Alam 57.5, 5. Silverman (10) P. Vinod 56.5, 6. Katahdin (7) Stephen Raj 56.5, 7. Steve Mcqueen (3) B. Nikhil 55, 8. Lord Buckingham (1) Shahar Babu 54, 9. Cape Cod (8) Irvan Singh 53. 10. Intox (6) S. Kamble 53, 11. Mulligan (12) Azad Alam 52.5, 12. Welcome Chakkaram (11) Farhan 52 and 13. Supreme Commander (4) Nakhat Singh 51.5.  1. FAREWELL   , 2. GLORIOUS TRUST,   3. FORT ST.GEORGE  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (1): 1, 2 & 3, (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.
24 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Keerthivasan, Abhinaya triumph||Tennis activity has resumed in Tamil Nadu with the conduct of AITA Talent Series Cup in the under-16 and under-14 category recently. Keerthivasan Suresh and Pranav Amatapu won the boys’ titles in the under-16 and 14 categories while Abhinaya Catlyn Sweeton (u-16) and Maaya Rajeshwaran Revathi (u-14) emerged winners in the girls’ section. Both tournaments were hosted by MM Tennis Academy, Mogappair. The first full-fledged nine-day event (including two days of qualifying) is the Match Point Open State Ranking Tennis Tournament for Men and Women being conducted at the Krishnan Tennis Centre (KTC). Vijay Amritraj, president, TNTA, who is currently in the U.S., said: “That we have begun tennis activity in the State augurs well for the game. As the pandemic situation clears, TNTA hopes to conduct lucrative and beneficial Tournaments for our players in the future.”  The results: Boys: U-16: Keerthivasan Suresh bt Aarwin Saravanna 6-4, 6-1; U-14: Pranav Amatapu bt N.R. Darwin Marx 6-2, 6-1.   Girls: U-16: Abhinaya Catlyn Sweeton bt Aadhya Balaji 4-6, 6-3, 7-5; U-14: Maaya Rajeshwaran Revathi bt Krithi Ravilla Kumar 6-3, 5-7, 6-3 .
24 December 2020||Coimbatore:,||Free basketball camp||Jayalakshmi Sports Academy (JASA) will conduct a free basketball coaching camp for school girls in the six to 12 age group at the VOC Park Corporation Sports Complex courts here from January 1 next. The camp will be held from Monday to Saturday between 5.30 and 7 a.m. Contact S. Ramkumar, coach of PSGCAS women’s team and RKS Academy, at 98423 32832 for more details.
24 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Chander Memorial Rally on Sunday||The 21st Chander Memorial Rally for four wheelers, organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club (CASC), will be held here on December 27. Conducted in memory of M.K. Chander, who had donned the role of a rider and navigator and had represented top teams such as TVS Suzuki, MRF and JK Tyres, the rally, this time around, will promote road safety and follow all COVID precautions. Accuracy the key Run in TSD format, this year’s event will cover a distance of approximately 100kms. Speed is not the criterion but the accuracy of driving the vehicle, maintaining the given speed and to follow the road map correctly will determine the winner. The average speed will be around 35kmph. About 30 cars are expected to take part in this event, which will also feature Open, Novice and a separate class for All Ladies. Karthik Maruti, Sankar Anand, Ganesh, Nagaraj, N. Murugan, M.K. Mustafa and Raghu are some of the prominent drivers who have confirmed their participation. The rally, sponsored by M.K. Chander Memorial Trust and SGA cars, will be flagged off by G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order), Coimbatore City, from the National Model Matriculation School on Dec. 27 at 9 a.m. For details, contact CASC, 29. Nehru Stadium, Coimbatore-18, at 9843544242.
24 December 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Shadab out of first Test||Pakistan sustained another injury setback when all-rounder Shadab Khan was ruled out for the first test against New Zealand due to thigh injury. Shabad suffered the injury after Pakistan beat New Zealand by four wickets in the third and final Twenty20 at Napier on Tuesday. The team management has included left-arm spinner Zafar Gohar in his place.
24 December 2020||ROME,||Napoli win appeal over Juventus no-show||Napoli on Tuesday won its appeal after being handed a 3-0 defeat and a one-point deduction for failing to turn up to play Juventus because of coronavirus cases. Napoli took its case to the Italian Olympic Committee (CONI), the highest level of sporting justice in Italy, after having appeals rejected by the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) and Serie A. CONI said in a statement it “accepted the appeal presented by Napoli and annulled without postponement the decision of the Sports Court of Appeal at the FIGC ... including the penalty of losing the match and the deduction of one point.” The October 4 fixture was abandoned rather than called off when Napoli did not travel to Turin. “We’re happy,” Napoli president Aurelio De Laurentiis said on Twitter of the decision. “We live in a country where those who respect the laws cannot be convicted. “And Napoli always follows the rules.” The restoration of a point moves Napoli up to third in the standings ahead of Juventus, which has lost three points, and is fourth. “The first comment is that we have always been outsiders in the affair and indifferent to it,” said Juventus chief football officer Fabio Paratici. “When they tell us to play we’ll go play. That said, we were also there on October 4.” Italian media report that the match at Juve’s Allianz Stadium will be rescheduled for January 13.  The October 4 fixture was abandoned rather than called off when Napoli did not travel to Turin
24 December 2020||Mumbai,||India needs to create superstars like Kohli in football, says Cahill||Australian football legend Tim Cahill feels India needs to create superstars like Virat Kohli in football, a game which has an immense fan following in the country. The 41-year-old, who is an ambassador to the Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy involved in organising the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, spoke on the eve of the inauguration of the fourth completed venue — the Al-Rayyan Stadium. “You look at the way cricket pretty much inspires the nation by itself, lot of Australian cricketers play there (in India). Virat Kohli and boys like these are superstars. Now creating those superstars within the ISL, with the teams, the games, the national team — to recreate that with football would be the ultimate dream for India, because there is massive passion for it,” said Cahill. Cahill, the leading goal-scorer for Australia with 50 strikes to his credit, also spoke about the upcoming FIFA World Cup and the event’s importance for Indian fans. “I think the greatest thing for India having the World Cup in this part of the world, is how close it is, being so accessible to be one of the biggest shows on earth, literally on their door-step, to not only watch it on TV but get on plane and be in Qatar in an hour,” he said.  I think the greatest thing for India having the World Cup in this part of the world is how close it is, being so accessible to be one of the biggest shows on earth
24 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Ojha to be included in IPL Governing Council||Former India left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha will be included in the IPL Governing Council on Thursday. He has been nominated as the Indian Cricketers’ Association (ICA) representative in the council. The BCCI AGM will ratify Ojha’s inclusion in Ahmedabad. Ojha, who retired from competitive cricket in February, has won the IPL with Deccan Chargers and Mumbai Indians. He will replace Surinder Khanna, who last year became the first ICA nominee to the GC as per the rejigged BCCI rulebook.
24 December 2020||ZURICH,||Qatar to host Club WC at three venues||Qatar will host the FIFA Club World Cup from February 1 to 11, 2021, after it was postponed earlier this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Six continental confederations, as well as the host nation’s league champion, will compete in the tournament, which will be held across three FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 stadiums — Ahmad Bin Ali, Khalifa International and Education City Stadium. The Ahmad Bin Ali Stadium, inaugurated on December 18, will stage the opening match between Qatari champion Al Duhail and Auckland City of New Zealand on February 1. The final will be played at Education City on February 11. Joining the two teams will be European champion and German team Bayern Munich, CONCACAF champion Tigres UANL of Mexico, Al Ahly SC, the Egyptian side and winner of the CAF Champions League, and Ulsan Hyundai, which recently won the AFC Champions League at a match played in the FIFA 2022 World Cup venue Al Janoub Stadium. The winner of the CONMEBOL Libertadores will determine the South American representative, rounding off this edition's participants. The South American winner will be determined by the end of January 2021. The draw to finalise the pairings in the tournament will take place here on January 19. “Hosting the second edition of the FIFA Club World Cup again will allow us to build on our operational experience and apply learnings both from 2019 as well as the tournaments attended by fans in Qatar throughout 2020. It will help ensure we deliver an amazing experience for every fan when the Middle East and Arab world host their first FIFA World Cup in just under two years' time,” said Nasser Al Khater, Chief Executive Officer, FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 LLC. “Over the past few months, during the global pandemic, we have worked diligently to ensure the safety, health and well-being of players and fans as we hosted several important local and international footballing events. We look forward to welcoming the world’s best clubs in the New Year for what will be yet another important milestone on the road to Qatar 2022,” Al Khater added. Inaugurated two years before Qatar hosts the FIFA World Cup Finals, the Ahmad Bin Ali Stadium has a capacity of 40,000 seats and is a demonstration of Qatar's commitment to sustainability, having been largely constructed from recycled and reused material from an older stadium that once stood on the same site. Diamond in the Desert The Education City Stadium, nicknamed the ‘Diamond in the Desert’, has a facade featuring triangles that form complex, diamond-like geometrical patterns which appear to change colour depending on position of the sun. The Khalifa International Stadium, the third one to be used during the Club World Cup, is widely regarded as Qatar’s National stadium. The recently refurbished venue hosted the previous edition’s final in front of an audience of more than 45,000 fans as English side Liverpool won the title for the first time.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Mother of the Universe||The Devi Bhagavata Purana describes the Trimurtis’ arrival in the aerial car at the entrance to the abode of Goddess Devi in the island of Mani Dweepa. Filled with wonder and amazement, they try to figure out their whereabouts and then Vishnu intuitively recognises Devi and begins to explain Her greatness to Brahma and Siva, said Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. He begins to extol the infinite grace, glory and graciousness of Devi. He sees Her as Devi, Bhagavati, Maha Vidya, Maha Maya and so on, the very essence of the Eternal Principle. Her profound greatness cannot be known by those with dull intellect; but yogis steeped in their yogic powers can recognise Her. He describes Her as both Brahman and Maya. She is the very force or the Sankalpa Shakti of the Supreme Self. She is the First Creator of this universe. She has produced the Vedas. She is worshipped by those who remain devoted to Her. During Pralaya, She draws the entire creation within Her as if in play. Vishnu tells Brahma and Siva that since it is Pralaya state then, she is residing in the form of the seed of the universe. Her excellences being endless, She confers the specific gunas and duties on all including the Trimurtis. Vishnu acknowledges that it is only Her grace that has made them behold Her in Her glory. This darshan is the fruit of all their penance. She is the Moola Prakriti always united with Chit and Ananda. She creates this Brahmanda and exhibits it to the Supreme Self. The entire universe with all its components in various forms and names exist because of Her. She is the sole cause. As the Maya Shakti, She assumes all forms. She is the Goddess of all. Neither the Trimurtis nor the other celestial beings can claim to possess even a one hundred thousandth part of Her glory.
24 December 2020||SONEPAT:,||Sweta, Dhruv triumph||Top seed Sweta Rana beat Divya Ungrish 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 to clinch the under-16 girls’ title in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the Shantima Tennis Academy here. In the boys’ final, second seed Dhruv Kumar beat Nishant Kumar 6-4, 6-4.  Other results: Semifinals: Boys: Nishant Kumar bt Dhruv Ghanghas 9-7; Dhruv Kumar bt Diksham Chikara 9-4. Girls: Sweta Rana bt Ridhima Mishra 9-7; Divya Ungrish w/o. Khushi Dahiya .
24 December 2020||KOLKATA:,||Shatavisa in last four||Second seed Shatavisa Ghosh rallied to beat Shimreen Ahamed 1-6, 6-2, 6-1 and reach the women’s singles semifinals of the Calcutta Hard Court tennis tournament at the South Club here on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals):   Men: Akshat Agarwal bt Amaan Wasim 6-2, 6-1; Mohd. Fardeen bt Anant Arora 6-1, 3-0 (retd.); Aditya Roy Chowdhury bt Arya Bhattacharya 6-2, 6-0; Abhinansu Borthakur bt Simon Chakraborty 6-0, 6-2.   Women: Yubarani Banerjee bt Megha Roy 6-0, 6-0; Shireen Ahmed bt Amrita Ohdedar 6-0, 6-1. Mekhala Manna bt Tannishtha Mukherjee 6-1, 6-2; Shatavisa Ghosh bt Shimreen Ahamed 1-6, 6-2, 6-1 .
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Abinoam excels||Left-arm spinner Abhinoam Jacob (two for 44 and eight for 31) helped RBNCC ‘A’ register an innings and 107-run win over Jaihind CC ‘A’ in the KSCA Mysore zone (two-day) first division league at PET (Mandya) recently.   The scores:   I Div.: RBNCC ‘A’ 381/4 decl. in 60 overs inclusive of 40 penalty runs (Syed Zain 110, P.V. Preetham 82 n.o., L. Hemanth Kumar 51, B. Dheemanth 49, Jagadeesh three 3/95) bt Jaihind ‘A’ 151 in 61.3 overs (Manjunath Bharve 29, T.M. Ravichandra 29, J. Kiran 25, Munish Chengappa 3/27) & 123 in 34.4 overs (S. Yeshwanth 28, Abhinoam Jacob 8/31). RBNCC ‘A’ 5; Jaihind ‘A’ 0.   Saraswathipuram 445/9 decl. in 70.3 overs Goutham Sagar 89, Yashaswin Gowda 76, L.R. Chethan 60, Uttam Gowda 60 n.o., Suhas 38) drew with Mysore 124 in 36.2 overs (S. Shivaprasad 45, Chandrashekar Shastry 31 n.o., Varun Mahendra 4/50, Goutham Sagar 3/32) & 132/3 in 31 overs. Saraswathipuram 3; MCC 1.   National 218/9 in 70.5 overs (Gaurav Patla 72, A. Yashas Kumar 56, R.S. Yogesh 55, Ishaan 3/53, J. Mahendrakumar 3/29, C.R. Aiyappa 3/47) drew with Navodaya 320/8 in 66.4 overs (C.R. Aiyappa 120 n.o., Prajwal Pavan 46, M.S. Vinyas 43, Riteesh 4/80, Harikrishna Kumar 3/75) & 61 for no loss in 14 overs ( Prajwal Pavan 43 n.o.). Navodya 3, National 1.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Lochan stars for Friends Union CC (1)||Lochan S. Gowda scored 70 to lead Friends Union CC (1) to a six-wicket win over BUCC (1) in the KSCA Twenty20 tournament.  The scores:   Vultures CC 163/7 in 20 overs (K.L. Shrijith 54, Anirudha A. Joshi 47, Manjunath 3/15) bt The Bangalore Cricketers 72 in 17.4 overs (R. Akshay 43, Abhishek Ahlawat 3/16).   Jawans CC 163/6 in 20 overs (Milind Ramesh 59, Aneeshwar Gautam 30, Sathya Swaroop 63, S. Amogh 3/21) bt Jawahar SC (2) 130/8 in 20 overs (S. Chaitanya 45, Kavin Gautham 3/23).   Sir Syed Cricketers 138/7 in 20 overs (B.A. Mohith 30, Tanay Valmik 35) bt Chintamani SA 129/7 in 20 overs (Gaurav Dhiman 31, Mir Kaunain Abbas 29, S. Suraj 3/33).   Jupiter CA 79 in 18 overs (N. Achuyth 26, K.C. Cariappa 3/6, B.M. Shreyas 3/24) lost to Jawahar SC (1) 80 for no loss in 11 overs (A.P. Aslam 49 n.o., Rishi Bhansali 26).   BUCC (1) 138/5 in 20 overs (Rohan Kadam 47, Liyan Khan 39, Zeeshan Ali Sayyed 28) lost to Friends Union CC (1) 141/4 in 19 overs (Lochan S. Gowda 70).   Dooravani Cricketers (1) 92/8 in 20 overs (Goutham R.Reddy 33) lost to Social Cricketers 93/3 in 12.5 overs (Stalin Hoover 44).   Vijaya CC 101/9 in 20 overs (Vidyadhar Patil 44, Avishek 29, K. Adithyan 4/11) lost to Cambridge CC 103/3 in 14.4 overs (M.D. Taha 52, Shubhang Hegde 28 n.o.).   Mount Joy CC 84 in 18.1 overs (Dhuri 25, K. Gowtham 3/16) lost to Swastic Union CC (1) 85/5 in 16.2 overs (Siddharth 34 n.o.).    Selection trials to pick the Karnataka team for the women’s senior National wrestling championship (January, Noida) will be held at the Mysore University Sports Pavilion on December 27. For details, call coach Manjappa at 94827 18996.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 09:29 IST,||Sudoku - December 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sign of relief||Let us use cricket metaphors to describe Balaji Tharaneetharan’s filmography; the filmmaker himself does not mind. Three films in eight years — if the 2012 release Naduvula Konjam Pakkatha Kaanom ( NKPK ) was a short ball pulled over deep square leg for a six, then Seethakaathi (2018) was an outswinger which missed clipping the off stump. The third, Oru Pakka Kathai ( OPK ), starring Kalidas Jayaram and Megha Akash, much like Vijay Sethupathi’s injured medulla oblongata in NKPK , has managed a miraculous recovery after lying in cold storage for over four years. The film releases on ZEE5 on December 25, and Balaji says he is a relieved man. “I started the project six years ago. I wrote Seethakaathi after NKPK and when I realised it would be delayed, I wrote OPK . There definitely has been plenty of upsetting moments due to the delay. It is not just me. For both Kalidas and Megha, this was supposed to be their début film, likewise for Govind Vasantha (music composer) as well,” Balaji adds. Whilst OPK became entangled in a devious web of financial issues, Balaji moved on to direct Seethakaathi . “I thought that OPK would remain unreleased. After a point of time, it became hard for me to show my face around, even when meeting the cast members because despite the hard work they put into it, the film didn’t release and I had no idea why that was the case,” he remarks. The film follows the story of a middle class family. “How the family and those around them react when presented with an abnormal situation, is what the film is about. Our thought processes are dictated by our understanding of faith and the values we hold dear. The film shows how people will react when they become vulnerable,” he explains. Balaji remarks that he has a natural inclination for infusing humour into his writing; NKPK stands as proof to his claim. However, he is quick to assert: “All the scripts I wrote before NKPK were serious drama subjects. I started with NKPK because I assumed that drama subjects were not commercially viable,” he says. However, a gap of six years following NKPK , before Seethakaathi could release, did more than just make the filmmaker nervous. “I had a mental block. I was disappointed that my second film had not been released after so many years. It affected my writing as well. By the third year, the block was serious,” he says. Complicating things was the response for Seethakaathi . While received fairly well by critics, the film did not perform well commercially. Balaji notes his “experimentation” didn’t go over well with the audience.  Seethakaathi ’s lukewarm response did leave a mark on the writer in him; Balaji has since not made a film, however, he says he has now completed a draft of a story he expects to make soon. Meanwhile, he wrote dialogues for Delhi Prasad Deenadayal’s upcoming political-thriller starring Vijay Sethupathi, Tughlaq Durbar . “It is easier to sit down and pen a script on the back of a successful film. When a film fails, you will be extra cautious. Now this is both a positive and a negative. The positive is that you will feel more responsible to write the right things, but the negative thing is you will think too much and not attempt anything new,” he explains, pausing to add with a laugh: “I have not taken a step back from films. This is my speed.”
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk turkey||Sunu Mathew is not sure when the plump turkey roast — stuffed with potatoes, sausages, bacon and bread — became part of the Christmas feast at her home in Kochi. It probably began after two of her sisters moved abroad, she says. “When all of us gathered for Christmas or Easter, my mother had substituted the traditional duck roast with turkey roast. Then it became a family tradition whenever us sisters and our families got together,” Sunu adds. Manju Jose, however, says that no Christmas lunch at her ancestral home in Pala, Kottayam, was ever complete without her maternal grandmother Annakutty Kayalackakom’s  turkey roast. “It was her piece-de-resistance. She was a renowned home cook of her time, and she reared a free ranging country turkey specially for Christmas,” recalls Manju. Flying off the shelf Nevertheless, until a few years ago, turkey was a rarity in most Malayali homes. In the last few years, however, the bird has found pride of place in the Christmas or Easter spread in many hotels and homes. “Globalisation, frequent travellers, non-resident Indians who vacation in India during Christmas, social media and television images have made the turkey roast a familiar dish for many in India,” explains Chef Mahesh Kumar of Madison Street, a restaurant in Thiruvananthapuram that has been serving turkey roast as a season special for the last two years. Turkey roast or sliced turkey is served from December 1 to January 1 at Madison Street. Mahesh says that about 68 to 70 orders of roast turkey (at Rs. 1,650 for a full turkey) is sold during the season. Each one weighs about four to five kilograms. “It is on our menu but once Christmas season is over, it has to be pre-booked,” says Varun Krishnan, one of the partners of Madison Street, who operates his own turkey farm near Karyavatttom in Thiruvananthapuram. YouTube throws up interesting, indigenous recipes for turkey that are not necessarily served in the traditional Continental style, with cranberry sauce and mashed potatoes. Innovative cooks have come up with turkey peralan , turkey stew and marinated turkey deep fried in coconut oil. Each household and restaurant has its own recipe for turkey roast to cater to local tastes. Usha Mathew, a YouTuber (Samanwayam) from Palakkad, says she took her mother’s recipe for chicken roast, and added a little twist to come up with her recipe for a spicy turkey roast marinated with ginger-garlic paste, chilli, turmeric and pepper, and cooked in an uruli . “ Ammachi had her own special recipe for the turkey roast. It was stuffed with biryani rice, and served with mashed potatoes and vegetables. Another recipe of hers was to slice it and serve it with sautéed vegetables,” recalls Manju. Chain reaction As turkey became part of the Christmas feast, turkey farms too have multiplied across Kerala. “The bird is much in demand during Easter and Christmas, and even during Onam. During lockdown, we had customers from Neyyattinkara in the south of Kerala to Malappuram and Kannur in the north. At present, we are overbooked and all the birds (about a month-old) have been sold to farms and families all over Kerala,” says veterinary surgeon Dr Josephine Francis, who is in charge of Kerala Government’s Regional Poultry Farm (RPF) at Kureepuzha, Kollam. Between April and November this year, RPF sold as many as 15,824 birds including one day, one month and a few two-month-old birds. The increased demand has forced RPF to stop supply of day-old chicks recently; only one-month-old chicks are sold now (at Rs. 150 per chick), mainly for farms and households. Buyers who purchase 50 to 100 chicks usually do so for turkey farms that breed for the meat. Families generally buy 10 to 15 chicks to fatten them for Christmas and Easter, or to grow as pets. The birds are best for the table when they are about six to seven months old. When they are a year old, the meat starts becoming tough. “Prior to lockdown, some birds were arriving from poultry farms in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Once that stopped, there was a sharp spike in demand for local chicks from families and farms. The situation is such that we take about three months to supply the birds after the order is placed,” Dr Josephine points out. It is the same story at Arackal Farms, a private farm in Alappuzha. Most of the chicks are sold much before Christmas. “By December all our chicks are booked, and we rarely have any to spare,” says Swaroop Arackal, who has been running the farm for two years. He adds that the demand this year has been from Kerala primarily whilst the previous years saw buyers from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as well. Not everyone is a fan of turkey meat though. “It is a taste one gets acquainted with. We had it once for Christmas and I found the meat quite tough. In our family, the favourites are chicken, duck and pork,” asserts Rhea Philip. However, thanks to gourmet recipes and Instagram, looks like the turkey roast in its many forms has carved a niche for itself on the table for Christmas .  Chef Mahesh Kumar’s turkey roast recipe Apply salt all over the turkey and keep it refrigerated overnight. The next day, wash it off and apply butter mixture of thyme, parsley, garlic paste and salt between the skin and flesh, and inside the turkey too. Keep refrigerated overnight. Fill it with your choice of vegetables and roast in the oven between 160 degrees and 170. For one kilogram of turkey, it takes 60 minutes, likewise three kilograms of turkey takes three hours to roast. Every 20 minutes, make sure to keep it moist by pouring the melted butter from the tray on the turkey.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Pupper on my table||Nila is hard to miss for anyone visiting Humane Animal Society in Coimbatore. One can either find her lazing around under the shade of a bougainvillea plant in the compound or playing with volunteers. “Nila was found in a ditch in the city six months ago. She was weak, dirty and in severe pain. But now she has recovered and is a happy soul,” says Mini Vasudevan, co-founder. Nila is one of the animals featured in EveryLife 2021, the annual fundraiser calendar brought out by the NGO. “We have been bringing out calendars since 2013. It helps us find money to maintain the shelter,” she explains. The tabletop calendar also features 19 other dogs and cats that are ready for adoption. “The number of animals abandoned has increased by around 10% after lockdown,” says Mini. All photographs have been clicked by volunteers of the organisation. A portrait with your pet Another calendar is by Chennai-based pet photographer Eshita Prasanna who runs Tailshots. “My calendar features dogs, cats and birds that belong to people in the city. It is difficult to choose from the photographs I have. I kept going back and changing them till the last minute,” she says. Eshita also does customised calendars for pet parents. “It is always fun to photograph animals. Some are great posers. All you need is a little patience,” she says. In addition to photographs, animal illustrations are also a common feature in many calendars. The one by Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary (BMAD) in Chennai features digital drawings of cows, horses and donkeys rescued from the city. Most of the animals featured have already been adopted. Mambazham and Valapazham, also featured in the calendar, are two ponies who were found in Chennai’s streets eating mango and banana peels, respectively. “Valapazham’s hoof was in bad shape and she was limping. It was cracked and infested with maggots. He took three months to recover and now loves nothing more than being around people,” says Dr Josika Navukkarasu, veterinarian at BMAD. Resident models Permanent residents of animal shelters also find a place in the calendars of organisations. Bengaluru-based Charlie’s Animal Rescue Centre (CARE) and Chennai-based The Blue Cross of India have in-house residents as their models. “They have been through severe trauma and so we like to keep them with us,” explains Sudha Narayan, founder trustee of CARE. The theme for the calendar is Super Heroes and it features caricatures of the animals done by artist Bindu Desetty. “We started work last month. The animals are given superhero tags for the different qualities they have. For example, we have Sniffles, a piglet who loves vanilla ice cream and belly rubs. She was attacked by street dogs and was wounded when we rescued her. Five-and-a-half-year-old Roo is a happy dog that loves to run around despite having a deformed leg.” The proceeds from the sales go towards maintaining the shelter. The Blue Cross of India’s tabletop calendar with space to mark important dates also has illustrations of animals done by Alamelu Annhamalai, who is a volunteer with the organisation. “One of the animals is a two-month-old piglet called Vellayan. He was rescued with wounds all over his body after being attacked by animals and humans. Now, he is learning to trust people again. He is one of the most huggable animals in the shelter and loves to munch on fruits and slurp his health drink,” says Vivek Venkatraman, volunteer coordinator.  Where to buy? Charlie’s Animal Rescue Centre’s calendar is priced at Rs. 300. Visitwww.charlies-care.comto make a purchase Humane Animal Society’s costs Rs. 250 exclusive of postage. Call 9366127215 or emailhas.cbe@gmail.comto order Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary’s will be available at the dispensary for Rs. 500. Online orders can be made through their Instagram handle, @besantmemorialanimal dispensary The Blue Cross of India’s will be available at No 72, Velachery Main Road, Guindy, Chennai or through their Instagram handle, @blue_cross_rescues for Rs. 550. Call 8220460054 for details. Tailshots’ tabletop calendar is for Rs. 750 and wall hanging at Rs. 950. Call 9940070163 or visithttps://www.instagram.com/tailshots_petphotography/to order
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Age is just the number they deadlift||Deadlifting in a Marwari-drape sari sure looks cool, but the reason why octagenarian Kiran Bai from Chennai took up weight training at this age was for a simple, yet integral purpose. For the first time in five years, the 82-year-old could sit down on the floor and get back up by herself. This need for physical independence is driving a small section of India’s senior citizens to take up weight training; a deadly pandemic putting them in the vulnerable category has only reinforced the need. Tired of her sedentary life, remaining constrained to her home and unable to meet her loved ones, Kiran Bai was not in a great place psychologically until she found a coach in her grandson, Chirag Chordia, partner at Chennai’s Strength System. Defying expectations “In the beginning of lockdown, my grandmother was saying things like her end was near. She felt she couldn’t do anything but sit with her phone,” narrates Chirag, who is also based in Chennai but lives separately. “At that point, my mother reached out to me asking if I could talk to her, not as a coach but just as a grandson.” What started as conversations over phone calls, turned into a virtual, and, before long, in-person training programme between grandson and grandmother. Less than four months later, Kiran is now doing full body workouts thrice a week: lifting five kilograms on each hand, doing seated inchworms, resistance band training and squats. But what makes her happiest is that she can now walk four to five lengths of the hall without catching her breath. In Chandigarh, 76-year-old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18- to 20-year-old men at Ozi Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go. They spot him as he bench presses 80 kilograms in the mornings from 6 am to 9 am. Weight training was not something Tripat got into until he was 64. Still, he had learnt the importance of fitness much earlier in life looking at how diabetes affected his father. “I was with him in his last days. It’s tough when the body is losing the battle at the end. I resolved then to drive this condition out from my family,” he says. Tripat lives with his two sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren. However, he sounds miffed that none of them share his passion for fitness. Three thousand kilometres down South in Thiruvananthapuram, 70-year-old Ambika Nair has a similar complaint. “ Chettan oru madiyan aanu (My husband is a lazy fellow),” she says, teasingly. “There is no point sitting at home thinking you are old. Follow whatever form of movement you like. It doesn’t have to be heavy weights, but keep at it,” says Ambika. Before the pandemic, she was a regular at Belaire Health Club, a fitness centre in the city, doing 70 kilograms leg press. Her fitness journey is entwined with that of her daughter’s, starting when she gave birth to her and re-starting it over two decades later, when her daughter gave birth to her child. “I first started yoga classes to lose weight after my pregnancy,” says Ambika, explaining that “in those days (1969), it wasn’t common for women to go to gyms” and that yoga was more acceptable. “Then, 18 years ago, after my daughter gave birth, I went with her to the gym to support her as she tried losing the pregnancy weight. My daughter eventually stopped going, but I continued,” she says. When Tripat started lifting in the gym, his family wasn’t too happy: “They told me this isn’t the right age. They asked ‘What if something happens to your joints?’ But thankfully I had always been active, so there were no major problems.” His story is true of many senior citizens in this country since lifting weights is considered a young person’s game. Gentler cardio routines such as jogging, aerobic exercises, chair yoga and pilates are more common among seniors. “I took up running 12 years ago and that did make me fitter. But still, my paunch remained until I started lifting,” Tripat says. Working within limits Chirag has been a strong advocate of progressive resistance training for seniors. “No matter how old you are, your bones and muscles are still living tissue. By progressively challenging it, in a way that works for you, resistance training can get you strong enough and truly be functional,” he writes in an Instagram post. In November, he announced ‘GrannyGang’, a one-week free trial of at-home workouts for older adults. “Train at an intensity that feels right for you rather than doing too much too soon. Consistency is most important. Train so that you at least have the base strength to do your daily activities,” he says. In his initial conversations with his clients, if Chirag finds out that they need medical attention, he makes sure that they have a clearance to train from their doctors. “You have to find out what everyone’s starting point is, and then build a training programme around that, not the other way around,” he says. The movement Kiran Bai undertakes now reminds her of her youth: milking cows, pulling water from the well and grinding flour. In most cases, a tendency towards movement and fitness in your 20s helps in getting back in shape later in life as well. Ambika, too, says she has always been fairly active; one of her favourite sports was playing basketball with her family. “Most of my peers complain of knee or arm pain which I never had because of the workouts. I have also never felt the need for househelp,” she says. It doesn’t matter how sedentary your career has been, points out Tripat. “Even ten minutes of workout is important in opening up your body. Our bodies were not made for just sitting idle. If you do, they will degrade eventually.”  Tips for beginners In Chandigarh, 76-year old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18-20 year-old men at OZ Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go. In Chandigarh, 76-year old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18-20 year-old men at OZ Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A lone tusker called Shankar||Where is Shankar right now? What is going through his mind? Is he aware that his dramatic escape left a trail of confusion, and grudging admiration, in Gudalur in The Nilgiris? These are questions only the elephant himself can answer. Right now, he is wandering through Kerala’s Nilambur forest, and chances are he remembers his rescue. After all, elephants have a sharp memory. The single-tusked elephant, nicknamed after the forest watcher who found his broken tusk, is being tracked by the State Forest Department to be tranquilised and captured. He is said to be responsible for killing three people in Gudalur this month. But this is not just another man-animal conflict story. A massive operation to track Shankar, described as a ‘brash’ 50-year-old elephant, and which involved four kumki elephants, four veterinarians, three drones, 25 camera traps and 70 people from the State Forest Department including 30 trackers from tribal communities, took an extraordinary turn on December 14. As the search team closed in — they even fired a tranquiliser dart — a herd of elephants unexpectedly appeared from the fragmented Shola forest patch surrounded by tea plantations. The herd of five females, three males and a calf walked Shankar towards the safety of forest cover. They thwarted what was already a challenging task for the Forest Department given the difficult terrain. The operation is still on, but the herd’s intervention and Shankar’s entry into Kerala has delayed the elephant’s capture. Daring escape What prompted the herd to trundle towards Shankar despite the risk of exposing itself to human presence? The answer, according to I Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, who oversaw the operation, lies with a female in the herd. “He was courting her,” he says. As soon as he was sedated, the herd “stood beside him, prompting him not to fall into delirium and escorted him till he revived. They assumed he was sick,” he explains. Raman Sukumar, Honorary Professor at IISc Bengaluru, who has been studying elephants for 40 years, is still puzzled at the rescue. “Usually, when we dart a female elephant to radio collar it, for instance, other family members bunch around it because they feel it is in danger,” he says, adding that this is because elephants are from a matriarchal society. But this “milling around” is rare when the elephant in question is a male, he says. “Males are usually solitary or move in what we call ‘bachelor groups’ consisting of an older male and one or two younger ones,” he adds. The only explanation he feels for the Shankar episode is that he was “temporarily associated with a family in the group”. Shankar is on the minds of a lot of people now, including photojournalists who camped in the hills to take his pictures, locals who hoped he would be caught, and people like Tarsh Thekaekara, who is part of The Shola Trust, a non-profit, charitable Trust involved in Nature conservation in the Nilgiris. He terms the incident complex. “There seemed to be a coordinated effort led by the herd to empty the landscape,” he says. While experts reason, and some of us even come up with romantic stories, we may perhaps never fully understand why the herd came for Shankar that day. Says Tarsh, “Only the elephants know why they did that. We can’t talk to them, can we?”
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Cherished companions||When the lockdown left 78-year-old homemaker Sharada Ganapathy from Chennai with an abundance of leisure time, she decided to knit dolls instead of spending it watching movies or plays, as was the norm for her. Sharada decided to take up doll-making after seeing her friend make small figurines for golu display and reading a book on the craft two years ago. She sources her yarns (synthetic wool blends like acrylic and cashmilon) online and prefers to wind two together for a more sturdy doll. “As I gift most of my dolls to young children, they should be able to withstand constant handling, which is why having a double-strength yarn is necessary. I stuff the body with nylon filling so that the doll can be washed often,” she says. Sharada has created over 60 woollen dolls of various shapes and sizes in the past two years with at least 20 dolls made during lockdown. Several of them have found a place in her golu collection at her home in Nandanam. The toys are suitable both for infants and slightly older children, and have a detailed wardrobe. “Some patterns require the head and limbs to be made separately. Knitting various accessories can be time-consuming.” While a palm-held toy can be made in one or two days, the bigger dolls require up to a week. “Getting the facial features right is essential to giving life to a doll, so I need to concentrate on that part first,” she adds. Knitting dolls can be a source of employment for many women and Sharada says she is willing to help anyone learn the basics. “I hope to sell some dolls and perhaps undertake small orders for birthdays and festive décor items in the coming months, but at a scale that I can manage without too much pressure,” says Sharada.  Sharada can be reached on 9840443341.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The van of music||On December 26 and 27, if you are at the right place and the right time, you might spot ‘The Little Boy’. This van of colour and music will be travelling across parks, beaches and city malls as part of On The Streets of Chennai’s ‘Awe50me Weekend’. Last year, this busking group( @onthestreetsofchennai on Instagram )had organised its first ‘Awe50me Weekend’ to celebrate bringing live film music to the city’s streets for 50 straight weekends. This year too, they have collaborated with upcoming bands as well as Chennai Smart City Limited to host the second edition — featuring 50 live shows by eight bands held over two days — at undisclosed locations to keep the element of surprise. “One of the new things we are introducing this year is our Little Boy,” says Senthil Raj, co-founder of On The Streets. “It is a Maruti Omni van, hand-painted by artistes Durga Devi and Krutika Raju who were also part of the Kannagi Nagar St+art initiative. The bands will take turns travelling in the van with their instruments and speakers to different locations.”  Keeping the locations and timings of the show discreet is even more necessary this year so as to avoid crowding in public spaces. “The show will primarily be online and streamed on our YouTube, Facebook and Instagram handles,” says Raj, adding, “We will also ask passers-by to socially distance while singing along.” It has not been a great year for busking considering we stayed indoors for the most of it. Yet, On The Streets, which prides itself on encouraging real life connections, moved to the digital realm and continued hosting a live show every weekend. “That is actually how we met a lot of new musicians this year; so that was a plus,” says Rashmi Nanda, co-founder of On The Streets. Rashmi, who also started PH Cafe — a place tailored for outdoor open mics and live gigs — in Egmore last year, adds: “Busking outdoors is still the safest way to play live music gigs. We will make sure that every musician except the vocalist is wearing a mask, and we will keep sanitising the mics.” “This is a good way to reach out to the public who have had a sad year, and bring them music, life and energy,” she remarks. Playing a small part in bringing that positivity is ‘The Little Boy’, which is still in a workshop getting its final touch-up. “Once we are done with this show, we will be using it to travel to exotic locations and shoot cover songs,” says Raj.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on the grassroots||While Margazhi in Chennai is often considered synonymous with the classical arts, it is also the time when heritage museum DakshinaChitra shines the spotlight on the folk arts of South India. Folk artistes from across South India join, to present an eclectic and colourful mixture of traditional performing arts that are most often only associated with weddings and temple festivals. This year, though there were reservations both financially and otherwise, the management is restricting the Margazhi Village Festival to the weekends. Artist and coordinator at DakshinaChitra, Gita Hudson, has been seeing a steady crowd ever since the museum reopened on November 9 after being shut for eight months. Having the luxury of open spaces within the 10-acre campus aides this interest. “The festival usually starts before December, and continues till January between which comes Pongal. This year, we didn’t want to give it a miss,” says Gita. Four groups are set to perform. The artistes were elated to join, says Gita, pointing out how folk and traditional artistes were hit hard in the pandemic-led slowdown. “They want to be back on their toes and get back to normal life,” says Gita. Linge Srinivas and troupe from Karnataka will perform kamsale dance, a performance wielding the 11th Century percussion instrument kamsale (a cymbal-like instrument made of brass). This form incorporates elements of dance and martial arts. John Peter and troupe from Chennai will showcase thappattam or paraiattam , a rhythmic display of movement and music using the thappu . From Kerala, Nandakumar and troupe will perform panchavadyam , an orchestra typical of the region which comprises five instruments: kombu , edakka , thimila , ilathalam and maddalam . The troupe will also perform the garagalu dance, with an earthen vessel called garaga . Since the performances will be in open spaces, social distancing measures can be easily enforced. Sanitising stations are set up “And, arrow marks will guide the guests on where to go. This will also divide the crowd.”  Line-up   Kamsale:  December 25 to 27    Thappattam:  January 1 to 3, 2021    Panchavadyam:  January 8 to 10, 2021    Garugalu:  January 22 to 24, 2021  Each dance will be performed at 11.30 am, 12.30 pm, 3.30 pm and 4.30 pm on the respective days.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk turkey||Sunu Mathew is not sure when the plump turkey roast — stuffed with potatoes, sausages, bacon and bread — became part of the Christmas feast at her home in Kochi. It probably began after two of her sisters moved abroad, she says. “When all of us gathered for Christmas or Easter, my mother had substituted the traditional duck roast with turkey roast. Then it became a family tradition whenever us sisters and our families got together,” Sunu adds. Manju Jose, however, says that no Christmas lunch at her ancestral home in Pala, Kottayam, was ever complete without her maternal grandmother Annakutty Kayalackakom’s  turkey roast. “It was her piece-de-resistance. She was a renowned home cook of her time, and she reared a free ranging country turkey specially for Christmas,” recalls Manju. Flying off the shelf Nevertheless, until a few years ago, turkey was a rarity in most Malayali homes. In the last few years, however, the bird has found pride of place in the Christmas or Easter spread in many hotels and homes. “Globalisation, frequent travellers, non-resident Indians who vacation in India during Christmas, social media and television images have made the turkey roast a familiar dish for many in India,” explains Chef Mahesh Kumar of Madison Street, a restaurant in Thiruvananthapuram that has been serving turkey roast as a season special for the last two years. Turkey roast or sliced turkey is served from December 1 to January 1 at Madison Street. Mahesh says that about 68 to 70 orders of roast turkey (at Rs. 1,650 for a full turkey) is sold during the season. Each one weighs about four to five kilograms. “It is on our menu but once Christmas season is over, it has to be pre-booked,” says Varun Krishnan, one of the partners of Madison Street, who operates his own turkey farm near Karyavatttom in Thiruvananthapuram. YouTube throws up interesting, indigenous recipes for turkey that are not necessarily served in the traditional Continental style, with cranberry sauce and mashed potatoes. Innovative cooks have come up with turkey peralan , turkey stew and marinated turkey deep fried in coconut oil. Each household and restaurant has its own recipe for turkey roast to cater to local tastes. Usha Mathew, a YouTuber (Samanwayam) from Palakkad, says she took her mother’s recipe for chicken roast, and added a little twist to come up with her recipe for a spicy turkey roast marinated with ginger-garlic paste, chilli, turmeric and pepper, and cooked in an uruli . “ Ammachi had her own special recipe for the turkey roast. It was stuffed with biryani rice, and served with mashed potatoes and vegetables. Another recipe of hers was to slice it and serve it with sautéed vegetables,” recalls Manju. Chain reaction As turkey became part of the Christmas feast, turkey farms too have multiplied across Kerala. “The bird is much in demand during Easter and Christmas, and even during Onam. During lockdown, we had customers from Neyyattinkara in the south of Kerala to Malappuram and Kannur in the north. At present, we are overbooked and all the birds (about a month-old) have been sold to farms and families all over Kerala,” says veterinary surgeon Dr Josephine Francis, who is in charge of Kerala Government’s Regional Poultry Farm (RPF) at Kureepuzha, Kollam. Between April and November this year, RPF sold as many as 15,824 birds including one day, one month and a few two-month-old birds. The increased demand has forced RPF to stop supply of day-old chicks recently; only one-month-old chicks are sold now (at Rs. 150 per chick), mainly for farms and households. Buyers who purchase 50 to 100 chicks usually do so for turkey farms that breed for the meat. Families generally buy 10 to 15 chicks to fatten them for Christmas and Easter, or to grow as pets. The birds are best for the table when they are about six to seven months old. When they are a year old, the meat starts becoming tough. “Prior to lockdown, some birds were arriving from poultry farms in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Once that stopped, there was a sharp spike in demand for local chicks from families and farms. The situation is such that we take about three months to supply the birds after the order is placed,” Dr Josephine points out. It is the same story at Arackal Farms, a private farm in Alappuzha. Most of the chicks are sold much before Christmas. “By December all our chicks are booked, and we rarely have any to spare,” says Swaroop Arackal, who has been running the farm for two years. He adds that the demand this year has been from Kerala primarily whilst the previous years saw buyers from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as well. Not everyone is a fan of turkey meat though. “It is a taste one gets acquainted with. We had it once for Christmas and I found the meat quite tough. In our family, the favourites are chicken, duck and pork,” asserts Rhea Philip. However, thanks to gourmet recipes and Instagram, looks like the turkey roast in its many forms has carved a niche for itself on the table for Christmas .  Chef Mahesh Kumar’s turkey roast recipe Apply salt all over the turkey and keep it refrigerated overnight. The next day, wash it off and apply butter mixture of thyme, parsley, garlic paste and salt between the skin and flesh, and inside the turkey too. Keep refrigerated overnight. Fill it with your choice of vegetables and roast in the oven between 160 degrees and 170. For one kilogram of turkey, it takes 60 minutes, likewise three kilograms of turkey takes three hours to roast. Every 20 minutes, make sure to keep it moist by pouring the melted butter from the tray on the turkey.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Pupper on my table||Nila is hard to miss for anyone visiting Humane Animal Society in Coimbatore. One can either find her lazing around under the shade of a bougainvillea plant in the compound or playing with volunteers. “Nila was found in a ditch in the city six months ago. She was weak, dirty and in severe pain. But now she has recovered and is a happy soul,” says Mini Vasudevan, co-founder. Nila is one of the animals featured in EveryLife 2021, the annual fundraiser calendar brought out by the NGO. “We have been bringing out calendars since 2013. It helps us find money to maintain the shelter,” she explains. The tabletop calendar also features 19 other dogs and cats that are ready for adoption. “The number of animals abandoned has increased by around 10% after lockdown,” says Mini. All photographs have been clicked by volunteers of the organisation. A portrait with your pet Another calendar is by Chennai-based pet photographer Eshita Prasanna who runs Tailshots. “My calendar features dogs, cats and birds that belong to people in the city. It is difficult to choose from the photographs I have. I kept going back and changing them till the last minute,” she says. Eshita also does customised calendars for pet parents. “It is always fun to photograph animals. Some are great posers. All you need is a little patience,” she says. In addition to photographs, animal illustrations are also a common feature in many calendars. The one by Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary (BMAD) in Chennai features digital drawings of cows, horses and donkeys rescued from the city. Most of the animals featured have already been adopted. Mambazham and Valapazham, also featured in the calendar, are two ponies who were found in Chennai’s streets eating mango and banana peels, respectively. “Valapazham’s hoof was in bad shape and she was limping. It was cracked and infested with maggots. He took three months to recover and now loves nothing more than being around people,” says Dr Josika Navukkarasu, veterinarian at BMAD. Resident models Permanent residents of animal shelters also find a place in the calendars of organisations. Bengaluru-based Charlie’s Animal Rescue Centre (CARE) and Chennai-based The Blue Cross of India have in-house residents as their models. “They have been through severe trauma and so we like to keep them with us,” explains Sudha Narayan, founder trustee of CARE. The theme for the calendar is Super Heroes and it features caricatures of the animals done by artist Bindu Desetty. “We started work last month. The animals are given superhero tags for the different qualities they have. For example, we have Sniffles, a piglet who loves vanilla ice cream and belly rubs. She was attacked by street dogs and was wounded when we rescued her. Five-and-a-half-year-old Roo is a happy dog that loves to run around despite having a deformed leg.” The proceeds from the sales go towards maintaining the shelter. The Blue Cross of India’s tabletop calendar with space to mark important dates also has illustrations of animals done by Alamelu Annhamalai, who is a volunteer with the organisation. “One of the animals is a two-month-old piglet called Vellayan. He was rescued with wounds all over his body after being attacked by animals and humans. Now, he is learning to trust people again. He is one of the most huggable animals in the shelter and loves to munch on fruits and slurp his health drink,” says Vivek Venkatraman, volunteer coordinator.  Where to buy? Charlie’s Animal Rescue Centre’s calendar is priced at Rs. 300. Visitwww.charlies-care.comto make a purchase Humane Animal Society’s costs Rs. 250 exclusive of postage. Call 9366127215 or emailhas.cbe@gmail.comto order Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary’s will be available at the dispensary for Rs. 500. Online orders can be made through their Instagram handle, @besantmemorialanimal dispensary The Blue Cross of India’s will be available at No 72, Velachery Main Road, Guindy, Chennai or through their Instagram handle, @blue_cross_rescues for Rs. 550. Call 8220460054 for details. Tailshots’ tabletop calendar is for Rs. 750 and wall hanging at Rs. 950. Call 9940070163 or visithttps://www.instagram.com/tailshots_petphotography/to order
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Age is just the number they deadlift||Deadlifting in a Marwari-drape sari sure looks cool, but the reason why octagenarian Kiran Bai from Chennai took up weight training at this age was for a simple, yet integral purpose. For the first time in five years, the 82-year-old could sit down on the floor and get back up by herself. This need for physical independence is driving a small section of India’s senior citizens to take up weight training; a deadly pandemic putting them in the vulnerable category has only reinforced the need. Tired of her sedentary life, remaining constrained to her home and unable to meet her loved ones, Kiran Bai was not in a great place psychologically until she found a coach in her grandson, Chirag Chordia, partner at Chennai’s Strength System. Defying expectations “In the beginning of lockdown, my grandmother was saying things like her end was near. She felt she couldn’t do anything but sit with her phone,” narrates Chirag, who is also based in Chennai but lives separately. “At that point, my mother reached out to me asking if I could talk to her, not as a coach but just as a grandson.” What started as conversations over phone calls, turned into a virtual, and, before long, in-person training programme between grandson and grandmother. Less than four months later, Kiran is now doing full body workouts thrice a week: lifting five kilograms on each hand, doing seated inchworms, resistance band training and squats. But what makes her happiest is that she can now walk four to five lengths of the hall without catching her breath. In Chandigarh, 76-year-old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18- to 20-year-old men at Ozi Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go. They spot him as he bench presses 80 kilograms in the mornings from 6 am to 9 am. Weight training was not something Tripat got into until he was 64. Still, he had learnt the importance of fitness much earlier in life looking at how diabetes affected his father. “I was with him in his last days. It’s tough when the body is losing the battle at the end. I resolved then to drive this condition out from my family,” he says. Tripat lives with his two sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren. However, he sounds miffed that none of them share his passion for fitness. Three thousand kilometres down South in Thiruvananthapuram, 70-year-old Ambika Nair has a similar complaint. “ Chettan oru madiyan aanu (My husband is a lazy fellow),” she says, teasingly. “There is no point sitting at home thinking you are old. Follow whatever form of movement you like. It doesn’t have to be heavy weights, but keep at it,” says Ambika. Before the pandemic, she was a regular at Belaire Health Club, a fitness centre in the city, doing 70 kilograms leg press. Her fitness journey is entwined with that of her daughter’s, starting when she gave birth to her and re-starting it over two decades later, when her daughter gave birth to her child. “I first started yoga classes to lose weight after my pregnancy,” says Ambika, explaining that “in those days (1969), it wasn’t common for women to go to gyms” and that yoga was more acceptable. “Then, 18 years ago, after my daughter gave birth, I went with her to the gym to support her as she tried losing the pregnancy weight. My daughter eventually stopped going, but I continued,” she says. When Tripat started lifting in the gym, his family wasn’t too happy: “They told me this isn’t the right age. They asked ‘What if something happens to your joints?’ But thankfully I had always been active, so there were no major problems.” His story is true of many senior citizens in this country since lifting weights is considered a young person’s game. Gentler cardio routines such as jogging, aerobic exercises, chair yoga and pilates are more common among seniors. “I took up running 12 years ago and that did make me fitter. But still, my paunch remained until I started lifting,” Tripat says. Working within limits Chirag has been a strong advocate of progressive resistance training for seniors. “No matter how old you are, your bones and muscles are still living tissue. By progressively challenging it, in a way that works for you, resistance training can get you strong enough and truly be functional,” he writes in an Instagram post. In November, he announced ‘GrannyGang’, a one-week free trial of at-home workouts for older adults. “Train at an intensity that feels right for you rather than doing too much too soon. Consistency is most important. Train so that you at least have the base strength to do your daily activities,” he says. In his initial conversations with his clients, if Chirag finds out that they need medical attention, he makes sure that they have a clearance to train from their doctors. “You have to find out what everyone’s starting point is, and then build a training programme around that, not the other way around,” he says. The movement Kiran Bai undertakes now reminds her of her youth: milking cows, pulling water from the well and grinding flour. In most cases, a tendency towards movement and fitness in your 20s helps in getting back in shape later in life as well. Ambika, too, says she has always been fairly active; one of her favourite sports was playing basketball with her family. “Most of my peers complain of knee or arm pain which I never had because of the workouts. I have also never felt the need for househelp,” she says. It doesn’t matter how sedentary your career has been, points out Tripat. “Even ten minutes of workout is important in opening up your body. Our bodies were not made for just sitting idle. If you do, they will degrade eventually.”  Tips for beginners In Chandigarh, 76-year old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18-20 year-old men at OZ Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go. In Chandigarh, 76-year old Tripat Singh is somewhat of a local hero to the fitness community. His workout buddies are 18-20 year-old men at OZ Gym, of which he has been made the brand ambassador after he did 584 push-ups in one go.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The van of music||On December 26 and 27, if you are at the right place and the right time, you might spot ‘The Little Boy’. This van of colour and music will be travelling across parks, beaches and city malls as part of On The Streets of Chennai’s ‘Awe50me Weekend’. Last year, this busking group( @onthestreetsofchennai on Instagram )had organised its first ‘Awe50me Weekend’ to celebrate bringing live film music to the city’s streets for 50 straight weekends. This year too, they have collaborated with upcoming bands as well as Chennai Smart City Limited to host the second edition — featuring 50 live shows by eight bands held over two days — at undisclosed locations to keep the element of surprise. “One of the new things we are introducing this year is our Little Boy,” says Senthil Raj, co-founder of On The Streets. “It is a Maruti Omni van, hand-painted by artistes Durga Devi and Krutika Raju who were also part of the Kannagi Nagar St+art initiative. The bands will take turns travelling in the van with their instruments and speakers to different locations.”  Keeping the locations and timings of the show discreet is even more necessary this year so as to avoid crowding in public spaces. “The show will primarily be online and streamed on our YouTube, Facebook and Instagram handles,” says Raj, adding, “We will also ask passers-by to socially distance while singing along.” It has not been a great year for busking considering we stayed indoors for the most of it. Yet, On The Streets, which prides itself on encouraging real life connections, moved to the digital realm and continued hosting a live show every weekend. “That is actually how we met a lot of new musicians this year; so that was a plus,” says Rashmi Nanda, co-founder of On The Streets. Rashmi, who also started PH Cafe — a place tailored for outdoor open mics and live gigs — in Egmore last year, adds: “Busking outdoors is still the safest way to play live music gigs. We will make sure that every musician except the vocalist is wearing a mask, and we will keep sanitising the mics.” “This is a good way to reach out to the public who have had a sad year, and bring them music, life and energy,” she remarks. Playing a small part in bringing that positivity is ‘The Little Boy’, which is still in a workshop getting its final touch-up. “Once we are done with this show, we will be using it to travel to exotic locations and shoot cover songs,” says Raj.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Cherished companions||When the lockdown left 78-year-old homemaker Sharada Ganapathy from Chennai with an abundance of leisure time, she decided to knit dolls instead of spending it watching movies or plays, as was the norm for her. Sharada decided to take up doll-making after seeing her friend make small figurines for golu display and reading a book on the craft two years ago. She sources her yarns (synthetic wool blends like acrylic and cashmilon) online and prefers to wind two together for a more sturdy doll. “As I gift most of my dolls to young children, they should be able to withstand constant handling, which is why having a double-strength yarn is necessary. I stuff the body with nylon filling so that the doll can be washed often,” she says. Sharada has created over 60 woollen dolls of various shapes and sizes in the past two years with at least 20 dolls made during lockdown. Several of them have found a place in her golu collection at her home in Nandanam. The toys are suitable both for infants and slightly older children, and have a detailed wardrobe. “Some patterns require the head and limbs to be made separately. Knitting various accessories can be time-consuming.” While a palm-held toy can be made in one or two days, the bigger dolls require up to a week. “Getting the facial features right is essential to giving life to a doll, so I need to concentrate on that part first,” she adds. Knitting dolls can be a source of employment for many women and Sharada says she is willing to help anyone learn the basics. “I hope to sell some dolls and perhaps undertake small orders for birthdays and festive décor items in the coming months, but at a scale that I can manage without too much pressure,” says Sharada.  Sharada can be reached on 9840443341.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Shakespeare slam||Till four months ago, eight-year-old R Vishakan barely knew who William Shakespeare was. Then, Saturday night changed it all for the class II student of Mahatma CBSE School in Madurai. “I want to read and perform the Bard’s works,” he says playfully, after winning second prize in the junior mono act competition of Shakespeare’s plays conducted by the India chapter of Helen O’Grady International, an organisation that has been globally promoting personal development through drama for 40 years. What made the flagship annual event — The Battle of the Bard — more challenging this year was its online format due to the pandemic. However, that did not lessen the enthusiasm of contestants, says Arpita Mittal, CEO of the Perth (Australia)-based organisation’s India chapter. Vishakan’s delighted parents say, but for the online competition (posters of which they came across accidentally), their son would not have been exposed to the works of the celebrated playwright at this impressionable age. “He does not have stage fright and can memorise things fast, so we made him participate to keep him off gadgets,” says M Renganathan of his son, who enrolled in Helen O Grady’s workshop on dramatics for a week. From his school day memories of studying Shakespeare, Renganathan chose Shylock’s role in Merchant of Venice for his son to enact. The three-minute video clip was filmed on his phone. “We saw Vishakan enjoy his rehearsals. The instinct that the big announcement could be in his favour strengthened when the international panel of judges expressed their awe at an eight-year-old’s memory and acting skills during the virtual prize ceremony,” he adds. More than 750 entries from 22 States were submitted and the panel of eight Indian judges short listed 10 best in each category: mono act and monologues/soliloquy for juniors (eight to 12 years), seniors (13 to 20 years) and open category (for those above 20 years). Helen O Grady’s international directors from Malta, Morocco, Ireland and South Africa further shortlisted five nominations in each category and announced the final winners. Vishakan was the youngest contestant and Achuthan Kumar, at 70, was the oldest awardee. The first two years of Shakespeare slam were held as inter-school competition across multiple cities. Tamil Nadu with 52 submissions debuted at the competition this year and gave three winners in a list of 15. “So many people with a joy and wonder for Shakespeare found a place of connection,” says Arpita, who established the India chapter in Mumbai in 2003. “The brilliant performances by the participants reflect that the appetite for literature and understanding of Shakespeare has not diminished,” she says. Adds Archana Dange, TN operations head, “Shakespeare is an integral part of our school learning, yet our students are put off by his works largely because the way it is taught in schools.” Winners are entitled to participate in the Shakespeare School Festival held annually in Cape Town every September. This year’s winners will have to wait and count on their luck depending on the COVID-19 situation.
24 December 2020||December 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaan||The latest episode of Paytm Insider presents Jim Beam Originals is up this Friday with Bollywood playback singer Shaan going live with his personal twist on popular tracks by Bryan Adams. Shaan’s original take comes on the heels of Benny Dayal, Colonial Cousins and other much-loved Indian voices, each belting out their own renditions of some equally loved classics from overseas. Independent talents like Raghu Dixit, Karsh Kale and Shor Police are set to follow suit over the next few months. The digital event will go live at 9 pm on December 26 at www.insider.in; visit the website for one-time and season passes for the rest of the series.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Desi geysers’ a boon for farmers to beat the cold||With another cold wave being forecast in the national capital, “Desi Geysers” have made their way to the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border to help protesters heat water for bathing purposes, among other utilities. On Wednesday, hundreds of protesting farmers were seen carrying the steel geysers back to their trolleys, some of which were stationed kilometres away from the main stage that has been erected at the protest site. Vikram Singh, a resident of Kaithal district in Haryana, said that with the temperature dipping regularly, bathing had proved to be a difficult activity since his arrival to the Delhi border. Biting cold “We have been here for almost over a week now. Our trolley has been parked nearly six kilometres away from the main stage. In fact, our trolleys are towards the beginning of the other side of the protest. All these days we were having to take a bath from tankers kept in some of the open spaces but the biting cold had made it difficult. However, now with these geysers it’ll be easier as we can just put some wood and heat the water before using,” said Mr. Singh. Harwinder Singh Tony, another farmer from Mohali said, “I have been here since the first day. It’s been nearly a month now and with the cold getting worse, bathing in petrol pumps was becoming difficult. As for the tankers, we had to share the water with several other people. But now we can have these ‘desi geysers’ to ourselves and heat water whenever we want to.” The “desi geysers” are also a common sight in their respective villages, farmers added. Big relief A farmer from Ludhiana’s Rauni village, Palwinder Singh, who is also volunteering at one of the langar services said, “We have been using these geysers to heat water which can be used to wash utensils and boil water. Though we do not use it for drinking purposes much, now that it’s being distributed is a big boon for those protesting here.” The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Wednesday distributed hundreds of such geysers, free of cost. Hardeep Singh Oberoi, a Delhi resident and one of the volunteers with the DSGMC said, “We have procured around 500 of these “desi geysers” with contributions made by several people and distribution started from Wednesday. Sitting in our homes when we are ending up using heaters, these geysers can only be considered as a basic necessity for these farmers who are sitting outside in the cold without no such facility.”
24 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cases filed against 13 persons for blocking Haryana CM’s convoy||The Haryana police have booked 13 people for attempt to murder, rioting, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions among other charges after a group of farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws waved black flags at Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s convoy and blocked its path in Ambala on Tuesday. ‘Blocked pilot vehicle’ The police said an FIR has been registered in Ambala (City) police station against 13 persons who allegedly were involved in blocking the movement of the ‘pilot’ vehicle of the CM’s convoy and also damaged the bonnet of the vehicle by hurling sticks. “We have booked 13 protesters on a complaint filed by police personnel on Tuesday under different sections. The accused obstructed public servants from discharging their duty, damaged public property. They attacked police personnel on duty with an intention to kill. So far, no one has been arrested,” Ram Kumar, SHO , Ambala (City), told The Hindu . According to the FIR, they have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Scores of protesters gathered near the Agrasen Chowk in Ambala (City) had on December 22 waved black flags, shouted slogans and blocked the road of the CM’s convoy. They were protesting against the new farm laws. Mr. Lal was in Ambala to address public gatherings for BJP candidates ahead of upcoming election to civic bodies.
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM encourages AUD passouts to be entrepreneurs||Addressing the ninth convocation of Ambedkar University Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday told students that they must look towards becoming entrepreneurs and becoming job providers. He added that the Delhi government was launching a start-up policy that would guide them and provide legal, technical and financial support and requested students to avail the opportunity to start their own business to build a better India. “Many of you have got placements. I am not saying that you should give that up. I am saying that you should gain experience in the field and then after a few years, your aim should be to quit the job and start something on your own,” Mr. Kejriwal told students. ‘Take part in politics’ In his address, he also stressed on the importance of every individual participating in the politics of the country. “You do not have to be a politician to participate in the politics of the country. If people stop participating in the politics of the country then they will stop participating in democracy and then democracy will go for a toss,” Mr. Kejiwal said. During the convocation, 1,003 students were awarded with PhD, MPhil, MBA, MA, UG degrees in various fields of studies. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia congratulated the university and the students for earning their degrees in one of the toughest years for education due to the pandemic. He praised AUD for having a system of having continuous assessments and not relying on one examination at the end of the year.
24 December 2020||New Delhi,||Will help farmers prosecute BJP leaders: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said it will provide assistance to farmers who want to file a case against BJP leaders for their “defamatory” remarks against protesting farmers. Earlier in the day, AAP workers protested near BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri’s house for his alleged derogatory comments about the protesting farmers, the party said. “Leaders of the BJP have described the farmers as terrorists, anti-nationals, gundas , dalaals , agents of Pakistan and China. The farmers now want justice. They have been requesting the Modi government to listen to them, but in turn were abused,” said AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha. He said that Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had alleged that the ‘Tukde-Tukdegang is behind the farmers’ protest, and Uttar Pradesh Environment Minister Anil Sharma had allegedly used the term ‘gundas’ to refer to protesting farmers. AAP leaders who were going to protest outside Mr. Bidhuri’s house were stopped by the police on their way, said the party. “Today, we have come here to protest against Mr. Bidhuri. We have only 50-60 people here but to stop us, the BJP has deployed around 500 policemen. This is because the BJP is very scared,” AAP MLA Atishi said, adding: “We demand that Mr. Bidhuri apologise to the farmers for his defamatory and derogatory comments.”
24 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ludhiana teachers reach Singhu border in show of solidarity||A group of 50 school teachers reached Singhu border on Wednesday from Ludhiana in solidarity with the farmers’ who are protesting against the three controversial agriculture laws brought in by the Centre. The teachers who reached with their families demanded the laws to be repealed and said that the government was forcing upon the farmers a law which was neither desirable nor beneficial to them. Those joining the agitation in support of the farmers said that they had travelled to Delhi to add to the voices and demands of the laws getting repealed. Parminder Kaur, a school teacher of Baba Mukand Singh Senior Secondary School in Ludhiana said, “What law the government and the Prime Minister have made is something that we do not want. Why is the government giving us something that we do not want while ignoring our demands?” Teachers, who were a part of the group, also claimed to be one of the first few representatives from schools across States to be visiting the protest site along with their families and children. Taken leave “We are here in solidarity with the farmers and we have taken leaves from our work to make the journey and be a part of this protest. We are here for a day and will be returning later in the evening. What is the government’s issue in taking back the laws? Our demand is simple that the laws should be repealed,” said Ms. Kaur.
24 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Boro, Mohilary confident ahead of majority test||Pramod Boro, the newly elected Chief Executive Member of Assam’s autonomous Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), has said his three-party alliance would prove majority in the floor test for the council. His predecessor Hagrama Mohilary, president of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), too, exuded confidence about “beating the odds” while offering the two regional allies of the Bharatiya Janata Party an alternative combination for ruling BTC. BPF, which won 17 of the 40 BTC seats to emerge as the single largest party, had challenged the constitutional validity of the appointment of Mr. Boro and four others as heads of the council on December 15. Hearing the BPF’s petition on December 22, the Gauhati High Court sought a floor test on or before December 26. “We will be happy to showcase the thumping people’s verdict to govern BTR for the next five years on 24th December 2020 at 10 a.m.,” Mr. Boro wrote in his social media account. “We are coming back to power. It will be clear on the day of floor test,” Mr. Mohilary said. He also offered the United People’s Party Liberal and the Gana Suraksha Party an alliance with BPF.
24 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar junior doctors on strike for raise in stipend||Hundreds of junior doctors of government-run medical colleges and hospitals in Bihar went on strike on Wednesday demanding increase in their monthly stipend. The strike affected health and emergency services in hospitals across the State. “The State government had assured junior doctors in 2017 in writing that their monthly stipend would be increased once every three years. But 2020 is almost over and our stipend has not been increased yet,” Harendra Kumar, the president of the Junior Doctors’ Association at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), told mediapersons. Bihar has eight government-run medical colleges and hospitals where thousands of patients come every day for treatment. Dr. Kumar said the strike would continue “till their demand was fulfilled by the government”. The Resident Doctors’ Association too has extended its support to the striking junior doctors. A long queue of patients was seen both at PMCH and the Nalanda Medical College and Hospitals in Patna. Senior doctors were present in wards in view of the pandemic. “Because of the strike by junior doctors, it has become difficult to provide even emergency services ,” a senior doctor said.
24 December 2020||Guwahati,||NSCN(K) faction ‘revives’ ceasefire||The newest splinter group of the Khaplang faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(K), has “revived” the ceasefire agreement the outfit had walked out of in March 2015. In a statement on Wednesday, the Niki Sumi faction of NSCN(K) said it has “decided to revive the ceasefire with immediate effect by revoking the earlier decision of unilateral abrogation of the ceasefire”. The faction’s chief, “General (retired)” Niki Sumi, hoped New Delhi would respond positively “by honouring our decision as a confidence building measure in the larger interest of peace in Nagaland and Naga people in general”. The development is believed to have virtually completed the alleged Indian strategy to isolate the Myanmar-based Nagas from those on the Indian side of the border towards settling the elusive Naga peace process. More than 50 Naga tribes inhabit areas on either side of the India-Myanmar border. NSCN(K) was formed by Myanmar-based S.S. Khaplang in 1988 and had Nagas from both countries in almost equal measure. The NSCN(K), which had declared ceasefire with the Indian armed forces in 2001, split into several factions since. The core group remained united until Khaplang’s death in June 2017 triggered a power struggle within the outfit in Myanmar.
