25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘PLA said Galwan clash was unfortunate’||People’s Liberation Army (PLA) officers, at the Corps Commanders meeting on Monday, repeatedly said that the Galwan clash was an “unfortunate incident”, a top Indian official told The Hindu . India and China have agreed to “disengage from three friction points” in Ladakh and pull back from their current positions, where the Indian Army and the PLA are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation, a second official said. Unprecedented build-up The three areas are Galwan, Hot Springs and the Finger area near Pangong Tso (lake) in Ladakh along the contentious Line of Actual Control (LAC). The areas have witnessed unprecedented build-up of troops since April-May. The second official said the final details of the second round of Corps Commander-level talks that were held on June 22 in Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC have not yet been finalised, and the way ahead would depend on the progress made in the next three-four days. The official said the process of forces pulling back from their positions as part of the “de-escalation exercise” had been initiated and a statement would be issued after the process is complete. “The Galwan incident was raised in the meeting and China was told in the strongest terms that it was not acceptable. What triggered the incident is still being enquired and investigated into. They agreed that any flare-up at the border could derail the efforts put in so far,” added the official. The first official said that in the Galwan area no permanent structures had come up and the Chinese had put up prefabricated tents and makeshift stone shelters. “In Galwan, the PLA used to patrol and leave, but in the past few days they stayed for more number of days than necessitated, around 600-800 m inside India’s perception of the LAC,” the official said. Temporary structures In the Finger area near Pangong Tso, the Chinese built temporary structures 1 km inside the Indian line. “China has shown a willingness to move. Both sides have made good progress. All friction points were discussed one by one in the meeting that went on for more than 10 hours,” said the official. The Chinese side also raised the aggressive coverage of the Galwan incident by the Indian media. They did not provide details of their casualties though.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||152 reported positive in State||Kerala reported 152 new cases of COVID-19 and 81 recoveries on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases or cases currently undergoing treatment in hospitals to 1,691. Of the new cases, 144 are imported cases of infection, with 98 persons having come from abroad and another 46 cases found in persons who had travelled into the State from other parts of the country. The remaining eight cases got infected through local transmission by contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Pathanamthitta accounted for 25 of the new cases, Kollam 18, Kannur 17, Palakkad 16, Alappuzha and Thrissur 15 each, Malappuram 10, Ernakulam, 8, Kottayam 7, Idukki and Kasaragod 6 each, Thiruvananthapuram, 4, Kozhikode 3, and Wayanad 2. Ever since the COVID-19 outbreak happened in the State, 3,603 persons have tested positive for the disease, of whom 1,888 have so far made full recoveries. The State has put 1,54,759 persons under surveillance and in quarantine in various districts. From among this group, 2,282 persons who seemed to have mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. On Wednesday alone, 288 such persons were admitted to hospitals across the State.  While 14 regions entered the hotspot list, another 14 were dropped from the list. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 111.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. suspends intra-zone transport till June 30||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that public and private transport services in various zones, each of which comprises a cluster of districts, will be suspended from June 25 to 30. With effect from June 1, Tamil Nadu was divided into eight zones for the purpose of transport services. Free vehicular movement was being allowed in six of these zones. However, from Thursday till the end of the month, an e-pass will be mandatory for vehicle owners to be able to travel between districts within a zone. Until now, free vehicular movement was permitted in zone I, comprising Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, Karur, Salem and Namakkal. But from Thursday onwards, only intra-district movement will be allowed. Mr. Palaniswami made the announcement following a meeting with District Collectors on Wednesday morning. During the discussions, several Collectors had said that it was becoming difficult to undertake COVID-19 contact tracing of people entering their districts, and that they were unable to stop the arrivals. Taking their views into consideration, the Chief Minister made the announcement that travel between districts within each zone will be banned till June 30. “If anyone owning a private vehicle wants to travel between districts, they can do so after obtaining an e-pass,” he said. Public transportation will also be allowed only within the districts during this period.  At Wednesday’s meeting, a few Collectors raised the issue of a shortage of doctors and nurses in their districts. The Chief Minister assured them that adequate healthcare professionals will be provided to them. The Collectors were directed to implement a "containment strategy" in places where COVID-19 cases were prevalent, and also ramp up testing. “Those who are coming in from other States and countries have to be tested for the virus. At the State border, police personnel should be extremely cautious and work to ensure that those coming in from other States are tested. If they are found COVID-19-positive, treatment should be provided to them,” the CM said. He said that according to doctors, 80% of people with COVID-19 had no symptoms. “Wherever the virus has spread, every person in that area is being tested and provided with treatment,” the CM said, adding that health experts had stated that the spread of the disease will come down only after hitting a peak. “Based on that, we are conducting more tests and helping people recover. That is the way to stop the spread of the disease,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He said people should compulsorily wear masks whenever they step out of their homes. “Please maintain physical distance when you go out,” he said, addressing the public. Mr. Palaniswami also announced that the government will provide a financial aid of Rs. 1,000 to rice ration cardholders in Madurai, where a complete lockdown is in place.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Migrant labourers start returning: CM||Migrant labourers have started returning to the State and arrangements have been made at railway stations on the border to check the documents of those arriving by long-distance express trains. All those who are coming would be subjected to quarantine and those arriving without passes would be sent to quarantine under the responsibility of the contractor, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Without travel passes There could be instances of migrant labourers who did not have travel passes facing the threat of being sent back if the contractors failed to take their responsibility. The government was aware of such situations and instructions had been given to avoid such steps and send such migrant labourers to monitoring centres, the Chief Minister said. The authorities of the district that was the destination of the migrant labourer should take steps to provide quarantine facilities. The district administration had been asked to make available employment opportunities in the same district to such migrant labourers after the mandatory quarantine. There is no clear data on the number of migrants and sources of their origin available with the Labour Department or other official agencies.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||State sees 10 deaths in a day as COVID tally crosses 10,000||The State has crossed the 10,000-mark in positive COVID-19 tally with the addition of 497 cases during the past 24 hours. During the same period, the State also witnessed 10 deaths and the toll has gone up to 129. The number of overall fresh COVID cases, number of fresh cases among locals and the number of new deaths all are the highest single-day spikes reported so far. The State tally reached 10,331 and there are 5,423 active patients while 4,779 patients recovered so far. Of the 10 new deaths, four occurred in Kurnool, three in Krishna, two in Guntur and one occurred in Srikakulam district, according to bulletin issued by the Health Department on Wednesday. Samples Meanwhile, the State has set a new record in testing by increasing its testing capacity to a whopping 36,047 samples per day. It had tested the same number of samples in the past day. In order to ramp up testing, the government launched mobile testing centres recently, and 10 such vehicles have been deployed in Krishna district alone. So far, 7.5 lakh samples were tested and in the past four days, nearly one lakh samples were tested in the State. The tests per million population went up to 14,049 and the positivity rate is 1.38%. With 90 fresh local cases Anantapur has crossed the 1,000-mark and the tally went up to 1,028 cases. Kurnool reported 76 new cases, East Godavari 54 cases, Visakhapatnam 41 cases, Chittoor 40 cases, Guntur reported 39 cases and Krishna reported 36 cases. Similarly, West Godavari reported 28 cases, Kadapa reported 24 cases, Nellore reported nine cases, Prakasam reported eight cases and Vizianagaram reported three cases. No new cases were reported in Srikakulam. A majority of the deaths were reported in Krishna (43), Kurnool (42) and Guntur districts (14) amounting to 77 of the total deaths.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC may scrap final year exams||The University Grants Commission (UGC) is considering advising colleges and universities to cancel their final year examinations and semester examinations in light of the increase in COVID-19 cases, according to a senior official at the Ministry of Human Resource Development. It may also recommend further delays in the academic calendar, with the next session pushed back to October. On Wednesday, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted that he had advised the UGC to revisit its earlier guidelines on these issues. “The foundation for revisited guidelines shall be health and safety of students, teachers and staff,” he said. This comes a day before the Supreme Court hearing on cancellation of Class 12 and 10 examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) due to the spread of COVID-19. The Ministry and the CBSE told the court that a final decision on the issue would be communicated by Thursday. The Class 12 examination is scheduled to begin on July 1. In April, a UGC panel, headed by Central University of Haryana Vice-Chancellor R.C. Kuhad, had recommended that final year examinations could be held in July, while intermediate semester students could be graded based on internal assessment or examinations where possible. UGC’s guidelines, based on the panel’s report, had also recommended that the new academic year begin on August 1 for the second and third year students, and September 1 for the first year students. However, Ministry officials say the Kuhad panel has updated its suggestions due to the rapid spread of the pandemic.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sanjay Kumar to be new Chief Secretary, Mehta heads to CMO||Following days of speculation, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta will retire on June 30 and additional chief secretary (housing) Sanjay Kumar will take over the reins of the State, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said late on Wednesday. Mr. Mehta, however, will assume a new role of principal advisor to the Chief Minister from July 1, the CMO said. “The CMO requires an experienced official who has vast experience of restarting the State’s financial and administrative cycle in the backdrop of COVID-19. Therefore, the Chief Minister has decided to appoint him as the principal advisor to the CMO after retirement,” said the statement. A 1984 batch IAS officer, Mr. Mehta was originally supposed to retire in September 2019. He was granted an extension of six months due to the Assembly polls, and then another three months due to COVID-19 pandemic. Increasing influence Mr. Mehta turned into the closest aide of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who lacked administrative experience, earning his trust. However, recent incidents of the administration overstepping on the rights of ministers and Mr. Mehta’s alleged excessive involvement in different departments, had created discontent against him. Senior Cabinet ministers from the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress informed the CM about the uneasiness within political and bureaucratic circles over Mr. Mehta’s growing influence. Mr. Kumar, a 1985 batch IAS officer, will take over as the new Chief Secretary from July 1. The officer, who also has the additional responsibility of the Home Department, is set to retire in February 2021. According to sources, two other senior officers had also been in the running for the State’s top bureaucratic post. These were Additional Chief Secretary (General Administration Department) Sitaram Kunte and Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Development Department) Praveen Pardeshi.
25 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Not a smooth landing for murder accused||A murder accused who escaped to the Gulf 25 years ago landed in police net at the Karipur airport in Kerala on Wednesday when he tried to sneak back into his homeland on a chartered flight following the COVID-19 scare. The arrest of Shafeek Malangadan, 50, prime accused in the murder of Youth League worker Manaf Pallipparamban, brought the focus back on a gory incident that took place at Othayi, near Edavanna, on April 13, 1995, largely because of the alleged involvement of Nilambur MLA P.V. Anvar in the case. A nephew of Mr. Anvar, Shafeek has been under surveillance ever since he escaped to the UAE soon after the murder in 1995. After a prolonged fight for justice by Manaf’s family, police issued a lookout notice for Shafeek following a court order two years ago. The emigration wing at Karipur identified and caught him soon after he landed from Sharjah at 7.50 a.m. on Wednesday. He was produced before a court and was remanded in judicial custody with COVID-19 protection. The Kerala government’s attitude in this case had evoked criticism. It did nothing even after the victim’s family provided pictures and videos of Shafeek enjoying his life in the UAE. The family even staged a protest in front of the Secretariat. Mr. Anvar, the second accused in the case, and 20 others were exonerated by a trial court after the prime witness turned hostile. The victim’s family had raised serious allegations against special prosecutor in the case, C. Sreedharan Nair, who is currently the Director General of Prosecutions, blaming him for the exoneration of Mr. Anvar and others. A review petition filed by Manaf’s brother Abdul Razak, seeking to annul the lower court verdict, is awaiting the High Court’s consideration. The DGP had given a report to the government that there was no public interest in the case and that the appointment of a Special Public Prosecutor would place undue burden on the exchequer. Rejecting the claim, the High Court asked the government to appoint a public prosecutor in two months. The government is yet to act on it.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia turns to Shah to change new policy for assessment of virus cases||Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting him to change the new policy under which people who test positive for COVID-19 using RT-PCR (Rapid Antibody and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) method have to be taken to a ‘COVID Care Centre’ for assessment even for home quarantine. “Yesterday, I had written a letter to the L-G (Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal) to change the new policy which is creating a lot of problem... I had told L-G sir to call an SDMA (State Disaster Management Authority) meeting and change the policy. But the L-G did not reply to the letter,” Mr. Sisodia said while addressing a video briefing. Mr. Sisodia said that the new policy of taking every person to a “quarantine centre” has put a lot of pressure on officials and ambulances, resulting in people being taken to the centres in buses. "There are currently two models on COVID-19 in Delhi. The first model is by Amit Shah ji and the second model is of [Delhi Chief Minister] Arvind Kejriwal ji… I have written to the Home Minister that this is not about your model versus my model. The focus should remain on what model when implemented would ease the problems of the people of Delhi,” Mr. Sisodia said. Mr. Kejriwal also waded in again on Wednesday, saying the virus spread is still not severe in Delhi and the Central government’s order for mandatory clinical assessment is chaotic. “If a person is positive and has a body temperature of 100°C or 102°C, how will he or she stand in queue for a medical check-up?” he said while visiting a COVID Care Centre.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases cross 10,000 mark in TS||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday with 891 more swab samples testing positive, taking the total number of cases to 10,444. After the State government initiated ‘50,000 tests in 10 days’ from June 15 to gauge prevalence of the disease, cases have been shooting up. The 891 fresh cases reported on Wednesday is the highest in a day so far. It includes 719 cases from GHMC area, 86 from Rangareddy, 55 from Medchal. Five more COVID-19 patients died. Of the total 10,444 cases, 5,848 are active cases, 4,361 were discharged and 225 people have died. The first COVID suspect was a returnee from Wuhan in January, who tested negative. Three more samples sent to NIV-Pune in the same week also tested negative. Initially, Sir Ronald Ross Institute for Tropical and Communicable Diseases (Fever Hospital), Nallakunta, was the ground zero for COVID-19 suspects. All the samples used to be sent to Pune for testing. Permission was granted to test samples at Gandhi Hospital’s laboratory from February 7. However, samples were sent to NIV-Pune for confirmation. Though a positive case was anticipated, all officials in the State Health department pressed the alarm when news of first case reached them on March 2. Since the case was confirmed by NIV-Pune, the State Health department officials started to dial the number of the patient to confirm the news. The second case was detected on March 14. The patient was admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Over a period of time, the State government’s tertiary care hospital was turned into the largest COVID Isolation Centre in the State. Cases were in single digit till the end of March, and started to peak from April first week. The first 1,000 cases were recorded from March 2 to April 26. Cases were either in single digit or below 20 till May 8. It started to surge from May 9. A total of 2,698 cases were detected till May-end. Partial relaxation in lockdown was announced in May and on May 27, the number of cases crossed 100 for the first time. Officials from the State Health department said that cases were increasing as more people were coming out of their homes after the lockdown relaxations. The lockdown ended by May 31, and Unlock 1.0 began in June. Huge surge in COVID cases were observed from the beginning of this month. While 2,698 cases were recorded from March 2 to May 31 (91 days), a total of 7,746 cases was recorded from June 1-24 (24 days). Officials are of the opinion that the cases will continue to soar in the coming days.
25 June 2020||Pune,||State records highest surge of 3,890 cases||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge of 3,890 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing its tally to 1,42,900. The State also reported 208 more deaths, taking its toll to 6,739. Wednesday saw Delhi record 3,788 new cases and overtake Mumbai to become the city with highest COVID-19 count in the country. The city’s tally has risen to 70,390, while its death toll climbed to 2,365, with 64 more fatalities. Mumbai added 1,118 new cases, pushing its case load to 69,528, of which 28,548 are active. The city’s death toll climbed to 3,964, with 20 more patients succumbing to the virus. The tally in Dharavi grew to 2,199, with 10 new cases being recorded on Wednesday. The death count in the area remains unchanged at 81. So far, 1,100 have been discharged and there are 1,018 active cases in the area. On Tuesday, Dharavi reported just five cases, its lowest since April 5. State health officials said among the latest deaths, 72 were reported in the last 48 hours, while the remaining 136 were recorded earlier. Of the total cases, 62,354 are active, while 4,161 patients have been discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 73,792. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stood at 51.64%, while its case fatality rate is 4.72%. Pune district’s case load rose to 17,445, with it reporting over 500 cases.
25 June 2020||Madurai,||High Court to monitor custodial death case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday initiated suo motu proceedings in connection with the custodial deaths of two traders — P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks — at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Stating that it would monitor the case, the court urged the public to remain calm. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan to file a status report on the case on June 26. The court observed that the incident had caused anguish and discontent among the public, and underscored the need for having a standard operating procedure in place for the police to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. The people were already facing hardship due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the judges noted. The death of the father-son duo due to alleged torture in police custody drew widespread condemnation from human rights activists, political leaders and the public at large on Tuesday. Two SIs suspended During the course of Wednesday’s hearing, Inspector General of Police (South Zone) K.P. Shanmuga Rajeswaran submitted that two sub-inspectors of the Sattankulam police station — Balakrishnan and Raghuganesan — had been suspended. Besides, Inspector Sridhar had been removed from the station and placed under a “waiting list”, while a departmental inquiry had been initiated against head constables Muthuraj and Murugan, he added. When asked about the present situation in Sattankulam, the Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan submitted that the place was calm and people had faith in police action following the steps initiated. He further submitted that the Judicial Magistrate, Kovilpatti was conducting an inquest into the incident. The judges directed Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian to give instructions to the authorities concerned and ensure that physical distancing was followed during the funeral of the father and son duo. The norms cannot be relaxed as the spread of COVID-19 was rampant, the court observed. The court adjourned the case till Friday for further hearing.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Merger of RS and LS channels in final stages||The process of the merger of Rajya Sabha TV and Lok Sabha TV into Sansad TV is in the final stages. Live proceedings of Parliament sessions will continue to be telecast but the manpower and technical resources will be integrated. Sources said the launch could be by the end of the year, though the deadline has not been finalised. LS Television was launched in 2006 and RS TV in 2011. They have been functioning independently since then. In November last, after discussions between Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, a committee headed by former Prasar Bharati Chairman Surya Prakash was set up, and it submitted its report in February. Three different sub-committees are examining the report to finalise the integration of technical and manpower resources. The Surya Prakash committee also met with MPs from various political parties, who strongly recommended that the live telecast should be continued. Under the banner of the Sansad TV, sources said, the two will continue to telecast live proceedings. The attempt is to go beyond House proceedings and show the functioning of Parliament and parliamentarians when the Houses are not in session. Sources said the new channel would work under an integrated management.
25 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Create awareness instead of putting people in jail’||It would be more advisable to create awareness and consciousness among the public rather than putting them in jails or lock-ups which are already overcrowded with people for violating social distancing protocols during COVID-19 crisis, the Allahabad High Court has noted. Restraining these persons who, for some reason, violated social distancing norms may further aggravate the situation, the court said. A Division Bench of Justices Sunita Agarwal and Saumitra Dayal Singh made the observations in an order on June 19 while hearing a petition by seven Agra residents who sought the quashing of an FIR against them for allegedly violating social distancing norms. According to the May 4 FIR, the seven residents faced charges under Sections 188 (disobedience to order) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioners were part of a crowd of eight to 10 persons who had gathered at a public place in Malko Gali in Tajganj area of Agra. The court took into consideration the argument of the accused that they were distributing food to the poor in the locality when some people “suddenly” gathered at the spot. “Even the petitioners made all efforts to disperse them,” the court said. The court said the petitioners shall not be arrested till the submission of the police report under Section 173 (2) of the CrPC provided they cooperate with the probe.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP issues show-cause notice to Narsapuram MP||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on Wednesday issued a notice to Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, calling for an explanation on his alleged anti-party activities within seven days, failing which action would be taken against him by the parliamentary party. YSRCP national general secretary and MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said in the show-cause notice that Mr. Ramakrishna Raju’s recent conduct and the statements made by him on various government programmes warranted disciplinary action. He said the Narsapuram MP took a stand that was at variance with party line, and listed specific issues on which the MP expressed his views that are in contrast with the government’s decisions. The topics on which Mr. Ramakrishna Raju has allegedly made objectionable comments, are ‘three capitals,’ proposed introduction of English medium from Classes 1 to 6 in government schools, and alleged irregularities in sand mining. Besides, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju has also been accused of posturing himself as having won the elections on his own and saying that he did not owe his victory either to the party or its president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. By his statements, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju violated the basic norms of civility in public discourse, he said.
25 June 2020||YADGIR,||ZP opposition leader assaulted||A gang of men assaulted leader of opposition in the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Marlingappa Karnal with weapons here on Wednesday sending shock waves in political circles and also Buddha Basava Nagar locality on Yadgir-Chittapur Road where the crime occurred. Mr. Karnal suffered injuries on his left hand, shoulder and other parts of the body. He was immediately rushed to the district general hospital here and later shifted to a private hospital in Kalaburagi where his condition is stated to be stable. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane told The Hindu that three men were involved in the attack. “We are conducting an inquiry,” he added.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Can’t permit ICSE exams: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court that it cannot permit the ICSE examinations to be conducted because of the COVID-19 situation. The court, through video conferencing, was hearing a PIL petition filed by a parent.page 10
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||RBI will supervise coop. banks||To protect depositors, the Centre has decided to bring all urban and multi-State cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI. The Union Cabinet approved an ordinance to this effect on Wednesday. “In a landmark decision, the urban cooperatives and multi-State cooperative banks, which are 1,540 in number and have a depositor base of 8.6 crore, who have saved Rs. 4.84 lakh crore, a huge amount... They have been brought under RBI supervision process, which is applicable to scheduled banks. Depositors will get more security...,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India must move out of Galwan: China||China has demanded a withdrawal of Indian personnel and facilities from Galwan Valley. This was conveyed at the Corps Commander talks on June 6 and June 22, officials from China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said on Wednesday. The statements from Beijing came as both sides “agreed to resolve the existing situation peacefully,” following talks held through videoconference on Wednesday under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs. The Ministry of External Affairs said both sides “discussed in detail the developments in the India-China border areas in particular the situation in Eastern Ladakh”. India “conveyed its concerns” on the June 20 face-off that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and “emphasised that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control”, it stated.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases cross 10,000 in State||Karnataka’s total number of COVID-19 positive cases touched 10,118 on Wednesday, with 397 new cases. The State crossed the 10,000 mark just three days after clocking 9,000 cases. Of the new cases, 75 are inter-State passengers and eight international travellers. The State reported 14 deaths taking the toll to 164 apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. This is the highest ever number reported on a single day. While five of the deaths are from Bengaluru Urban, four are from Ballari. While Kalaburagi and Ramanagaram reported two each, one death has been reported from Tumakuru. The total number of discharges stood at 6,151 with 149 more persons walking out of hospitals on Wednesday. Of the 3,799 active cases, while 112 patients are being treated in the ICU of various designated hospitals, the condition of the rest is stable. Meanwhile, the issue on whether another round of strict lockdown is necessary, given the rise in the number of cases, is expected to come up before the State Cabinet on Thursday.    Entry restrictions The government has imposed restrictions on entry of visitors to Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and M.S. Building with immediate effect. The entry of visitors will be allowed only after 3.30 p.m. if they have specific official work. The curbs have been imposed after some employees tested positive.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||KSRTC to start AC services from today||After a gap of over three months, KSRTC has decided to resume AC bus services in a phased manner from Thursday. The corporation has identified several intra-State routes. From Bengaluru, buses will be operated to Mysuru, Mangaluru, Madikeri, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Shivamogga, Kundapur, and Virajpet.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP getting ready to reclaim lake beds||The BBMP is getting ready to crack down on encroachments and reclaim lake beds and surrounding areas that fall under its jurisdiction. Civic Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that as per directions of the High Court, the BBMP has uploaded certified survey sketches and encroachment details of over 100 lakes.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||With 70,000 cases, Delhi now the worst-hit city||Delhi recorded 3,788 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and overtook Mumbai to become the city with the highest number of total cases. Delhi’s case tally has risen to 70,390, while its death toll climbed to 2,365 with 64 more fatalities.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Historians ask DUAC to reject Parliament project||A group of nearly 90 architects, historians, environmentalists, academics and artists has written to the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) calling upon it to reject the proposal for a new Parliament building as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project.
25 June 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool MLA falls victim to COVID-19||Trinamool Congress MLA Tamonash Ghosh, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at a private health facility in the city, passed away on Wednesday. The 60-year-old three-time MLA is survived by wife and two daughters. Mr. Ghosh represented the Falta Assembly constituency.
25 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Ballari dist. reports four deaths, Kalaburagi two||Ballari district reported four COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday taking the toll in the district to eight. As per information provided by Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, the district also reported 34 new cases on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons to 529. As many as 34 patients were discharged from hospital upon recovery taking the total number of recovered patients to 145 and bringing down the number of active cases to 376. In Kalaburagi, two deaths were reported taking the total number of COVID-19 fatalities in the district to 13. The district reported 22 new cases taking the total number of infected persons to 1,254.
25 June 2020||UDUPI,||Patients concealing details to be booked||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Wednesday that criminal cases would be booked against COVID-19 patients who do not give clear and complete information of their primary and secondary contacts. He said here that the work of collecting travel history of patients was going on. If patients did not give clear information, it would not be possible to check the spread of the disease.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||NCP seeks apology over BJP MLC’s virus analogy||BJP’s new Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Gopichand Padalkar sought to compare Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar to the novel coronavirus at a press conference, triggering sharp protests from the NCP that has sought an unconditional apology from him and the BJP. , Mr. Padalkar alleged that the bahujan samaj has been suffering because of the policies of Mr. Pawar.
25 June 2020||Pune,||Solapur village bids adieu to martyred son||Hundreds of citizens and villagers in Solapur’s Barshi taluk stepped out to pay their final tributes to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) head constable Sunil Kale, who was laid to rest in his ancestral village Pangaon on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||Chennai,||New high for T.N. with 2,865 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday registered a new single-day high, recording 2,865 cases of COVID-19. With this, the State’s tally has touched 67,468. Chennai topped the table with 1,654 new cases, taking its tally past 45,000. Another 33 persons died, taking the death toll to 866. A total of 2,424 persons were discharged — the highest single-day figure so far.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka, Tamil Nadu witness 47 deaths||Karnataka reported 14 COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 164, the highest for a single day. Andhra Pradesh crossed the psychological mark of 10,000 cases with the addition of 497 cases in 24 hours. It also witnessed 10 deaths and the toll rose to 129. The number of overall fresh cases, number of fresh cases among locals and the number of deaths set new single-day records in Andhra Pradesh. The State tally was 10,331 with 5,423 active patients, while 4,779 patients recovered. Of the 10 new deaths, four were in Kurnool, three in Krishna, two in Guntur and one in Srikakulam district, the Health Department said. Meanwhile, testing capacity rose to 36,047 samples per day. The government launched mobile testing centres recently, and 10 vehicles were deployed in Krishna district. So far, 7.5 lakh samples were tested and in four days, nearly one lakh samples were tested in the State. Tests per million population went up to 14,049 and positivity rate was 1.38%. With 90 fresh local cases Anantapur’s tally was 1,028 cases. Kurnool reported 76 new cases, East Godavari 54, Visakhapatnam 41, Chittoor 40, Guntur 39 and Krishna 36 cases. West Godavari had 28 cases, Kadapa 24, Nellore nine, Prakasam eight and Vizianagaram three cases. Kerala reported 152 new cases and 81 recoveries. Active cases or cases currently undergoing treatment in hospitals stood at 1,691. Of the new cases, 144 were imported, with 98 persons having come from abroad and another 46 cases of persons who were from other States. The remaining eight new cases were through local transmission. Pathanamthitta accounted for 25 of the new cases, Kollam (18), Kannur (17), Palakkad (16), Alapuzha and Thrissur (15), Malappuram (10), Ernakulam (8), Kottayam (7), Idukki and Kasaragod (6), Thiruvananthapuram (4), Kozhikode (3) and Wayanad (2). Karnataka’s positive case total touched 10,118 on Wednesday, with 397 new cases. Of the new cases, 75 were inter-State passengers and eight international travellers. The State reported 14 deaths taking the toll to 164. This is the highest ever number reported on a single day. While five of the deaths were from Bengaluru Urban, four were from Ballari. While Kalaburagi and Ramanagaram reported two each, there was one death in Tumakuru. It was another new high for Tamil Nadu as it recorded 2,865 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, while over 2,000 patients were discharged across the State. With the fresh cases, the State’s overall tally increased to 67,468. A total of 2,424 persons were discharged, the highest number on a single-day. With this, a total of 37,763 have been discharged, while active cases were 28,836. Another 33 persons died of the infection, taking the toll to 866.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Destroyed Chinese post back in Galwan||As Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane met troops on the ground in eastern Lakadh on Wednesday and presented commendation cards to those involved in the recent stand-offs with China, fresh satellite images of June 22 show that the Chinese observation post destroyed on June 15 in the Galwan area is back. Gen. Naravane is in Ladakh on a two-day visit from Tuesday to review the operational situation on the ground. “Whenever the Army chief visits formations or units, it is the norm to award ‘on the spot’ Commendation Cards to personnel who exhibit exceptional devotion to duty,” an Army source said. Gen. Naravane’s visit to forward areas came a day after the Corps Commanders-level talks between India and China, at which the two sides arrived at a “mutual consensus” to disengage from several stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. On June 22, at the Corps Commander level-talks, the two sides agreed on the modalities for disengagement from all the “all friction areas” in eastern Ladakh. However, there is still no clarity on the timeline of the planned phased. Satellite images of the same day from Maxar Technologies and put out by Twitter handle @detresra_ show that between the clash on June 15 and the talks on June 22, China has rebuilt defensive positions in the Galwan area just across the LAC inside Indian territory. Images also put out by Nathan Ruser, researcher at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, an independent think tank based in Canberra, show the small outpost that sparked the June 15 clashes and was destroyed has grown hugely in size. “Both India and China have injected a lot of infrastructure in the region. Chinese troops are far more forward,” Mr. Ruser said.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Pakistan to remain on FATF ‘greylist’||Pakistan received another extension on the “greylist”, as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) plenary session on Wednesday decided to continue to keep all countries that were on the list under scrutiny for Terror Financing and Money Laundering until October 2020. However, Islamabad faced setbacks on other fronts, with the United States slamming its record on terrorism, including its failure to act against groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and received a U.S. veto against its joint effort with China to list an Indian engineer on the UN Security Council (UNSC)’s 1267 list. At the FATF plenary, held through videoconferencing, Pakistan was due for a decision on whether it would be kept on the “greylist” or downgraded to the blacklist for failing to meet the finance watchdog’s 27-point action plan on countering terror financing and anti-money laundering (CFT/AML) measures. Sources said the FATF, which had given Pakistan two extensions to comply with its action plan since October 2019, decided unanimously to postpone decisions on all countries under “increased monitoring” or the “greylist”, as well on “high risk jurisdictions”, as the “blacklist” is formally known, owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The FATF decision came even as the U.S. released its 2019 country report for terrorism, where the State Department said Pakistan had continued to “ serve as a safe haven” for regional terrorist groups. “It allowed groups targeting Afghanistan, including the Afghan Taliban and affiliated HQN, as well as groups targeting India, including LeT and its affiliated front organizations, and JeM, to operate from its territory,” said the report, adding that while it (Pakistan) had taken “modest” steps in 2019 to tackle terror financing and restrain some India-focused terrorist organizations after the February 14 terror attack in Pulwama last year, it still had not taken “ decisive action” that would undermine the operational capability of India and Afghanistan focused terrorists. The report also took note of LeT chief Hafiz Saeed’s arrest last year but pointed out that JeM founder Masood Azhar and Sajid Mir were at large. Azhar was designated a global terrorist by the U.N. last year. However, the report said Pakistan had played a “constructive role” in facilitating U.S. talks with the Taliban. Pakistan said it was “disappointed” at the U.S. for vetoing its joint request with China to have one of four Indians listed with the UNSC sanctions Committee on designating terror entities. In September 2019, Pakistan and China moved the joint proposal to declare Mr. Dongara, an Indian engineer working in Afghanistan, as a terrorist. “We are disappointed that Pakistan’s proposal to designate Venumadhav Dongara as a terrorist has been objected to. Pakistan hopes that the listing requests of other three Indian nationals will be given due consideration,” said a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan. ( With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar )  Pakistan allowed groups targeting Afghanistan as well as groups targeting India to operate from its territory U.S. report ON terrorism
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||OBC panel gets 6-month extension||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a six-month extension to the commission appointed to examine sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes. Headed by retired Delhi High Court Chief Justice G. Rohini, the commission will now have till January 31, 2021, to submit its report, the government said in a statement. The commission had been appointed in October 2017 with the initial deadline of 12 weeks. It has received several extensions since then. Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had decided to give the extension. He said the work of the commission was ongoing but had been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement said the commission was looking into the issues of communities that were not getting the benefits of reservation. ‘Rectifying anomalies’ Mr. Javadekar said, for instance, certain castes were left out of the ambit because of a difference in the spelling in a State. He said the commission would address such “anomalies”. “The commission has come to the view that it would require some more time to submit its report since the repetitions, ambiguities, inconsistencies and errors of spelling or transcription, etc. appearing in the existing Central List of OBCs need to be cleared. “Hence it had sought extension up to July 31, 2020. However, due to the nationwide lockdown and restrictions on travel imposed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, the commission was not able to perform the task assigned to it,” the statement read.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Education gap widened: UNESCO||The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated inequalities in education systems across the world. According to a UNESCO report released on Tuesday, about 40% of low- and lower-middle-income countries have not supported learners at risk of exclusion during this crisis, such as the poor, linguistic minorities and learners with disabilities. The 2020 Global Education Monitoring Report noted that efforts to maintain learning continuity during the pandemic may have actually worsened exclusion trends. During the height of school closures in April 2020, almost 91% of students around the world were out of school. “Education systems responded with distance learning solutions, all of which offered less or more imperfect substitutes for classroom instruction,” said the report, noting that while many poorer countries opted for radio and television lessons, 55% of low-income, 73% of lower-middle-income and 93% of upper-middle-income countries adopted for online learning platforms for primary and secondary education. India has used a mix of all three systems for educational continuity. “Even as governments increasingly rely on technology, the digital divide lays bare the limitations of this approach. Not all students and teachers have access to adequate internet connection, equipment, skills and working conditions to take advantage of available platforms,” said the report. School closures also interrupted support mechanisms from which many disadvantaged learners benefit. Resources for blind and deaf students may not be available outside schools, while children with learning disabilities or those who are on the autism spectrum may struggle with independent work in front of a computer or the disruption of daily school routines, said the report. For poor students who depend on school for free meals or even free sanitary napkins, closures have been a major blow. Cancellation of examinations in many countries, including India, may result in scoring dependent on teachers’ judgements of students instead, which could be affected by stereotypes of certain types of students, said the report. Higher drop-out rates are also a concern; during an earlier Ebola epidemic in Africa, many older girls never returned to school once the crisis was over. In order to combat the situation, 17% of low and middle-income countries are planning to recruit more teachers, 22% to increase class time and 68% to introduce remedial classes when schools reopen, said the report. “How such classes are planned and targeted will be critical to whether disadvantaged students can catch up,” it added.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress not equal to whole of the Opposition: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Wednesday launched a sharp attack on the Congress after its working committee attributed the India-China border crisis to mismanagement by the government. He stated that the Congress was not equal to the whole of the Opposition and its attempts to usurp the position was because of yet another attempt to relaunch Rahul Gandhi. “A rejected and ejected dynasty is not equal to the entire Opposition. One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait,” said Mr. Nadda in a series of tweets. “One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the the Opposition asking questions to the Government,” he tweeted. He said that while it was the Opposition’s right to ask questions, and the government did answer them at the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, “one family was an exception. Any guesses who?” referring to the Gandhi family. He said that other parties had given their suggestions and support to the government at the meeting.
25 June 2020||Bhopal,||Miners left in the lurch in M.P.||MOIL Limited, a state-owned manganese company, has directed China Coal No. 3 Mining (India) Private Limited to keep operations suspended at a mine in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh until it re-employs 64 Indian workers. MOIL has given a three-year contract to the firm  to operate a mine, among many spread across 182 hectares and having an annual production of 3.5-4 lakh tonnes. When operations at the mine were resumed on June 1 after more than two months of lockdown, the firm, having 37 Chinese workers, reportedly denied entry to those residing outside the premises fearing COVID-19 infection, said U.S. Bhati, manager of several mines owned and operated or contracted by MOIL in Bharveli, a mining town that has Asia’s deepest manganese mines.“While Chinese workers live on the campus [of the contracted mine], the locals live in surrounding villages,” he said. However, Indian staff members have alleged their Chinese employers misbehaved with them and the pandemic was only an excuse to remove them. When contacted by The Hindu , an Indian representative of the firm refused to comment and said MOIL would be able to answer queries instead. “When the firm refused to take back its employees residing outside, all Indian, for the time being, we told them to employ them immediately otherwise suspend operations. As their response wasn’t satisfactory, we directed them to stop work on June 19,” said Mr. Bhati. On the campus, there are 12 other Indian staff members, including cooks and translators. “We have informed the firm it will not be allowed to operate without taking back all Indian workers,” said District Collector Deepak Arya.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Cannot permit ICSE exams: Maharashtra govt. tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that it cannot permit the ICSE exams to be conducted because of the COVID-19 situation. Advocate-General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said, “At a meeting of the State Disaster Management Committee held through video conference on June 22, 2020 with the Chief Minister in the Chair, a decision has been taken not to permit the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to conduct Classes X and XII examinations re-scheduled from July 2, 2020, given the COVID-19 situation.” Advocate Aditya Mehta for the Council said if the State decides not permit the CBSE to conduct Classes X and XII examinations, the Council would abide by the State’s decision. The decisions taken by the Central government and the CBSE are expected to be placed before the Supreme Court on June 25 and depending on the decision of the apex court, the CISCE may have to workout the methodology for computing the results of examinations. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde said, “In such a situation, the orders passed by the Supreme Court upon consideration of the said decisions would have a vital bearing on these proceedings.” The court through video conferencing was hearing a PIL filed by the father of a Class X student of a school affiliated with the ICSE. Previously, senior counsel Darius Khambata appearing for the CISCE, had said the students of Class X and XII can physically take the final exams or opt for marks based on internal assessment. He had said apart from physical appearance, the decision taken by them also gives an option to an examinee, who is not willing to write the examination physically, to have his result completed on the basis of marks obtained by him at the pre-board examination/internal assessment.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID cases cross 10,000 mark in TS||Since the case was confirmed by NIV-Pune, the State Health department officials started to dial the number of the patient to confirm the news. The second case was detected on March 14. The patient was admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Over a period of time, the State government’s tertiary care hospital was turned into the largest COVID Isolation Centre in the State. Cases were in single digit till the end of March, and started to peak from April first week. The first 1,000 cases were recorded from March 2 to April 26. Cases were either in single digit or below 20 till May 8. It started to surge from May 9. A total of 2,698 cases were detected till May-end. Partial relaxation in lockdown was announced in May and on May 27, the number of cases crossed 100 for the first time. While 2,698 cases were recorded from March 2 to May 31 (91 days), a total of 7,746 cases was recorded from June 1-24 (24 days). Officials are of the opinion that the cases will continue to soar in the coming days.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka all set to conduct SSLC exams||Over 8.48 lakh students from across Karnataka will write the SSLC examinations starting on Thursday, amidst rising number of COVID-19 cases and unprecedented precautionary measures necessitated by the pandemic. 1 lakh officials Over one lakh officials from different departments have been roped in to conduct the examinations in 2,879 centres in the State. A total of 5,755 health screening counters will be set up at the centres. Besides undergoing thermal screening at the entrance, students are also expected to wear masks and practice social distancing. Speaking at a press conference, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that besides his department, officials from the Home, Health and Family Welfare, Transport, Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj departments were also working for the smooth conduct of the exams. Safety measures While several parents and students had demanded that the examinations be postponed, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to go ahead roping in health experts who on Wednesday said that there was no need for students to worry and asked them to follow all the safety measures. Physical education teachers have been vested with the responsibility of ensuring that social distancing norms are not violated. While each year, up to 32 students would be allotted to write the examination in one classroom, this year only 18 to 20 students will be there in each classroom, the minister said. Mr Suresh Kumar also said that all centres will be sanitised after each paper. While the exams will begin at 10.30 a.m., students will have to report to the centre one and half hours before. Mr. Kumar said that students can enter the centre as early as 7.30 a.m. The education minister also pointed out that if students develop symptoms mid-way through the test, they will have to write the remaining papers during the supplementary examination. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa tweeted to wish the students. He said, “The State government has taken all precautionary measures to ensure the exams are held smoothly. I appeal to all the students to use mask, sanitisers, maintain social distance and follow all guidelines issued by the govt. regarding exams. Face the exams with confidence and with no fear. Let success be yours.” Students in containment zones will be made to write the examination in separate rooms, the minister said. “The Health Department staff have done field visits in containment zones and the admission tickets of the students in containment zones will have a seal and those students will be made to sit in another room,” Mr Kumar said. Besides that, students with symptoms and those in containment zones will also be made to sit in a separate room and will be asked to write the examination wearing an N-95 masks. A total of 19 students - 10 who tested positive for COVID 19 and 9 who are under quarantine - will not be allowed to write the exam.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala govt. not to insist on COVID-negative certificate||Ending a week-long suspense, the Kerala government has decided not to insist on COVID-19 negative certificate for expatriates coming on Vande Bharat flights, chartered flights, and private aircraft to the State from Thursday. The change in stance comes in the wake of the Centre rejecting the State’s request for the relatively speedier and cheaper TrueNat Beta CoV test abroad and practical difficulties cited by Indian missions where Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) are in large numbers. The NoRKs coming from countries equipped to carry out COVID-19 test should undergo test within 72 hours of their travel and carry the certificate with them. All NoRKS coming by flights should register on the COVID-19 Jagratha website. For speedy return “The Union government is continuing the efforts and we have not gone back on the stance. The relaxations are to speed up the return of the NoRKs,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Henceforth, those landing in the State without the COVID-19 test, even if they do not have any symptoms, will be subjected to the rapid antibody test at the airports. Once found positive, they will be isolated and subjected to reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Gene Express or TrueNat Beta CoV test. All international flyers will have to undergo 14-day mandatory quarantine. Those travelling by these flights should wear N95 mask, a disposable particulate respirator that will provide respiratory protection, face shield and gloves, and use sanitiser. Those from Qatar will be allowed to travel only if they show ‘green status’ in the app Ehteraz. But, they will have to undergo COVID-19 test on landing here. Those from the United Arab Emirates should have COVID negative certificate after the mandatory antibody test conducted there. Those coming from Oman, Bahrain, and Saudi Arabia will have to wear N95 mask, face shield, and gloves. Those from Saudi Arabia should wear personal protection equipment (PPE) for the additional safety of fellow travellers. Those from Kuwait without the COVID-19 test certificate should use PPE on the flight. Saudi, Kuwait returnees COVID-19 test is mandatory for those coming from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and they will be allowed to move out of the airport only after getting the result. All arrangements have been made at airports for carrying out the tests and IPS and IAS officials had been given the charge of the four airports, the Chief Minister said. The External Affairs Ministry and the Indian embassies had been informed of the arrangements made by the State and those violating the rules will be booked, Mr. Vijayan said. Those applying for charter flight operations should apply seven days before travel to the NoRKA.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||The litmus test was Nipah, says Shylaja||The first Nipah outbreak in 2018 was a litmus test of the resilience of Kerala’s public health system, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The experience in managing the outbreak helped the State realise the weaknesses in its public health system and build a more sensitive and alert disease surveillance mechanism, she said at a webinar organised by the United Nations on Public Service Day, 2020, on Tuesday. The UN marked the day to honour people who risk their lives to deliver essential public services amid the pandemic. Ms. Shylaja was the speaker from India, along with UN Secretary-General António Guterres and WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, among a chosen few leaders. Answering a question on how the State had primed itself for the response to COVID-19, she said two consecutive Nipah outbreaks and major floods in 2018 and 2019 had taught the State public health system the importance of disease surveillance and preparedness. When COVID-19 broke out in China, Kerala knew that there could not be any delay in taking pre-emptive measures.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||3 months on, Karnataka’s AC bus services to resume today||After a gap of over three months, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to resume AC bus services in a phased manner from Thursday. The corporation has identified several intra-State routes. From Bengaluru, buses will be operated to Mysuru, Mangaluru, Madikeri, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Shivamogga, Kundapur, and Virajpet. Online booking for AC buses has also resumed. To start with, the officials have decided to run 20 AC buses that include Airavat club class buses. They are contemplating the feasibility of running a sleeper AC bus from Bengaluru to Kundapur. An official of the KSRTC said, “We received permission to run the AC buses on Tuesday. Initially, only a few services will be operated on identified routes. Four buses will be operated on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route.” The plan is to gradually increase services in the coming days depending on patronage. “Only 30 passengers will be allowed in each bus to maintain social distancing norms. In the sleeper coach buses, 20 people will be allowed, one passenger per berth,” the official said. There will be no further rise in ticket prices. In a press release on Wednesday, KSRTC said that the temperature inside the buses will be maintained at 24 to 25 degrees Celsius. “As a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19, blankets will not be provided in night service buses. Passengers are requested to carry their own blankets,” said an official. He added that there is no proposal to resume the Flybus services that connect the Kempegowda International Airport. Since the imposition of the lockdown, close to 500 AC luxury buses of the corporation have remained off road. KSRTC stopped operations from March 22 and resumed non AC services on May 19 once restrictions were relaxed.
25 June 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal extends lockdown||In an attempt to arrive at a consensus on combating COVID-19 West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday held a meeting with representatives of all political parties and announced that the lockdown in the State will be extended with necessary relaxations till July 31. “We discussed about lockdown. Not everyone agreed on the issue. But since the disease is spreading we must have a lockdown with necessary relaxations”, Ms. Banerjee said. Schools and colleges would remain closed during the period but the government offices would function as they were with staggered work force. BJP State president Dilip Ghosh, Communist Party of India ( Marxist) State Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, Congress Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya and Speaker of the Assembly Biman Banerjee participated in the meeting at the State Secretariat that went on for almost four hours. More testing centres The Chief Minister also announced a committee, where the State BJP president and the CPI(M) State Secretary will be members and give suggestions on combating the COVID-19 pandemic. It was discussed in the meeting that testing centres should be increased. Another issue raised at the meeting was irregularities in the distribution of relief for those affected by cyclone Amphan. “At some places, some people have been deprived. The administration has been asked to make the list of beneficiaries public,” Ms. Banerjee said.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Merger of RS and LS channels in final stages||The process of the merger of Rajya Sabha TV and Lok Sabha TV into Sansad TV is in the final stages. Live proceedings of Parliament sessions will continue to be telecast but the manpower and technical resources will be integrated. Sources said the launch could be by the end of the year, though the deadline has not been finalised. LS Television was launched in 2006 and RS TV in 2011. They have been functioning independently since then. In November last, after discussions between Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, a committee headed by former Prasar Bharati Chairman Surya Prakash was set up, and it submitted its report in February. Three different sub-committees are examining the report to finalise the integration of technical and manpower resources. The Surya Prakash committee also met with the MPs from various political parties, who also strongly recommended that the live telecast should be continued.
25 June 2020||KOLLAM,||British woman found dead in Kollam ashram||A 45-year-old U.K. citizen who had been residing at the Mata Amritanandamayi Math was found dead on Wednesday. The death is suspected to be a case of suicide and according to the math authorities the woman was depressed following her inability to go back home. The woman had arrived at the math on January 16 on a tourist visa, but she could not return to England due to the lockdown. “She was expected to leave within a month, but all attempts to arrange a ticket failed due to the lockdown. She was very moody during the last few days and on Wednesday she seemed extremely depressed. She was strolling on the seventh floor with another resident when she suddenly jumped from there. Though she was rushed to the Karunagapally taluk hospital in the ashram ambulance, her life could not be saved,” said a math spokesperson. The math had over 1,200 foreign citizens when Mata Amritanandamayi stopped her daily darshans and the ashram restricted day visits and overnight stays following official instructions.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Five welfare fund boards to be merged||The government is winding up the operations of five welfare fund boards under the Labour Department and merging them with other welfare fund boards to cut administrative expenses. A Cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to merge the Kerala Abkari Workers Welfare Fund Board with the Kerala Toddy Workers Welfare Fund Board and the Kerala Jewellery Workers Welfare Fund Board with the Kerala Shops and Commercial Establishment Workers Welfare Fund Board. The Kerala Small Scale Plantation Workers Welfare Fund Board and the Kerala Reed, Kattuvalli and Pandanus Workers Welfare Fund Board will be merged with the Kerala Labour Welfare Fund Board. The welfare fund board for beedi and cigar workers will be merged with the Kerala Handloom Workers Welfare Fund Board. A note issued by the Chief Minister’s Office said most of the welfare fund boards were facing crisis due to high administrative cost and some were on the verge of collapse. The government had accepted the recommendation of a subcommittee headed by the Labour Commissioner to bring down the number of boards from 16 to 11. It said legislation would be enacted to implement the proposal. The Cabinet also decided to set up an Urban Chair in the Centre for Urban Governance under the Kerala Institute for Local Administration.
25 June 2020||Kannur,||CISF personnel at Kannur airport quarantined||The Kannur International Airport on Wednesday briefly closed the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) office and quarantined employees there who came in contact with one of the four CISF personnel who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Apparently, a CISF guard, who had returned to Kerala from his home in North India after leave, joined duty after 14 days of quarantine. He had received the medical clearance to return to work. However, a day after joining duty, he showed symptoms of the disease. He was taken to the Kuthuparamba Government Hospital and was later referred to the Anjarakandy COVID-19 treatment centre. V. Thulasidas, Managing Director, Kannur International Airport Limited, said that before the lockdown was announced, 50 CISF personnel had gone on leave. On their return, they were sent into quarantine at a building at Valiyavelicham near the airport. He said that initially one guard showed symptoms of the disease, and health officials were alerted. Later, three more personnel tested positive. So far, eight personnel have tested positive for the disease. However, one of the personnel tested positive after 14 days of quarantine, Mr. Thulasidas said. He had visited the CISF office at the basement of the airport and come in contact with a few people in the office. “There is nothing to worry as he did not go inside the airport or come in contact with other people outside,” Mr. Thulasidas said. The office premises had to be closed for disinfection and primary contacts were sent into quarantine. Considering the situation, it has been decided to increase the quarantine period from 14 to 28 days,” he said. District Surveillance Officer Shaj said quarantine facilities had been arranged on the third floor of the building. Samples of 15 personnel were tested and eight of them turned positive. All of them had returned from North Indian States. If more personnel showed symptoms, all in quarantine would be tested, he said.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI will supervise cooperative banks||Currently, these banks come under dual regulation of the RBI and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. The move to bring these urban and multi-State coop. banks under the supervision of the RBI comes after several instances of fraud and serious financial irregularities, including the major scam at the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank last year. In September, the RBI was forced to supercede the PMC Bank’s board and impose strict restrictions. “I am very sure when this announcement was made, people have welcomed it, and depositors will get protection and benefit out of it,” Mr. Javadekar said, regarding the ordinance approved by Cabinet. The Cabinet also approved a scheme to provide interest subvention of 2% for a 12-month period to small borrowers with loans up to Rs. 50,000 under the Shishu category of the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. This relief had been announced as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package last month.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||UGC may scrap final year exams||UGC’s guidelines, based on the panel’s report, also recommended that the new academic year begin on August 1 for second and third year students, and September 1 for first year students. However, Ministry officials say the Kuhad panel updated its suggestions due to the spread of COVID-19. UGC will consider its recommendations to cancel the examinations and delay the calendar, and is likely to issue guidelines this week. There are concerns regarding the alternative assessment methodology to be adopted if examinations are cancelled. Internal assessments usually translate to project work. “For a small college with 500 students in the final year, their project reports can be checked and graded. But for large State universities, with two to three lakh students from affiliated institutions, it will be impossible to check that many project reports,” said a senior official. Another option would be to use students’ performance in previous semester examinations instead. Although UGC’s guidelines are only advisory in nature, with each university making its own decision in accordance with local conditions and State rules, several Vice-Chancellors said they would await the Central body’s norms before taking a final call. UGC regulates 945 universities, including 412 State universities and 53 Central universities. All institutions have been closed since mid-March, although many have continued classes through online and distance education.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. restores normal salaries, pensions||Telangana government issued a GO on Tuesday, restoring the normal payment of salaries and pensions to government employees and pensioners, wages, remuneration and honorarium to employees, pensioners and other personnel from June 2020. A communication was received from the Chief Minister’s Office late on Monday night that the Chief Minister has taken a decision to restore the normal payment of salaries and pensions as the State revenues started showing some improvement since the lockdown was imposed from March last week. He also issued instructions to the Finance department officials to implement his directive. The government had earlier, in view of the adverse impact of State revenues caused by the lockdown issued orders and instructions for the deferred payment of salaries and pensions and other remuneration as per the scale prescribed therein for various categories of employees and personnel including public representatives and pensioners for the months of March, April and May. The latest GO said that instructions with regard to payment of arrears, if any, after adjustment of deductions and recoveries due, would be issued separately. They will start from June, 2020, payable in July 2020.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India must move out of Galwan Valley: China||China’s statements, however, pointed to sharp differences on where the LAC lies in Galwan Valley. The valley begins from the confluence of the Galwan and Shyok rivers, and the LAC that both sides had been observing runs east of the confluence, in the valley. China, however, is demanding an Indian withdrawal from the entire valley and limiting India’s presence to the “Galwan estuary”, where it meets the Shyok. Wednesday’s statements from Beijing appeared to describe the LAC at the “estuary” of the river. Claims untenable: MEA The MEA said last week China’s claims over the entire valley were “exaggerated” and “untenable”. At Wednesday’s talks, the MEA said both sides agreed to “sincerely implement the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation that was reached by the Senior Commanders” and that doing so “expeditiously” would “help ensure peace and tranquillity in border areas and the development of broader relationship between the two countries.” The MFA, in a statement, said both sides would “actively cooperate with the armed forces of the two countries to implement the consensus from the two rounds of military leaders’ talks on June 6 and 22 , strengthen communication and coordination between military and diplomatic channels, and peacefully resolve relevant issues in border areas through bilateral dialogue and consultation.” The talks were led by Naveen Srivastava. Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA, and Hong Liang, Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs of the MFA. At the same time, the MFA and the Defence Ministry, in separate statements, accused India of breaking the agreement of June 6, and claimed India had committed to not patrolling in the valley or building facilities there. The Defence Ministry said India “should bear full responsibility for the incident that was solely and completely triggered by its breach of consensus and unilateral provocations” and “demanded the Indian side severely punish those who should be held accountable, strictly discipline its front line troops so as to ensure that such incidents do not happen again.” MFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “It is the Indian side that went against the bilateral agreement. The Indian side at first agreed to withdraw personnel from Galwan Valley which it did, and it dismantled its facilities as requested by the Chinese side. During the first Commander meeting on June 6, the Indian side committed to no trespassing of the Galwan Valley for patrolling and for building. The two sides agreed to set up observatory posts at the two sides of the river estuary, but the Indian side went against this agreement and asked China to dismantle China’s posts, and also crossed the LAC,” which, he said, led to the clash. India, however, said the clash was triggered by China violating the June 6 agreement and setting up a post on its side of the LAC. Indian officials said the LAC that both sides had been observing has been east of the confluence near Patrolling Point 14, where the clash occurred. China’s Defence Ministry spokesperson, PLA Senior Colonel Wu Qian, repeated China’s claim that “it has sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region.” “Over the years, the Chinese border troops have been patrolling and guarding this region,” he said. “Since April this year, Indian border troops have unilaterally built facilities along the LAC in the Galwan Valley... In the early morning of May 6, the Indian border troops trespassed into China’s territory, built fortifications and barricades, and impeded the patrol of Chinese border troops, in an attempt to unilaterally change the status quo of border control and management”. India, however, has stressed that its troops did not cross the LAC and the clash was triggered by China breaking the June 6 consensus. ( With inputs from Dinakar Peri  )
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||With space reforms, private sector to get level playing field||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACe) to provide a level playing field for private companies to use Indian space infrastructure. This is part of reforms aimed at giving a boost to private sector participation in the entire range of space activities. “The IN-SPACe will also hand-hold, promote and guide the private industries in space activities through encouraging policies and a friendly regulatory environment,” the government said in a statement. ‘New Space India Limited (NSIL)’ would endeavour to reorient space activities from a “supply driven” model to a “demand driven” one, thereby ensuring optimum utilisation of the nation’s space assets, it stated. India was among a handful of countries with advanced capabilities in the space sector and these reforms would allow the Indian Space Research Organsiation (ISRO) to focus more on research and development activities, new technologies, exploration missions and human spaceflight programme, the statement said. “Some of the planetary exploration missions will also be opened up to private sector through an ‘announcement of opportunity’ mechanism,” it added. ISRO Chairman K Sivan had stated that NSIL was incorporated to carry forward the industry production of space systems and the ISRO’s efforts in realising Polar Satellite Launch Vehicles (PSLV) from industry.
25 June 2020||PATNA,||Parties name candidates for Bihar Council poll||With the biennial election to the nine seats of the Bihar Legislative Council scheduled for July 6, all leading parties, except the Congress, have named their candidates. The Congress has received over 3,000 applications for the lone seat, but the Central leadership has asked the State unit to suggest only two names. The BJP on Wednesday named Sanjay Prakash alias Sanjay Mayukh and State vice-president Samarat Chaudhury for the two seats it will contest in alliance with the Janata Dal (United). The JD(U) on Tuesday named Bhism Sahni, Kumud Verma and Ghulam Ghaus. RJD’s Sunil Singh, Mohd Farooq and Rambali Singh Chandravanshi filed their nominations on Wednesday in presence of party leader Tejashwi Yadav. Earlier, the RJD had authorised its imprisoned president Lalu Prasad to decide on the candidates. In view of the upcoming Assembly election, both the RJD and the JD(U) have given one seat each to a candidate of the minority community. The RJD has also given representations to an upper caste and the Extremely Backward Caste.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shah steps in to resolve Manipur crisis, for now||A meeting between four Manipur MLAs of the National People’s Party (NPP), along with Meghalaya Chief Minister and NPP chief Conrad Sangma, with Union Home Minister Amit Shah has brought some sense of resolution over the crisis hovering over the BJP after the MLAs announced that they were defecting to the Congress. According to sources in the BJP, the four MLAs will communicate their return to the BJP-led North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) government to Governor Najma Heptulla after their return to Imphal on Thursday. Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the main trouble-shooter for the BJP in the northeastern region, tweeted that the NPP MLAs met Mr. Shah and agreed to “work together for the development of Manipur”. Later, the MLAs met BJP president J.P. Nadda as well, and Mr. Sarma tweeted that the MLAs would continue to support the BJP-led government in Manipur. The MLAs, according to the sources, have some deep-seated anxieties and issues with regard to the working of Chief Minister N. Biren Singh and explained their position to Mr. Shah. This issue had flared last year too, but Mr. Biren Singh had received the support of the BJP high command. This time however, the MLAs, whose party is also part of the ruling coalition in Meghalaya, timed their defection to coincide with the Rajya Sabha election. The BJP won the election, but not without Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh’s actions being called into question. The sources confirmed that Mr. Shah heard the MLAs out and stressed that the MLAs of the NPP, which is “being part of the NEDA and in power in two States with the BJP”, “cannot defect to the Congress”.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Come clean on Arunachal MP’s claim, Cong. tells BJP||A day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) accused the Narendra Modi government of “mishandling” the border situation with China in Ladakh, the party on Wednesday asked the government to “come clean” on the claims made by BJP MP Tapir Gao about Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh. Addressing a virtual press conference, Lok Sabha members Manish Tewari and Gaurav Gogoi claimed that Mr. Gao, former BJP chief of Arunachal Pradesh, asserted in an interview to a regional television channel that China had occupied areas on both banks of the Subansiri river in the State’s Upper Subansiri district, even on the Indian side of the McMahon Line. The party also released a video clip of Mr. Gao’s earlier speech in the Lok Sabha, made on November 19 last year, where he claimed 50-60 km of Indian territory had come under Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh. The Congress accused the government of trying to downplay reports of incursions and said the government should give a “strong reply to China as regular dialogues won’t work”. “What is the truth behind what Tapir Gao is saying? There should be an immediate clarification from the government... Will the Prime Minister and his government come clean on the claims made by the BJP MP” asked Mr. Tewari.  Keeping up his attack on Mr. Modi over the rising COVID-19 cases as well as petrol and diesel prices, Mr. Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday that, “The Modi government has ‘unlocked’ the corona pandemic and prices of petrol-diesel.”
25 June 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool MLA falls victim to COVID-19||Trinamool Congress MLA Tamonash Ghosh, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at a private health facility in the city, passed away on Wednesday. The 60-year-old three-time MLA is survived by wife and two daughters. Mr. Ghosh represented the Falta Assembly constituency in South 24 Parganas district in West Bengal. “Tamonash Ghosh, three-time MLA from Falta & party treasurer since 1998 had to leave us today. Been with us for over 35 years, he was dedicated to the cause of the people & party. He contributed much through his social work,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Insight of the Yogi||The entire teaching in the Gita clearly shows how the paths of karma, jnana and bhakti get subsumed in the act of surrender or prapatti. The Karma Yoga propounded is preparatory and enables jnana to take root in the prapanna. The knowledge of the immortal atma swaroopa and of the impermanent body is the Adyatma jnana that engenders bhakti. Bhakti too has stages, says Krishna. But when one reaches the state of being steeped in savouring the endless glories of the Almighty, the desire for moksha and attaining God’s feet becomes paramount. Prapatti assures this for the prapanna, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Krishna also points out that the five karmendriyas and five jnanendriyas along with the mind are a strong team and to subdue them is essential. First of all the senses are all outward bound and to subdue them one has to turn their focus inward. It is not enough to refrain from seeing, hearing, etc, those things that have to be avoided. You can put a physical distance between sense objects and yourself. But the more powerful force is the mind that has to be restrained and controlled from straying towards the sense objects. If there is lingering longing, there is no yoga. But when the mind is under control, one can get closer to the atma. Closeness with the atma leads to closeness with God. When the mind is steeped in God, one is unaffected by the worldly glitter. Then one can attain the state of experiencing the presence of God as Prahlada. Such was the child’s vision when he asserted that God is present in his father as much as He is in pillar. This is the highest state of a yogi and the Stitaprajna is one such yogi whose equanimity of mind makes him remain unaffected by worldly pulls.
25 June 2020||Bhopal,||Doctors go on strike over salary dues||Sixty-seven medical officers of the government-run Bundelkhand Medical College in Sagar began an indefinite strike on Wednesday demanding salaries due for the past three months and provision of suitable personal protective equipment. Stating that they were assured payment within a week from June 16, the officers wrote to the college Dean conveying they had been “compelled to take the step” and that action must be taken against officials for the delay.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM defends appointment||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday attempted to defend the controversial decision of the State government to appoint K.V. Manoj Kumar as chairperson of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran had vehemently opposed the nomination on the premise that Mr Manoj was unqualified for the job. Mr Vijayan refuted the allegations. He said the committee that appointed Mr Manoj had followed the due procedure. It had weighed the eligibility of other candidates and found that Mr Manoj was most suited for the job. “He is energetic and the ideal person for the post,” he said.
25 June 2020||Alappuzha,||SNDP leader found dead in Kerala||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Kanichukulangara Union secretary K.K. Mahesan was found dead on Wednesday. He allegedly ended his life. Mahesan was earlier a close aide of SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan. The police said he was found hanging inside the union office at Kanichukulangara by around 10 a.m. Officials said he went missing in the morning and his relatives launched a search. By 10 a.m., his car was found parked on the premise of the union office. The office was found locked from inside. District Police Chief P.S. Sabu said a note left behind by the deceased had been recovered. “A case has been registered and a detailed probe is on,” Mr. Sabu said. Mahesan was the State coordinator of the SNDP Yogam's controversial microfinance scheme. He was questioned several times by investigators in connection with cases related to misappropriation of microfinance funds. Crime Branch probe Earlier this month, the Crime Branch team probing the microfinance fraud in the SNDP Yogam Mavelikara Union had recorded his statements. Mahesan had also held the post of manager of VHSS, Kanichukulangara, under the SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara Union. The school management had faced allegations of corruption in its running. Social media posts Prior to his death, Mahesan had posted two letters written by him on social media — one addressed to the Circle Inspector, Crime Branch, Alappuzha, (dated 23/06/2020), and another to Mr. Natesan (dated 14/05/2020). In the letter to the Crime Branch, he alleged that they were trying to frame him in the microfinance case. In the letter to Mr. Natesan, he levelled various allegations. Mahesan’s letter said that if he was targeted with the support of the government, he would be left with no choice but to end his life. He suggested that he could be a victim of goonda attack. A senior police officer said that in the note recovered, the deceased had levelled allegations of harassment against SNDP union office-bearers in connection with the microfinance scam. Meanwhile, Mr. Natesan demanded a detailed probe into the death of Mahesan. (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling suicide prevention helpline number DISHA- 0471-2552056, 1056).
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED to probe fresh case against Dhoot||The Enforcement Directorate plans to initiate a money laundering probe into a new case registered by the CBI against Venugopal Dhoot, chairman and managing director of Videocon Industries Limited (VIL), and unknown officials of a consortium led by the State Bank of India. The ED is already pursuing the financial trail in another case, in which Mr. Dhoot is under the scanner along with former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar and others, in connection with the sanction of about Rs. 1,730 crore in loans to his companies allegedly in violation of rules. Mr. Dhoot’s statements have been recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The latest case pertains to Videocon Mozambique Rovuma 1 Limited, a subsidiary of Videocon Cayman Islands-registered Hydrocarbon Holdings Limited, which in turn is a wholly owned step down subsidiary of VIL.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reject new Parliament proposal’||A group of nearly 90 architects, historians, environmentalists, academics and artists has written to the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) calling upon it to reject the proposal for a new Parliament building as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. “The Supreme Court has emphasised that all matters related to the Central Vista project, which includes a new Parliament building, be placed before them as part of the ongoing hearings challenging various procedural and substantive aspects,” the letter reads. Citing a report in The Hindu that the DUAC had considered a proposal for the new Parliament building during a meeting earlier this month and had asked for additional information, they argued it would be “inappropriate, misleading and illegal for the DUAC to limit itself only to the Parliament building as part of its review”. Minutes of these meetings are yet to be uploaded on to the commissions website. The signatories, that include historian Narayani Gupta, architect Arun Rewal, architect and conservationist A.G.K. Menon, academic Sudha Gopalakrishnan among others, demanded that the commission reject the proposal for the building on grounds of “incomplete information and deliberately misleading the commission”, that it consider only a comprehensive proposal of the entire Central Vista redevelopment project and, while doing so, ask for public comments that can inform the DUAC’s scrutiny.  They also demanded that any appraisal of project materials include an assessment of the “potential to repurpose the present Parliament and other buildings to meet future functional demands, and a heritage impact assessment of the proposed new buildings on the Central Vista to evaluate specific measures that the project has taken to safeguard heritage value.” According to the CPWD’s application for environmental clearance of the project, the proposal is to construct a triangular Parliament building in a 10.5 acre plot next to the existing heritage structure at an estimated cost of Rs. 922 crore.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2 lakh tests done in a day: Ministry||India has witnessed a ramping-up of the testing facilities across the country with more than 2 lakh samples/ day tested in the last 24 hours, the highest so far, noted the Health Ministry on Wednesday. “With 2,15,195 samples tested yesterday, the total number of samples tested thus far is 73,52,911. While 1,71,587 samples were tested in government labs, 43,608 were tested by private labs. Private labs have also reached the highest per day sampling with this quantity,” the Ministry added. India now has 1,000 labs across the country. This includes 730 in the government sector and 270 private labs.
25 June 2020||COLOMBO,||29 from India test positive in Sri Lanka||Twenty nine of the 40 new COVID-19 cases that Sri Lanka reported on Tuesday are seafarers who travelled from Mumbai, according to Sri Lankan health authorities. All passengers arriving in Sri Lanka — airline services have been restricted due to the coronavirus pandemic — in charter or special flights are tested on arrival. As of Wednesday afternoon, Sri Lanka has reported a total of 1,998 cases, 11 deaths and 1,562 recoveries. The last local case was reported on April 25, according to Anil Jasinghe, Director General of Health Services.
25 June 2020||Muzaffarpur,||Case against Ramdev over cure claim||A criminal complaint has been filed in a Bihar court against yoga guru Ramdev and Patanjali Ayurved managing director Acharya Balkrishna, alleging they put at risk the lives of lakhs of people by claiming to have developed a treatment for COVID-19. The complaint seeking an FIR on cheating and criminal conspiracy was filed in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Mukesh Kumar in Muzaffarpur on Tuesday by Tamanna Hashmi, a social worker.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nod for Rs. 839-cr. projects of SSK||Projects of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala (SSK) to the tune of Rs. 839.18 crore for this academic year have received approval of the Union government. The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development’s project approval board gave the go ahead to the proposals during a videoconference on Wednesday. The State had submitted a proposal for Rs. 1,334.19 crore. An amount of Rs. 717.19 crore has been sanctioned for this year alone and Rs. 121.21 crore for completing last year’s projects. The funds are for academic activities from pre-primary to the higher secondary classes, infrastructure, teacher education, and strengthening of District Institutes of Education and Training.
25 June 2020||Suryapet,||BRF SHRC team visits Colonel’s family||State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) chairman Gunda Chandraiah and some members met the late Colonel Santosh Babu’s family to offer their condolences on Wednesday. They also offered floral tributes and observed silence in memory of the slain soldier. Justice Chandraiah thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the relief he offered to the martyr’s family. He said that Col. Babu was an inspiration for several youngsters.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Child rights panel for prosecuting activist||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that criminal proceedings be initiated in connection with a woman activist getting her minor children to paint on her semi-nude body and posting its video on social media. Commission member K. Nazeer, while initiating suo motu proceedings under Section 13 (1) (j) of the Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, has asked the Pathanamthitta District Police Chief to investigate the incident and submit a report within 10 days. The police and the cybercell should take action to check the circulation of the video and remove it from the Internet and social media, the commission said. Seeks report The Pathanamthitta District Child Protection Office should investigate the living circumstances of her children, ascertain if they were in need of care and protection, and submit a report within 10 days. The activist herself had put up the video of her children painting her body on social media. Registration of a case against her under Sections 7, 8, 11, and 12 of the POCSO Act and investigation into the incident was necessary, Commission member K. Nazeer said.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,||Four arrested for issuing death threat to actor||The Maradu police have arrested four persons on charge of threatening to endanger the life of actor Shamna Kasim besides attempt to extortion. The arrested have been identified as Rafeeque, 30; Ramesh, 35; Sarath, 25; and Ashraf, 52; all residents of Thrissur. They were summoned to the station and arrested on Monday evening. The police had registered a case on the petition of the actor’s mother. The incident had taken place before the lockdown, and according to the petitioner, the lockdown delayed the lodging of a formal petition, the police said. The petition was that a few people had got in touch with the actor’s family in the garb of a wedding proposal. They claimed to be from a respectable family in Kozhikode, which later emerged to be a lie, and a few of them came to see the actor at her home in Maradu on the pretext of taking the proposal forward. However, the arrested were neither part of that entourage nor was the proposed bridegroom. “The petition claims that the party, however, captured pictures and videos of the house and property raising suspicion. Later, they allegedly threatened to endanger the life of the actor and attempted extortion to spare her,” said C. Vinod, Inspector, Maradu. Ms. Kasim, the police said, was now away in Hyderabad for a film shoot. Incidentally, the proposed bridegroom only made contact over the phone but never revealed himself over the video.
25 June 2020||New delhi,||FEMA notice served on prominent builder||The Adjudicating Authority under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) has issued a show-cause notice to Sanjay Jhunjhunwala, promoter of the Mani Group of Kolkata, for alleged violation involving Rs. 206 crore. Mr. Jhunjhunwala has been accused of trading illegally in foreign currencies in Singapore, going in for illegal external borrowings and maintaining foreign bank accounts without approval. The notice has been issued following a probe by the Enforcement Directorate.  The ED alleges that Mr. Jhunjhunwala was the beneficial owner of an account maintained with UBS, Singapore, in the name of Tiger Woods International, a company incorporated in the British Virgin Island.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways to create 8 lakh mandays employment over next 125 days||The Railways on Wednesday said it will generate 8 lakh man-days of employment in various infrastructure projects till October 2020. The announcement follows a meeting between officials from the Ministry of Railways with the Zonal Railways and Railway PSUs to review the progress of the “Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan” launched on June 20. “The zonal railways have been instructed to expedite execution of all infrastructure works in identified districts. Around 160 infrastructure works have been identified which are to be expedited. These would roughly generate 8 lakh man-days of employment. Approximately Rs. 1,800 crore would be spent in these districts,” a statement said.
25 June 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Couple injured in fire accident||M. Kandavel, 56, and his wife Mariammal, 42, of Chockalingapuram sustained serious burn injuries in a fire accident at their house where fuses meant for crackers were illegally stocked on Wednesday. They said electrical short circuit in their TV set led to the fire.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More tests being conducted in Tondiarpet, Royapuram zones||Two of the most-affected zones in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) limits — Tondiarpet and Royapuram — are now testing more number of samples for COVID-19. In four days, the number of samples have increased by two to three times in both zones. Both Tondiarpet and Royapuram account for a high number of cases. As per the data released by the GCC at 8 a.m. on June 24, Royapuram (Zone V) had a total of 6,607 cases followed by Tondiarpet (Zone IV) with 5,355 confirmed cases. Of this, 4,086 persons in Royapuram and 2,896 persons in Tondiarpet were discharged. Aggressive testing and intensive fever surveillance were among the many strategies implemented to combat the disease in the two areas of North Chennai, officials said. “Around 500 to 600 fever camps are being held in the city every day. Of this, 90 to 100 camps are held in Tondiarpet and Royapuram zones. We have increased the number of samples by two to three times in four days. We lifted around 400 samples in Royapuram and 500 in Tondiarpet on Wednesday. We are testing aggressively and as a result, we are detecting a lot of cases,” an official said. As per the sample collection details on June 23, Tondiarpet zone accounts for the highest number of samples among GCC areas with 522 samples, followed by Royapuram with 415. This was a two- to three-fold increase when compared to those lifted on June 19 — 183 and 139 samples in Tondiarpet and Royapuram respectively. Officials said door-to-door surveillance was strengthened, and thermal guns were provided to surveyors. “Unlike earlier, when surveyors ask for symptoms, they now check the residents’ temperature to make the surveillance effective. We are picking up 350 to 500 persons with Influenza Like Illness during fever surveillance. All of them are screened, and those with symptoms are tested. We want to test all symptomatic persons, isolate and treat them to contain further spread,” he said. Overall goal Though cases are peaking in the two zones, the aim was to increase testing and save lives. “Cases will go up but we want to save more people by identifying those with symptoms, testing and treating them on time. We want to catch them on time before symptoms progress to severe. This way, we can reduce deaths,” he added.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 2,865 fresh cases, a new high for T.N.||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded a new single-day high, with 2,865 fresh cases of COVID-19. However, for the first time, over 2,000 patients were discharged across the State. With the new cases, the State’s tally touched 67,468*. A total of 2,424 persons were discharged — the highest single-day figure so far. With this, a total of 37,763 persons have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 28,836. Another 33 persons died of the infection, taking the State’s toll to 866. While 91 returnees from abroad and other States tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, the remaining 2,774 were indigenous cases, reported from all 37 districts. Chennai topped the table with 1,654 new cases, taking its tally past 45,000. Of the 32,079 samples tested in the State in the last 24 hours, 9,371 were tested in Greater Chennai Corporation limits. With 131 new cases, Chengalpattu’s tally touched 4,202. Madurai made it to the list of districts with more than 1,000 cases. With 97 new cases, Madurai became the sixth district to have 1,000-plus cases. The spike in cases continued in Theni (81) and Tiruchi (75), while Nagapattinam recorded 60 cases. There were 87 cases in Tiruvallur, 66 in Kancheepuram, 52 in Tiruvannamalai, 50 in Vellore, 49 in Thoothukudi, 48 in Salem and 38 each in Cuddalore and Virudhunagar. Another 129 children, aged between 0 and 12, and 352 persons aged above 60 tested positive in the State. With this, a total of 3,317 children and 8,027 elderly persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Of the 33 fatalities, 25 occurred in government and eight in private hospitals. A 38-year-old woman died at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital, Perundurai, on June 23. A diabetic, she died due to viral pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 40-year-old man with chronic liver disease died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia, while a 43-year-old woman with diabetes died at the same hospital due to similar reasons. A 44-year-old man with no co-morbidities died at a private hospital on June 23. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days and died due to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, multiorgan dysfunction syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. As on date, Chennai accounts for 668 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu with 60 deaths and Tiruvallur with 45 deaths. Till date, a total of 9,76,431 samples and 9,30,367 individuals have been tested in the State. One more government laboratory — the Government Headquarters Hospital in Krishnagiri — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now 47 testing facilities in the government and 41 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lockdown will help step up surveillance, treatment’||The current 12-day complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram was implemented to actively identify cases, undertake surveillance and conduct aggressive testing for COVID-19, thereby providing some “breathing space” for the government to ramp up health facilities to handle more cases, if need be, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said on Wednesday. However, a decision on extending the complete lockdown will be taken only after health experts meet the Chief Minister on June 29 and provide their inputs, he told The Hindu . The State’s strategy, however, is clear and this type of a stringent lockdown is a “short-term strategy”. District Collectors have been instructed to go in for the “containment strategy”, wherever the disease is spreading, he said. “The current lockdown is supported by a very clear strategy of early and active identification of COVID-19 cases and bringing the affected persons for treatment. We are now undertaking active searches, using the lockdown for better surveillance. Aggressive door-to-door testing is being carried out to look for symptomatic cases,” Mr. Shanmugam said. The complete lockdown framework was necessary as there was a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in Chennai, and the infection was spreading to other districts. “This lockdown is like a surgical operation. It is only for an emergency situation. Our strategy is very clear — we will relax the lockdown norms, step by step, and we will fight the disease, simultaneously. We are confident about managing both,” he added. ‘Breathing time’ “We now have enough breathing time and our health infrastructure is robust. Several care centres are being set up and oxygen facilities are being ramped up in many places. We are prepared to handle more cases. We are also advising the use of pulse oximeters during COVID-19 testing, so that if somebody is showing signs of lower oxygen levels, they can be immediately admitted,” he said. The Chief Secretary, however, expressed concern about people not revealing symptoms, and said that those with symptoms must come forward so that they can be treated in the initial stages itself. Collectors have been advised to go in for a containment strategy in the long term, as the government is clear about economic activities having to start. People’s livelihoods need to be taken care of, he said. “We have instructed them to go in for containment and control in areas where the infection is present. This complete lockdown cannot continue forever,” he added. Mr. Shanmugam said there was a misconception that lockdown meant that everything needed to remain shut. “Lockdown is a framework under which relaxations are given step by step. At every stage, we are offering some relaxations. In the last stage, we will provide relaxations for public meetings, gatherings and opening of theatres. That will be done only when we know that we do not have to worry about the virus and there is some level of immunity,” he said.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB busts e-pass-on-payment racket in Chennai; 5 arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Wednesday busted a major e-pass-on-payment racket, involving revenue officials and taxi drivers. A senior revenue inspector, a junior assistant and three taxi drivers who were part of the network were arrested by the police after deploying a decoy. The suspects have been identified as E. Kumaran, 35, senior revenue inspector; M. Udayakumar, 34, a junior assistant at the Chennai Collectorate — both posted at the e-process centre in the Chennai Corporation — and three taxi drivers — A. Manoj Kumar, 31, of Tiruvanchery; R. Vinothkumar, 32, and Devendran, 32, of Ambattur. The suspects were booked under sections 269(Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 420 (Cheating) of the IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. As e-pass requests of a large number of applicants were being repeatedly rejected, some travel operators cashed in on this and started advertising on social media and message-sharing platforms about issuance e-passes on payment of money. The matter was brought to the notice of City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan and the police deployed a reporter as decoy and approached one of the drivers who offered an e-pass on payment of Rs. 2,000. He confessed to being part of a network of drivers who approached the officials when customers came forward. The officials approved requests on receiving money and Aadhaar card details of individuals. People did not even have to explain the nature of their emergencies. The police added that further investigation was on to ascertain the involvement of officials from the Chennai Corporation and other districts.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.63 lakh Indians brought back, Centre tells High Court||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it had received 4,87,303 requests from Indians stranded abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic to facilitate their return to various States across the country under the Vande Bharat Mission and Operation Samudra Setu. The MEA also informed the court that 2,63,187 of them had been repatriated. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were informed that flights were currently being operated under Phase III of the Vande Bharat Mission, and that 2,24,116 repatriation requests were pending as of Monday, when Vinesh Kumar Kalra, deputy secretary, MEA, had signed a counter-affidavit in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by the DMK. Appearing for the party, senior counsel P. Wilson said that of the 45,242 Indian nationals spread across the world who had requested the government to facilitate their return to Tamil Nadu, only 17,701 had been brought back so far. Stating that the party had received several distress calls, he insisted on the repatriation of all Tamils who wanted to return. In his reply, Additional Solicitor General G. Rajagopalan urged the court to take note of the fact that none of the affected persons had approached the court, and that the present case had been filed only by a political party. The Central government’s senior panel counsel, K. Venkataswamy Babu, said that over 50 flights had been operated to Tamil Nadu so far, with 29 more in store. The MEA, in its counter, said that the list of requests received for repatriation was dynamic in nature, since additions and deletions were being continuously made on account of new requests and the disinclination shown by some to fly back after registering their requests. After registration, “not all of them have finally opted for coming back to India”, the counter read. It was also pointed out to the court that some Tamils might have chosen to fly to other States in the country, and then travel by domestic flights, rail or road to their hometowns. Further, in addition to the Vande Bharat Mission, several other chartered flights were also being operated. “Some countries have also sent flights with Indian deportees,” the counter said. Dedicated helplines Further, the court was given the assurance that Indian Missions abroad had set up dedicated helplines, and were using them extensively to help stranded Indian nationals. Nodal officers had been designated at each of the Missions to provide assistance, the court was told. “IIt is therefore prayed that this honourable court may be pleased to dismiss this writ petition as it is devoid of merit, and thus render justice,” the counter read. After taking the counter on file, the judges adjourned the case to Monday for further hearing.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors see spike in online consultations||The advent of COVID-19 and the drastic changes it has brought about in day-to-day life has led to a slump in the number of patients visiting clinics for out-patient consultations. But doctors have deployed information technology-based solutions to connect with their patients online. Since April, Practo, which facilitates online/offline consultations, claimed to have seen a 50% increase in the number of patients seeking virtual appointments. Gynecologists, general practitioners, dermatologists, ENT specialists and pediatricians were among the most sought after, when it came to consultations during the lockdown. While doctors found it difficult to ensure compliance of safety norms like wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and sanitisation/disinfection of utility areas in clinics due to various reasons like shortage of manpower, people who wanted follow-ups or routine consultations for non-emergency conditions were wary of going to hospitals in the wake of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. “I was seeing about 25 patients a day, which came down to five or so during the initial days of the lockdown. At Capstone Clinic, we introduced an online customised platform for our patients, enabling them to connect with consultants via video/audio. Unfortunately, advice is limited to follow-ups and quick queries only via the online mode…in several other cases I have to see the patient for diagnosis,” said leading infectious diseases expert V. Ramasubramanian. Since March, Practo has increased its doctor base, significantly, to provide uninterrupted access and continuity to healthcare. “It helps avoid gathering and overcrowding in hospitals and keeps healthcare professionals safe. We are enabling other doctors/hospitals to join our tele-consultation platform, so their patients can consult them without having to visit their clinics/hospitals,” said Alexander Kuruvilla, Practo’s chief health strategy officer. Access to healthcare At a time when the use of smartphones, tablets and other internet-enabled devices is increasing exponentially, it is only imperative that healthcare is made accessible, at the click of a button, and is moved to patients’ homes and offices. “We provide comprehensive and accurate information about a healthcare provider/doctor to help patients make better choices on who is right for them,” he claims. Ravi Ramalingam, managing director, KKR ENT Hospital, said that tele/video consultations were the best way forward in these troubled times, when many COVID-19 patients were asymptomatic. Docon, which provides digital healthcare for people, facilitated consultations with doctors at the hospital. “However, in many cases, we need to see the patients. For instance, one of the common causes of severe ear pain is the formation of fungus in the ear. We have to examine and clean the ears for the patient to feel better…,” Dr. Ramalingam said. Many other leading consultants in the State are available online for consultations during the lockdown. Social media platforms like WhatsApp have come in handy for sharing photographs/visuals and video consultations.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insurance scheme to cover treatment cost of govt. staff||The State government has included the treatment of its employees and pensioners for COVID-19 under the New Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). Through a couple of orders issued by the Finance Department on Wednesday, the government fixed an upper limit for the charges that could be collected for critical and non-critical care. In the case of ICU (non-ventilated) for critical care, the charges will be limited to Rs. 6,500 per day, and for ICU (ventilated), a maximum of Rs. 8,500 could be charged per day, regardless of whether the patient has sepsis or multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. As for non-critical care, the treatment cost ceiling for an individual room at A1— and A2 — category hospitals has been fixed at Rs. 9,500 per day, and for A3 — to A6 — category hospitals Rs. 7,500 per day. In both cases, the rates will be exclusive of pharmacy charges. The government orders issued on Wednesday will cover around 25 lakh employees, pensioners and family pensioners. Earlier this month, the government had ordered the inclusion of COVID-19 treatment cost for 1.58 crore family beneficiaries of the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, an official in the Finance Department pointed out. While allowing critical care at non-empanelled hospitals as well, the government had advised its employees and pensioners to restrict non-critical care to empanelled hospitals. As the amount of premium paid to the United India Insurance Company — the implementing agency of NHIS — would cover the cost of critical care at empanelled hospitals, the State government had allocated Rs. 5 crore to meet non-critical care charges for its employees and Rs. 2.5 crore for pensioners and family pensioners. Two corpus funds would be created for the purpose. Employees and pensioners who have undergone non-critical care at empanelled hospitals since March 1, 2020, could claim reimbursement by making an appeal to the Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts Simultaneously, the government, through another order, extended the validity of NHIS by a year — up to June 30, 2021 — as the scheme was due to lapse at the end of this month.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After COVID-19 patients escape, security in hospitals intensified||The police have increased security measures in hospitals after many COVID-19 patients went missing from institutions where they were undergoing treatment. Recently, a 65-year-old patient went missing from a special ward of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). His body was found floating in the waters of Cooum five days later and police identified him as the patient after recovering a prescription from his pocket. In RGGGH alone, three patients have gone missing, so far. While one was found dead, the other two were traced and brought back to the hospital. One of the escapees even threatened to end his life when they traced him back to his house. The other took a couple of trucks to reach Tirupattur but were traced. An advocate, a shopkeeper and a few delivery executives of a food aggregator escaped from Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Estate. Now, the instances of COVID-19 patients escaping from government hospitals have come down as a result of increased security, police said. Flower Bazaar Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) S. Rajendran said RGGGH had CCTV camera coverage and the three blocks where COVID-19 patients were admitted was under round-the-clock police vigil. Triplicane DCP G. Dharamarajan said, “Enough police personnel are guarding the entrance of special wards. In addition, the hospital has private security personnel in other blocks.” Three have escaped from the special ward of Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. In Government Stanley Hospital and Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, police outposts were functioning and special teams were posted in addition to the private security personnel, police said. At the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet, 35 children from a government-run home in Royapuram were admitted after testing positive. Among them, three minor boys — aged 17,15 and 12 years — escaped one after another. One of them was brought back to the hospital. “Our investigation revealed that they removed the window pane of a bathroom in the second floor and climbed down a pipe. The boy who was brought back told us that he was afraid that he would die soon and desperately wanted to see his family in Bihar,” said Washermenpet DCP G. Subbulakshmi.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M students asked to vacate hostels||Around 150 students face ouster from their hostels in the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. These students are those who stayed back in the city to complete their thesis or project work soon after the first lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. At the time, students were advised to seek their guides, professors’ permission to extend their stay. On Tuesday, Shruti Dubey, warden of the Sabarmati Hostel in IIT-M, wrote to students asking them to vacate the hostel rooms within the next two to three days. The letter was sent on Tuesday, advising “all students enrolled in course-based programmes (MSc, M.Tech, B.Tech, DD, MBA) to vacate their rooms as soon as possible. All MS/Ph.D students who have either finished their synopsis and/or have submitted their thesis or do not have any critical (interpreted very strictly) academic reasons will be required to leave as well.” Those who need to stay back “for critical reasons” must undergo a re-approval process for accommodation, the official said. The letter came with an online link that students were expected to fill before 8 p.m. of Tuesday. Students who don’t fill the form would be automatically assumed to be vacating the hostel. Strict approval process The letter indicated that the approval criteria for staying back in the hostel would be “very strict” and students were told “kindly do not try it unless you and your guide would be able to support the request with strong reasons.” A candidate said she had difficulty in ensuring her guide would give the required permission to stay back. Even then, she said she had trouble. Her thesis presentation was to be held at the end of March. At the time of going to print, Dean of Students S. Sivakumar refused to respond to the issue and instructed the newspaper to go through the media cell.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport will handle more flights to other cities from July||Starting from July, more flights are likely to be operated from the Chennai airport to cities across the country. At a high-level meeting between officials of the State government and the Airports Authority of India (AAI), discussions were held on increasing the number of flights being operated from Chennai to Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Guwahati. “The State government has asked us to chalk out a plan and provide details on the number of flights being operated by other States and the destinations being served by them. We will provide them with a list sometime this week. Based on that data, the number of flights being operated from Chennai is likely to increase,” an AAI official said. The State government had also enquired about the flights being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission, the arrangements being made for passengers on arrival, and the requirement of additional facilities, if any, AAI officials said.  Repatriation flights are being operated to and from the city for over a month now. Before the COVID-19 outbreak, the city airport used to handle around 500 flights every day, including departures and arrivals. But since the resumption of flight services in May following several weeks of lockdown, the airport had been handling only 45-50 flights a day until recently. There has been a marginal increase in aircraft movement over the past two weeks, with more flights being operated to other parts of the State like Madurai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore and Thoothukudi. Currently, the Chennai airport is handling 60-65 flights a day.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over disbursal of aid||Concerns have been raised about the planned disbursal of COVID-19 relief financial assistance for the disabled in Tamil Nadu. The State government had announced that Rs. 1000 cash assistance would be given to persons with disabilities and a set of guidelines had been released for the same as well. “When the assistance can be disbursed through an online method by getting the account details of the beneficiaries, we are concerned that direct cash distribution will put people at risk as well as lead to a lack of transparency,” said C. Govindakrishnan, founder, Nethrodaya.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Collectors wanted curbs on people moving from Chennai’||The State government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that exactly on June 12, when it had informed the court that there was no plan to impose a complete lockdown in Chennai, many Collectors in the State had urged the Chief Secretary to impose restrictions on movement of people from Chennai into their districts. Justice R. Mahadevan was told that Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam had convened a meeting of all Collectors on June 12 to discuss about COVID-19. “During the meeting, many Collectors informed that the increase in positive cases in recent times is due to a large number of persons coming from Chennai who are testing positive. “Therefore, they insisted that more restrictions for such movements will give them elbow room to control disease spread,” Revenue and Disaster Management Secretary Atulya Misra told the court and said that the views of the Collectors, along with that of health experts, led to ongoing lockdown in Chennai and three of its adjoining districts from June 19 to 30. Mr. Misra made the submissions in a counter affidavit filed in response to a writ petition filed by Apparels and Handloom Exporters Association, represented by senior counsel P.S. Raman, to grant exemption from the lockdown. Opposing the plea for exemption, the officer said, China reported COVID-19 in December and Tamil Nadu swung into action in January. “Tamil Nadu took note of the developments and initiated immediate efforts to prevent and control the spread of the disease since January 2020,” he said. Though the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengelpet districts were only 17,334 as on May 31, the figure increased “abnormally” to 33,895 on June 12. Moreover, Chennai had recorded the highest number of cases which was around 67.39% of the total number of cases reported across the State, the Secretary said. “This is giving a greater stress on health infrastructure,” he said and added that even senior police officials in Chennai were in favour of internal restrictions in the city. Though on June 12, the government had told a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar that it had no plans then to impose a complete lockdown even in parts of Chennai city, the Collectors had a different take on the issue. On his part, Mr. Raman told the court that the government had granted exemption to Information Technology and Information Technology Enabled Services from the ongoing lockdown and wondered how could it refuse to give a similar exemption to garment exporters who face the threat of losing foreign orders.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based COVID-19 Care Centre opens in Vyasarpadi||One more COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) has started to function in the city. This facility at Dr. Ambedkar Government Arts College in Vyasarpadi in Tondiarpet zone will offer Siddha-based treatment for asymptomatic patients. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said doctors and nurses attached to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital will be posted round-the-clock. It can accommodate 224 patients. “The centre will have Siddha practitioners, and will offer meditation and immune boosters for patients. Siddha will serve as a supplementary system,” an official said. As per a government order issued on April 23, the Health Department decided to explore the feasibility of using Indian System of Medicine. The government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Director of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy, while taking into consideration guidelines issued by Union Ministry of AYUSH on using Indian System of Medicine as general immunity booster. The government went on to launch “Aarokyam” special programme with AYUSH interventions for COVID-19. The CCC will be maintained by the National Institute of Siddha, Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy, Government of Tamil Nadu and Central Council for Research in Siddha, officials of the directorate said. “In the last 10 to 15 days, at least 100 patients who were at the Jawahar College CCC have recovered with Siddha interventions,” an official added. Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Ma Foi Pandiarajan inspected the facility on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP issues new guidelines||A day after a father and his son died due to alleged police excesses in Thoothukudi district, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy has issued fresh guidelines to be followed for arrest/remand of accused persons. The move also follows instances where suspects arrested by the police tested positive for COVID-19, while in judicial custody, and subsequently the police personnel involved in the process also tested positive. Recurrence of such incidents would affect the police department as it would result in inadequate staff to run the police stations, he said. Mr. Tripathy directed Commissioners/Superintendents of Police to identify a Detention-cum-Production Centre in all sub-divisions with adequate facilities. Those arrested in non-bailable offences should be taken to the Centre and not to police stations. A police team should bring such accused persons to the Centre after conducting post-arrest medical check, including screening for COVID-19. Since the Madras High Court had issued directions that electronic video linkage could be deployed for producing accused before the court, senior police officers should make necessary arrangements by coordinating with the judicial officers. Those arrested for bailable offences should be released immediately on bail. If non-bailable offences where arrest is planned, minimum number of police personnel should be involved and all precautions should be ensured. If the accused person is remanded in judicial custody, he/she should be taken to the earmarked prison and it would be incumbent on the police department to conduct the COVID-19 test, the DGP said.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prosecution failed in Shankar murder case’||DMK president and Leader of Opposition M.K. Stalin on Wednesday charged that the failure of the prosecution had resulted in the Madras High Court acquitting B Chinnasamy, the father-in-law of Shankar, a Dalit youth who was murdered in Udumalpet in 2016. The death sentence of five of his assailants was commuted to life. Shankar had married Kowsalya, belonging to a Thevar sect. “Shankar was murdered because of caste arrogance and the Madras High Court has acquitted [the prime accused] and commuted the death sentence [awarded to others]. It is the stand of the DMK that the judgment should not be viewed personally, but legally and it is clear that the prosecution has failed to establish the case,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He charged that it was clear that the police, which had the duty to produce evidence and witnesses, had failed in its responsibility. “Shankar’s murder in a daylight has been captured on CCTV. Will the police do its duty and get justice for Kowsalya," he asked. Custodial deaths Adverting to the deaths of a father and son allegedly due to custodial torture in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district, Mr Stalin said it was a matter of great concern that a section of police had taken advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown and their behaviour had resulted in the deaths of the two. “The police should have filed a case if they had violated lockdown rules. Two lives have been lost because of personal vendetta of police and there is a doubt that the AIADMK government has allowed this to happen,” he charged. Accusing Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami of distorting facts in the case, he called upon the police personnel to abide by rules.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents’ associations help conservancy workers||As a thanks-giving gesture, many residents’ welfare associations in the city have started helping conservancy workers in their respective localities. Ever since the lockdown began, conservancy workers played an important role in keeping the city clean. They do their work unmindful of the health hazards involved. “We wanted to do something in return, and decided to provide them with breakfast on alternate days,” said R. Chandrasekaran, former professor, Madras Medical College and founder/ president, Raja Annamalaipuram Residents Association. “There is a waiting list of 15 residents to sponsor breakfast. We coordinate with restaurants to provide the food,” he said. V. Rajagopal, of the Anna Nagar West Extension Phase II residents welfare association, said the residents provided Rs. 1,000 to the workers as a token of appreciation. “We also provided dry rations,” he added.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel NEET too: PMK||PMK founder Dr. Ramadoss on Wednesday demanded that the NEET exam for this year be cancelled and the State government be allowed to conduct medical counselling based on Plus Two marks. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that he welcomed the cancellation of CBSE board examinations for Class X and Class XII by the Central government. “In India, except for a few States, the public examinations for Class XII have not been finished. Even in the CBSE stream, the exams that were scheduled between March 19 and 31 were postponed and rescheduled to July 1-15. But, in States where CBSE schools are more and in cities where Covid-19 spread is increasing by the day, there is no respite in sight that the spread would decrease in one or two weeks. The CBSE seems to have taken the decision after parents had requested for a cancellation,” Dr. Ramadoss pointed out. He said that reasons used to cancel the CBSE exams scheduled to be held between July 1-15 will hold good for the NEET examination scheduled to be held on July 26. “If the CBSE board exams cannot be held until July 15, how can the NEET exam be held in the next 10 days?” he asked.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK appeal to Speaker||The DMK has urged the Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal to disqualify Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and 10 other MLAs from the membership of the Assembly, under the 10th schedule of the Constitution read with Tamil Nadu Legislative (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules 1986. Former AIADMK MLA Thanga Tamilselvan, now the propaganda secretary of the DMK, while responding to a letter sent by Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan, had rejected the arguments of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in defence of Mr. Panneerselvam. As regards the argument of Mr. Palaniswami that no whip was issued to 11 MLAs including Mr. Panneerselvam, who voted against the Motion of Confidence moved by him on February 18, 2017, Mr. Tamilselvan said that Mr. Panneerselvam and another MLA S. Semmalai had confirmed the issuance of a whip in a symbol dispute petition filed before the Election Commission of India. “Even if it is assumed that no whip was issued, the 11 MLAs are liable to be disqualified as they voted against the Motion of Confidence, and from this one undisputed fact, they stood disqualified,” he contended. Mr. Tamilselvan argued that the question of whip was also of no significance since after voting, the 11 MLAs in their interviews to media had reaffirmed their “deliberate act” of voting against the confidence motion. Recalling various judgements of the Supreme Court and the Madras High Court, Mr. Tamilselvan said a whip was issued by Chief Government Whip S. Rajendran to all AIADMK MLAs including the 11 MLAs “who were facing disqualification proceedings”. Requesting the Speaker to allow his advocate to represent on his behalf, Mr. Tamilselvan sought an “order that may be deemed fit in the present case.”
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces Rs. 10 lakh solatium||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh each to the family of suspected custodial death victims Jayaraj and his son Benicks. The father and son had died after allegedly being subjected to torture by the Sattankulam police personnel following an argument over keeping one of their shops open after the permitted hours during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Palaniswami, in a statement, said that a government job would also be given to a family member of the two.  Assurance to kin Expressing his condolences to the family, he also assured them that the case would be investigated as per law, based on the report given by the judicial magistrate and directions of the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court.
25 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 33,663 cases booked in last 6 days||Over 33,663 cases were booked for violation of prohibitory orders issued under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code in the last six days of complete lockdown which began from June 19. The city police also seized 30,419 vehicles so far. On Wednesday alone, city police booked 6,287 cases and seized 6,603 vehicles from the violators.
25 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate Periyakulam, Valankulam lakefronts today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate on Thursday the ‘quick win’ component of the lake development project that the Coimbatore Corporation undertook at Rs. 89 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation carved out a portion of the Rs. 700-crore lake development project, which involves revamping eight lakes in the city, to create the ‘quick win’ component as it wanted to showcase to the city’s residents what it was doing on the lakes and how it would transform the lakes under the Mission when it would complete the entire project. Under the ‘quick win’ component, the civic body had proposed development of a one-km stretch of the northern bund of the Ukkadam Periyakulam (Big Tank), the road that cuts across the Valankulam, connecting Trichy Road to Sungam Bypass Road, and the portion of the southern bund of the tank that is beneath the Sungam Bypass Road flyover. The works are expected to be completed by July-end. Recreation facility The Corporation sources said that both Periyakulam and Valankulam would turn into places of attraction and recreation as both the lakefronts would have space for conducting shows, holding meetings, bicycling, walking track, children playing or families spending their evenings. It was building an amphitheatre, bicycling and walking tracks, pontoon, erecting structures for shops, landscaping the bunds, decorating the bottom of the flyover with bamboo sticks and ornamental lights and constructing a boat jetty. Aside from recreation, the Corporation had also focussed on the need to restore the lakes by preventing entry of sewage and creating natural barriers and filters to clean the inflowing water, sources said.
25 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lack of guidelines leave PPE makers confused||With personal protection equipment (PPE) kits manufactured by many in the garment sector in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts reportedly not meeting the standards set by HLL Lifecare Limited, the nodal organisation for procurement of PPE, several first-time manufacturers of the kits appear clueless about safety norms. A garment manufacturer in Tiruppur, who did not want to be identified, said that almost all PPE and mask manufacturers in the region are “first-time manufacturers” of the products. They know little about the fabric to be used or standards to be maintained for PPE, and they supply mainly to HLL, he added. Testing laboratories also tested the fabric for one main factor — synthetic blood penetration at two main points in the garment. Following reports of poor quality PPE, HLL started testing more samples randomly. “According to available data, it looks like just about 200 of the 1,000 samples tested by HLL passed the test,” he said. Now, only those with approvals will be able to continue manufacturing. Many have also invested heavily in seam sealing machines. Another manufacturer in Coimbatore said that with HLL holding back payments, many are in deep trouble. There is no clarity on the quantity of stocks with manufacturers and the loss they are going to incur if they do not get payments for the PPE supplied. India should now come out with clear guidelines, the manufacturers added.
25 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A man hailing from Rajasthan was found dead in his home at Ayyanna Gowder Street near Town Hall here on Wednesday. Police identified the deceased as Ganapathy Das (20). Das was staying with his brother in a rented house and was into sales and service of gas stoves. Police said that the man went to his house during lunch break and did not return. He was later found hanging in the house. His brother had told the police that the man was depressed over the death of an actor. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050. Arrested for possessing ganja The Saravanampatti police arrested a 21-year-old man on charges of possessing ganja. Police apprehended Lilliyan Jef, a resident of Poonga Nagar near Coimbatore airport and a native of Kanyakumari district, with 1.1 kg of ganja from Saravanampatti – Thudiyalur junction around 11 a.m. on Tuesday. The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
25 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister trying to showcase unfinished project as his accomplishment: DMK||A day prior to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s visit to the city on Thursday to inaugurate the Ukkadam Periyakulam and Valankulam lakefronts, DMK MLA N. Karthik has asked whether the Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani was trying to showcase an unfinished project as his accomplishment. In a statement issued here on Wednesday, Mr. Karthik said that without stopping the sewage flowing into the two water bodies by building sewage treatment plants, the Corporation was trying to beautify them and erecting ‘I Love Kovai’ boards. What was the necessity to rush the inauguration when the Coimbatore Corporation had not even completed 30% of the work, he asked.
25 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU begins weather and climate course online||The Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University began an online course, ‘Introduction to weather and climate from a common man’s perspective’. A release from the Centre said it began the 10-day course on June 17 with Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar inaugurating the programme. V. Geethalakshmi, Director, Crop Management, spoke on factors responsible for climate change. S.P. Ramanathan, Prof. and Director of the Centre, outlined the course content and the expected outcome. Speakers, who participated online, spoke about planetary positions, weather elements, instruments used for recording such elements, atmospheric layers, weather forecasting among others. More than 130 participants from across the country even abroad were participating online, the release added.
25 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Micro finance firms should not insist on EMI’||District Collector K. Rajamani has asked micro finance institutions not to collect EMI from customers will August 31. According to a press release, the Collector said the Reserve Bank of India has instructed banks and financial institutions to provide three month moratorium to borrowers. Hence, the micro finance institutions should not insist on customers to pay the EMI. If there are such complaints, action will be taken against the institutions, he said.
25 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residents near Perumpallam Canal oppose Corporation’s demolition plan||Urging the district administration to stop the Corporation’s move to demolish houses located near the Perumpallam Canal, people who were living in the unauthorised structures, along with functionaries of Communist Party of India (Marxist), submitted a petition to Collector C. Kathiravan here on Wednesday. Residents said that there are about 3,000 to 4,000 houses on both the sides of the 12.15 km long canal and the civic body under the Smart City Mission project was developing the canal at a cost Rs. 183.63 crore. Notices were served to the occupants and were asked to vacate their houses. They said that the width of the canal was 150 metre and based on the High Court order, 1,800 houses were demolished in the past years. They said that both Perumpallam Canal and Pitchaikaran Canal carried only effluents and household waste and not water. Residents said that daily wagers had constructed the houses with their earnings and borrowings and demolishing it for the purpose of beautification of the canal was unacceptable. Tenements had been constructed at Periyar Nagar for slum dwellers and we want tenements in our area, they said. We are living here for 50 years and the civic body should construct a side wall for the canal, they added. Mr. Kathiravan said that since the project was implemented by the civic body, he would take up the issue with the Corporation Commissioner for necessary action.
25 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Postal pension adalat on June 30||The district-level pension adalat of Erode Postal Division will be held at 12 noon on June 30 at the Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode Division, Erode Head Post Office Complex, Erode 638 001. A press release from the Senior Superintendent of Posts, Erode Division, grievances or representations, if any, regarding pension matter may be sent to the Senior Superintendent of Posts before June 25 by post or in person.
25 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI/DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Poor patronage hits TNSTC services||The partial movement of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses within the zones, until Wednesday, evoked little response here as the buses were seen waiting for long hours for passengers to board. Poor patronage has made the operation of buses unviable even to meet the diesel costs, say TNSTC sources. In late May, the State government lifted the restrictions on movement of public transport albeit with caveats letting the movement of TNSTC buses within the zones. The State was divided into zones enabling inter-district movement of buses without the need for e-passes. The TNSTC was allowed to operate 50 % of total fleet strength with 60% occupancy, to enable physical distancing. Dharmapuri division of the TNSTC had been plying 410 buses, including route and town buses. However, the arrangement resulted in poor revenue for the buses that was struggling to meet the required passenger strength to ply. An official source from the TNSTC, Dharmapuri division, told The Hindu that the buses would be operated only if there was required strength. Especially with the inter-state movement of buses stopped, passenger traffic to Bengaluru has been hit. Similarly, passenger movement to Tiruvannamalai, Puducherry and Chennai, which contributed to heavy traffic, has also been hit. The private buses that resumed services, subject to restrictions, are also opting to stay off roads due to poor patronage.
25 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Police stop violators on roads||The first day of the intensified lockdown in parts of Madurai district saw some public movement despite the barricading of arterial roads on Wednesday. Movement of transport was visible in the morning, but traffic reduced by noon in areas, including the Goripalayam junction and Teppakulam. Police personnel stopped violators without face masks and those driving two-wheelers without helmets, but did not limit movement extensively. Roads near Sellur, bridges across Vaigai river and the Periyar bus stand flyover connecting to Ellis Nagar were all blocked. The lockdown was enforced in Madurai Corporation, Paravai Town Panchayat, Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks following a sudden rise in the number of COVID-19 cases over a week’s time. The district administration, in consensus with the State government, decided to follow the Chennai's lockdown model and keep the parts of the district under a shutdown for a week between June 24 and June 30. District Monitoring Officer, B. Chandra Mohan, who arrived on Tuesday, inspected the newly-created COVID-19 treatment facility at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture College (TNAU) on Wednesday. He also convened a meeting with senior officials of the administration including District Collector T. G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. Grocery and vegetable shops saw only a trickle of a crowd. Shopkeepers in East Masi street said that members of the public had crowded at shops and purchased their wares in advance, due to the lockdown on Tuesday. “Despite the startling number COVID-19 positive cases, people refused to follow physical distancing measures. On Monday before the lockdown was announced, we (shopkeepers) ourselves volunteered to close down our shops by 2 p.m. because we did not want to be infected. The lockdown in some ways is good for our own health. On Tuesday, we saw a lot of panic purchasing,” said M. Somasundaram, who has owned a spice store in the area for around 15 years. Mr. Somasundaram said that only a few people came to his store on Wednesday morning. Temporary vegetable markets set up by the Madurai Corporation too, saw few crowds. Vegetable prices too saw a drop since Tuesday, as panic buying died down. Tomatoes, which were sold for Rs. 40 per kilogram were reduced to Rs. 20 per kg. Potatoes which were sold at Rs. 60 per kg, were reduced to Rs. 50. Carrots sold at Rs. 70 per kg was sold at Rs. 30 on Wednesday. Public transportation was suspended across the city. District administration officials stated that pushcart vendors selling fruits and vegetables can only operate between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m., in a press statement.
25 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||First floor of railway hospital becomes COVID-19 ward||With the number of COVID-19 patients increasing every day in Madurai district, the first floor of Railway Hospital here was converted into a COVID-19 ward. On Wednesday, 13 positive patients were admitted to the new ward. The isolation ward has got 36 beds and another 11 beds are for quarantine facility, according to a railway official. However, the Dakshin Railway Employees Union have expressed apprehension about the health safety of the railway employees, retired employees and their family members who take treatment on the ground floor of the Railway Hospital. “Many aged people and pregnant women come here for treatment. We fear that the COVID-19 could infect as movement of positive people will be higher hereafter,” said its divisional secretary, R. Sankaranarayanan However, a railway official clarified that the main entrance of the hospital has been provided for the COVID-19 patients and government officials. “The common entrance for first floor and ground floor has been sealed. Railway employees have a different entrance at the backside through the outpatient ward,” he added. Meanwhile, many of the offices on the first floor of Divisional Railway Manager’s office were sealed on Wednesday after a railway employee in the engineer branch tested positive. The main entrance to the Divisional Office through TPK Road has been blocked for the railway employees. They would enter through the Western Entry of the railway junction, an official added.
25 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door surveillance to identify fever cases||Health workers will undertake a door-to-door surveillance to identify fever cases within Madurai district as a step to control the spread of COVID-19 in the district, said District Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan here on Wednesday while addressing a press meet. He said that workers would be visiting houses once in three days with thermometers or fever scanners to assess body temperature of residents in their stipulated areas. “We have given a strict screening criterion for field-level healthcare workers,” he said. Those with fevers will be rushed to the nearest fever clinics. There are 31 clinics under the corporation limit and 57 in the rural areas which will operate throughout the day, he said. He added that 39 mobile fever clinics would be making rounds across the 13 blocks of the district as well. He said as part of their treatment protocol, the administration would be classifying positive cases as mild, moderate and severe and proceed to transfer the cases respectively to either COVID-19 care centres, health centres or hospitals. He said that a total of 21 establishments with a capacity of 2,045 beds had been identified to function as COVID-19 Care Centres, where persons with mild symptoms would be admitted for monitoring and treatment. Similarly places with capacity of another 600 beds to function as COVID-19 Health Centres. “In GRH, we have 2,000 beds ready, of which 375 beds have oxygen facility. Around 150 beds are available in intensive care units,” he said. The officer added that the administration is working in tandem with five private hospitals who are contributing 400 beds. “The Chief Minister’s Health Insurance scheme will be made available at these hospitals. Those seeking private treatment too can approach these facilities,” he said. Dr. Chandra Mohan said that the GRH was currently using CT scans for effective diagnosis and is not looking to alter its existing testing protocol. He said that the district had been testing based on guidelines provided by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and was not deviating. On the sharp rise, the officer said that the disease had proven to exhibit some steep spikes. “We are testing primary contacts, travellers and patients of influenza like illness as well,” he said. According to the monitoring officer, the district administration is maintaining treatment protocol and a death audit. “We are examining the ‘whys’” he said and advised citizens to wear masks, maintain personal distancing and wash hands. Collector T. G. Vinay said that travellers looking to come to Madurai district would be allowed if they had proper supporting documents. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that fever clinics in 155 places are at the disposal of the public. Later, the monitoring officer inspected the various prevention activities being done in containment zones along with the Collector and the Commissioner.
25 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fewer vehicles ply during lockdown in Madurai||Madurai city witnessed a very few vehicles plying on arterial roads after the complete lockdown came into force on Wednesday. Though the movement of two-wheelers and cars was high on early part of the day, even afternoon, many of the arterial roads wore a deserted look. Police men were posted in all the makeshift markets to regulate the crowd by ensuring social distancing. The presence of police also saw a sudden increase in the number of people – both vegetable traders and customers – wearing masks. The city police had sealed borders and no vehicle without e-pass was allowed inside the city or to leave the city. Police officials and men were deployed all around the city on the boundaries of each police stations. Police men were seen stopping people, especially youths, riding on bikes in a suspicious manner. The restricted movement after allowing only four bridges across the Vaigai river discouraged unnecessary movement of people. An Assistant Commissioner of Police said that the complete lockdown was useful in preventing crowding. Closure of shops and commercial establishments ensured people remaining indoors. The absence of bus services and autorickshaws also helped in lesser movement of people, he added.
25 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NGO seeks SHRC intervention||People’s Watch has written to the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission seeking appropriate action against the erring policemen involved in the Sattankulam custodial torture and death case. In a letter, its Executive Director Henri Tiphagne said that action should be initiated against the Judicial Magistrate, Sattankulam, and the police for the illegal manner in which the two traders, Jayaraj and Benicks, were remanded. Further, a case should be registered against the erring policemen under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and the same must be investigated by the CBI.
25 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Contactless train ticket checking facility||Madurai division of Southern Railway has introduced contactless ticket checking system at Madurai, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar and Dindigul railway stations. The new system works with a web camera connected to monitors placed a little away from the camera. “Passengers have to show their tickets and passenger identity particulars to the camera and the ticket checking staff would verify them with the help of monitors,” said an official. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin appreciated the Senior Divisional Signal and Telecommunication Engineer Gangula Suman and his team for the facility. Officials closed PRS centres in Madurai following the lockdown in Madurai from June 24 to 30. Passengers can obtain refund after June 30. They can get e-tickets for their journey on Madurai-Villupuram and Nagercoil-Tiruchi special trains.
25 June 2020||MADURAI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s tally crosses 1,000 mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Madurai crossed the 1,000 mark to stand at 1,073, as 97 persons tested positive on Wednesday. The tally pushed the district to the sixth position among the 38 districts of the State. The fresh cases included 15 frontline workers, 46 patients with influenza-like illness symptoms, 25 primary contacts of positive cases and a pregnant woman. Three new patients were at airport quarantine centres, said Collector T.G. Vinay. There are 641 active cases in the district. Theni reported a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 cases with 81 persons –50 male and 31 female patients – testing positive. The fresh cases included seven children and a one-year-old girl. The district administration said both imported cases and indigenous cases contributed to the spurt. Five persons were discharged on Wednesday. Dindigul Dindigul recorded 10 fresh cases, all with travel history. Four persons were discharged from hospital. Sivaganga  Sivaganga reported seven new cases and all of them were contacts of positive people. Five persons were discharged on Wednesday. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram, due to cross-notification, the tally came down from 339 to 338. There were no fresh cases, and 10 persons were discharged from hospital after they tested negative. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi registered 49 fresh cases – all indigenous – on Wednesday, which took its tally to 732. The district also witnessed deaths of a 56-year-old woman from Kovilpatti and a 57-year-old woman from Aniyabarananallur. They were brought dead to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, where test results turned positive. With this, Thoothukudi’s death toll rose to seven. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli added 32 more positive cases, including 25 indigenous cases, which took the total count to 680 and the number of active cases to 242. After a lull, Kanniyakumari recorded 22 cases – 21 of them indigenous – and its tally went up to 200 and the number of active cases to 96. Tenkasi Tenkasi reported five cases, which took its tally to 277 and active case count to 167. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded its highest single day rise of 38 cases on Wednesday. The district’s tally stands at 275 and the number of active cases at 126.
25 June 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Stranded fishermen want to be rescued||Six fishermen from Kanniyakumari district, who are stranded in Iran, have urged the government to take steps to repatriate them in the Indian naval ship so that they can leave Iran shortly and reach VOC Port in Thoothukudi on July 2. In the audio message sent by one of the stranded fishermen, who are identified as M. Amarsan, S. John Gadin, M. Maria Kimslin, A. John Kennedy and Risin Mon, all from Colachel and K. Ansari of Vallavilai, they urged the State and the Union Governments to ensure their safe release from the clutches of their sponsor, who neither gives them their salary for the past four months nor allows them to board the Indian naval ship to be operated shortly from Iran to India under operation ‘Samudra Setu’ of Vande Bharat Mission. “Even though the sponsor refused to give us our salary for the past four months, we requested him to allow us to go home since we are in a very pathetic condition,” they said. “The sponsor, an Iranian, who initially agreed to release us, refuses to do so now. So, the government should take steps to rescue us from the sponsor and ensure our safe return to India,” they added.
25 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 case load jumps in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded the highest rise yet, in the number of COVID-19 cases in a day, with 59 new admissions on Wednesday. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that while 58 cases were from Puducherry, one person tested positive in Mahe enclave. The high case load came from testing which was ramped up from an average of 250-300 swabs to about 440 samples. Beginning Thursday, mobile units would be sent to villages to test swabs to identify prevalence of COVID-19 as several cases had emerged in rural areas. The mobile units would specifically concentrate in and around containment zones or clusters. The units would also be deployed in the outlying regions of Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam from Friday. As per the decisions taken by the government, private medical colleges would also take up testing of COVID-19 samples as well as establish COVID care centres. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said that of the new admissions in Puducherry, 25 cases were contacts of COVID-19 patients and 14 were from the mask making unit in the Mettupalayam industrial estate while the infection source was yet to be identified in 18 new contacts. At present, 276 people are undergoing treatment, of which 263 are in Puducherry region (173 at the IGMCRI and 89 at Jipmer), eleven in Karaikal GH and one each in Yanam GH, Mahe GH and Cuddalore GH. With 11 patients discharged on Wednesday, the total number of those discharged stood at 176. Till now, 13,435 samples have been tested, of which 12,835 have been negative and the test results of 174 are awaited. The tally stands at 9 deaths, 276 active cases and total of 461 cases. ‘Be cautious’ Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi expressed concern over the surge in patients and said it would soon rise to 100 cases a day if people failed to observe social distancing, wearing of masks and hand sanitising habits. In a message, she called upon the management of private industries to ensure that workers in their factories adhered to lockdown norms. Citing one or two industries which were found to be the cause of several COVID-19 cases in Puducherry, she said that people should be very cautious.
25 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Budget: Govt. awaits Finance Ministry nod||The government is awaiting the nod from the Union Finance Ministry to present the annual budget for 2020-21 sometime in the first or second week of July. The Legislative Assembly on March 30, passed a vote-on-account for Rs. 2, 042 crore for the first three months of this fiscal, making it mandatory for the government to present a full budget by early July. “We need to present the budget in the beginning of July so that we can go ahead with the administrative procedures for salary disbursement for August and also other capital expenditure requirement,” said an official source. According to him, preparations for budget presentation started towards the end of May with the Department of Planning seeking the views of State Planning Board members on the annual financial statement. “Due to the restrictions, the government received the views of some members and based on the assessment prepared budget estimates for the current fiscal.” The budget estimate was forwarded to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs a month ago for approval. “Enquiries by the government reveal that MHA has forwarded the budget proposal to the Finance Ministry for vetting. We are expecting approval anytime,” the official said. The Centre in its Union budget for the financial year had set aside Rs. 1,703 crore as assistance for Puducherry.
25 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||1,000 bundles of tobacco products seized; 2 held||The police seized about 1000 bundles of banned tobacco products hidden in 20 cartons on Wednesday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the lorry driver R. Natarajan, 28, had developed contact with Zia-Ul-Haq of Sevvaipettai in Salem, a wholesale merchant, who used to procure banned tobacco goods from Bangalore and supply through the lorry driver Natarajan, also from Salem, to different parts in Tamil Nadu. The lorry driver brought banned tobacco items and returned with cash from local merchants here during the last five months. As the returns were very high, the lorry driver, with his accomplice, Ayyanar, 30, of Salem, travelled to various cities and delivered tobacco items to the shops identified by Zia-Ul-Haq. The vehicle, which was intercepted on Mudukulathur-Paramakudi highway, had stocks of 37 rice bags, each weighing 25 kg. Initially, the driver claimed to have only rice bags, but when the police demanded the invoice, he had nothing to show. A search revealed that they had hidden bundles of banned tobacco products below rice bags.  The FIR names five accused including two merchants Sahubar Sadiq, 48, of Sikkal and his brother Sarbudeen, 55, of Mudukalathur to whom the lorry driver confessed to have delivered the tobacco and collected Rs. 5.50 lakh cash. A senior police officer said that the lorry driver and his accomplices made huge profits from the sale of banned tobacco products and they were operating more than 30 trucks throughout Tamil Nadu and to other southern States from Salem. The procurement point appeared to be Bangalore and Hyderabad.
25 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||With no temple events, Pambai artistes struggle to survive lockdown||With no temple festivals conducted due to lockdown, Vengala Pambai artistes petitioned District Collector recently seeking assistance as their livelihood have been affected. They staged a performance at Kottai Maidan here recently to draw the attention of the authorities towards their plight. Pambai is a major attraction during temple festivals and there are at least 1,000 artistes in the district dependent on the art for their livelihood. They said that their major source of income for the whole year come from the performances they give during temple festivals during the Tamil months of Thai and Aadi . Besides, they are also called to perform during some government functions. V. Shaktivel, a Pambai artiste, said that with no temple festivals, their livelihood has been severely affected and they are struggling to make their ends meet. Members of the Salem district Tamilthai Gramiya Vengala Pampai Esaikalaignayargal Nalasangam requested authorities to take steps to offer a cash relief of Rs. 2,000 for four months and interest-free bank loans. P. Nyanavel, Secretary of the association, said: “we are struggling to meet daily needs. We are not able to pay school fees for children. The lockdown has happened exactly during our season and our livelihood has been severely affected. Generally, when we perform at a temple festival, a person would earn up to Rs. 1,500 and we would get around 10 programmes a month during the temple festival season. Our expectations have gone in vain this year.” He said that the government should consider utilising them for awareness programmes as it would help them in earning some income during this lockdown period.
25 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mobile shop owners down shutters||Condemning the mysterious death of the trader and his son at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district, mobile shop owners and distributors downed their shutters here on Wednesday. The 60-year-old trader and his 31-year-old son, who runs a mobile phone sales and service showroom, were arrested by the police and were lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail and later died at the hospital one after the other under mysterious circumstances. They demanded action against policemen. Mobile phone shops in Erode district were also closed on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||25-year-old plea to upgrade mud road||A plea to upgrade a mud road connecting Thulukkaviduthi North with Pudukottai Road at Periyanayakipuram in Peravurani Panchayat Union remains unheeded for more than two decades. The 600-metre mud road was laid through a cashewnut grove in 1991 when the Forest Department decided to remove old trees and plant new saplings at the 90-acre plantation. The road helps residents of Thulukkaviduthi North avoid a 5-km detour to reach Pudukottai Road. During monsoon, however, the road becomes slushy making it difficult for motorists to negotiate the stretch. Hence, locals demanded that the road be upgraded as a black-topped carriageway so that it is usbale even during rainy days. But their plea remains unheeded for more than 25 years, they say. Petitions Ramanathan of Thulukkaviduthi North claims that several petitions forwarded to the State government on several occasions have failed to evoke favourable response. “The State government should initiate necessary steps for issue of no objection certificate by the Forest Department for upgrading the road in the interests of the villagers,” he says.
25 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Returnees identified’||A total of 575 persons, who arrived in Thanjavur district from different parts of the State, have been identified as on Monday. While 125 returnees have been identified in Thanjavur Corporation limits, it is 91 in Kumbakonam and 21 in Pattukottai Municipal limits. In rural pockets, 338 have been identified. According to Collector M. Govinda Rao, stern action will be initiated against those arriving in the district without valid e-passes. Arrivals from neighbouring districts will be monitored by revenue and civic authorities. He urged traders and businessmen to ensure social distancing norms, hand washing with sanitiser and wearing of face masks were adhered to by employees and customer. So far, a fine of Rs. 9,82,100 had been collected from defaulters, he said.
25 June 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Tighter restrictions in five more municipalities||More restrictions were imposed in five more municipalities in Theni from 6 p.m. on Wednesday to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The municipalities are Theni, Bodi, Cumbum, Chinnamanur and Gudalur. There has been a steady rise in the number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the last one week. So, the district administration, after holding a meeting with various department officials, has proposed to tighten restrictions till June 30. Chairing the meeting, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said that tea shops, bakeries, jewellery shops, textile showrooms, roadside petty shops, furniture and home consumable item shops, mobile accessories/showrooms and footwear, fancy shops would be closed down. However, shops selling vegetables, fruits, drinking water, grocery, fuel like petrol and diesel, building materials as well as LPG refill agencies, factories, banks, state and central government offices would function. Autorickshaws, private cars can ply for medical emergencies with only two passengers in an autorickshaw, three in a car and only one person on a two-wheeler. Ration shops would function and meat shops would be kept open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. All restaurants should remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., 12 noon to 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m and customers would be permitted to avail take-away services only. Amma Unavagams, community kitchens, printing press, media and shops selling agricultural produce/commodities would remain open and function as usual. The Collector clarified that it would not be a ‘complete lockdown,’ but only tightening of certain restrictions in public interest and added that there should be no buses plying to Madurai from the district. Superintendent of Police Sai Saran Tejaswi said that vehicles without e-pass would be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the violating vehicles would be impounded.
25 June 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Tighter curbs in five municipalities in Theni||More restrictions, including on the movement of people, will be in place in the limits of five more municipalities in Theni from 6 p.m. on Wednesday to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The municipalities are Theni, Bodi, Cumbum, Chinnamanur and Gudalur. In the past week, there has been a steady rise in the number of persons testing positive for COVID-19. Following this, the district administration, after holding a meeting with multiple department officials, proposed to tighten restrictions till June 30. District Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said tea shops, bakeries, jewellery shops, textile showrooms, and mobile accessories/showrooms, would remain closed. However, she said that shops selling vegetables, fruits, LPG refill agencies, grocery shops, petrol bunks, factories and banks as well as State and Central government offices would function.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees new high with 219 positive cases; fifth death in Tiruchi||Tiruchi district with 76 cases and Nagapattinam with 62 cases saw the highest single day spike in COVID-19 positive cases in the central region on Wednesday. Tiruchi also saw the fifth death in the district with a 70-year-old man succumbing to COVID-19. The total number of cases in the central region was 219, with 15 cases being reported in Thanjavur, 31 in Tiruvarur, 13 in Pudukottai, nine in Karur, eight in Ariyalur and five in Perambalur districts. Tiruchi A 70-year-old man who hailed from Bhai Thoppu near East Boulevard Road died after pre-existing health conditions caused complications after he tested positive for COVID-19. He was admitted on June 18 with fever and difficulty in breathing. “The patient had been suffering from tuberculosis and also from blood pressure and asthma. These conditions worsened due to the novel coronavirus,” a senior health official at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said. Protest At least eight of the patients’ immediate family members have also tested positive for the virus and are admitted to the Tiruchi GH. The family members staged a brief protest seeking to attend the man’s funeral, but were pacified by the officials. The man’s body was later taken by officials of Tiruchi Corporation and buried on Wednesday afternoon. Of the 75 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruchi on Wednesday, many were from the city limits, senior officials said. “Places in Nadu Guzili street, East Boulevard Road, Woraiyur where containment zones have already been demarcated, continue to have a spike in cases. These places need to be monitored closely,” the official said. Meanwhile, 24 persons from Tiruchi district and one from Kallakurichi were discharged from the Tiruchi GH after recovering from COVID-19. The patients were given a send off by officials of the health department and hospital staff who instructed the patients to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days before venturing out. Pudukottai Of the thirteen patients who tested positive in Pudukottai, nine had returned from Chennai while two patients, a man aged 55 and a woman aged 50 returned from Tiruchi. A 30-year-old man who travelled from Madurai also tested positive for the infection. Thanjavur With 15 more persons testing positive on Wednesday, the total number of persons infected with coronavirus in Thanjavur district since the outbreak of the pandemic increased to 335. The number of persons discharged from hospitals after treatment touched 150. Currently, 184 patients were under treatment at the hospitals in the district. Tiruvarur In Tiruvarur, 160 persons are still undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection out of the 272 persons found infected with the virus. This includes 31 persons who tested positive in the district on Wednesday. Karur Karur saw nine new cases including three boys aged three, nine and 14 and an 18-year-old girl. All were family members of those who returned to the district from Chennai. They have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Perambalur In Perambalur, five patients tested positive for the viral infection. All are admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. Ariyalur In Ariyalur, eight patients tested positive for COVID-19 of which three patients returned from Chennai and three were family members of people who returned from Chennai. Two international travellers, a man who returned from the USA, while another from Singapore, also tested positive. While six of the patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital, one has been admitted to the Tiruchi GH. Another patient who hails from Ariyalur is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam district, more than half of the 62 cases returned to their hometowns from Chennai. Three had returned from Chengalpattu, five from Thiruvallur district and one from Kancheepuram. Three others had returned from Kerala. One patient who returned from Malaysia also tested positive for the viral infection. While some patients have been admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital, Mayiladuthurai, the others were in the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In time of pandemic, success story from the field||The Tiruchi Pasumai Groundnut Farmers Producers Company (FPC), which has been producing cooking oil under the brand name of Tiruchi Pasumai, commissioned a seed processing centre at Pannapatti near Manapparai on Wednesday. Funded by the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, the seed processing centre-cum-storage godown is expected to help the FPC step up its scale of business. The department has extended a grant of Rs. 60 lakh for the project. Started in 2015 with just about 50 members, the FPC now has 1,100 members, most of them groundnut farmers from Manapparai, Vaiyampatti and Marungapuri blocks, an oilseed growing belt, in Tiruchi district. Significantly, 950 of its members are small and marginal farmers and about 350 are women, according to T.Thirumurugan, Promoter and Chief Executive Officer of the FPC. Mr. Thirumurugan, who holds a degree in agriculture, has been working with farmers for the past 10 years Manapparai region encouraging them to take to technology and latest farm practices. The FPC has been procuring in bulk and supplying inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to groundnut farmers. It also procures and markets groundnut. “We offer at least Rs. 50 more [for a bag of 40 kg] than the market rates. Farmers need not pay any commission whereas they will have to pay up to 10% commission in the Manapparai market. This way they can earn at least Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 more an acre,” said Mr. Thirumurugan. The FPC had earlier commissioned a mini oil mill with wooden oil expeller ( mara sekku) worth Rs. 10 lakh sanctioned under the Mission for Sustainable Dryland Agriculture. “We have been producing groundnut oil, gingelly oil and coconut oil under the brand name of Tiruchi Pasumai over the past six months. We now supply regularly to residents of a few apartments in Tiruchi. The margins are thin as the market in the segment is highly competitive, but people appreciate the quality of our cold pressed oil,” he said. Encouraged by the response, the company plans to scale up production in the coming months to 1,000 litres a month from the current average of 200 litres. It has also applied for Agmark certification and has already received export licence. “We plan to explore possibilities for online marketing and exports too,” Mr.Thirumurgan said. According to K. Murugan, Deputy Director of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, who inaugurated the seed processing centre, the department has also recommended sanction of Rs. 10 lakh as a soft loan to the FPC to meet their working capital requirements in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have also allotted two shops to the FPC at the Integrated Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi in Tiruchi. The FPC shops will open once the market becomes functional,” he added. The seed processing centre-cum-storage godown is one of three sanctioned by the department for the district during 2019-20. The other two units, also costing Rs. 60 lakh each, are being established by ManVin FPC at Sirunatham near Thuraiyur and Tiruchi Malaikottai Paddy FPC at Peruvalanallur. “Civil works were underway and the units will be commissioned soon,” Mr. Murugan said.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Novelty gift is online bestseller||The lockdown has proved to be the right time for a traditional printing press in the city to experiment with a novelty gift that has garnered over 6,000 followers on its Instagram page within weeks of its launch in May. The ‘Prink Bomb’, a personalised pop-up cube that literally bursts out of a box filled with confetti and assumes its shape with the help of strategically placed rubber bands, has become a surprise best-seller for Thirumalai Printers, a 20-year-old firm based on Pugalia Pillai Street in Tiruchi. “I took over the press from my father in the 1990s, but as technology and automation made inroads, it was a struggle to stay relevant in a crowded market,” Amudha Siva, proprieter, Thirumalai Printers, told The Hindu . While the press continued to maintain its regular product base of diaries, calendars and wedding invitations, Ms. Amudha felt the need for an unusual item that would serve as stylish keepsake for its recipients. “The Prink Bomb is aimed at young people, and for those who want to celebrate a relationship. It is meant for friends, relatives, co-workers ... anyone who wants to show love,” said Ms. Amudha. Made by assembling two halves of printed cardboard sheets cut to a specific size, the Prink Bomb came about after several months of online research. “We had finalised the product pattern, the machines to produce the perforated high-grade cardboard, and every other detail, down to sourcing the double-sided sticky tape and imported rubber bands, when the lockdown was announced on March 25. Instead of thinking about the problem, we focused on finding the solution.” Ms. Amudha was helped by her elder son and her husband to reinvent the idea for e-commerce. “Prink Bomb has gained more than 6,000 followers on our Instagram page since the May 3 launch. We even had a celebrity endorsement from [actress] Anu Haasan,” said Ms. Amudha. Customers can opt for single or triple pop-up cube combinations through the product website, and upload their pictures while placing orders. The printed cardboard sheets are tagged with buyers’ information to prevent errors in the final orders. “I have personally assembled 500 cubes since we went online. Now, as demand grows, I have decided to train a few of our women staff to help out with the basic steps,” said Ms. Amudha. The top half of the cube has four pre-punched holes that transform it into a desktop pen-stand, making the Prink Bomb a reusable gift. Shipping is available throughout India. In keeping with the new norms, the novelty item is completely sanitised before it is packed. “Many people find it hard to believe that a company in Tiruchi can deliver a quality product like the Prink Bomb. For me, this quarantine period has been transformed into a golden opportunity because of Prink Bomb, and I hope our success will encourage other businesses to come up during these uncertain times,” said Ms. Amudha.  ‘Prink Bomb’ has gained more than 6,000 followers on our Instagram page since the May 3 launch Amudha Siva Proprieter, Thirumalai Printers
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More containment zones in Tiruchi city as clusters emerge||Containment zones in Tiruchi city have gone up due to sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. As on Wednesday, there are 11 containment zones in the city. Of them, five are in Srirangam zone. Ariyamangalam, K. Abishekapuram and Golden Rock zones have two containment zones each. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hinduthat Bhaithoppu, Vellaivethalai Street, Kalla Street, Boologanathar Street and Takkar Chathiram Lane in Srirangam zone have been declared as containment zone after cases emerged in clusters in those areas. Similarly, Nadu Street and Jinnah Street in Ariyamangalam zone have also been brought under the list of containment zones. In K. Abishekapuram zone, 11th B Cross West and 6th Cross West in Thillai Nagar have been declared as containment zone. The Police quarters ( Vaigai, Cauvery and Gangai blocks) and old police quarters (E2 block) at K.K. Nagar in Golden Rock zone have also also brought under the containment zone list. During the initial stages of the spread of virus, the authorities declared at least a five-km radius of places of residence of COVID-19 positive patients as a containment zone. Accordingly, seven areas were brought under the restricted zones in Tiruchi city in April and May. However, the containment zone norms were subsequently revised after taking into account relaxation of lock down measures. As per the revised norms, containment zones are established only if four patients test positive for the virus in a particular street. The norm doest not apply if four patients are from the same family. Tiruchi Corporation subsequently declared Alwarthope, Chetti Street and Kottapattu as containment zones after several persons tested positive for the virus a few weeks ago. The areas have now been removed from the list after all of COVID patients have fully recovered. But the sudden and sharp increase in cases in Tiruchi recently has forced the civic body to bring more areas under the containment zones. Mr. Sivasubramanian said residents of the containment zones should not venture out of their homes except for emergency situations. Swab samples of the contacts of the positive patients and their neighbourshave been lifted for laboratory analysis. Sanitary workers of the Corporation have been asked to visit each and every house of the containment zone to spray disinfectants.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||24.21% decline in road accidents, fatalities down by 16.67%||Tiruchi City has seen a steep drop in the total number of road accidents reported since January to date as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Fatalities have also seen a decline during the current year amid a sharp rise in the number of cases booked for traffic violations. Statistics provided by the city police reveal that 188 accidents have been reported from January 1 to June 24. This is much lesser as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year when the number of cases reported was 248. Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju says the reduction in respect of accidents reported till date this year is 24.21%. Fatal cases declined by 16.67% so far this year as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year, he contends. Enforcement of rules as well as lockdown have led to a decline in accident cases, he points out. Stricter enforcement of rules has resulted in booking of more traffic violation cases this year. Eight categories Police sources say traffic violation cases are generally booked under eight categories of cases: over speeding, jumping of stop lines, mobile phone usage while driving, drunken driving, overloading and transporting passengers in goods carriers, driving without helmets and wearing seat belts. The city police have booked more than 1.3 lakh traffic violation cases booked till date this year, accounting for an increase of 87.2% as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year when the total traffic violation cases booked was 70,957. Over 1,000 drunken driving cases and 3,700 stop line jumping cases have been booked within Tiruchi city at 14 police stations. The number of helmet rule violation cases booked is over 1.14 lakh. Road users booked for not wearing seat belt is 18,726. So far, the driving licences of 4,897 offenders have been suspended this year under the Motor Vehicle Act, the police commissioner adds.  Data drive No. of accidents from January 1 to June 24 2020: 188 2019: 248  Traffic violation cases 2020: 1.3 lakh 2019: 70,957  Drunken driving cases: Over 1,000  Stop line jumping cases: 3,700  Helmet rule violation cases: Over 1.14 lakh  Seat belt defaulters: 18,726  Suspension of driving licence: 4,897
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for illegally felling teak trees||A Forest Department team has arrested three persons on the charge of cutting 15 teak trees raised along Uyyakondan channel between Cholamadevi and Keezhakurichi near Tiruverumbur on the city’s outskirts. The arrested persons were identified as Thyagu, 55, Dinesh Thyagu, 28, and Subramanian, 42. The action was based on information that the trio illegally cut the trees belonging to the Forest Department and hid them in their houses. A case was registered against them and a penalty of Rs. 1.20 lakh imposed on the orders of District Forest Officer D. Sujatha. The three men were then let off, the department sources said.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||42-year-old man murdered by youth||A 42-year-old man was murdered at Kalpalayam near Manachanallur on Wednesday. Manachanallur Police detained S. Shankar, 26, son of the woman with whom the victim is alleged to have had a relationship, on the charge of committing the murder. Police sources said Shankar threw a grinding stone on Selvaraj when the latter came to his house causing him grievous injury. Selvaraj died on the way to hospital. Manachanallur Police are probing the case.
25 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boxing ring at Anna Stadium in Tiruchi to be upgraded||The boxing ring in Anna Stadium in the city will soon be upgraded. The Airports Authority of India has funded the Rs. 13.17 lakh-project from its corporate social responsibility fund. Traditional rituals to mark the commencement of work was held on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Book policemen for murder, say family of custodial death victims||Family members of a man and his son, who died in jail allegedly due to torture in police custody, on Wednesday demanded registration of a murder case against the inspector, two sub-inspectors and constables of Sattankulam police station in Thoothukudi, instead of being offered monetary compensation. Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate-I M.S. Bharathidasan on Wednesday, met the sisters and relatives of Jayaraj and his son Benicks, who died in judicial custody after allegedly being tortured by the Sattankulam police. The relatives told the Magistrate that they would accept the bodies only after a case of murder was registered against Inspector Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and other police constables attached to the Sattankulam police station. The judicial magistrate, however, apparently told them that he could only inquire into the events that led to the ‘suspicious death’ of Jayaraj and Benicks and the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) would proceed with the inquiry further, based on the findings of the post-mortem and his inquiry. “Since the High Court is monitoring the inquiry of this case, truth will come out and justice will prevail,” he told the grieving family members, during the marathon inquiry that lasted for more than three hours. In the presence of the judicial officer, relatives were allowed to take a look at the bodies for injuries, if any, around 4.30 p.m. Benicks’ sisters, wailing inconsolably while waiting near the mortuary, said that their father and brother were law abiding citizens. “My brother told me over the phone that the police, after thrashing our father, had arrested him. A few minutes later, the police had also arrested my brother and took them to the police station, where they were beaten up till 1.30 a.m. (on June 20). Even though our uncle requested the police to release them so that they could be admitted in a private hospital for treatment, the police refused,” alleged Persis, one of the sisters of Benicks. She charged that the police “murdered” her father and brother. “We were making arrangements for Benicks’ marriage in December, but now we are going to garland his body,” Ms. Persis said. Condemning the “custodial deaths”, many shops in the district remained closed as per the announcement made by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai, led by T. Vellaiyan. A section of the lawyers of Tirunelveli Bar Association, led by its president Siva Sooryanarayanan, staged a demonstration in front of the district court complex and a similar agitation was organised in Nagercoil and Thoothukudi also by the advocates. A group of mobile phone sellers took out a rally in Nagercoil to condemn the custodial deaths. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged a demonstration near Centenary Hall in Palayamkottai. In Thoothukudi district, more than 80% of the shops were closed, while all the shops remained closed in Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Sattankulam, Thattaarmadam, Nazareth, Udangudi, Meignanapuram, Eral, Srivaikundam, Arumuganeri and Authoor. While the Congress cadre staged a demonstration in Thoothukudi, cadre of Naam Thamizhar Katchi submitted a petition in the offices of the Collector and Superintendent of Police seeking registration of case of murder against the inspector and the sub-inspectors.
25 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Register murder case against police: relatives||Registration of a case of murder against the Inspector, two Sub-Inspectors and constables of Sattankulam police station alone would be acceptable and not any compensation, said family members of the traders, who died in judicial custody after being allegedly tortured by Sattankulam police, here on Wednesday. When Judicial Magistrate I of Kovilpatti M.S. Bharathidasan met sisters and relatives of the deceased, Jayaraj and his son Benicks, they told him that they would accept the bodies only after a murder case was registered against Inspector Sridhar, SIs Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, and the constables. The Magistrate told them that he could only inquire into the events that led to their deaths, and the High Court Bench would proceed based on the findings of the post-mortem and his inquiry. “Since the HC is monitoring the inquiry, truth will come out and justice will prevail,” he told them during the inquiry that lasted for more than three hours. The relatives were allowed to look at the bodies around 4.30 p.m. “My brother told me over phone that the police arrested our father after thrashing him. A few minutes later, the police arrested my brother also and took them to the police station, where they were thrashed till 1.30 a.m. (on June 20). Even though our uncle requested the police to release them so that they would be admitted to a private hospital for treatment, the police refused and murdered them,” said Persis, one of the sisters of Benicks. “We were making arrangements for his marriage in December,” she added. Condemning the custodial death of Jayaraj and Benicks, more than 75% of shops in the district remained closed as announced by Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai, led by T. Vellaiyan. A section of Tirunelveli Bar Association members, led by its president Siva Sooryanarayanan, staged a demonstration in front of the District Court complex, and similar agitation was organised in Nagercoil and Thoothukudi too. Protest rally A group of mobile phone sellers took out a rally in Nagercoil. The CPI (M) cadre staged a demonstration in Palayamkottai. All shops remained closed in Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Sattankulam, Thattarmadam, Nazareth, Udangudi, Meignanapuram, Eral, Srivaikundam, Arumuganeri and Authoor. While the Congress members staged a demonstration in Thoothukudi, Naam Tamilar Katchi cadre submitted a petition in the offices of the Collector and the Superintendent of Police seeking registration of murder case against the police personnel.
25 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for selling baby||The police have arrested six persons including the mother for allegedly selling an 18-month-old baby. They said Roselin, 26, of Alangulam is living separately at Veeravanallur after leaving her husband V. Ganapathi, 30, who is working in Chennai. As she decided to sell her baby, she approached her relative N. Suresh, 30, of Cheranmahadevi. As Suresh managed to find one S. Kumar, 39, of Pallakkaal Pothukkudi near Cheranmahadevi to sell the baby, Roselin sold the baby to him for Rs. 50,000 three months ago. Kumar sold the baby to another person from whom T. Barakath Nisha, 25, of Thirumangalam in Madurai district bought the baby. When Ganapathi met Roselin a few days ago and inquired about his daughter, she told her husband that somebody had stolen the baby. As Mr. Ganapathi grew suspicious, he asked Roselin to file a complaint with Veeravanallur police, who unearthed the sale of the baby.
25 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of murdered woman exhumed after six years||Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday exhumed the skeletal remains of a woman who was allegedly murdered by her mother and two others at Veerapandi six years ago. Police said that Esther Baby (28) was murdered by her mother Sagayarani (54) with the help of her uncle Xavier Arul (50) and a man named Bakiyaraj (38) on June 14, 2014. Esther baby allegedly found out that her mother was having an affair with Bakiyaraj, which prompted the murder, police claimed. The body was buried near their residence at Velan Nagar in Veerapandi. Four days later, Sagayarani and her husband Abul Kasar (57) lodged a complaint at the Veerapandi police station that their daughter was missing, following which the police registered a case. After the incident, Abul Kasar separated from his wife and was living in Chennai. Earlier this year, Xavier Arul was arrested by the Chennai police in a murder case and was remanded in judicial custody at Puzhal Central Prison. Following the arrest, Kasar informed the police that his daughter went missing after Arul visited his residence in Tiruppur. This information was forwarded to Tiruppur City Police and a team interrogated Arul at Puzhal Prison. Arul confessed to the police that he was involved in the murder of his niece in 2014. On Wednesday, the police and medical team exhumed the skeletal remains of Esther Baby and sent it for forensic analysis. Veerapandi police altered the case registered in 2014 to include Sections 302 (Punishment for murder) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Sagayarani and Bakiyaraj were arrested and remanded in judicial custody, Veerapandi police said.
25 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||First COVID-19 death in Tiruppur||A youth working as an emergency medical technician with the 108 ambulance service on Wednesday became the first person in Tiruppur district to die of COVID-19. Tiruppur had recorded its first COVID-19 case over three months ago. The 22-year-old died early Wednesday at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. Health Department sources said that he resided in Mangalam, in the outskirts of Tiruppur city. On the night of June 16, he went to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital with complaints of high fever, headache and muscle pain (myalgia). He was admitted to the hospital the next day and his swab lifted. On June 18, his test results returned positive for COVID-19, following which he was shifted to the ESI Hospital. Four days later, he developed shortness of breath and died while undergoing treatment at 5 a.m. on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Four persons fined for consuming deer meat||Four persons were arrested and fined a cumulative amount of Rs. 1 lakh for consuming the meat of a female spotted deer that died of natural causes in Bospara beat of Muduguli village in the in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve on Tuesday. M. Dhayananthan, Forest Range Officer, Mudumalai Forest Range, said that the four men K. Rajan, V. Rajkumar, A. Srinivasan and S. Narayanan belonged to the Mountaden Chetty community, residing in a village in the core area of the tiger reserve. The four men had come across the carcass of a spotted deer that had died from natural causes. They decided to cook and eat the deer meat, but were thwarted by the forest department, who arrested the four men based on a tip-off. Each of the four men was fined Rs. 25,000. A postmortem was performed on the carcass of the deer to identify the cause of death. Officials said that the deer had died due to food impaction and that it was not hunted. Nevertheless, they said that consuming the meat of an animal, regardless of the nature of its death, breached wildlife protection laws.
25 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Strategy unveiled to prevent spread of COVID-19||Concerned over the rate of spread of COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, the district administration has come up with a comprehensive 10-point strategy in an attempt to slow the rate of infection in the district. Since last Monday, the number of positive COVID-19 cases has increased from 14 confirmed cases to 46 as on Tuesday evening. Taking stock of the situation, a meeting was held involving Supriya Sahu, Monitoring Officer for Nilgiris district, the Collector, J. Innocent Divya, Nilgiris Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan, Coonoor Sub-Collector Ranjeeth Singh, and officials from the health department. The strategy includes setting up of community vigilance initiative, besides involving community leaders and village heads. They will be trained on critical measures to be taken to prevent the spread of the virus. The district administration stated that the help of the village leaders would be used to ensure personal distancing. A “hyper-local database” is also to be established and maintained by the village-level revenue officials about the movement of people into the villages. Special efforts to test people from tribal communities and migrant workers are also to be undertaken. In the case of migrant workers, a special desk will be established to identify and screen migrant workers for fever, respiratory illnesses, diabetes and hypertension.
25 June 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Muslims help perform the last rites of Hindu man||In a display of communal harmony, six Muslim volunteers of an outfit helped a Hindu family to perform the last rites of an 80-year-old man in a containment zone in Perambai, near Puducherry. According to A. Ahmad Ali, president of the Puducherry chapter of Popular Front of India (PFI), the man breathed his last on Tuesday. The family was residing in a containment zone after one of their relatives who had come to their house from Chennai, had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital at Mundiyambakkam. None of the neighbours or relatives came forward to arrange for the last rites, Mr. Ali said. The family members contacted the Health Inspector of Kottakuppam within whose jurisdiction the containment zone falls and sought his help. He, in turn, sought the services of the PFI to perform the last rites. Mr. Ali said that volunteers arranged for the man’s cremation after getting necessary permission from the authorities without charging anything from the family.
25 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Virudhunagar district reports four deaths’||The Virudhunagar district has reported four deaths till date. The State media bulletin says Virudhunagar district has recorded only one death of COVID-19 patient. However, officials here have attributed the death to other district as the patient was not let into his village and he died within a couple of days of admission at Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital. Official sources here say the district has recorded three more COVID-19 deaths in the last one week. A 29-year-old woman from Sivakasi, who had undergone treatment for chronic diabetes at a private hospital, was referred to the Government Hospital in Sivakasi after she her big toe was amputated. She died within a few hours after giving samples for swab test. It was revealed that she had contracted COVID-19 after her funeral. Meanwhile, two more deaths were reported in the last two days. An official said that both cases had been referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai by private hospitals without any intimation to the Virudhunagar Revenue and Health Departments. “The bodies were handed over to the family members after their death with a caution of suspected COVID-19 death since the swab test results were not known by then. Even the death was not reported to us,” said another official. The intimation of swab test as COVID-19 positive was sent to Virudhunagar district only after the funeral was over.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17, including a policewoman, test positive in Coimbatore||As many as 17 persons, including a policewoman attached to the Kottur police station near Pollachi tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The police station building was fumigated on Wednesday. Health Department staff collected swab samples of all the police personnel at the station for COVID-19 test. Sources said that the 23-year-old policewoman went to a hospital with complaints of fever on Monday. Her swab sample was taken on Tuesday, the result of which returned positive on Wednesday. She was admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. The source of the infection was not traced. The policewoman’s brother, who works in a paint shop at Town Hall in Coimbatore had visited her on Sunday to celebrate his birthday. He returned to Coimbatore on Monday. Swab samples of the family members of the policewoman and a few residents of the police quarters at Kottur were also collected. Her residence in police quarters was fumigated. Other than the policewoman, 16 persons, including a one-year-old child from Saravanampatti, and a four-year-old child from Telungupalayam tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. A private nursing home at Onapalayam was sealed and fumigated after a person, who visited the hospital for treatment tested positive for COVID-19. Sixteen persons, eight males and eight females, who recovered from COVID-19, got discharged from ESI Hospital on Wednesday. Two cases in the Nilgiris Two more persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, bringing the tally to a total of 48 persons who have tested positive in the district. With the latest infections, the number of active cases in the district stands at 31. The two most recent cases are a 17-year-old girl from Yellanalli in Ketti and a 50-year-old woman from Tiger Hill in Udhagamandalam. They are secondary contacts of a PRO employed in a private firm who contracted the infection. Municipal office closed The Tiruppur district administration closed the Dharapuram municipal office on Wednesday after four of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. Apart from the four, two others - one in Tirupur and one in Dharapuram block- also tested positive in the district. A woman employee, whose husband reportedly tested positive after returning from Chennai, transmitted the disease to three other staff members. The test results of their swab samples were out on Tuesday evening, following which the office was closed. Contact tracing was initiated and samples of the family members of the four patients were lifted, sources noted.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flower vendors shift to school ground||Around 150 flower vendors resumed business at the Devanga Higher Secondary School on Wednesday after the Coimbatore Corporation had earmarked places for them on the school ground. The vendors were from the Flower Market on Mettupalayam Road, which the Corporation had closed as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. Sources in the Corporation said on the first day on Wednesday around 150 of the 180 vendors began selling flowers while observing physical distancing norms. The Corporation earmarked spaces for them in such a way that there was enough distance between two persons. The vendors had come forward and said that they would sell flowers between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. in shifts. A section of the flower traders had said they would wind up business by 9 a.m. and the second lot of vendors could take the places vacated by them. Their working in shift system depended on the arrival of flowers to the city, the sources added. The Corporation had earlier not only closed the Flower Market but also barricaded the Mettupalayam Road margins on the stretch to prevent hawkers from selling flowers on the road. It had also deployed teams to ensure that there was no selling of flowers or fruits on Mahaliamman Kovil Street, Siva Subramaniam Road, Langhar Kana Road and Mecrikar Road.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||55 test positive in Salem district||A total of 55 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem district on Wednesday. A bulletin said that 48 positive cases were reported within the district while seven cases were persons who had come from outside the district. Of the total 404 cases reported in the district so far, 215 were discharged, while 187 persons were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. Two deaths were reported, so far, in the district. In Erode district, four cases were reported taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 89. Currently, 15 persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Two deaths were reported, so far, in the district. In Namakkal district, one person tested positive taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 90. Currently, three persons are undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters and Hospital. One death was reported, so far, in the district.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21 quarantined||All 21 passengers who travelled to Kumbakonam and Thanjavur by Chengalpattu-Tiruchi special train were quarantined at a private college in Vallam on Tuesday night. Railway sources said 10 passengers, including two women, with e-passes alighted at Kumbakonam station. A State health department team deployed at the railway station screened them and collected swab samples. They were then sent by bus to the private institution. Similarly, 11 passengers with e-passes alighted at Thanjavur and were screened by a health team at the station. Swab samples were lifted from them and they were sent to the same institution by bus. The move comes in the wake of several returnees from Chennai and its neighbouring districts testing positive in recent days. On Monday night, a passenger who alighted at Thanjavur station by the same train was immediately rushed to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after the health team noticed a quarantine seal on his hand. Tiruchi-Chengalpattu-Tiruchi special train is being operated from June 12 on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai. Demand Consumer activists and rail users in Tiruchi and Thanjavur have sought either suspension of the train service in view of a spike in positive cases in Chennai and Chengalpattu districts or its termination at Villupuram.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corpn. steps up precautionary measures||In a bid to ensure that the public adhere to the COVID-19 precautionary measures, Tiruppur Corporation stepped up punitive measures by levying spot fines on the public and roadside shops. As many as 208 persons were levied a spot fine of Rs. 100 for not wearing mask in public places on Tuesday alone, said City Health Officer N. Boopathy. “Those who venture outside without wearing masks must pay Rs. 100 every time they are caught,” he told The Hindu . Although Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan recently said that defaulters who do not wear masks for the second time will be levied a fine of Rs. 500, Mr. Boopathy said that repeat offenders are difficult to identify, hence all will be asked to pay Rs. 100 as spot fine. On Wednesday, nearly 15 roadside shops on Kumaran Road were levied a fine of Rs. 500 for not ensuring personal distancing among the customers. Sanitary Officer N. Rajendran, who was part of the team that inspected Kumaran Road, said that nearly 65 roadside shops were asked to strictly adhere to State government’s directions. “District administration has formed a team of three officials from three departments to monitor the precautionary measures,” he said. Mr. Boopathy noted that employees of 17 urban primary health centres under Tiruppur Corporation are involved in door-to-door survey every day to check whether any person is found to have COVID-19 symptoms in a house. Action is also being taken based on complaints received from public through the helplines 0421-2971199 and 0421-2971133 on those who violate house quarantine norms, according to Mr. Boopathy.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monitor health of your employees, civic body tells showroom owners||With an employee of a jewellery showroom in the city testing positive for COVID-19, Tiruchi Corporation has asked owners of jewellery, textile and utensil showrooms to monitor the health of their employees. In her report to Collector S. Sivarasu, Tahsildar of Thuraiyur S. Akila said that a 28-year-old person of Ponnusangampatti employed in a jewellery showroom on NSB Road in Tiruchi tested positive for the virus on Monday. About 50 persons were working in the jewellery section, where he was employed. He was staying in a group accommodation of the firm and he was tested at Uppilliyapuram Government Hospital when he went to his native. Taking note of the report, consumer activists urged the district administration to close the showroom temporarily. N. Jamaludeen, an activist, in a memorandum to the Collector, expressed apprehension that the virus could have spread from the employee to his colleagues and customers who visited the showroom. Hence, the showroom should not be allowed to transact business until improvement in ground situation. Reacting to the development, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hinduthat one of the employees of the showroom tested positive for the virus and he had been quarantined. The employer of the showroom had been sensitised on the need for frequently subjecting the employees for fever, cold, breathing difficulties and cough regularly. The employees, who showed symptoms, should not be allowed to report for duty. They should be quarantined. It was applicable to other showrooms on NSB Road and Big Bazaar Street. Surveillance would be stepped up to check the efficacy of social distancing norms. Tough action would be taken against the violators.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘14-day quarantine must for visitors from other States’||Collector C. Kathiravan has said that a total of 33 persons, including 19 persons who had travelled from other districts to Erode, were undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday. With five positive cases reported from Valayakarar Street in the corporation limits, health officials on Tuesday lifted swab samples from 200 traders, loadmen, conservancy workers and autorickshaw drivers at the Corporation Central Bus Stand. On Wednesday, swab samples were lifted from 200 call taxi drivers and mediapersons and Mr. Kathiravan along with Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inspected the process. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Kathiravan said that a second wave of SARS-CoV-2 virus spread has begun in the district and 14 persons in the district and 19 persons from other districts who entered the district tested positive and were undergoing treatment. Swab samples were taken from over 1,100 persons in the past one week and persons entering the district are taken to the hospital at Perundurai and tested there and sent home, he added. The Collector said that 14-day quarantine period is mandatory for visitors from other States and added that persons under home quarantine are continuously monitored.  ‘Wear mask’ He asked people not to venture out unnecessarily from houses and asked them to wear mask and ensure personal distance while moving out.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s PA tests positive||The personal assistant for Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan had tested positive for COVID-19. Following this, the MLAs from Harur and Paapireddypatty and over 60 persons, including revenue officials, and AIADMK functionaries are being tested for the disease. The 45-year-old PA of Tahsildar cadre, who had accompanied the Minister and coordinated his programmes in the district until his last visit here, had shown symptoms following which he was tested on Tuesday. The results returned positive. He had frequented the Collectorate and the local AIADMK offices. Samples of over 60 persons have been collected, so far.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for violation||The Peelamedu police booked a man from Kalapatti on charges of violating home quarantine restrictions on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as a resident of Nehru Nagar, near Kalapatti. The police said that the accused was directed by the health wing of the Coimbatore Corporation to remain in home quarantine from June 17 to July 1. However, the man allegedly violated the restrictions and roamed outside. Venkatachalam, health supervisor of the civic body for the area, lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police, who booked the man under Section 269 read with 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. A 21-year-old man from Kalapatti had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 21 after which his contacts were asked to remain in home quarantine. District Collector had recently said that action will be taken against people who violate home quarantine restrictions.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. suspends intra-zone transport till June 30||At Wednesday’s meeting, a few Collectors raised the issue of a shortage of doctors and nurses in their districts. The Chief Minister assured them that adequate healthcare professionals will be provided to them. The Collectors were directed to implement a “containment strategy” in places where COVID-19 cases were prevalent, and also ramp up testing. “Those who are coming in from other States and countries have to be tested. At the State border, police personnel should be extremely cautious and work to ensure that those coming in from other States are tested. If they are found COVID-19-positive, treatment should be given,” he said. He said according to doctors, 80% of people with COVID-19 had no symptoms. He said financial aid of Rs. 1,000 would be given to rice ration cardholders in Madurai.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC to monitor custodial death case||Besides, Inspector Sridhar had been removed from the station and placed under a "waiting list", while a departmental inquiry had been initiated against head constables Muthuraj and Murugan, he added. When asked about the present situation in Sattankulam, the Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan submitted that the place was calm and people had faith in police action following the steps initiated. He further submitted that the Judicial Magistrate, Kovilpatti was conducting an inquest into the incident. The judges directed Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian to give instructions to the authorities concerned and ensure that physical distancing was followed during the funeral of the father and son duo. The norms cannot be relaxed as the spread of COVID-19 was rampant, the court observed. The court adjourned the case till Friday for further hearing.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. shuts shops||Officials in the fives zones of the Coimbatore Corporation continued shutting shops and slapping fine on persons not wearing masks, after the district administration and senior officials in the civic body directed them to go hard on those violating COVID-19 safety guidelines. In the East Zone, officials shut 19 shops after finding violation of the social distancing norms and slapped fine of Rs. 100 each on 126 persons, said sources. In North Zone, the officials shut a bakery in Avarampalayam and fined around 100 persons. In West Zone, officials fined 93 persons. In the Central Zone, 51 persons in and around Gandhipuram were fined for not wearing mask. The South Zone officials, too, slapped fine on violators and collected Rs. 10,500.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE||In view of the proposed maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on June 26 (Friday).    Kaniyur sub-station: Rasipalayam, Arugampalayam, Kaniyur, Sheeba Nagar, Kolluppalayam, Subarayampalayam, Thennampalayan (one part) and Uthupalayam; Somanur sub-station: Somanur, Karumathampatty, Krishnapuram, Samalapuram, Ramchiyampalayam, Thottipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Segundanthali, Paramasivampalayam and Kaniyur; Elachipalayam sub-station: Segundanthali and Elachipalayam; Karumathampatty sub-staton: Rayarpalayam, Karumathampatty four roads, Thanneerpandal and Kalipalayam sub-station: parts of Kalipalayam and Ayammpalayam.   Due to installation of high tension lines in the Erode Town electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on June 26 in the following areas: S.K.C. Road, Muthuvelappan Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Government Girls Higher Secondary School, T.V.S. Street, N.M.S. Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, Nethaji Road, R.K.V. Road, Ramasamy Street, Venkatachalam Street, Kongalamman Kovil Street, Manikoondu, Sokkanna Street, Agraharam Street and Jinna Street.
25 June 2020||BELAGAVI/VIJAYAPURA,KARNATAKA||Student advised not to take exam||Officials in Belagavi district have made preparations to help over 74,000 students to appear for the SSLC examination. Though there are no centres in containment zones, around 20 students who are residents of such zones will appear for the examination in the nearest centre. A SSLC student who tested positive for COVID-19 and three of his contacts have been asked not to appear for the examination. Union Minister Suresh Angadi visited the Government Sardar High School Centre in Belagavi on Wednesday and instructed officials to ensure the smooth conduct of the examination. In Vijayapura, 37,122 students have registered for the examination. As many as 110 students would be writing the exam in their containment areas itself. These students will be given N-95 masks. The exam would be held in 120 centres. A total of 2,090 blocks have been set up where each block will have no more than 18 students to ensure social distancing during the exam.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||80% of 10,000 cases reported in June||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State have been on a steady rise since the beginning of this month. In fact, 80% of the total 10,118 positive cases, as on Thursday in the State, have been reported from June 1 till June 24. During this period, the State saw 122 deaths, which is 74.3% of the total 164 deaths. As many as 78 deaths are from Bengaluru.  First 1,000 cases The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. And, in a month’s time the cases crossed the 10,000 mark on June 24. After May 24, the doubling rate reduced to eight days and subsequently to an average of three days. Karnataka is now the 11th State in the country to cross 10,000 cases. In terms of Case Fatality Rate (CFR) and Recovery Rate, the State is in the 10th position. While the State’s average CFR is 1.6%, the recovery rate is 60.7%.  Bengaluru highest Bengaluru Urban that has been recording the highest number of cases for the last six consecutive days, saw 173 cases on Wednesday. With this, Bengaluru Urban is the district with the highest number of cases at 1,678. Kalaburagi has reported the second highest with 1,254 cases followed by Udupi with 1,102 cases. Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar are the districts that have reported the least number of cases. While Chikkamagaluru reported 43 cases, the other two districts reported eight each.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||27 SSLC examination centres in containment zones relocated||Students in 27 SSLC examination centres located in COVID-19 containment zones across Karnataka will have to write their exam in relocated centres. Of the 27, 12 are in Bengaluru. Officials in the Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board said that the students, who will be writing the exam starting Thursday, have been issued fresh hall tickets and the new centre has been mentioned on their admission tickets. “We have also arranged for buses from the old centres. In case some students are unaware of the change in centre, we will immediately make arrangements for them to reach the new examination centre on time,” an official said. However, if new containment zones are declared by the authorities on Wednesday or Thursday morning and an examination centre is located in the zone, students may have to skip appearing for the paper for now. “They can take the supplementary examination in August as fresh candidates. We will also try and shift the centres to nearby schools if a containment zone is declared after Wednesday evening,” said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar.  19 students to miss Ten students, who tested positive, and nine students, who are in quarantine as they are contacts of patients who tested positive, will not be allowed to appear for the examination. All students in containment zones will be made to write the examination in a separate classroom. “If any students symptoms such as fever, cough or cold, the Health Department authorities will provide them a N95 mask,” Mr. Kumar said.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City to have dedicated private COVID-19 hospitals||A day after the State fixed rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, the government has now notified 20 big corporate healthcare institutions that run a chain of hospitals as Dedicated COVID-19 Health Care Centres (DCHCs) and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs). The corporate facilities have been asked to identify one branch each within the next 48 hours so that it can be converted into a dedicated facility. A government order to this effect was issued on Wednesday. “It is expected that there will be a surge in the number of cases in the coming weeks. For better management of COVID-19 cases and to avoid cross infection, it has been decided to set up DCHCs and CCCs in private hospitals. The identified branches should have all medical facilities committed by the private hospitals to the government in terms of beds, high-flow nasal oxygen wards, ICUs and ventilators. The non-COVID-19 patients from such hospitals can be shifted to other hospitals,” State director Om Prakash R. Patil told The Hindu on Wednesday. R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said the concept of having dedicated private COVID-19 hospitals in different parts of the city is a good idea. “Instead of admitting COVID-19 patients in various private hospitals that may lead to unnecessary spreading of the disease, it is good that all of them can be treated in one hospital. This will allow private participation without stressing the system along with optimal utilisation of manpower and resources. After one dedicated hospital is full, another identified private hospital can be used,” said Dr. Ravindra. Another senior member from the Federation of Healthcare Associations’ in Karnataka (FHA-K) said there is no point in giving 50% of beds in every hospital for COVID-19 treatment. “If there is no proper segregation, there is a risk of the infection spreading in the hospital. If one large hospital is used, apart from optimal utilisation of PPE kits and human resources, monitoring will also be easy and smooth,” said the doctor. Tie-up with hotels for asymptomatic patients Private hospitals have tied up with hotels to set up CCCs where asymptomatic positive patients can be monitored. Representatives of private hospitals and hotels had a preliminary meeting in this regard on Wednesday in the presence of Health Department officials including Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. “This public-private partnership model will free up more beds in medical facilities for symptomatic and critically ill patients, while ensuring that 80% of asymptomatic patients are kept isolated, reducing the risk of transmission to vulnerable populations. The patients at CCCs will be monitored and provided care in a non-medical environment with little stress,” said an official statement issued after the meeting. While the government is establishing CCCs in large spaces such as stadiums, hotels, hostels, stadiums etc. for free, private hospital-run CCCs are planned for patients who seek private healthcare in luxury. Each participating hospital will be tied up with budget, three-star or five-star hotels for accommodation of the patients, it said.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six clubs decide to shut down||With the COVID-19 pandemic spreading in the city, at least six top social clubs, which had started partial operations from the second week of May, have decided to shut down till at least the second week of July and, in some cases, indefinitely. The ones that decided to shut down are Bowring Institute, Century Club, KSCA Club, Bangalore City Institute, Basavanagudi Club, and Indian Gymkhana Club. These clubs sent out closure notices to members on Wednesday, and will close down latest by Friday. Other clubs are likely to follow suit. Members test positive The decision to shut down came after three members of Karnataka Golf Association (KGA) tested positive a couple of days back. It is learnt that tracing the persons who had come in contact with them had become a Herculean task for the club. “We discussed the situation in Bengaluru informally on Tuesday, and clubs in their individual capacity have decided to shut,” said H.S. Srikanth, secretary, Federation of Clubs, Karnataka. After over 40 days of lockdown related shutdown, the clubs had been allowed to exhaust their liquor stock at MRP in the second week of May while sports activities – restricted to badminton, tennis and billiards – had resumed in the third week of May. Mr. Srikanth said that while KGA was the immediate trigger, the general conditions prevailing in Bengaluru were also taken into account, and clubs decided to close in the interest of the health of their members.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wary patrons have restaurateurs worried||Many restaurants and hotels are reconsidering offering dining in services on account of low patronage and people becoming increasingly wary as the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru is rising by the day. Vidyarthi Bhavan, a popular restaurant in south Bengaluru, has announced that dine-in service will be temporarily suspended from Saturday. Another popular restaurant, Hotel Sanman at South End Circle, has also decided to suspend dine-in service. These popular restaurants have, however, decided to continue offering takeaway/parcel services. Arun Adiga from Vidyarthi Bhavan said that they are currently allowing only 40 patrons inside the premises at a time, but this too will stop. “This was in adherence to physical distancing protocols. However, we are finding it difficult to ensure that our patrons maintain distance from each other while waiting outside for their turn,” he said. Traders and associations in many markets, too, had taken a decision to voluntarily shut down before the government made it official. Sridhar from Hotel Sanman said that the hotel industry has been struggling even after the restrictions were lifted. “People are just not coming to restaurants, hotels and eateries. Many are doing just around 30% business,” he said. There are fears of another lockdown in Bengaluru and restaurateurs are hoping to pre-empt this by closing dining-in services. ‘Business is down’ According to Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association president P.C. Rao, nearly 10% of hotels and eateries in the city are up for sale. “More than 20% of hotels have not re-opened even though restrictions were lifted. There is very little chance of breaking even as there is a drastic decline in the number of patrons. Many landowners have been urged to reduce the rental rate by those running hotels,” he said. The popular ‘Ingu Tengu’ in Arakere, Bannerghatta Road, is one such establishment that is up for sale. Its proprietor Parameshwar Adiga said it was a hard decision to take. “We are hardly seeing 40% business. With the number of COVID-19 cases rising, business is going to be affected even more. While fixed cost and labour cost remain the same, revenue is decreasing. Many are not able to sustain their restaurants in this scenario,” he said. Reinventing themselves Some restaurateurs are using this time to renovate and re-invent themselves. Halli Mane, a popular restaurant in Malleswaram, for instance, has deliberately delayed opening its doors to diners. “Even after the renovation is complete, we will take a call on re-opening based on the COVID-19 situation,” said Raghavendra Sanjeev Rao, managing partner. They are currently developing an app through which patrons can book their meals from home and pick it up at the designated time. “Once the situation normalises a bit, we may extend this for table booking as well. We are also working on DIY kits, which require minimal cooking. We are experimenting with packaging,” he said.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Exercise needs political will’||Lake activists and environmental groups remain sceptical of the drive, as this is not the first time the BBMP has attempted to tackle the problem of encroachments. In 2016, it undertook a massive drive to remove encroachments on stormwater drains (SWDs). Several houses and commercial properties were razed amidst allegations of discrimination in favour of malls and buildings. The government later directed BBMP officials to remove only encroachments on channels linking lakes that were causing inundation. V. Ramprasad, co-founder and convenor of Friends of Lakes, said that execution of the notice was important. “We have seen in the past how encroachment drives were stopped midway as occupants used loopholes in the law to get stay orders. Also, now that they have all the survey details, officials responsible for allowing encroachments must be prosecuted,” he said, adding that a lot of political and bureaucratic will was needed for the success of the drive. Welcoming the move, Leo Saldanha of the Environment Support Group said that the BBMP should now clear encroachments on SWDs. “We will compare the survey details put up by the BBMP with the survey report of the Environment Management and Policy Research Institute (EMPRI), and also other older reports we have,” he said.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown expected to be discussed in Cabinet today||As Karnataka sees a spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the midst of a demand for another round of lockdown to contain its spread, especially in Bengaluru, the State government seems to be under pressure to bring it up for discussion in the Cabinet on Thursday. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Health Minister B. Sriramulu on Wednesday told reporters that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would take a call. ‘Limited discussion’ While former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has suggested another round of lockdown, government sources said that a few Cabinet Ministers have also expressed their support for lockdown to contain the spread. So far, ‘limited discussions’ have taken place on the lockdown issue and there has been no discussion in which the Chief Minister was involved. The CMO sources, however, admitted that the government is under pressure with COVID-19 positive cases increasing. Government sources said that the issue may come up for a ‘detailed informal discussion’ during the Cabinet though it is not on the agenda. “It is to be seen how or whether a lockdown will be reimposed. The Chief Minister has taken inputs from experts,” sources said.   Mr. Bommai said that it is ultimately the Chief Minister who will decide on the issue. “He has been getting reports from officials daily and has been seeking information from experts,” he said. Whether it should be discussed in Cabinet or the health task force, and the effects of lockdown on economic activities among others will all have to discussed, he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Sriramulu said that the issue of rising COVID-19 cases will be discussed in the expert committee and it will be brought to the attention of Chief Minister. Further, there are guidelines set by the Union government too, the Minister pointed out.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IAS officer’s death: Police await autopsy report||The police are waiting for the autopsy report of IAS officer B.M. Vijay Shankar who was found dead in his apartment on Tuesday [June 23]. The autopsy was conducted at Victoria Hospital on Wednesday, before the body was handed over to the family. “Only the report will shed light on whether it is a sucide case or not,” said Srinath Joshi, DCP (South-East). Shankar, who was posted as Additional Mission Director, Sakala, had attended office on Tuesday, returned home around 7 p.m. and locked himself in the bedroom. He was found dead at around 8 p.m. by his wife who was also home, sources said. The officer was an accused in the multi-crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam and was facing a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. Senior police officials say that he may have ended his life. “But given the sensitivity of the case and the fact he was under investigation, we do not want to speculate unless it is medically confirmed,” said a senior police official. ‘Baseless rumours’ Amidst the speculation of a death note, a senior police official termed it “baseless rumours”, and said no letter was recovered from the room where he was found dead. In July 2019, Shankar was arrested by the Special Investigation Team, formed to probe the scam, for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 1.5 crore from IMA founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan to give the firm a clean chit, when the Reserve Bank of India raised concerns of it cheating investors. The SIT had also recovered the alleged bribe money from a builder.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help. )  Only the report will shed light on whether it is a sucide case or not. Shrinath Joshi, DCP (South-East)
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Murder accused with COVID-19 flees from Victoria Hospital||A 30-year-old accused in an attempt to murder case, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to Victoria Hospital, gave the police a slip and fled on Wednesday morning. The DJ Halli police tracked him down to an area near Sultan Palya around three hours later. However, they faced yet another challenge of apprehending him. “We couldn’t touch him, as that would mean exposing our men to the infection. We got one of his relatives to the spot, negotiated, created awareness on how not taking treatment could even endanger his life, and he eventually walked into an ambulance himself,” a senior official said. The accused claimed to have walked to Sultan Palya, near his house as he did not have money. “We are not able to interrogate him to ascertain if he had come in contact with others,” a senior official said. The accused, a cook, had stabbed a migrant labourer over a monetary dispute on June 18 and was arrested by the police the next day. He was tested for COVID-19 but got the results only on June 23. Though he was asymptomatic, he was taken to Victoria Hospital, from where he escaped on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing and care centre for Bengaluru police||Amidst concerns over increasing number of police personnel testing positive for COVID-19 in the city, the government has decided to have a dedicated testing facility and care centre. The facilities will become operational in the next few days, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. “Police are on the frontlines of fighting the virus. They are not only enforcing law in containment zones, but are also carrying out last rites of patients in many cases. This has led to a rise in personnel contracting the infection,” said Mr. Bommai. While there are only 38 active cases in the rest of the State, there are 70 active cases in Bengaluru, most of which were reported over the last one week. All four personnel who died were serving in the city. “We need to stem the tide in Bengaluru. We have a responsibility towards the personnel and their families. A dedicated care centre will help us also keep the morale of the force high. While those asymptomatic will be housed in the care centre, those with symptoms will be hospitalised,” said Praveen Sood, DG & IGP, Karnataka state police. He added that senior officials are in touch with personnel who are currently housed at care centres to keep them in good spirits. “What they need is care and isolation. Our primary concern is twofold: to arrest the spread of the virus as far as possible and to prevent deaths,” Mr. Sood added. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao has instituted a host of new Standard Operating Procedures, including directions for all personnel above 55 years to work from home, and barring indiscriminate entry into police stations. Detailed guidelines on handling suspects during interrogation and at the time of their arrest are also being followed. KSRP on alert The Karnataka State Reserve Police has also seen a rise in cases, one of the more recent cases being that of an IPS officer, a commandant of the battalion, testing positive on Tuesday. The challenges the KSRP face is different. “In KSRP, the personnel are usually together in a bus while on duty and mostly also stay together in barracks. We successfully stemmed a breakout in Hassan and Shivamogga by carrying out extensive and stringent quarantine measures. The same strategy is being adopted in Bengaluru,” Mr. Sood said.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister threatens action against violation of norms||Education officials are hoping not to repeat mistakes of the II PU English examination, which was held recently. In many centres in Bengaluru and other parts of the State, social distancing norms were reportedly violated much to the dismay of parents and students. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has written to officials stating that authorities concerned will be held responsible if any problems arise on Thursday. An official said: “We are working day in and day out for the smooth conduct of the exam. This letter has affected my morale. I hope that officials are not made scapegoats in case there are stray cases.” They have been directed to ensure that parents do not crowd around centres.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy advocates ‘voluntary lockdown’||Slamming the government for failing to provide suitable medical treatment to COVID-19 patients in the State, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said the only way to protect oneself was a ‘voluntary lockdown’. Arguing that there was not enough infrastructure, he said in a tweet, “For residents of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, the only way to escape COVID-19 is to stay home and observe a voluntary lockdown. Life is more important than money. One can survive if there is life. Your life is in your hands.” Affording treatment He said in another tweet, “The State government is also saying the same thing indirectly. The only way when COVID-19 is seeing a community spread is to stay at home. The poor and the middle class cannot afford the government fixed rate of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 a day in private hospitals.” In yet another tweet, he said: “If a family of four persons is affected by COVID-19 and seek medical treatment in a private hospital for 15 days, it will have to spend Rs. 5 to Rs. 6 lakh as per the government’s fixed rates. Where will the poor and the middle class get this money from? When the government has given up, we have to safeguard our lives. Please take precautions.”
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Areas around K.R. Market, Kalasipalyam Market sealed||In the backdrop of surge in COVID-19 cases in the city, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar on Wednesday issued a notification to seal down areas and roads in and around K.R. Market and Kalasipalyam Market, where social distancing was not possible. All shops and establishments in K.R. Market and Kalasipalyam Market will be closed. Liquor shops, hotels, restaurants, places of worship, and roadside stalls will be closed, said the notification. As the area has commercial and residential buildings, milk, newspapers, ration shops, groceries, and meat shops will be open. The exception is also applicable to SSLC exam centres and medical establishments. The following areas have been sealed: Town Hall Circle, J.C. Road, A.M. Road, Kalasipalyam Main Road, K.R. Market Junction, Service Road, Tharagupet Road (2nd main road), Tharagupet Road (4th main road), Tipu Sultan Palace Road, Bhashyam Road, Srinivas Mandiram Road, Kilari Road, Anjaneya Temple Street, Sankalpet Road, and S.J.P. Road.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex gratia announced||Ex gratia of Rs. 30 lakh has been announced for the families of the four policemen who died of COVID-19. “It will be distributed to the families in the next two days,” said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dedicated centre||For clinical management of elected representatives and senior government officials above Secretary rank, the government has identified one wing of Kumara Krupa guest house with 100 rooms of individual occupancy.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Moderate response to services to A.P.||KSRTC has been receiving a moderate response to services between Karnataka and various destinations in Andhra Pradesh. On an average 10,000 people are using the services daily. “In the first phase, both State-run road transport corporations [Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh] had planned to run 300 buses, but are now operating 120 to 160 buses,” said a KSRTC official. KSRTC is likely to resume services to Telangana next week. “Inter-State services to other neighbouring States, such as Goa, Kerala, may take some time as we are yet to receive a green signal from them. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have not yet been approached owing to the high prevalence of COVID-19 cases there,” the official added.
25 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||27,841 in Dharwad dist.||A total of 27,841 candidates have enrolled for the SSLC examinations in Dharwad district, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said. In a release, Ms. Deepa said that elaborate arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of the examination. The district would have a total of 107 examination centres, including 17 additional examination centres. CCTV cameras have been installed in all centres. In Shivamogga, the district administration has made necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of SSLC examination that will be held in 84 centres. A total of 25,514 students will appear for the examination, including 610 who are taking the examination as external candidates. The Department of Public Instruction has arranged for 142 private buses and 56 KSRTC buses for bringing students to the examination centres and also drop them back. In addition to this, students can commute on KSRTC buses free by producing their examination hall tickets. The district administration has clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code in a radius of 200 m around the examination centres. ( With inputs from Shivamogga )
25 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Special measures in elephant-affected areas||The Hassan district administration has directed the rapid response teams of the Forest Department to be alert in the elephant-affected areas to ensure safety of SSLC students travelling to examination centres. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said the Forest Department staff had been given instructions on the safety of students. “The teams will be monitoring the movement of elephant herds every day. Safety of children is paramount,” he said. The administration has held talks with KSRTC officers to provide bus services for students reaching the centres from remote places. The Education Department has made a list of 2,952 students who would require bus services. The KSRTC will run 142 buses to help them.
25 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister says JSW Steel should be closed to contain COVID-19||Taking serious note of the rapidly spreading COVID-19 cases in Jindal’s JSW Steel plant at Toranagal in Ballari district, Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh made common cause with those demanding a complete closure of the plant to contain the virus. In a video conference he held in Ballari with Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar and Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Mr. Singh said that of the 509 COVID-19 cases reported from the district, 296 were from JSW Steel Plant and told the officers to completely shut down the plant. “The spread of COVID-19 is 15.17 % in Jindal as compared to just 2.40 % outside it in the district. It is alarming and a cause of concern. People are criticising me that I have a soft corner for Jindal. I am answerable to people. You need to completely shut down the plant till the spread of the infection is checked,” he told the officers. In his response, Mr. Akhtar cited the Standard Operating Procedures in place and the guidelines that the Union and State governments had enforced from time to time. “JSW Steel can run the plant by strictly adhering to the guidelines issued by Union and State governments. It can run the plant with all precautionary measures to contain the spread of pandemic,” Mr. Akhtar said. Mr. Akhtar also directed the JSW Steel authorities to conduct a comprehensive health survey of its entire workforce. “JSW Steel should immediately conduct a health survey covering all employees at the Toranagal plant and also the township and make a list of employees who are suffering from respiratory illness, influenza-like illness and those who are aged above 60. The Ballari district administration has already declared the plant and the township as a containment zone and restricted the movement of employees to and from the plant and township. At present, around 9,000 employees are working. Jindal authorities need to check their health condition,” Mr. Akhtar said. JSW authorities who also participated in the meeting elaborated on the stringent containment measures put in place in the factory and the township. As per information provided by Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, 1,244 employees have been tested and 296 of them are COVID-19 positive making the JSW Steel plant and Township the biggest COVID-19 cluster in the State. As many as 86 people among them have so far recovered and discharged from hospital. Later, in his briefing to media representatives, Mr. Singh repeatedly clarified that he never had a soft corner for JSW Steel in connection with COVID-19. He persisted that he would not hesitate to make all efforts to get the entire plant completely shut down till the retreat of the pandemic.
25 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister inspects works being taken up under Kalaburagi City Corpn.||Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj on Wednesday morning took a whirlwind tour of the city to inspect various works taken up under the Kalaburagi City Corporation. He was accompanied by Kalaburagi South MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor and City Corporation Commissioner Rahul Pandve. During his two-hour inspection-tour, the Minister visited five places. He began his day by interacting with pourakarmikas of the city corporation during a surprise stopover. The Minister asked about their salaries and advised them to use safety gear provided by the corporation. He visited Ram Nagar locality to inspect the work on a 116-m stretch of a road being taken up at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh sanctioned in 2018-2019 under the State Finance Corporation grants, another 117-m stretch of road at Vidya Nagar being taken up at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh sanctioned in 2019-2020. He visited a children’s park at Swastika Nagar, which was developed under AMRUT Mission. He asked the corporation officials to come out with a plan to plant 10,000 saplings along the city roads. Mr. Basavaraj visited the 40 MLD sewage treatment plant constructed at Nandikur village to prevent untreated sewage water generated in the city from reaching the Bhima. He also inspected the purification process of drinking water at the Kotnur filter bed and instructed the officials to replace the old mechanism.
25 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||SWR completes remodelling of Hosapete Junction Yard||Using the lockdown as an opportunity, South Western Railway (SWR) has completed the remodelling of Hosapete Junction for railway electrification between Hosapete –Tinaighat - Vasco section. The work was taken up as part of doubling of railway track between Hosapete and Tinaighat and finished on Tuesday. The SWR, in a release, said that the simultaneous reception and dispatch of trains from both directions would be possible after yard remodelling. “This gives flexibility in train operations. Hence, trains need not wait when trains are being dispatched to the other end. Also with the remodel, Hosapete Junction is now fit to deal both diesel and electric traction (trains),” the release added. The work that involved civil engineering, signalling & telecommunication and electrical aspects cost Rs. 60 crore with the involvement of about 30 (total of officers and staff) round the clock for nine days. It involved the removal of yard congestion and provision of double line connectivity towards Gadag end to facilitate Up and Down movements simultaneously. Connectivity to Road 2, 3 and 4 of Ballari UP line and Road 5, 6 and 7 of Ballari Down line has now been provided. To increase yard flexibility and simultaneous reception /dispatch of trains and shunting operations, two additional goods reception and dispatch lines, two additional shunting necks, and two additional sidings were added. The construction of a new Station Master building was also part of the work. Electronic Interlocking system of distributed architecture and dual VDU (Visual Display Unit) operation to control the entire yard operation were provided. Eliminating the existing electromechanical working from 4 Cabins (East, West, Centre and Bye pass), all operations are now centralised from the Station Master’s panel room.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Private bus operators rue delay in road tax waiver||Private stage carriage (route bus) operators have rued the government inaction towards their demand for road tax waiver for six months beginning from June and 50% tax collection for the next six months due to the impact of COVID-19. “There has been no response to our demands,” said K. Rajavarma Ballal, president, Federation of Private Bus Operators of Karnataka. On the other hand, the government has been supporting State Road Transport Corporations (SRTCs) by paying the salaries of the employees. “We too discharge social obligations, including offering concessional travel to students, senior citizens and the differently abled. The government should not have discriminated between RTCs and private operators,” Mr. Ballal told The Hindu.  Despite partial relaxation in the lockdown, passenger patronage has been very dull, Mr. Ballal said and gave the example of Dakshina Kannada-Udupi districts that were largely served by private operators. While there are about 60 services between Mangaluru and Udupi, about 95 services are operated between Mangaluru-Kundapur at present. Almost all buses run empty except during peak hours, he said. Private stage carriage operators have to pay quarterly tax of Rs. 999 per seat per bus that comes up to Rs. 47,952 for a 48-seater bus. “The tax incidence is huge even otherwise and is exponential when we are asked to ferry only 50% of the permitted capacity,” Mr. Ballal said.  Gujarat waiver Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association General Secretary K. Radhakrishna Holla said Gujarat has waived off road taxes for passenger vehicles till September 2020. The Karnataka government, on the other hand, is yet to issue orders to validate documents, including permits, fitness certificates, etc., till September 30, as per the Union government directive, he regretted. The Centre had also asked States to consider waiving off taxes and penalties, he added. The association and the State Bus Owners’ Committee had demanded complete tax exemption for six months. Mr. Holla said almost all private bus operators as well as other public service vehicle owners have surrendered their permits, for the first time in the history, to avoid the road tax liability. The government should come to the rescue of private operators who run public services, Mr. Holla demanded. A senior official with the Transport Department told The Hindu that the government was yet to take any decision on the demands.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||30,835 students to write SSLC exam in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 30,835 Class 10 students, including 367 from Kasaragod district in Kerala, will write the SSLC examination in 95 centres in Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada from Thursday. “We have made thorough preparations. A mock drill was conducted across the centres. The examination is being conducted in a safe environment for students,” Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy told The Hindu . As many as 10 buses will be provided for 147 students from Kasaragod district in Kerala entering through the Talapady check-post. After thermal scanning, these students will be taken to the examination centres in Mangaluru. Similar arrangements are made for Kasaragod students to reach the examination centres in other parts of the district through 28 border check-posts. At five check-posts, there is only one student each to be picked up. These students will be dropped back to the check-posts after the end of the examination every day, he said. Mr. Malleswamy said students can come to the examination centre between 8 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. Staff have been posted to thermally scan students. Students not having face masks will be provided a pair of masks at the scanning area and then allowed into the classrooms. There will be 20 students in a classroom. Students found with cold will be made to write the examination in an isolated room. A total of 102 such rooms are created. None of the examination centres are in the containment zones and each one of the centre is thoroughly sanitised. After end of each paper, the premises will be sanitised again. As many as 632 thermal scanners are provided for centres. The highest of 6,584 students will be writing in the Mangaluru North education block, followed by 5,968 in the Mangaluru South block, 5,300 students in Bantwal block, 5,007 in Puttur block, 3,849 in Belthangady block, 2,107 in Moodbidri and 2,020 in Sullia education block. As many as 1,318 students from the district are writing examination from centres in other districts, said a press release.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PU lecturers abstain from evaluation of science papers||With the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, most pre-university science lecturers from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have stayed away from the evaluation work here. In all, around 250 lecturers from the twin districts have stayed away from the ongoing evaluation of physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and statistics papers in eight centres in Bengaluru. The evaluation of science papers began on June 5. Bengaluru has the highest number of PU science lecturers followed by those from the twin districts. “We had mobilised 40 lecturers on June 8 and arranged two buses. Arrangements for food and lodging had also been done. But the communication from Education Minister Suresh Kumar that evaluators can attend as per their will and statement by officials that evaluators from Bengaluru and 12 neighbouring districts will attend evaluation work changed their mind,” said a physics lecturer. A biology lecturer said reports of an increasing number of cases in the last couple of days in Bengaluru has created a sense of fear. “Though we have been assured of compliance of all safety precautions, we are not convinced about its effectiveness at exam centres,” they said. “Because of the safety issue, we had sought decentralisation of evaluation and allowing of science papers to be corrected in Mangaluru. Officials sidestepped the demand,” they said.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman dies of SARI||A 59-year-old woman from Ullal with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital after being found positive for COVID-19, died on Wednesday. With this, the number of COVID-19 positive deaths in Dakshina Kannada has gone up to eight. There are two non-COVID-19 deaths. The woman was admitted to a private hospital 10 days ago following complaint of loose motion. Two days ago, she was shifted to a private medical college and hospital in Deralakatte where she was found with SARI symptoms. Her throat and swab samples were sent for test. She was among the eight found positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC too in a critical condition||State Road Transport Corporations (SRTCs) including KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC that have been running just about 25% of their total services too are in a critical condition. As against Rs. 36-37 average cost of operation per km (CPKM), the corporations have been getting Rs. 12-15 earning per km (EPKM) with social distancing in place and very few people travelling via public transport. “The government has paid the salaries for April and May while the situation is no different this month. While the corporations were under loss in normal situation itself, the present situation is extremely bleak,” a senior officer said. KSRTC’s Mangaluru Division is operating 10 buses between Mangaluru and Udupi, as private operators who dominated the sector did not start services from May second week. They just do 20 round trips in a day while there would be just two-three passengers between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., said an officer.
25 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sub-Inspector among 13 to test positive||While 13, including a 35-year-old Police Sub-Inspector attached to Ullal Police Station in the City Police Commissionerate, tested positive for COVID-19, 45 persons were discharged after treatment here on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ protests against changes to land reforms Act gain traction||The protests against the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 has gained traction across Mysuru and surrounding areas and is likely to intensify. Hundreds of farmers, representing different organisations such as the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), the Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, and the Hasiru Sene, staged demonstrations at different places in the region on Wednesday and met the local MLAs who expressed support to their cause. Even the BJP MLAs from the region, including L. Nagendra of Chamaraja Assembly segment and S.A. Ramdas of Krishnaraja segment commiserated with the agitating farmers and promised to have internal discussions within the party to convey the farmers sentiments. KRRS president Badagalpura Nagendra said that farmers are united in the cause and their agitation with threaten the stability of the government if the amendments were not rescinded immediately. He said so far 110 MLAs across the State have been contacted and the opposition of the farmers to the amendment to the Act has been communicated. The agitation is set to put the BJP on the backfoot as even the Congress and the JD (S) have expressed its opposition while supporting the farmers. G.T. Deve Gowda, Chamundeshwari MLA, who was supportive of the farmers demand, promised to speak against it in the Assembly. “Despite all clauses in the original Act to safeguard farm land from being acquired, the conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose has continued unabated,” warned Mr. Gowda. Scores of farmers of Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association assembled in front of the residences of S.R. Mahesh, JD (S) MLA, Yathindra Siddramaiah, Congress MLA, and also demonstrated in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office against the amendments.
25 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ban orders in Chamarajanagar||Chamarajanagar district has ordered the closure of all businesses in its urban areas after 6 p.m. following a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases. The district administration’s order comes a day after Chamarajanagar reported four more caseson Tuesday in addition to the three reported earlier..
25 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Book awards||Karnataka Sangha, Shivamogga, has announced its book awards for 2019. The list of winners, among others, is as follows: Kuvempu Award for best novel Rajashekhara Mathapathi (Jagavandyam Bharatham); S.V. Parameshwara Bhat award for translation V. Krishnamurthy Rao (W.B. Yeats Kaviya Eppathu Kavanagalu); M.K. Indira award for women writer H.S. Anupama (Naanu Kastur); P. Lankesh award for best Muslim writer Hebasura Ramzan (Manjinolagana Kenda); G.S. Shivarudrappa award for best poetry collection Indra Kumar H.B. (Olagondu Vilakshana Mishrana); Ha.Ma. Nayak award for column writing Sahana Kanthabailu (Ane Saakalu Horatavalu); U.R. Ananthamurthy award for small story collection Manju Naik Challur; K.V. Subbanna award for best play Usha Narasimhan (Kanchukannadi); Kukke Subrahmanya Shastry award for best travelogue Venkatesh Machakanur (Utkalavanga), and Hasudi Venkata Shastry award for science writing B.S. Shailaja (Akashadalli Yenide).
25 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Ashisar coming today||Karnataka Biodiversity Board Chairman Ananth Hegde Ashisar will visit Shivamogga city on Thursday to take part in an afforestation programme organised by the Shivamogga City Corporation at 10.45 a.m. He will also take part in a meeting with the officials of the Malnad Area Development Board at 11.45 a.m., and hold consultations with the officials of the Department of Forest and Wildlife at the office of Conservator of Forest at 1 p.m.
25 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Man dies in road accident||A man was killed in a collision between a motorcycle and a four-wheeler near Kugwe village on the outskirts of Sagar city on Wednesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Manjappa (55), a resident of Galipura village.
25 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Registered private hospitals should treat COVID-19 patients: officer||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Wednesday that it was incumbent on private hospitals that have registered under Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka Scheme to provide treatment to patients having COVID-19. Presiding over a meeting of heads of private hospitals registered for providing COVID-19 treatment at the District Offices Complex here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that 19 hospitals had registered for providing treatment under the scheme. It was incumbent upon these hospitals to keep beds reserved for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. They should provide treatment to these patients as per government guidelines, he said. At present, there are 108 COVID-19 positive cases in the district. They were being provided treatment at hospitals in Kundapur and Karkala. If the number of COVID-19 cases increase, then private hospitals should be ready to give treatment to these patients. Steps had been taken to train the sanitation staff in these hospitals. All private hospitals should start fever clinics and have isolation wards, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda, District Surgeon Madhusudhan Nayak, District Nodal COVID-19 officer Prashanth Bhat and others were present.
25 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||More new projects at urban tree park||Deputy Conservator of Forests Ashish Reddy has said that the Department of Forests has thrown open the Salumarada Thimmakka Urban Tree Park to the public here. Mr. Reddy said that new projects would be taken up to attract more tourists.
25 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||14 test positive||As many as 14 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Wednesday. These 14 persons include a three-year-old boy and 11-year-old girl. All these have been shifted to COVID-19 hospitals. There are 122 active cases in the district.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic body plans to take possession of encroached portions of lakes in the city||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is getting ready to crack down on encroachments and reclaim lake beds and surrounding areas that fall under its jurisdiction. Civic Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that as per directions of the High Court of Karnataka, the BBMP has uploaded certified survey sketches and encroachment details of over 100 lakes under six zones on its website. “Most of the lakes have been encroached upon over a period of time. We will soon start taking possession of the encroached portions. We have been directed to submit the details to the High Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT),” he said. The commissioner has directed assistant executive engineers to inspect all lakes and compile information regarding encroachments Mohan Krishna, Chief Engineer (lakes), BBMP, said that apart from the public notice that has been issued, individual notices will also be served. “This drive against encroachments will be conducted in a phased manner over the next few months. Initially, we have identified 40 lakes, five lakes each from the eight zones, and will start issuing notices for people to vacate the encroached portion. We will take possession as per law,” he said. The BBMP estimates that the entire process will take at least 40 days for the first phase alone. However, no date has been set for commencement of the drive. List yet to be updated The list put up on the BBMP website is not complete and will be updated. “We have survey reports of over 200 lakes in the city and only over a 100 have been uploaded. If the name of the lake is not there on the list, it does not mean that the lake is not encroached.” Another senior BBMP official said that the scale of the drive in each area will depend on the nature of the encroachment. “For example, the original area of Chikkabegur lake was 32 acres and 19 guntas, of which four acres and four guntas have been encroached upon by private parties,” the official said. The exercise will prove to be challenging as officials admit that even government agencies are guilty of encroaching lake beds and surrounding areas. Public can access the survey sketches and encroachment details of lakes athttp://bbmp.gov.in/en/adlr
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice on widening Ramana Maharshi Road||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered issue of notices to the State government and the BBMP on a PIL petition, which is seeking directions for widening Ramana Maharshi Road as per clearance given by the apex court, and to scientifically regulate traffic on this stretch. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order on a petition filed by Samarpana, a cultural and social service organisation. The petitioner has complained that the government failed to widen the stretch between BDA junction and Mehkri Circle despite the apex court giving clearance for widening by utilising a portion of land of Bangalore Palace; litigation on its acquisition by the government is pending in the apex court. The petitioner pointed out that road users face hardship every day due to the narrow path, badly designed Hebbal flyover and unscientific management of vehicle movement between BDA junction and Mehkri Circle. The petitioner has also pointed out that the High Court, in another petition, had directed the State government to grant necessary clearance to the BBMP for widening the road and to issue TDR certificates to the owners of Bangalore Palace land in terms of the order of the apex court as BBMP had proposed to widen the road by acquiring around 15 acres of Bangalore Palace land.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Identify inmates of huts destroyed in fire, says HC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to identify inmates of the huts, situated on government land in Sunday Bazaar slum in Kacharakanahalli, which were set on fire by miscreants, and pay compensation besides rehabilitate them. The court issued the direction after noticing from the report of the Fire and Emergency Services Department that ration kits, clothes and other household items were among the goods burnt in the 55 huts on March 24 and March 30. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court based on a letter written by Vaishali Hegde, an advocate. Meanwhile, in a report on the delay of registering a complaint, jurisdictional assistant commissioner of police has said that on both occasions the police visited the spot but persons on the spot termed it as an accident. However, an FIR was registered on May 1 after an inmate of one of the remaining huts complained that a few people had razed some huts using earth movers on April 30 but he had been hesitant to lodge a complaint then. It has been alleged in the report that two owners of a nearby choultry, who wanted to use the land for their business and parking of vehicles, with the help of two others conspired to clear the huts when inmates of many of the huts left for their native places in northern Karnataka just before imposition of the lockdown. Three persons have been arrested, the police have stated.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fake question paper does the rounds on social media||No examination season is complete without rumours of question papers doing the rounds. This year, it was no different. On Wednesday, the eve of the SSLC examination, photos of an English first language paper did the rounds on social media accompanied by claims that it was a copy of the actual paper that students will have to answer on Thursday. The Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board, however, dismissed the claims and said that it had no resemblance to the final examination paper. ‘Misguiding students’ Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar directed authorities of the Board to file a cybercrime complaint with the police and nab the culprits who were trying to misguide the students. “The question paper being circulated is one of the preparatory papers,” he said.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Penalty for not wearing masks||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has filed 1,824 cases against citizens for not wearing masks and collected fines amounting to Rs. 3.64 lakh as of June 24. Around 69 cases have been slapped on people for not maintaining social distancing. According to information provided by the BBMP, the maximum number of cases (638) have been filed in the South zone with Rs. 1.27 lakh collected by way of fines.
25 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||15 cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 15 more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 11 came from abroad, three from other States and one person got the disease through contact. Four persons- a 59-year-old man from Alappuzha, a 49-year-old man native of Mararikulam South and two young men hailing from Nooranad and Cheppad- had come from Kuwait on June 12. Two young men from Alappuzha and Mavelikara reached the district from Dubai on June 10. A 49-year-old man native of Mararikulam South came from Kuwait on June 16. A 51-year-old man hailing from Alappuzha and a young man from Kandalloor reached the district from Kuwait on June 13. Two patients, a young man hailing from Kayamkulam and a 48-year-old man from Budhanoor had come from Kuwait on June 15 and June 14 respectively. Of the cases from other States, a boy hailing from Ambalappuzha came by a train from Delhi on June 11. His relative, a young man, got the disease through contact. Another, a young woman from Aroor reached the district by a train from Mumbai on June 12. A 47-year-old man native of Mavelikara had come from Goa on June 12.
25 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Six positive in Idukki||Six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. A woman who reached Painavu from Delhi along with her husband, a Maniyarankudi resident who returned from Chennai along with her husband and child, a Moolamattom resident who returned from Tamil Nadu and three Kuwait returnees — a Vandiperiyar resident and two Karunapuram residents — are the persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. They were in home quarantine and shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Idukki, and Taluk Hospital, Thodupuzha, after they tested positive. The number of active cases in the district is 52, sources said.
25 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Officer held on bribery charge||Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) officials on Wednesday arrested Devikulam range officer Sinil V.S. on the charge of accepting Rs. 10,000 as bribe from a farmer for cutting tree branches in the Cardamom Hill Reserve area. The farmer approached the VACB after the officer sought a bribe of Rs. 10,000. Marked currency notes were handed over to the range officer when he reached the farm and the VACB officials arrested him.
25 June 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Man gets 15-year RI||The Wayanad POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Court here on Wednesday sentenced a man to 15 years of rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 70,000 on him for raping a minor girl in an orphanage in the district. Judge K. Ramakrishnan awarded the sentence to Nazar, 41, of Kuttamangalam near Muttil in the district.
25 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Another day of worry for Kannur as 17 test positive||Kannur district continues to witness spike in COVID-19 cases with another 17 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Of the total 17 cases, three had returned from abroad and 11 had come back from other States. Three got infected through contact. Those who were infected through contact included a 27-year-old woman from Koothuparamba, a 49-year-old woman from Muzhappilangad and a 52-year-old CISF official from Mysore. Those who had come from abroad included a 60-year-old man from Ramanthali, a 49-year-old man from Munderi and a 51-year-old man from Kerivallur-Peralam panchayat. Those who returned from other States included a 58-year-old man from Pinarayi, a 36-year-old man from Alakkode, a 25-year-old youth from Mattannur, a 58-year-old CISF personnel, a 27-year-old man of Paya, a 56-year-old woman, a 23-year-old woman, another 36-year-old man, a 6-year-old boy and a 2-year-old boy, all natives of Kottiyoor, and a 42-year-old native of Kadambur. In Palakkad Sixteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of infected persons currently under treatment to 195. All of them had come back from the Gulf on different dates. While seven had returned from Kuwait, four had come back from Abu Dhabi, three from Saudi Arabia and one each from Dubai and Oman. In Malappuram In Malappuram district, 10 more persons tested positive for the virus  on Wednesday. While eight of them were returnees from abroad, two had come back from other States. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district stood at 200 on Wednesday. In Thrissur Fourteen new COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Wednesday. Of them, 12 are migrant labourers who arrived from West Bengal on June 15. A 36-year-old man from Varanthirappally who supplied food for the workers was infected through contact. Another person, who came from Bengaluru on June 21, was also tested positive. In all, 127 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. The 12 migrant workers, who tested positive, were under institutional quarantine after they arrived from West Bengal on June 15, according to the Health Department. They were among the 35 workers who were brought by L&T Company in a special bus from West Bengal for the emergency work of Transgrid Power line from Pariyaram to Chalakudy. Five of them had tested positive earlier. “All of them were in institutional quarantine. As they had to work in public places, COVID test was conducted for them on the direction of KSEB. The rest of the people, 18 of them, are remaining in institutional quarantine,” said a district administration press release. Meanwhile, four more areas in the district have been declared as containment zones. The new zones are wards 7, 8, 11, 15, 19 and 20 of Kunnamkulam Municipality, wards 06, 07 and 09 of Kattakambal panchayat; wards 14, 15 and 16 of Kadavallur panchayat and divisions 13, 32, 35, 36, 39, 48 and 49 of Thissur Corporation. In Ernakulam Eight more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Ernakulam district on Wednesday. They included a 33-year-old from Kalamassery who arrived here from Kuwait on June 12 and a 44-year-old relative of the person. A four-year-old child related to them has also been tested positive. Meanwhile, the list of primary contacts of a person from near Malayattoor, who tested positive on Tuesday, and his wife, a health worker who was also found to be infected, is being prepared. Those being screened for COVID-19 now are 72 children, who were immunised by the health worker, and their parents. Forty-nine persons are in the primary contact list of the husband of the health worker. Wards 1, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12 were declared containment zone on Tuesday night following the development. Ward 15 of the Neeleswaram panchayat too has been declared a containment zone as several contacts of the health worker’s husband were traced to this place. Man absconds An expatriate has gone absconding in violation of the quarantine protocol in Kothamangalam, raising an alarm among the health fraternity. The 46-year-old from Pindimana had returned home from Abu Dhabi via Thiruvananthapuram on June 21. He was supposed to undergo home quarantine. However, following public complaint that he was acting in violation of that direction, health authorities came calling but could not track him down. His mobile phone was also in switched-off mode. The police have registered a case against him. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), has warned of stern action against those found violating the quarantine protocol. He said that the police had stepped up vigil in Sreemoolanagaram following the lockdown in the six wards of the panchayat. In Wayanad Two more COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases so far to 79. A 36-year-old man of Meppadi who returned from Dubai on June 12 and a 41-year-old man of Noolpuzha who returned from Hyderabad on June 20 were confirmed to have contracted the virus, District Medical officer R. Renuka said. .  (With inputs from Palakkad, Malappuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Wayanad bureaus)
25 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||17 projects for Dharmadam||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash to implement 17 projects in eight panchayats in his Dharmadam constituency. The Asset Development Fund for the year 2020-21 will be utilised for projects worth Rs. 4.8 crore in various panchayats. The Chief Minister has proposed to implement projects worth Rs. 60 lakh each at Anjarakandy, Muzhappilangad, Peralassery, Chembilode, Kadambur, Vengadu, Dharmadam and Pinarayi panchayats. An amount of Rs. 60 lakh has been allotted for the development of AKG Memorial Government Higher Secondary School, Peralassery panchayat ground development, gallery building, family health centre and conference hall at Kadambur panchayat, and anganwadi works at wards 2, 12, 16 and 17 of Chembilodu panchayat, construction of cultural centre at Anjarakandy panchayat, physiotherapy centre at Kannadi Veliyam PHC, construction of Kunjipuzha Bridge in Muzhappilangad panchayat, cloakroom at Kacherimetta Stadium, health sub-centre at Vengad panchayat, construction of canal bridge on Vengadu Theru-Canal Kara Road, construction of anganwadi in wards 1 and 7 of Dharmadam panchayat, and construction of stage at the Higher Secondary School, Paliyode. Similarly, Rs. 30 lakh for Cherikal and Mouveri canal protection project and Rs. 15 lakh for the development of the Pinarayi panchayat Parapram Mini Stadium and infrastructure at Prasanthi Cemetery.
25 June 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Court acquits eight in 2008 murder case||The Kasaragod District Additional Sessions (II) Court on Wednesday acquitted eight accused in the Sandeep Kumar murder case in 2008. Justice Rajan Thattil released the accused in the absence of evidence. Those acquitted are Mohammed Rafeeq (35) of Powal, Shahal Khan (35) of Fort Road, P.A. Abdurrahman (48), a security guard at a building and a resident of Nalam Mile, A.A. Abdul Sattar (42) of Vidyanagar, K.M. Abdul Aslam (38) of Chengala, M. Harris (38) of Ulliythadaku, Shabeer (36) from Anangur, and Mohammed Rafi (40) from Ulliyathakadu. The case was that Sandeep, 24, was stabbed to death by five persons following an altercation on April 14, 2008, at the new bus stand in Kasaragod. Following the murder, there was widespread violence in the region which witnessed two more revenge killings.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. proposes cluster for WTE plant at Brahmapuram||The State government has recommended an Ernakulam cluster of local bodies, including the Kochi Corporation and 13 municipalities, for implementing the proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant with capacity to process 300 tonnes of solid waste per day at Brahmapuram. According to the draft agreement for the plant published by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the participating local bodies in the cluster are the Kochi Corporation and Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Eloor, Maradu, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom and Koothattukulam municipalities. The government had proposed the development of appropriate clusters of local bodies for implementing regional-level public-private partnership (PPP) projects in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 across the State. According to the draft concession agreement for the Brahmapuram project, the participating local bodies along with the Department of Local Self-Governments and KSIDC will enter into an agreement with the agency selected following a global competitive bidding for setting up the WTE plant on Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis. The agreement will be for a period of 27 years. The plant with a capacity to treat 300 tonnes of solid waste daily will have production capability to generate 5 megawatt power. The local bodies in the cluster will be responsible for ensuring door-to-door collection of waste, collection from public spaces, street cleaning, and waste delivery in bins provided by the company executing the project. KSIDC officials said nearby panchayats at Brahmapuram could also join the cluster.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heritage faces threat from beautification projects||In what former Mayor K.J. Sohan calls “frightening”, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has taken up projects in the Fort Kochi heritage zone and the area outside the Dutch Palace at Mattancherry. The Rs. 1.21-crore project to “upgrade” the entrance to the Dutch Palace involves fixing the drain that runs adjacent to the outer wall of the palace, besides laying tiles in the parking area and setting up lamp posts. CSML sources said the tiles were being laid to beautify the parking area. “This was just a huge waste of funds in an area with rich historical significance. It is not that the area must not develop, but laying tiles is not the way to go about it,” said K.J. Antony, corporation councillor from West Kochi. The palace, originally built around 1555 by the Portuguese and renovated by the Dutch over a century later, is a monument protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). At Fort Kochi, the Vasco da Gama Square is seeing work worth Rs. 1.95 crore as part of a CSML project. “What should have been done was to mark out buildings of historical significance and put their stories out for people to see, not waste funds on tiling roads,” Mr. Sohan said. The cobble-stoned Vasco da Gama Square was inaugurated only in 2001 and did not require much work, he pointed out. Since the area is a heritage zone, an attempt should be made to preserve the relics that are scattered around, like the weathercock leaning against a tree at the square, and make their history known, Mr. Sohan said. “From a conservation point of view, it is not an improvement nor a deterioration. One wonders why this is done. When people have budgets, they want to spend them on things as irrelevant as this,” said Jose Dominic, a member of the local INTACH chapter. “We had alerted CSML about the matter but did not get any response,” said Babu Rajeev, former ASI Director General and convenor of the local INTACH chapter. Meanwhile, CSML sources said permission from the ASI was sought and received for the work at Mattancherry.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Huge windfall for online fraudsters||The COVID-19 pandemic has turned out to be a godsend for online fraudsters, adding to their already existing bag of tricks. Everything from the near-universal work-from-home to soaring online transactions seems to have aligned in favour of these fraudsters. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team had issued an alert against COVID-19-related phishing attacks as recently as June 19. Forging mail IDs in the name of the boss and sending emails to colleagues have emerged as a favoured ploy. “It wasn’t restricted to companies, but even a mail was forged in the name of the Chief Minister to his Cabinet colleague,” said Manoj Abraham, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) and nodal officer for the Kerala Police Cyberdome. Fake pleas for donations Phishing by exploiting the proliferating charity and donations during the pandemic is another common trap. For instance, pleas for donations are circulated via social media and emails, even in the name of the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, though the donations so elicited go straight into the fraudsters’ personal accounts. Ransomware attack taking over the computer network of hospitals, bringing their functioning to a screeching halt, thus forcing panic-stricken managements to pay ransom to get the network decrypted has also brought online fraudsters rich dividends. “Three diagnostic centres and a hospital in the State were targeted in this manner. Fortunately, they had a solid backup, and they alerted us promptly,” said Mr. Abraham. Offers on portals Shopping scams enticing online customers with tantalising offers in the name of popular e-commerce portals have also been widely reported in the State. “Emails with malicious links in the garb of COVID care assistance playing on the anxieties of people are also being used. Once they click on it, malware takes over the computer, stealing valuable credentials like credit card details. Often, the users are oblivious to it,” said Mr. Abraham. Difficult task Since online fraudsters are not hampered by geographical limitations, it is not easy to bring them to book. Being careful at the individual-level by not falling for suspicious links remains the primary defence. “We have swept the Internet very closely and issued successive alerts of potential threats since the outbreak of the pandemic,” said Mr. Abraham.  Ransomware attacks on networks of hospitals bring their functioning to a halt.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||It’s normalcy at BPCL, FACT||The operations of the public sector Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s Kochi refinery are back to near-normal after the 70-day lockdown ended, with measures in place to fight the spread of COVID-19. The production of the complex fertilizer Factamfos and ammonium sulphate has returned to normal on the two campuses of FACT, sources said. With the company expecting to cash in on the good spell of rain in the first phase of the southwest monsoon, production now is in the normal range of 2,500 tonnes of Factamfos and 700 tonnes of ammonium sulphate daily. Good sales Despite the lockdown, FACT has witnessed strong sales as farming activities have picked up momentum after the lockdown and with the onset of the rains. April and May saw Factamfos sales of 94,517 tonnes against 46,367 tonnes during the same months in the previous year. Physical-distancing norms are being followed in the company strictly. There are random checks and frequent thermal checks for the employees. New normal The BPCL-Kochi Refinery, which had switched to a two-shift system during the lockdown, reintroduced three shifts of eight-hour duration but care was being taken to keep physical distancing norms. Thermal checks, random tests on employees, use of sanitisers, and staggered canteen timings were all the new normal for the refinery employees, company sources said. The refinery had operated with 280 employees in 12-hour shifts as the lockdown came into force. Production too had been cut.However, company sources said that the supply of cooking gas had not been affected. Meanwhile, work on two project sites at the refinery has resumed. The petrochemicals complex is undergoing work towards its commissioning while work on the motor spirit block is in the final stages.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||This youngster is on a youth fest marathon||In the last more than two months, Sreenath Gopinath, a young entrepreneur running a start-up at Kadavanthra here, has been engaged in a seemingly impossible task. Since April 8, when the lockdown entered the third week, the youngster has organised 15 online youth fests in succession for students of professional colleges, and the latest one for medical colleges across the State is now under way. With WhatsApp turning out to be the predominant virtual stage and every fest featuring 15 to 22 events, he has so far created nearly 350 groups, including those for judges and appeal committees. “The three-month period between March and May is when professional colleges across the State organise their annual youth fests. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic forced the cancellation of these fests, stripping final year students of their much anticipated platform to showcase their talents,” explained Mr. Gopinath, an engineering graduate, about the reason behind his long-drawn-out endeavour, which evoked enthusiastic response from students. Of the 15 fests held so far, four were State-wide events. He worked his connections in the film industry and his friends at Cambridge University to rope in a diverse range of judges. Registration starts two days before the event, while participants are given three hours to submit videos of their performances, which are then forwarded to judges. “The winners are adjudged based on the average of marks awarded by the judges,” said Mr. Gopinath, a hat trick winner in mono act in Mahatma Gandhi University youth fests. Having to go through a punishing schedule that starts from 7 a.m. and lasts at times till the early morning hours next day has hardly diminished his enthusiasm though it has left him with little time for his job. He is now planning to conduct similar fests for schools in which case his sleepless nights may prolong till July end.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL office gets Green certification||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has received the Green certification of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) for its corporate office at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. The Kochi metro earned the IGBC platinum rating by scoring a whopping 86 of 100 points. The IGBC in the official recommendation has commented that the KMRL corporate office is one of the best case studies where a government office can be energy-efficient, with optimised design parameters of a platinum-rated building, said a press release. “Now, all our metro stations, the operations command centre at Muttom, and the corporate office are IGBC-certified. Our new office is green, energy- and water-efficient. We have focussed on using green-rated materials,” KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma said.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. told to immediately rehabilitate flood victims||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to immediately hand over the houses built for rehabilitating flood-affected families in Chalakkal tribal colony of Malappuram district. The court asked the government to complete the process within three months. The court observed that since the houses were ready for occupation, the delay in handing over the keys to the beneficiaries was totally unjustified. The order was issued on a petition filed by C.P. Chandran, Chalikkal colony, Malappuram. The houses were constructed by Federal Bank. Meanwhile, the government pleader submitted that the delay in rehabilitating the beneficiaries was due to the COVID-19 situation. The court directed Federal Bank to hand over the keys to the District Collector immediately.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court adjourns bail petition||The Kerala High Court has adjourned to next week the hearing on a bail petition filed by K. Padmarajan, a suspended school teacher and local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader at Panur in Kannur district, in a case relating to the alleged sexual abuse of a 10-year-old student. The prosecution charge was that he had sexually assaulted the standard 4 student in the bathroom of the school.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||4,060 evacuees arrive by 21 relief flights||Twenty-one flights brought 4,060 Indian evacuees, mostly from GCC countries to Kochi on Wednesday. Among those who arrived here were 160 students who came in a Kuwait Airways flight. They are pursuing their studies at various institutions in the country, said a communication from the airport here. The Cochin International Airport is scheduled to receive 21 relief flights on Thursday, which will bring 3,420 passengers. Thursday’s operations include an Air India flight from London via Delhi and an Ethiopian Air flight from Addis Ababa. Thursday’s arrivals included a group from Australia. An Indigo flight from Doha and a Salam Air flight from Muscat were cancelled.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Shops told to follow COVID-19 protocol||The Kochi Corporation has instructed shops and other establishments functioning within its limits to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 prevention protocol or face cancellation of licence. All establishments functioning with a corporation-issued licence must ensure that children below 10 years and those above 60 years do not enter their premises. Employees and customers or visitors must wear masks, practise physical distancing, and wash hands or use sanitisers. If the protocol is not followed, the corporation will initiate proceedings to cancel the establishment’s licence, said a notice from the Corporation Secretary. The corporation itself has begun taking note of the names, telephone numbers, and the time of entry of people visiting the corporation main office premises for registrations, documents, or tax payments.
25 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC suspends transfer of Special Judge||The Kerala High Court has kept in abeyance the order transferring Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge, Ernakulam, to Kozhikode. The judge is trying a case relating to the sexual assault on a woman actor. The High Court transferred the judge as Additional District Judge in Kozhikode for the trial of cases relating to atrocities against women and children as part of the general transfer. The trial proceedings in the actor case have already begun before the judge and examination of the victim and some of the witnesses has been completed. The Special Court was constituted on a directive of the High Court for hearing the case. The High Court order came on a petition filed by the victim. In an order, P.G. Ajithkumar, Registrar (Subordinate Judiciary), said the Special Judge was allowed to continue in her present station until further orders. Actor Dileep, eighth accused in the case, is on bail.
25 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam count is 18||Eighteen persons from Kollam, including two members of a family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Among the patients, 17 are from abroad and the last patient is the mother of a person who returned from Kuwait. Of the 17, eight persons are from Kuwait, four are from Saudi Arabia, two from Abu Dhabi, two from Tajakistan, and one from Dubai. The new cases are from Mayyanad, Karungapally, Chavara, Panayam, Kunnikode, Paravur, Thevalakkara, Kottamkara, Karikode, Kureepuzha, Sooranad North, Saktikulangara, Channapetta and Kundara. Of those who came from Kuwait is a Channapetta resident who came on June 12 and was in home quaratine when he tested positive. Another is a 33-year-old from Mayyanad who travelled on a Kuwait-Kochi flight on June 13. The Saudi returnees include two persons, one from Karungapally and another from Chavara, who came on a Saudi- Kochi flight. The Kureepuzha resident who travelled from Saudi on June 13 and the Saktikulangara resident who travelled from Saudi on June 19 were in quarantine when they tested positive. Among the patients is a 32-year-old Thevalakkara resident who came on a Dubai-Thiruvananthapuram flight on February 25.
25 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||COVID-cured man dies of heart attack||A 68-year-old Perinad resident who recovered from COVID-19 died of a cardiac arrest on Tuesday night. He had returned from Dubai on a flight to Thiruvananthapuram on June 16. As his sample collected at the airport tested positive, he was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally, later. The person was under treatment for COVID-19 in Dubai. He first tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on April 12, but the samples collected on April 21, 23 and 25 in Dubai tested negative. On June 21, he was moved to the ICU. He suffered a cardiac arrest and died at 9.30 p.m. on June 23. His sample taken on June 22 had returned negative.
25 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rs. 131-crore annual budget for NSS||The annual budget of the Nair Service Society (NSS) for the financial year 2020-21 envisages an income and expenditure of Rs. 131 crore. The 106th budget of the community organisation, presented by its general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair through videoconferencing here on Wednesday, expects an income of Rs. 24.98 crore from the capital sector and Rs. 106.01 crore from the revenue sector. It earmarked an expenditure of Rs. 43.27 crore and Rs. 87.72 crore for the capital and revenue sectors respectively. The various forms of revenue from unaided schools and unaided colleges are estimated to be Rs. 12.63 crore and Rs. 4.10 crore respectively, while an additional income of Rs. 9.49 crore is expected from the plantations in its possession. Capital expenditure Under the capital expenditure head, Rs. 13.15 crore has been earmarked for the construction and maintenance sector, of which a major portion will be utilised for the construction of an NSS convention centre at Perunna. An amount of Rs. 3.81 crore has been set aside for construction and maintenance works of aided schools and colleges. The health sector will get a cumulative assistance of Rs. 38.81 crore. During the presentation, Mr. Nair registered the organisation’s strong displeasure over a unilateral move by the State government to bring in reforms in the general education sector. At the same time, Mr. Nair hailed the steps taken by the State and the union governments towards assisting people who faced difficulties owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown restrictions. Director board Meanwhile, Mr. Nair was re-elected NSS general secretary and M. Sasikumar was elected treasurer. The meeting also elected eight others to the NSS director board unopposed. They are Kalanjoor Madhu (Adoor); N.V. Ayyappan Pillai (Karunagappally); Chithara S. Radhakrishnan Nair (Chadayamangalam); K.K. Padmanabha Pillai (Ambalappuzha); V.A. Baburaj (Nedumangad); R. Balakrishna Pillai (Pathanapuram); G. Thankappan Pillai (Kottakkara); and Kottukal Krishna Kumar (Neyyattinkara). Of the 284 representatives in the delegates’ council, 267 members attended the conference from 60 taluk union offices using the online conferencing facility.
25 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seven cases in Kottayam||The district on Wednesday reported seven fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the number of active cases to 97. Of the fresh cases, three came from New Delhi, one from Mumbai, and two from abroad. One person tested positive during a test conducted prior to undergoing a cataract surgery. Those who came from the national capital were identified as a 37-year-old Ramapuram native, a 42-year-old Kallara native, and a 65-year-old woman from Maravathuruth. A 12-year-old boy who returned from Mumbai, a 52-year-old Pambadi native who landed from Riyadh, and a 50-year-old Thrikkodithanam native from Kuwait also tested positive. The person who tested positive for the virus ahead of a cataract surgery was a 70-year-old man from Pallikkathodu. His contacts are being traced.
25 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Meeting on acquisition of estate||The Believers Eastern Church is slated to convene a meeting of its Bishops’ Council at its headquarters in Thiruvalla on Saturday to discuss a move by the State government to acquire the Cheruvally estate for constructing a greenfield airport. Meanwhile, the Kottayam district panchayat on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the State government to expedite the proceedings for establishing the Sabarimala airport.
25 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to blacklist firm||Opposition councillors in the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation have demanded that the corporation blacklist Vengeri-based Niravu Zero Waste Management and ban it from participating in bidding for the civic body’s projects. The demand was raised at the council meeting on Wednesday based on an item in the agenda deciding to withhold Rs. 80,5816 payable to Niravu for removing reject waste from the dumping yard next to the corporation’s plastic recycling unit at West Hill. An inquiry by the Health Supervisor, based on public complaints, found that the agency, empanelled by the Suchitwa Mission, had mixed sand with reject waste to increase the weight of the load, making the corporation liable to pay more to the company. IUML councillor C. Abdurahman said that several allegations had come up against Niravu and that the agency was exploiting the corporation. However, Health Standing Committee chairman of the corporation K.V. Baburaj said that the agency had carried out several projects successfully for the corporation and that it had played a major role in earning the corporation a good name in the waste management sector. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran suggested that the issue be left to the Health Standing Committee for further discussions and action.
25 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders step up demand for vehicle entry to street||Merchants and traders have stepped up their demand to allow entry of vehicles through the iconic Sweet Meat (SM) Street in Kozhikode city. Businesses had drastically fallen and hundreds of employees had lost their jobs following the lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic, they said. A major reason was the traffic ban between 10 a.m. and 10 p.m. “The lockdown came after a series of crises that engulfed the trading community. Demonetisation, implementation of GST, and the Nipah outbreak had dealt a blow to the traders,” C.E. Chakkunny, president, Malabar Development Council, said. The district administration decided to ban the entry of vehicles after multiple-level talks with traders and other stakeholders three years ago. Even protests and meetings were banned on SM Street after evening shoppers complained that such events were causing inconvenience to them. Mr. Chakunny said that the authorities should allow vehicles to pass through SM Street until arrangements were made for parking. Promises to set up parking plazas at Kidson Corner and Link Road had not materialised. These were just confined to laying foundation stones, he said. At present, parking facilities behind SM Street and godown remained unutilised after the renovation of the commercial street. So parking and unloading of goods were done at adjacent roads, Mr. Chakunny said. Now, building owners and shop keepers had fallen into a debt trap and banks had already initiated revenue recovery proceedings against many of them. Several organisation such as All Kerala Goods Distributors Association, Calicut Chamber of Commence and Industry, City Merchants Association, M.P. Road Merchants Association and New Bazaar Merchants Association have sought the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan to solve the issue. Previously, the Vyapari Vyavasai Ekopana Samithi and the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasai Samithi had staged protests urging the district administration and the civic body to permit shopkeepers to take vehicles to the SM Street.
25 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||25 test positive in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta reported the most number of COVID-19 cases for the day with 25 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has touched 250, with 79 of them cured of the disease. There are 170 active cases and 11 persons with symptoms of the disease in isolations wards hospitals in the district, an official bulletin in the evening said. Of this, 80 are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, six at the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, 71 at the First-line Covid Treatment Centre at Menamthottom Hospital, Ranni,, 18 at the Firstline Covid Treatment Centre, Pandalam, and six at private hospitals in the district. New cases A 39-year-old man who came from Delhi and a 47-year-old man, a 51-year-old man, a 35-year-old woman, a 10-year-old girl, a five-year-old boy, a 40-year-old man, a 27-year-old youth, a 31-year-old man, a 52-year-old man, a 34-year-old youth, a 40-year-old man, a 52-year-old woman, and a 27-year-old youth, all from Kuwait, were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. A 20-year-old youth, two 27-year-old youths, and a 49-year-old man, all from Bahrain, two 36-year-old women who came from Saudi Arabia, a 33-year-old man who from Malaysia, a 33-year-old-man who came from Dubai, a 36-year-old man who came from Muscat, and a 15-year-old girl and a 16-year-old girl who came from Maharashtra also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The bulletin said results of 466 swab samples received from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha on Wednesday were negative for COVID-19. A total of 5,503 people are in quarantine in the district as on Wednesday. This included 3,158 people who came from various States, 1,903 expatriates and 442 contacts of infected persons.
25 June 2020||Staff Reporter,KERALA||SSLC results on June 30||The results of the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations for the 2019-20 academic year will be declared on June 30. The Plus Two Higher Secondary and Vocational Higher Secondary results will be declared by July 10. This was decided at a high-level meeting presided over by Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath here on Wednesday. Apart from the SSLC results, those of the Technical High School Leaving Certificate (THSLC), SSLC (Hearing Impaired), THSLC (Hearing Impaired), and Art High School Leaving Certificate Examination (AHSLC) will also be declared on June 30. Valuation of answer scripts for the SSLC examinations has been completed, and tabulation and other work is under way. Final stages Plus Two valuation is in the final stages. Valuation of Mathematics papers remains and is expected to be completed by June 29, and result processing will take around 10 days, and the results will be declared by July 10. The valuation, which was held in stages, also faced a lot of hurdles, especially during the lockdown when teachers found it difficult in reaching the valuation centres. Declaration of hotspots and containment spots too was a problem. The SSLC and Plus Two examinations had got under way on March 10, but were stopped on March 19 owing to COVID-19 spread. Overcoming flak Following the easing of some restrictions, the government decided to conduct the pending examinations from May 26 to 30 amid a lot of criticism about safety of students and political opposition. However, the examinations went off without a hitch amid stringent safety protocols. Nearly 13.7 lakh students have appeared for the SSLC and Plus One and Plus Two examinations. A decision on Plus One admissions and reopening of schools will be taken only after some clarity on the results of the CBSE and ICSE examinations and Union government advisory, Education Department officials said.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four NoRKs test positive in capital||Four Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. One of the four patients, a 33-year-old man from Pulluvila who had returned from Qatar on June 20, has been in home quarantine. He was shifted to the General Hospital. Another positive case is that of a 41-year-old man from Pallikkal, who had returned from Kuwait on June 13. He was shifted from institutional quarantine to the General Hospital. A 52-year-old woman from Navayikkulam, who had returned from Riyadh on June 13, had been in home quarantine. She was shifted to the SAT Hospital. A 67-year-old man from Thirunelveli, who had returned from Nigeria on June 18, has been under observation at a hotel in the city. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. As many as 1,141 people were newly put under observation in the district on Wednesday as part of steps to contain the spread of COVID-19.  313 complete isolation A total of 21,209 people are in quarantine in their houses and 1,471 in institutional quarantine centres, while 313 people completed their isolation period without any symptoms. In various hospitals across the districts, 171 people are under observation. Thirty three people were admitted to the city’s hospitals on Wednesday with symptoms, while 35 were discharged. A total of 501 samples were sent for tests on Wednesday. The results of 355 samples were received. Screening tests were conducted on 3,983 people in 1,912 vehicles at the various check-posts. At the Collectorate control room, 203 calls were received while 26 called in the mental health helpline. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, strict safety arrangements have been imposed on Karikkakom and Kadamkampally wards, which were declared as containment zones on Tuesday. The roads leading to these wards have been barricaded. Steps have been taken to close down 37 shops that were found to be functioning in violation of the restrictions. The police registered 48 cases under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance in the district on Wednesday. Petty cases were also registered against 181 for travelling without masks and action has been initiated against the owners of 10 vehicles for violating the restrictions.  Roads leading to the containment zones of Karikkakom and Kadamkampally wards have been barricaded
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lapses in conduct of tests: Collector||There have been lapses on the part of hospitals in the district in connection with the delay in performing COVID-19 tests on a 67-year-old patient from Vanchiyoor who died on June 12, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, Ms. Khosa termed the reports submitted by the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) as unsatisfactory. A report in this regard would be submitted to the Principal Secretary (Health), she said. The Collector had sought reports from the two institutions following complaints that the patient, who died on June 12, had not been tested on time for COVID-19. The Vanchiyoor native who was brought dead to the General Hospital on June 12 was diagnosed with COVID-19 only on June 15. The source of infection has not been ascertained. Meanwhile, the Collector ruled out lapses on the part of the MCH in connection with the suicide of two patients on June 10 in the COVID-19 ward.  Withdrawal symptoms Both patients had exhibited acute withdrawal symptoms according to the MCH, she said. The District Collector’s assessment vindicates the Opposition’s charges concerning lapses on the part of the Health Department in tackling COVID-19, MLA and former Health Minister V.S. Sivakumar said. Of the four COVID-19 deaths reported in the district so far, the source of infection had not been ascertained in three cases, he said in a statement.  She cites report on alleged delay in performing tests on a patient who died on June 12
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID War Room opened||The district administration on Wednesday announced stronger measures for tackling COVID-19 — especially in the city region — given the concern regarding a possible spike in cases in the district. For closely monitoring the evolving scenario, the administration has opened a ‘District COVID War Room’ at the Collectorate at Kudappanakkunnu. Outlining a “three-pronged strategy” here on Wednesday, District Collector Navjot Khosa said swab samples would be collected from specific areas in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation region where movement of high-risk population is higher. Mobile teams would collect the samples from Corporation wards and crowded pockets such as major markets and coastal areas as part of pooled sentinel surveillance. “It will give us a good idea of how the disease is spread in the district,” Ms. Khosa said. The administration has arranged seven mobile teams for the collection, she said. People who develop symptoms should first contact a doctor or the district control room over phone, she said. The control room can be contacted at 1077. The COVID War Room began functioning on the sixth floor of the Collectorate at 4 p.m. on Wednesday. Meetings will be held in the mornings and evenings to review and assess the situation and also plan for the next day, Ms. Khosa said. Further, the district administration has decided to introduce more facilities in addition to the existing ones at the Government Medical College Hospital and the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. This will include five taluk hospitals and the SHC, Amachal. Other facilities in the district include SAT Hospital, SUT Royal Hospital, the District Hospital at Peroorkada, and the General Hospital, Neyyattinkara. Responsible behaviour Responsible behaviour on the part of the public is key to containing the spread of the disease, Ms. Khosa said. She stressed the need to revitalise the Break the Chain campaign. The elderly should avoid unnecessary travel. The standard operating procedures for Break the Chain should be adhered to when travelling.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Markets yet to get used to new restrictions||On the first day of restrictions imposed in markets in the city on Wednesday to control the possible spread of COVID-19, most of the shops remained open in the morning until the Corporation’s squad swung into action. According to health wing officials of the civic body who were part of the squad which visited the Palayam and Chala markets, the message regarding restrictions did not seem to have been effectively conveyed by traders’ bodies to the shopkeepers. “The vegetable shops were allowed to function normally on Wednesday because they had put in a special request, as they had already purchased the stocks. Henceforth, they will be allowed to open only on Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays while the provision stores in the market will be allowed to function on alternate days. Since it was the first day there was some confusion. Even most of the fish vendors were there in the morning. The small textile shops in the market, with low footfall, have been allowed to function everyday,” said a health wing official. The Corporation has implemented a token system for the vendors, for half of them to work on alternate days, to reduce the rush. The list of vendors and shops functioning on each day has also been handed over to the police. “The vendors have been told that the restrictions will have to be followed strictly from Thursday. If anyone does not follow the system properly, action will be taken,” said the official.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Project to give jackfruit a distinguished place on platter||Till a few years ago, you would scarcely have given it the same respect as you would, say, the mango or the banana. But no less sweet or nutritious, your ‘undistinguished’ and ubiquitous jackfruit has definitely come up in the world since then. Appreciating this ‘fruity’ fact, the State Agriculture Department is embarking upon a project to boost the procurement, trade and processing of jackfruit which officially became the State fruit in 2018. The Rs. 75-lakh initiative will be carried out through the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) under a Rs. 31.25-crore scheme earmarked in the State Budget for ‘development of fruits, flowers and medicinal plants.’ Three components The project has three important components — a trading centre for jackfruit in Wayanad, a processing centre in Idukki district and the marketing of raw and processed jackfruit. For each of the three components, Rs. 25 lakh each has been earmarked. Expected outcomes of the initiative include higher income for small/marginal farmers, reduced post-harvest losses and an increase in post-harvest handling know-how. “The fruit is being simply loaded into trucks and transported to Tamil Nadu. But farmers have started giving more importance to the jackfruit now,” A.K. Sherief, Chief Executive Officer, VFPCK, said. The jackfruit trading centre would be established at Muttil in Wayanad during the current fiscal, said a June 18 order issued by the Agriculture Department. Initially four markets would be established at Sultan Batheri, Ambalavayal, Cheeral and Muttil for procuring the fruit, the department said. At Kalayanthani In Idukki district, the jackfruit processing centre will be established at the market at Kalayanthani. The processed produce will be marketed through supermarkets, outlets of the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp), Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) and the VFPCK. Online trading also forms part of the plan, according to the Agriculture Department. Medicinal properties “Parts of the jack tree, including fruit, leaves and bark, have been extensively used in traditional medicine due to its anti-carcinogenic, anti-microbial, anti-fungal, anti-inflammatory, wound healing and hypoglycemic properties. Despite all these benefits, unfortunately, the fruit is underutilised on a commercial scale,” the department noted in its order.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police being mobilised for anti-COVID drive||The State is mobilising its police force to enforce the restrictions being imposed by the government in the wake of the fresh wave of COVID-19 cases in Kerala. All police officers, including those in the technical wing, have been asked to be ready for duty from 7 a.m. on Thursday. The services of 90% of employees in all special units except the State Special Branch will be made available to the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order). They will report to the respective District Police Chief. The ADGP (Battalion) has been put in charge of police mobilisation. Special police officers and Home Guards will also be deployed on duty and police volunteers will be identified in all districts. All police officers on duty have been told to adopt safeguards against COVID-19. At airports IPS officers have been tasked with coordinating the force on duty at airports in view of the large number of travellers arriving from Thursday. Inspector General of Police Thummala Vikram will oversee the operations at the four airports. The officers will ensure that the vehicles transport returnees from the airport to their residences without any stop in between.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Surge plan’ submitted to KSDMA||As part of COVID-19 containment measures, the district administration has submitted a ‘Preparedness and surge management plan’ for the district to the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). The document outlines strategies that will be adopted by the district in different COVID-19 scenarios that may evolve. For instance, if the district has 500 active patients on a given day, the aspects such as infrastructure, human resources, testing, and transportation will be managed in a particular way. Or for that matter, if there are 1,000 or even 5,000 patients on a given day, the scenarios can be tackled effectively in a specific manner. All these have been made clear in the document. The plan is based on predictions drawn from standardised models derived at the State-level. For formulating the plan, the administration has, jointly with the District Medical Office, assessed in detail infrastructure certified as presently functioning/available and ready for take-over. The district administration also decided to maintain a reserve resource of trained health personnel, including doctors, for COVID management, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM flays daily||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday excoriated a Malayalam newspaper for ‘imperilling’ the welfare of expatriates in the Gulf. The newspaper had published obituary notices of Keralites who had succumbed to COVID-19 in Gulf countries. The photo feature was headlined “if governments continued their indifference and we remain silent, more pictures would be added to the list.” Mr. Vijayan said the newspaper had recklessly implied that Keralites in the Gulf were unguarded and ill protected against the pandemic. Keralites had died in hospitals in the Gulf and not unattended as suggested by the newspaper. The deaths had not occurred due to anybody’s indifference or negligence. The global lockdown and ban on international flights had made it impossible to bring back all COVID-19-affected expatriates home. The newspaper gave no thought to the social security of those remaining in the Gulf, he said.
25 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree pact with KSFE for laptops||The Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Kudumbashree on Wednesday to launch a micro-chitty scheme to distribute laptops to indigent students. The 45-lakh Kudumbashree neighbourhood group members would be the main beneficiaries of the scheme. The KSFE would launch a chitty scheme for Rs. 15,000 in which members would have to remit Rs. 500 a month. On paying the first three instalments, laptops would be distributed to the beneficiaries.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID concerns||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hand of help||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New form of transport||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking sustenance||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Easy on the pocket||
25 June 2020||ANNAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two workers at Annavaram temple test positive for COVID-19||Two persons engaged in the construction of a shed on the premises of Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swami Vari Devasthanam here tested positive for COVID-19. The duo, carpenters, was hired by the temple authorities on a contractual basis. Devasthanam Public Relations Officer Kotagiri Kondala Rao said a 50-year-old man and his 24-year-old son had tested positive on June 22. They were engaged in the construction of the shed meant for the devotees. The official said the two were part of a 16-member team constructing the shed outside the main temple. The rest of the staff who worked with them have been sent to home quarantine. The man and his son were admitted to the COVID Care Centre in Bommuru. Meanwhile, the district authorities have declared the devasthanam campus as ‘buffer zone’ in which the temple activities would be allowed between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. until further orders from the District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy.
25 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern over rise in cases in mandals bordering Tamil Nadu||Chittoor district recorded 40 new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 1,042, which included six deaths. Of the fresh cases, four were from Madanapalle town, and six from the surroundings mandals. The medical, revenue and police officials inspected residential areas in Madanapalle town, and created red zones. The officials said that ever since the lockdown was announced on March 24, Madanapalle town had not registered a single case for about 55 days. However, cases started slowly surfacing in the region with people ignoring the COVID-19 guidelines after relaxations came in. The COVID-19 Task Force officials expressed concern at the growing number of positive cases in Nagari Assembly Constituency, which borders with Tamil Nadu along Nindra, Vijayapuram, Nagari and Puttur mandals. So far, the constituency registered close to 150 cases, including a death. The positive cases in Gate Puttur locality under Puttur municipality limits are steadily on the raise, forcing the officials to implement complete lockdown. Disinfection chamber Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Wednesday inaugurated the Disinfection Fog Chamber at the Central Crime Station in Chittoor. The Chittoor corporation limits are inching close to the 100-mark. Interacting with the police personnel, Mr. Kumar urged them to be cautious while attending the bandobasth and COVID-19 duties, and adhere to the guidelines of masks, sanitisers and social distancing. He said that public without masks would be barred from moving in public places and penalties would be imposed on them.
25 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild elephant falls off slope, dies in Chittoor||The carcass of an adult male wild elephant was found in a decomposed state inside the reserve forest of Koundinya wildlife sanctuary belt near K.C. Penta village of Gangavaram mandal on Wednesday. Forest Range Officer (Palamaner) Srinivasulu said that the elephant could have lost grip while scaling a slope of a hillock and fallen into a ditch below. “Though the animal had fallen from a height of six feet, its head hit a boulder in the ditch. The pachyderm seemed to have died three days ago due to haemorrhage in the brain. Our field staff noticed foul smell emanating from the area and detected the carcass,” he said. Senior forest officials from Chittoor and Anantapur visited the spot. Veterinary doctors reached the spot and conducted autopsy and the animal was cremated inside the forest, after collecting the tusks and visceral parts.
25 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court official dead||Justice B. Rajasekhar, Registrar-General (IT-cum-Central Project Co-Ordinator), High Court of Andhra Pradesh, died on Wednesday following cardiac arrest. Rajasekhar was recently relieved of his duties. B.S. Bhanumathi, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Visakhapatnam, was appointed in his place. However, she is yet to take charge. Rajasekhar came to the court in the morning, but complained of chest pain. The court staff rushed him in an ambulance to a hospital in Vijayawada, where he breathed his last. Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and other judges condoled the death of Rajasekhar.
25 June 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two TS varsities figure in world ‘Under 50 years old’ rankings||Only four institutions from the country found a place in the QS 2021 World University Rankings in the ‘Under 50 years old’ institutions category and two among them are from Telangana. The rankings that were declared on Wednesday cover institutes established less than 50 years ago and still making a mark in the education sector. The top place in the country was bagged by the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IITG) that figured in the 61-70 rankings band while it was at the 470th rank in the QS 2021 World University Rankings irrespective of its age. The second position in the country went to Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H) that was placed in the 101-150 rank range. The institute was in the 601-650 band rank in the combined ranking. The University of Hyderabad (UoH), a central university, was also in the 101-150 band while it was in the 651-700 rank in the combined ranking. The O.P. Jindal Global University also secured a place in the same band in the Under 50 category as well as the combined rankings. It is the only private institute to have got into the rankings. Classified as a medium-sized public institution with high research intensity, the University of Hyderabad is the only multidisciplinary public university among the four institutions from India to figure in the list. Academic reputation, employer reputation, citations per faculty, faculty-student ratio, international faculty and international students are the parameters on which the university has been ranked by QS. Vice-Chancellor of UoH Appa Rao Podile said that the rankings has for the second consecutive year placed the varsity among the top 101-150 band. He said the varsity has been recognised among the fastest growing Under-50 institutions in the world consecutively for the last three years. “We attribute this to the excellent work of faculty, staff, students and our alumni,” he said. Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, bagged the top spot in the QS Top 50 Under 50, a table exclusively for the world’s younger academic institutions. Pak varsities fare better Much to the surprise of Indian academics, three universities from Pakistan were placed at much better positions in the same rankings. The National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST) Islamabad secured 41st rank in the Under 50 category while it was at 355th rank in the combined ranking. Similarly, Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Sciences (PIEAS) was at the 46th rank while it secured 373th rank in the combined list. The Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) was in the 101-150 band in the ‘Under 50’ category. QS World University Rankings is published annually by the British company Quacquarelli Symonds (QS). In the 2021 edition of the Rankings, 1,604 institutions from 93 locations were covered.
25 June 2020||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-civic chief held for moneylender’s murder||A former municipal chairman was taken into police custody in connection with the murder of a retired employee of a private cement factory at Yerraguntla in Kadapa district on Wednesday. The police recovered the mutilated body of the victim, identified as Bolisetty Venkatramaiah from the house of H. Musalaiah, former chairman of Yerraguntla municipality, while the severed head packed in a tiffin box was found dumped near the Guvvalacheruvu ghat. According to police, Venkatramaiah, who started a money lending business after his retirement, had reportedly lent Rs. 20-Rs. 30 lakh to Musalaiah who unofficially pledged a plot measuring 18 cents in Kadapa town. Preliminary investigation suggests that Musalaiah and Venkatramaiah reportedly had differences over the possession of the land document, even as Musalaiah had reportedly repaid a part of the loan.  Missing complaint lodged on June 20 Venkatramaiah reportedly went missing on June 20 (Saturday) and his family members lodged a police complaint on the same day, suspecting Musalaiah’s role in the disappearance. The police conducted a search at Musalaiah’s house and exhumed the mutilated body of Venkatramaiah from the verandah. “Musalaiah reportedly made a phone call to Venkatramaiah at around 12.30 p.m. on June 20 after which the latter was found missing. The accused has been taken into custody and is being questioned,” Kadapa Town DSP U. Suryanarayana told The Hindu . Meanwhile, sources said that Musalaiah had confessed to the crime.
25 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in accident||Three persons were killed when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on the national highway in Ramapuram mandal of the district on Wednesday. The deceased, who are yet to be identified, are believed to be from Sarvayapalle in Mydukur town. The accident occurred when they were travelling to Rayachoti. Police reached the spot, retrieved the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. A case has been registered.
25 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘strangles’ husband to death||A 39-year-old man was killed allegedly by his wife and her boyfriend reportedly for questioning their relationship, at Kuduru village under Maredumilli police limits in East Godavari district on Wednesday. Kattula Bhavani, accompanied by K. Suryanarayana Reddy, allegedly strangled her husband Kattula Somi Reddy to death with a shirt in the early hours of Wednesday, said Maredumilli Sub-Inspector D. Ramakrishna. The incident occurred on the outskirts of the village. The duo resorted to the extreme step after Somi Reddy reportedly found his wife with the man. The accused have been absconding and a search is on to the nab them, he said. The police hae registered a case.
25 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector withdraws order on lockdown||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday withdrew the order imposing lockdown in the district. However, the lockdown was restricted to the containment zones and buffer areas from Thursday. There will be no lockdown in the rest of the district. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy stated: “The restrictions will remain in force in the 83 containment zones. However, restaurants, religious places, shopping malls and street vending points will be opened between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. in the buffer areas as part of the partial lockdown.” Meanwhile, 58 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours in the district, according to a bulletin released by the District Collector.
25 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Kyrgyzstan returnees among 24 cases in Prakasam||Twenty-four more persons, including two foreign returned students, tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours in Prakasam district, while Nellore district registered 36 new cases. Two 21-year-old students who have returned from the central Asian country of Kyrgyzstan to their native Giddalur and Cumbum contracted the disease, according to a health bulletin compiled by district officials. As many as 1,800 persons tested negative for the disease on Wednesday and over 63,000 persons were screened for the disease so far in the district. Eight persons who returned from Telangana- five from Jagitial and three from Hyderabad also tested positive. So was a 45-year-old woman who returned from Chennai to Pavalur village, near Inkollu. At least five of those who turned positive on Wednesday had no travel history to hotspots. Seven newly-infected persons were primary contacts of already infected persons. With two more persons, a 45-year-old woman from Kammapalem and a 55-year-old man from Indiramma colony getting infected, the number of cumulative cases rose to 83 in Ongole. Two cases in Chirala took the tally to 47. Inkollu, Martur, Bestavaripeta, Yarrabanupalem, Mangamoor, Podili and Mopadu villages accounted for one new case each. Of the 36 cases in Nellore district, the city accounted for 14 of them and Gudur registered 10 new cases. T.P.Gudur, Kovur, Atmakur and Kodavalur registered two each and Vakadu and Venkatagiri one each. A man who returned from Anantapur also got infected, taking the number of active cases to 222 in the distict.
25 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Probe purchase of wetlands’||Former MP Vundavalli Arun Kumar on Wednesday said he had asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to order an inquiry into the purchase of the wetlands (knows as Ava land) near the city for the housing programme. Addressing the media here, Mr. Arun Kumar said, “About one month ago, I had written a letter to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, drawing his attention to the way the lands were purchased at an exorbitant price of Rs. 43 lakh per acre. There is no response from him till date.” The authorities had purchased 525 acres by offering Rs. 43 lakh per acre at two sites – Burugupudi and Kolamuru, which were believed to be wetlands, for distribution among the poor, he said, and observed that given its nature, the Burugupudi site was not suitable for housing. Sand supply Referring to sand availability, he said, “The government’s policy has a direct impact on those engaged in the construction sector. If sand is available to the consumers, the construction workers can eke out a living during the troubled times.” He also criticised Mr. Reddy for allocating Rs. 80,560 crore for welfare schemes.
25 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||No immediate plans for lockdown in the district, say authorities||The sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, especially after the relaxation of the lockdown, has become a cause of worry for the authorities concerned in the State government. Over 6,000 cases were recorded in the last 30 days in the State and Visakhapatnam district has reported over 350 positive cases in the last four weeks. To check the spread of the virus, districts such as East Godavari have decided to impose partial lockdown from Thursday. But authorities concerned in Visakhapatnam say that there is no immediate need for a total or partial lockdown in the district. “There is a spike in the last couple of weeks, as every day we are recording over 20 cases on an average, but it is very much under control,” said District COVID Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. According to District Collector V. Vinay Chand, about 95% of the cases recorded so far are either asymptomatic or mild. “This indicates that they are treatable and that is why our discharge rate is also high,” he said. The total cases recorded till Tuesday night in the district was 530 and 223 have already been discharged. And among the active cases of 303, barely 5% are under critical care or need ventilator support, said Mr. Chand.  Mortality rate The mortality rate is also low in the district. In the State as on Tuesday, the total number of positive cases was 10,331 and the number of deaths was 129. In Visakhapatnm, out of 530 cases, the number of deaths recorded was four, which include two patients from other districts, who were being treated here, said Dr. Sudhakar. ‘No community spread’ He also added that so far there has been no evidence of community spread, even in hotspots like Appughar, Peda Jalaripeta, Dandu Bazaar and Anakapalle. “Almost all the positive cases reported so far were either primary or secondary contact,” said Dr. Sudhakar. According to the District Collector, the health infrastructure is in place and is geared up for the spike and at the same time the district has completed over 66,000 tests till Tuesday, which is one among the highest in the State. Testing helps us in identifying the cases early and thereby prevent a community spread and that is why there is no necessity for a lockdown, said Mr. Chand.
25 June 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for separate district for Rampa grows louder||Public representatives and people from all walks of life in the Rampa Agency have intensified their efforts for the creation of a new district with Rampachodavaram as the headquarters and to convince the government to drop the proposal, if any, to merge the area which falls under the Assembly constituency with Araku. The government recently launched the exercise to create new districts with parliamentary constituency as the unit.  Plea to CM Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhana Lakshmi, who met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, told The Hindu that she told the Chief Minister that the constituency would suffer on all fronts if it is merged with the proposed district of Araku, about 290 km from here. “Mr. Jagan promised to look into our request of creating a new district with 11 tribal mandals, sharing the border with the States of Telangana, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha, coming under its purview,” Ms. Dhana Lakshmi added. If Araku is made the capital, it will take the people of Rampa at least half a day to reach it by road, and the prospect of the entire belt getting affected by left wing extremist activities cannot be ruled, the MLA said. On Wednesday, Araku MP G. Madhavi drew the attention of senior party colleague V. Vijaya Sai Reddy to the problems in creating a new district under the administrative control of Araku. The segment, with a population of above 3.5 lakhs, has two Integrated Tribal Development Agencies — at Rampachodavaram and Chintoor. The total voters are 2.6 lakh, including 1.35 lakh women. More than 60 % of the Assembly segment is in East Godavari district. The Papikonda National Park also falls in it.
25 June 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive to identify beneficiaries of scheme||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy has directed officials to conduct a special drive to identify more beneficiaries under the ‘Kapu Nestham’ scheme, the flagship programme launched by the government on Wednesday to benefit members of the Kapu, Balija, Telaga and Ontari communities. After launching the programme along with the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy through videoconferencing, Mr. Narayana Swamy distributed the amount to beneficiaries along with MPs Balli Durgaprasad (Tirupati) and N. Reddeppa (Chittoor) and Collector Bharat N. Gupta. Addressing mediapersons later, Mr. Narayana Swamy announced that the scheme, meant to provide Rs. 15,000 to each member, benefited 2.36 lakh women. “As many as 8,218 identified women were given the amount in Chittoor district so far, that worked out to be Rs. 12.32 crore. The eligible beneficiaries applying for the scheme will also be considered,” he observed, directing the officials to conduct a special drive in this regard. In Kadapa, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran formally launched the scheme and distributed cheques to the beneficiaries. At least 7,376 women belonging to the community collectively received Rs. 11.06 crore.
25 June 2020||VIAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. school managements warned against harassing teachers||Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Chairman R. Kantha Rao on Wednesday warned private school managements against violating rules. Addressing a video-conference with other Commission members, he said there were reports of private managements sending teaching staff to the students’ houses to mobilise admissions. He said the Commission had received reports that in some private schools and colleges, the managements had the practice of linking the teachers’ salaries to number of admissions they mobilised. The former Judge said people were already facing miseries due to the Coronavirus lockdown and such harassment by their employers would only compound their woes. He warned that the Commission would cancel recognition for the educational institution resorting to such unlawful activities. Complaints Mr. Kantha Rao said anybody could report to the Commission such incidents by reaching out to it through its official portal apsermc.gov.in by lodging their grievances. Referring to reports of students’ harassment in private schools, he said the Commission had come to know that a few managements refused to issue transfer certificate to students who were unable to pay their full fees. Mr. Kantha Rao said such acts would not be tolerated and stringent action would be initiated against such managements. He said the GO MS No. 1 relating to recognition and renewal of recognition of private schools was being amended to make it more relevant. This would facilitate development of good infrastructure in all schools thus benefitting the students. Admitting serious shortage of teaching staff in government schools, Mr. Kantha Rao said the Commission had recommended to the government to bring back the large number of teachers who were on deputation or on Foreign Service, to address the issue. Mr. Kantha Rao suggested that Spoken English be included in the subjects that were being taught to the children through television channel telecast during the ongoing lockdown period as it would ready the children for the English medium schools in the fresh academic year. Commission Vice-Chairperson Vijaya Sarada Reddy, Secretary Sambasiva Reddy and Commission members were present.
25 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. has spent Rs. 4,770 crore in one year on Kapu welfare: CM||The TDP government had made tall promises related to the welfare of the Kapu community, but failed miserably in implementing them, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Wednesday. In stark contrast, the YSRCP government spent Rs. 4,770 crore in just one year in tune with the assurances made during the ‘Paja Sankalpa Padayatra’ to improve the living standards of the Kapus, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asserted. Transparency Launching ‘YSR Kapu Nestham’ scheme, the Chief Minister said his government was implementing welfare schemes in a transparent manner to ensure that the benefits reached the targeted sections without looking into any allegiance, political or otherwise. The government left no scope for corruption in delivering the schemes, he said. It disbursed financial assistance under various schemes amounting to Rs. 43,000 crore in 13 months to 3.98 crore beneficiaries. “The monies have been remitted into the beneficiaries’ bank accounts to leave no scope for misappropriation,” he said. YSR Kapu Nestham provides an assistance of Rs. 15,000 to women in the 45-60 age group, who would be getting a total of Rs. 75,000 over a five-year period. About Rs. 354 crore was being distributed under the scheme to over 2.36 lakh women having rice cards and belonging to Kapu, Balija, Telaga and Ontari communities. Under Amma Vodi, Vasati Deevena, Vidya Deevena, Vahana Mitra, Chedodu, Videshi Vidya Deevena, Kapu Nestham and other schemes, more than 23 lakh people of the Kapu community were given Rs. 4,470 crore, the Chief Minister added. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy interacted with the beneficiaries through video-conference. ‘Jagan doing his best’ Welcoming the scheme, Rajanagaram MLA and Kapu Corporation Chairman Jakkampudi Raja said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was doing his best for the welfare of the community in spite of severe financial constraints. Dig at Naidu He alleged that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had cheated the Kapus by not keeping his promise to allocate Rs. 5,000 crore for their welfare. Mr. Naidu also confined his assurance to include Kapus in the list of Backward Classes to rhetoric.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Kumar files contempt plea in HC||Senior IAS officer N. Ramesh Kumar on Wednesday filed a contempt petition in the High Court (HC) against the government for not restoring him as State Election Commissioner (SEC). He argued that the government has violated the HC order dated May 29 wherein it declared that ordinance No.5 of 2020 through which the SEC’s tenure was cut short by two years resulting in his overnight removal, and the consequential GOs which brought in Madras High Court retired judge V. Kanagaraj as his replacement, were illegal. The HC had directed the government that Mr. Ramesh Kumar be restored as the SEC.  Rare press meet However, the controversy deepened as the Advocate-General said at a rare press conference that Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s act of self-restoration as the SEC was beyond the conceivable mandate of law. Subsequently, the government challenged the HC verdict in the Supreme Court, which refused to stay the HC order. As there was no sign of the government implementing the HC order, Mr. Ramesh Kumar filed the contempt petition naming Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi and State Election Commission Secretary Vani Mohan as the respondents. He prayed that the respondents be punished under the Contempt of Courts Act for wilfully violating the HC order in the writ petition no. 8163 and be directed to allow him to discharge his duties as the SEC as the local body election notification continued to be in force. ‘Deliberate violation’ Mr. Ramesh Kumar contended that the actions of the respondents amounted to wanton and deliberate violation of the HC order, which was upheld by the apex court. Besides, he told the court that Mr. Kanagaraj was still being treated as the SEC in spite of the HC setting aside his appointment.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day ACB custody for TDP MLA Atchannaidu||The special court for ACB cases on Wednesday granted the anti-corruption agency, which is investigating the drug scam in the Directorate of Insurance of Medical Services (DIMS), Vijayawada, three-day custody of former Labour Minister and Tekkali MLA K. Atchannaidu. The court also dismissed the bail petitions filed by the accused. The court directed the ACB officials to question the MLA at the Guntur General Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. Officials of the ACB are probing the alleged multi-crore scam that occurred in DIMS and some ESI Hospitals and dispensaries across the State. Vigilance probe In January, Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) officials conducted an inquiry into the scam, visited a few Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospitals, dispensaries and diagnostic centres and found many irregularities in procuring the material. V&E and ACB sleuths found that the officials procured medicines, surgical equipment, dressing material, furniture and other material, worth about Rs. 988 crore without inviting open tenders and gave the contracts without sanction from the government. 19 identified The agencies, which managed to get the contract, violated the rules and resorted to large-scale irregularities. ACB officials identified 19 persons, including a few officers, and have arrested a few accused in the case so far.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala underscores need for bicameral system in States||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has underscored the need for existence of the bicameral system in the States to ensure sufficient checks and balances in the functioning of the government. The Council would help in strengthening the Constitution and check the democratically elected leaders from going astray, he stated in a statement on Wednesday. Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the decisions taken in the Assembly could sometimes be against public opinion and against the spirit of the Constitution. “The Upper House will study and examine the decisions taken in the Lower House and send the same for re-examination, if required,” he said. “The Upper House has no veto power, but can create awareness and help in taking impartial decisions,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. The Bills on three capitals and CRDA had been referred to the Select Committee with a view to eliciting public opinion. “But the government is not ready for it,” he alleged. “Absence of the Council is not in public interest,” he said. “The functions of the Rajya Sabha are similar. The Constitution makers aspired for protection of the Constitution,” he added. Leaders such as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would not turn dictators and take decisions against wishes of people if the Upper House existed, he said.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘More companies should come forward to manufacture PPEs’||The National Research Development Corporation (NRDC), an enterprise of DSIR, Ministry of Science and Technology, has appealed to companies to manufacture Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) with indigenous technology. The NRDC is a compendium of licensing and commercialisation of the products developed by various companies. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given clearance for 39 companies for manufacturing PPEs in India. Various public-funded organisations, including IITs, universities and startups developed technologies in designing PPEs, which have high demand across the globe, in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus. “The ICMR is a regulatory body to give clearance for manufacturing PPEs and the NRDC is the licensing authority for taking up the project. We request more startup companies to come forward to make PPEs as the demand will increase in the next few months,” NDRC Chairman and Managing Director (C&MD) H. Purushotham said on Wednesday. In the beginning of the outbreak of COVID-19, PPEs were imported and manufactured with Chinese machines. Now, many companies were designing the kits with indigenous technology with better quality, the C&MD said.  ‘Quality matters’ “The demand and supply gap of PPEs is very high and we are still importing the kits from other countries. As there is a great demand in view of the steep increase in COVID cases, more companies should manufacture PPEs by maintaining ICMR and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) standards,” Mr. Purushotham said. "Some companies are designing PPEs which are not fully protective. They are selling the kits at lesser prices and making good money. I request the frontline staff and the public to buy quality PPEs and approved by the regulatory authorities," Dr. Purushotham said adding that the licensed companies were designing PPEs with standard certification and the public can verify the quality before purchasing. “Many startup companies and institutions invested funds in some crores of rupees on developing PPEs across the country. The NRDC is ready to provide financial aid to the aspiring entrepreneurs and startup companies and give necessary guidance in this regard. We gave licenses to six companies so far,” said NRDC C&MD and asked the young entrepreneurs to make use of the opportunity.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘goal’ to achieve for tribal girls||To equip tribal women with digital skills, the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has introduced an online programme called GOAL (Going Online as Leaders). The programme has been jointly launched by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Facebook, to digitally mentor 5,000 young women in the country’s tribal-dominated districts. “The GOAL is a Facebook programme aimed at guiding and encouraging tribal girls to become village-level digital young leaders for their communities,” said corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy. “The programme will help connect under-privileged young tribal women with senior expert mentors in the areas of business, fashion and arts to learn digital and life skills,” said APSSDC Managing Director and CEO Arja Srikanth, after the formal launch of the programme at the corporation office at Tadepalli. He said mentors from Facebook would select the candidates. Contact details Tribal women in the age group of 18-35 can apply online on the corporation websitewww.apssdc.inbefore July 14. Enquiries for more details can be made by calling toll free number 18004252422.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID patient escapes from Nuzvid hospital, caught in Vijayawada||A person, who tested positive for COVID-19, escaped from Nuzvid Government Hospital, in Krishna district on Wednesday. Immediately, police launched a search for him and alerted the public. Within a few hours, the police caught the patient at Krishnalanka area in Vijayawada, and he was shifted to COVID hospital in Vijayawada. Meanwhile, police are trying to find out the contacts of the patient who travelled to different places. The Nuzvid police have registered a case.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine schools in Krishna face the axe||Commissioner of the School Education Department Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu on Wednesday said nine schools which were running without any recognition were closed down in Krishna district. In a statement, the School Education Commissioner said the department was sharing this information for parents to exercise caution while joining their children in school in the fresh academic year. He said some schools were running 10th class without permission. A fine of Rs. 1 lakh was slapped against five such schools, criminal cases were booked against the managements and the institutions’ recognition was cancelled, he said. Recognition of four other schools which either did not have a playground or were using the services of unqualified teachers, had been cancelled, Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu said. List of schools The following is the list of schools that were stripped off their recognition. Ravindra Bharathi School (Balaji Nagar, Krishnalanka,Vijayawada Urban), Narayana School (Satyanaayanapuram, Vijayawada urban), Narayana School (Currency Nagar, Vijayawada urban), Chaitanya Public School (Currency Nagar, Vijayawada urban) and Chaitanya Public School at Kanuru, Penamaluru mandal were found unlawfully running 10th classes without valid permission. The schools without basic infrastructure include Oxford School branches at Bhavanipuram, Patamata and Ramavarappadu and Ravindra Bharathi School at Kanuru, Penamaluru mandal. Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu said action would also be taken against Sri Chaitanya High School which was first set up at Konthampadu in Kankipadu mandal with the permission of the department but later shifted to Punadipadu in violation of the rules.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ideas to solve COVID-caused issues welcome’||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh on Wednesday released the Inspire Awards Manak poster along with VMC additional commissioner A. Mohan Rao and District Science Officer Mynam Hussain here. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkatesh asked Mr. Hussain and others concerned to train students in such a way that more awards are bagged this year. He suggested focus of the projects by students could be on solutions to issues being faced due to the pandemic and the lockdown. The competitions are conducted for high school students aged between 10 and 17. Projects should be submitted online. Krishna district students bagged 701 awards last year and stood top in the State, Mr. Hussain said.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitiser dispenser installed||HLL Lifecare Limited, a unit of Government of India (GoI), has installed an automatic sanitiser dispenser at the Chief Minister’s Camp Office, at Tadepalli. HLL Lifecare Limited will install two more automatic sanitiser dispensers in TTD and at Sri Durgamalleswara Swamy Devastanam.
25 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Did not make any offensive remarks, says YSRCP MP||Reacting to the show-cause notice, YSRCP Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju said on Wednesday that he did not make any offensive remarks either against the party or its president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and that he would give his reply on June 25 and send the same in writing to party general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Mr. Raju said he had only commented that some welfare schemes were not being implemented in the desired manner, and wanted to take the same to the notice of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy consequent upon his failure to get the Chief Minister’s appointment to put across his views. Mr. Ramakrishana Raju maintained that his suggestions were to the government and they contained nothing that would harm the party.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI: release weavers’ dues||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna has demanded that the State government come to the rescue of the weavers. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday, he urged the government to release the last year pending dues to the weavers towards silk subsidy. He wanted the government to provide 100 units of free power to every weaver family. The Nethanna Nestham scheme should be extended to every weaver family irrespective of having a own loom, he said.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) asks Ramesh Kumar to clear the air||CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu on Wednesday asked N. Ramesh Kumar, who is locked in a legal battle with the government for not restoring him as SEC, to clear the air on his meeting with BJP leaders Y.S. Choudary and Kamineni Srinivas. “Both Opposition and ruling parties engaged in criticism and counter-criticism over the issue. There is confusion among people in this regard. At a time when the SEC issue became controversial, the meeting fuelled speculations. Persons holding constitutional posts should not give scope for misunderstandings. Mere being honest will not suffice but actions should also be honest,” he said.
25 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM will decide on UG and PG exams: Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh has clarified that a decision on cancellation of the UG and PG examinations has not yet been taken. In a statement on Wednesday, the Minister said the department had been making efforts to conduct the examinations in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. He said a meeting was held with the Vice-Chancellors of all universities in the State to elicit their views on the issue after weighing the pros and cons. These suggestions and views would be conveyed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who would take a final call on the issue, he added.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to e-auction prime land draws flak||A recent Government Order on monetisation of five land parcels — three in Visakhapatnam and two in Guntur — and raising money through e-auction after developing residential or commercial complexes, has kicked up a row. Many have picked holes in the GO Ms. No. 172 issued by the Revenue Department on June 12, alleging lack of clarity as to who would fund the residential and commercial areas. The GO states that the money raised would be spent on shifting and housing government buildings in identified alternate lands. The lands in question are three acres (survey no. 8) and 11 acres (survey no. 39) in Seethammadhara and Waltair Ward (survey no. 1011) 13.83 acres. The last parcel of land belonging to the APIIC, which was allotted to the Abu Dhabi-based LuLu Group during the Telugu Desam regime for construction of an international convention centre, a five-star hotel and multiplex. However, the proposals were cancelled by the YSRCP government after it assumed the office. The recent Government Order comes after the High Court questioned the hurry in which an e-auction was notified earlier pertaining to the sale of 11 land parcels in Guntur and Visakhapatnam amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Mission Build A.P. The decision on e-auction was taken as part of the ‘Mission Build Andhra Pradesh’ after clearance by the members of State Level Monitoring Committee. “There is no clarity in the G.O. as to who will fund for development of residential/commercial areas and then selling those areas through e-auction,” social activist and former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma told The Hindu . He said that there was no point in auctioning the APIIC land measuring 13.83 acres with beachfront view and other prime land parcels. “The move is a highly objectionable. Areas on Beach Road should not be sold to outsiders. If required, the government can construct an underground market complex on line of Palika Bazaar in Delhi and a multi-layer parking complex above it,” said K.S. Chalam, former member of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Legal recourse CITU leader Ch. Narsinga Rao opposed the plans of selling away the land on which Regional Eye Hospital and DMHO office are located. “We will take legal recourse if the government does not shelve the proposals,” he said.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress Party creating unnecessary row: Madhav||BJP MLC P.V.N Madhav said there is no point creating a political controversy over the reported meeting of BJP leaders Kamineni Srinivas, Y.S. Chowdhary and Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who is fighting for his reinstatement as State Election Commissioner, at a hotel at Hyderabad. He said the meeting might be personal as the three know each other well. Mr. Madhav said that if they really wanted to meet over political reasons, they would have met secretly. The YSRCP is unnecessarily creating a controversy, he said, adding that already Mr. Chowdhary and Mr. Srinivas had given their explanations. Virtual conclave Referring to the arrest of several persons over alleged objectionable posts on social media, the ruling party was booking cases only on Opposition parties, he said, adding cybercrime laws should be strengthened.  Mr. Madhav said Aatma Nirbhar Bharat 2020, an intellectual conference scheduled for June 30, aims to bridge gap between the BJP’s initiative – Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, Make in India and Startup India. He said Visakhapatnam is a hub for number of MSMEs in the State and the virtual conclave would benefit all in the district and in the State. During the virtual rally, Mr. Suresh Prabhu and several other dignitaries would speak and enlighten MSMEs, IT industries, startups from Vizag and in the State about the opportunities created through these initiatives, he said.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials adopt trace-test-treat method in virus hotspots||With the spurt in COVID-19 cases from Appughar and Peda Jalaripeta clusters, officials have adopted the formula of trace-test-treat to control the spread of virus. Massive sample testing is being conducted in both the areas from Zone II which contributed nearly 106 cases from the city. According to officials, Appughar area reported 65 cases till June 23, while Pedajalaripeta registered 41. First case was reported from the Fishermen Colony, Appughar, on June 13. In a span of 10 days, 65 cases were reported. Meanwhile in a short span, Peda Jalaripeta also recorded 41 cases, as on June 23. According to GVMC Chief Medical & Officer of Health K.S.L.G Sastry, in Appughar cluster nearly 616 tests have been conducted and in Peda Jalaripeta area more than 300 tests were conducted. Every day, tests are being conducted in both the areas based on the survey, he said. “We have conducted detailed survey to identify symptomatic persons in the clusters. All the primary contacts, high-risk persons like elderly ones, people with severe health issues and others are being tested based on the survey,” he said. Since the first case, containment in both the areas is strictly enforced. Seeking cooperation from the locals, Dwaraka zone police have organised a meet with the local heads from Appughar area and explained them about the severity of the problem. Mr. Sastry said that even in the case of Dandu bazaar, which reported a number of cases in April, the survey was conducted effectively followed by sample testing. Gradually the cases started to decline, he added. “There was a spurt in cases because of massive testing only. Almost most of the symptomatic and high-risk persons have been identified and already tested in these areas. On Wednesday, there were not many cases from the two clusters. We hope there will be decline in the cases in the coming days,” he said.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||41 new cases take tally to 571, infant tests negative||Forty-one new COVID-19 cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, taking the tally to 571 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 24 persons who were under treatment, have been discharged after testing negative. With this, the total number of active cases stands at 320, while the number of discharged is 247. It may be remembered four persons died, including two from Srikakulam district. According to officials, new cases were reported from Allipuram, Gnanapuram, Dondaparthy, Murali Nagar, Bhanoji Nagar, Relli Veedhi, SVP Nagar, Kanchara Veedhi, KRM Colony, NGGOs Colony, Baji Junction, Jogivanipalem, Gudigundam and a few other areas. According District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters stands at 45, while active clusters are 46. About 26 clusters have been denotified, he said. Meanwhile, the result of the first test on a newborn baby from a COVID-19 positive mother proved negative, much to the relief of the doctors and staff at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) on Wednesday. It may be remembered that the baby was born after the doctors at VIMS performed C-Section on the 23-year-old mother a couple of days ago.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||STPI plans to set up Centres of Excellence in Vizag||Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) has decided in principle to set up Centres of Excellence (CoE) at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ). STPI is an autonomous society established by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) to promote export of software from the country. STPI-Vizag joint director M.P. Dubey told The Hindu that the centre at the VSP would specialise in Industry 4.0 to encourage cutting-edge technologies.  The AMTZ, the premier medical devices manufacturing park coming up in the city, was chosen for setting up a CoE on healthtech. When asked when they would come up, he said that they were in the process of finalisation of the modalities to operate the two CoEs. MeitY has already approved CoEs in innovation and other emerging areas at Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh Innovation Society (APIS), Rushikonda and Bhagavatula Charitable Trust, Haripuram. Another CoE has also been approved at AMTZ on meditech to encourage production development and validation. Stating that Visakhapatnam emerged as the leading player in attracting BPO companies under India BPO Promotion Scheme launched by STPI to encourage employment generation in tier-two cities, Mr. Dubey said 56 companies were setting up their facilities in and around the city. Job creation They have already created 10,000 jobs, he said adding this year they were expecting employment generation for as many as 35,000 local youth. He said the major employers include Conduent, Federal Bank, Omics, WNS, and Patra India. Flow of investment Mr. Dubey further said that the city had an excellent startup and innovation ecosystem and the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding, they were expecting a big flow of investment in IT and IT enabled services (ITES) in and around Visakhapatnam. He said STPI registered companies pan India had registered a turnover of Rs. 4.21 lakh crore in 2019-20 as against Rs. 52 crore in 1992-93. He said that the STPI which celebrated its 29th anniversary recently came in for praise by its Director General Omkar Rai for its contribution in boosting exports from India.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for aqua quarantine facility||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao laid the foundation stone for an aqua quarantine facility at Bangarammapeta village of Nakkapalli mandal in the district on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, the Minister said that the facility will be set up with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 34.76 crore in 30 acres. The project was jonitly funded by the Central and the State governments. The facility would be useful to the farmers of nine coastal districts in the State. Now, many shrip hatcheries in the coastal areas are supplying fingerlings to farmers aquaculture farmers across the State. The mother prawns, which is used to raise the seeds, would be imported and quarantined before they are supplied to hatcheries. Huge cost “Earlier, shrimp quarantine facility is available only in Chennai and shrimp farmers in the State are incurring huge expenditure for procuring the mother prawns. The proposed facility will address all the issues,” said the Minister. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took the initiative and it was decided to set up the facility at Nakkapalli. The Animal Husbandry Minister also spoke at length about various welfare schemes introduced by the government. Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi and Payakaraopeta MLA G. Babu Rao and others participated in the programme.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal cell to be set up in city to deal with land litigation cases||District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that house sites will be distributed to eligible beneficiaries both in rural and urban areas. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will distribute pattas to the beneficiaries on July 8 to coincide with the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Interacting with the media after holding a review meeting at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, the Minister said that initially 25 lakh beneficiaries were identified but now the number has gone up to 30 lakh with the identification of more eligible persons. The identification of beneficiaries and draw of lots in Visakhapatnam district has already been completed. The list of ineligible applicants has already been displayed at the village secretariats. Mr. Kannababu said that 6,000 acres of land was acquired in Visakhapatnam city through land pooling for the distribution of house sites to the poor. But, some persons had gone to court on the issue due to which the process was being delayed. The District Collector was directed to resolve the legal issues. Some of the people’s representatives had said at the review meet that the people of some villages had got the information very late due to which they could not apply. Mr. Kannababu said the whole process was done in a transparent manner. However, if there were any eligible persons left out for any reason, they would be given house sites in future. He said that a legal cell would be set up in the city under the auspices of the District Collector to deal with the large number of land litigation cases. In Visakhapatnam Division alone, 4,900 acres of land was entangled in legal disputes. The government was committed to protection of lands by putting up boards in government lands to prevent encroachments. Alleging manipulation of revenue records for the past several years in the district, Mr. Kannababu said that correction would be taken up. The encroachment of waterbodies in Gajuwaka would be prevented by establishing parks around the geddas. Long-standing staff of Tehsildar offices would be transferred to prevent corruption. He said that the suggestions of Opposition MLAs, who had attended the review meeting, would also be taken into consideration to ensure transparency. He said that land audit was also ordered to take stock of the available lands.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Principal District Judge feted on elevation||Principal District Judge and Chairperson of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) B.S. Bhanumati was felicitated, on her elevation as the first woman Registrar General of Andhra Pradesh, by members of the DLSA here on Wednesday. Panel advocate Kuppili Muralidhar said that Ms. Bhanumati was always a stickler for rules and goes by the rule book.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beneficiaries identified for YSR Kapu Nestham||A total of 14,866 eligible woman have been identified from the district and will receive financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per year as part of YSR Kapu Nestham, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. For these beneficiaries, about Rs. 22.29 crore is being credited to their bank accounts. He said that the remaining beneficiaries will be identified soon and the amount will be credited to them, he said. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy launched YSR Kapu Nestham for the welfare of the women from the Kapu community through video conference from Vijayawada.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Kumar dancing to Naidu’s tune: Vijaya Sai||YSRCP general secretary and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has alleged that N. Ramesh Kumar, who is locked in a legal battle with the government for not restoring him as State Election Commissioner (SEC), is dancing to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s tune. Addressing the media after conducting a review meeting here on Wednesday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy wondered what business deals brought together BJP leader Sujana Chowdary and Mr. Ramesh Kumar. He also found fault with BJP leader Kamineni Srinivas meeting Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Stating that he had complained to the DGP in the past that Mr. Ramesh Kumar was “unfit to continue as SEC,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy reiterated that the letter purportedly written by Mr. Ramesh Kumar had actually been written by a TDP leader. To another query, the YSRCP leader made it clear that those making derogatory comments or posting videos denigrating women would be taken to task, irrespective of their political affiliations.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P., Odisha officials destroy jaggery wash in joint operation||Personnel from Andhra Pradesh Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and police officers from Odisha, participated in a joint raid in the A.P.-Odisha border areas on Wednesday and destroyed 30,200 fermented jaggery wash, a component used in making illicitly distilled liquor at K. Beejapur, Bannaguda, Ramachandrapur and Gongapur. The teams also seized and destroyed 300 litres of ID liquor and arrested four persons. Andhra and Odisha joint teams conducted cordon and search operation in Gongapur village of Jarada PS limits of Odisha.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t close Port High School: Forum||Child Rights Protection Forum president G. Seetaram, along with the members of the forum, on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Visakhapatnam Port Trust Executive Council member S.V.S. Prakash Reddy here requesting the VPT to continue the functioning of Port High School. He said that hundreds of students, especially from the poorer sections of the city, are dependant on the school.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 100 fine for not wearing face mask: Police Commissioner||A fine of Rs. 100 will be imposed on people, who do not wear mask, said Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena in a note here on Wednesday. Mr. Meena said that for any programme conducted in the city, people should ensure social distancing. Sanitisers must be arranged at the venue and the place should be sanitised later. He said that people who violate these norms will be booked under Disaster Management Act.
25 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ananda Reddy takes charge as ADCP (special branch)||K. Ananda Reddy took charge as Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) of Special Branch, here on Wednesday. He joined the police force in 1996 as Sub-Inspector and rose to the post of ADCP. Earlier, he served in key posts such as Inspector City Task Force (CTF) and Inspector Three Town, before a long stint of over 10 years in the intelligence wing.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC announces list of candidates||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission has placed on its official website (https://psc.ap.gov.in) the list of candidates who are provisionally admitted for walking test and medical examination for the post of Forest Beat Officer and Assistant Beat Officer in AP Forest Sub-Service. The date, time and the place of medical tests would be communicated separately.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big brother is watching!||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Livelihood concerns||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Masked’ reality||
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparing the ground||
25 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Cured of COVID, but shunned by her own community||It has been over 45 days since Marapa Papabai returned home after being cured of COVID-19, but she is forced to live in isolation in her village, Pangdi, in the interior Sirpur (U) mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. The 48-year-old woman, perhaps the only one from the aboriginal tribes in the State to have been diagnosed with the virus, remains confined to her hut. Ms. Papabai was found to be positive for the deadly viral infection on April 22 and was admitted to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad. She was discharged on May 7 after 15 days of treatment and even completed her 28-day home quarantine. She has not crossed the boundary of her humble home since her return as no villager wants her in their midst. “No one visits her either,” said village sarpanch Athram Jalimsha. Superstitions galore The Gonds are a superstitious lot and are scared of diseases, the fear of the novel coronavirus spread being the latest worry for the 180 Adivasi families in Pangdi. It is customary for these ethnic people to shun a person with a disease which can cause danger to the lives of other villagers. Three-member family The poor Gond woman, who is abandoned by her husband, lives with her old mother who is visually challenged and her daughter who has completed her Intermediate education. Their only source of income is the Rs. 2,000 per month that Ms. Papabai receives as ‘Single Woman’ pension from the State government. During the difficult months of April and May, they also received COVID-19 assistance of Rs. 1,500 from State government and Rs. 500 from the Central government besides the 12 kg rice for each individual. The special support has now been discontinued and the three women are faced with problems. Ms. Papabai is a job card holder under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme but is unable to participate in the wage guarantee scheme owing to her peculiar predicament. “She is not being allowed to work alongside others who harbour the fear of getting infected,” the sarpanch said. KB Asifabad District Medical and Health Officer, Kumra Balu, an Adivasi himself, talks of taking up an awareness programme in the village to bring relief to the hapless trio. “I will inform the Collector so that villagers understand the issue in proper perspective,” he assured.  I will inform the Collector so that the villagers understand the [COVID] issue in proper perspective. Kumra Balu, District Medical and Health Officer
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TIMS ready to treat COVID patients||The Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) at Gachibowli has finally been readied to admit COVID-19 patients. Announcing this on Wednesday, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said 1,000 of the 1,224 beds at the institute have oxygen line facility while mechanical ventilators are provided for 50 beds. Recruitment of doctors, nurses and other health care professionals will be completed within two days. In-patients would be admitted by next week. The sports complex in Gachibowli was initially mooted as a quarantine centre for asymptomatic air passengers. The 14-storey building, which was unused for over a decade, was converted into a COVID-19 centre. In the third week of April, the State government announced that it will be turned into TIMS. However, questions were raised by government hospital doctors, politicians and general people on why the institute was not being used to admit COVID-19 patients or suspects. COVID-19 patients who needed hospitalisation were being admitted at Gandhi Hospital, Government General and Chest Hospital, and Area Hospital in King Koti. The concerns grew when protesting junior doctors at Gandhi Hospital highlighted the issue on June 10. Junior doctors from Osmania General Hospital who recently boycotted COVID duties also had the same question. Hope to share burden Junior and senior doctors who attend COVID-19 patients and suspects at government hospitals said that work burden on them will come down if TIMS is put to use. Officials said since beds in Gandhi Hospital were not completely occupied, they did not use TIMS. The doctors were relieved when Mr Rajender announced that in-patients will be admitted in four to five days. Currently, general out-patient services are provided there. However, the doctors are unsure if the patients will be admitted at TIMS, or if officials will continue to direct patients to Gandhi Hospital. To address bed shortage “The cases are increasing and there is shortage of COVID beds in corporate hospitals. In such a situation, people are desperately seeking better facilities at government hospitals. Patients, friends and acquaintances keep calling us to enquire if a bed with ventilator support is available at government hospital,” a government hospital doctor said. Sewage water Earlier, students and faculty at University of Hyderabad had drawn attention to the issue of sewage water from the Gachibowli facility being released into the university. Senior officials from the Health department said they have constructed a temporary Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at the institute and sewage water from there will not flow into the varsity. “As per rules, hospitals need to have STPs and we will construct a permanent one too. However, the problem is sewage water from a nearby gated community that flows into the university. We brought the issue to their notice and discussed it with university officials too,” an official said. Fresh water to TIMS will be supplied through water tankers.  As per rules, hospitals need to have sewage treatment plants and we have constructed a temporary one for now. We will have a permanent STP soon. A senior official, Telangana Health Department
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 2,000 cr. to improve infra in ULBs||The municipal administration and urban development department has accorded administrative sanction for Rs. 2,000-crore works in about 110 urban local bodies (ULBs) through the Telangana Urban Finance Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDC) in a major infusion of capital for the first time. This is besides the Rs. 2,000-crore civic works carried out during the 60-day lockdown in the twin cities when the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was able to complete foundation of all flyovers, could lay 300 km of bitumen surfacing and about 30 km of cement roads. An additional 27 stretches covering 44 km were taken up under the missing link roads project. All these works could otherwise have taken up to six months during the 60-day lockdown, according to the annual department report released by Minister for IT, Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA &UD) K. T. Rama Rao on Wednesday. The report released in the presence of Municipal Administration Secretary Arvind Kumar and others claimed that the department had done yoeman’s service since the lockdown began as part of the COVID-19 response with personnel of entomology, sanitation, disaster relief, water supply and others working round the clock, "often putting themselves at risk to ensure basic services are maintained uninterrupted". Free food was arranged for 1.25 lakh a day during lunch and 75,000 people had dinner from March 25 to date. A total of 284 on-site camps were maintained at construction sites for all the migrant workers before travel had been arranged to their native places. The report stated that ‘out of box’ thinking led to taking up road and flyover works in a mission mode, making use of absence of traffic and taking up the civic works which otherwise could have taken six months. To improve public health, about 350 more urban health posts or 'basthi dawakhanas' are to be opened in total in addition to the existing 123 and the 45 opened recently. Works are also on for opening 3,000 public toilets with 500 toilets in each of the six zones. Protected water supply too is to receive a boost with the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) building the 20 TMC (344 million gallons a day) capacity Keshavapuram reservoir so as to ensure water till 2040 by bringing water from Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme through the Kondapochamma Sagar. Another water supply scheme for Rs. 725-crore project for Outer Ring Road (ORR) area covering 24 ULBs and 18 gram panchayats providing water supply to 2 lakh households was taken up. With regard to greenery, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) had developed green cover at a cost of Rs. 96.64 crore in 31 blocks on 5,614 hectares, of which 3,872.5 acres are within ORR. The department claimed that 709 km of major roads in the capital was entrusted to six agencies for maintenance, of which 331 km was supposed to be laid in the first year itself and this prevented restoration of damaged roads on a ‘piecemeal basis’.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aadhaar authentication process to avail benefits on course||The State government is actively working on making Aadhaar authentication mandatory for availing any benefit, subsidy or service for schemes funded by the Consolidated Fund of the State in line with the circular issued by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). The development follows the amendment made to Section 7 of the Aadhaar (Targeted delivery of financial and other subsidies, benefits and services) Act 2016, stipulating a condition that the State government can mandate use of Aadhaar authentication for beneficiaries for receipt of a subsidy, benefit or service for which the expenditure is incurred from the consolidated fund. The government has accordingly asked the departments to direct the officials concerned to identify schemes for use of Aadhaar where ‘benefits’ are given to ‘individuals’ and ensure that these schemes fulfil the criteria of being eligible under Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act in line with the judgment given by the Supreme Court. Thereafter, a draft notification for the specific scheme should be prepared by the department implementing it and vetted by the legal department before publishing it. The departments should however keep in mind Section 3A (3) of Aadhaar and other Laws (Amendment) Act 2019, wherein a child should not be denied any benefit, subsidy or service for failure to establish his/her identity by undergoing authentication or furnishing proof of possession of Aadhaar number. Accordingly, an additional paragraph is required to be inserted as per Section 3A (3) in case children are beneficiaries under any scheme. In the guidelines issued recently, the government quoted how the notification released by the Higher Education Department of Odisha government in respect of four educational scholarship/loan schemes was found not fully compliant with the structure of Section 7 template. The department had also not followed the suggested steps of getting the notification published in the gazette. All departments using Aadhaar to deliver benefit, subsidy or service in schemes funded out of consolidated fund are requested to complete the process at the earliest so that a proper legal backing is available, the circular said.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks report on steps taken to check squatting||Observing that the State government was not promptly responding to allegations of encroachment of land, which are part of water bodies and illegal constructions there, the Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed it to file a detailed report on the measures to check such encroachments. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a batch of PIL pleas on alleged encroachments of water bodies and erecting illegal structures there, directed the government to furnish the master plan relating to these areas. There were close to 100 PIL petitions alleging that government land and water bodies were being occupied by land-grabbers. It was surprising that official machinery was remaining a mute spectator despite illegal occupation of government land and water bodies, the Bench remarked. “Courts cannot run parallel administration by issuing orders in such matters. It is the responsibility of State to ensure not even a small piece of government land is occupied by others,” it said. Making it clear that the question of permitting constructions in water bodies would not arise, the Bench directed the government to furnish details of water bodies, buffer zones, illegal structures, the notices issued and the action taken by authorities. Observing that officials were providing conflicting information, the HC said the government claimed that Tatanagar and Shastripuram were industrial areas. But the same government maintained that some individuals built houses there. How did the officials allow residential constructions in industrial areas, the bench sought to know. On one hand, irrigation officials said there was a tank in survey No. 345 of Puppalaguda but the revenue officials reject the claim, the court said. The master plan should be presented to the court by July 15, the Bench said.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC’s entomology wing badly hit by virus||Risking their lives for greater common good, several frontline workers in GHMC have been diagnosed with COVID-19 while discharging duty in the infected areas. A predominant majority of these infections are from the entomology wing, workers from which have been on the field since day one, spraying the disinfectant solution. GHMC top officials informed that a total of 31 persons have so far tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Of them, 21 were entomology field workers — 12 from Kapra Circle and nine from Malkajgiri. Entomology workers have been engaged in daily spraying of the disinfectant sodium hypochlorite solution across the city, in containment zones, around hospitals and quarantine centres, and in areas where new COVID-19 positive cases have sprung up, besides office buildings whenever a positive case is detected. Thankfully, none of these workers have displayed any symptoms of the infection, which indicates their enhanced immunity levels. They all have been diagnosed with the virus during the recent tests government has carried out proactively on all the front line workers. Apart from them, other employees too have tested positive for COVID-19 in headquarters and across the circles. A fresh positive was detected from the IT department on Wednesday, making it the fifth case from the headquarters. Already, two from Mayor’s Peshi, one from the Solid Waste Management wing, and another from Town Planning have tested positive for the virus. A deputy commissioner from Kukatpally zone too was reported to have tested positive on Wednesday, apart from two tax inspectors. Already, a zonal commissioner is reported to have got the infection. A section officer from LB Nagar zone had been diagnosed previously. GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, through a statement on Wednesday, informed that a total of 2,192 COVID-19 positive patients have been kept in home isolation. Patients without symptoms are being given an option to stay at home, or move to institutional isolation depending on the facilities and vulnerable family members. Barricading has been removed as the protocol for demarcating containment areas, and instead, the home in question alone is being isolated as COVID-19 zone.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation workers bear the brunt of fudged salary bills||A possible scam was averted in the GHMC Sanitation department when authorities have noticed abnormally high wage bills of sanitation workers during the lockdown period. However, instead of fixing responsibility on the officials concerned, sanitation workers are being forced to bear the brunt. Sources informed that the salary bills for April had spiralled by over 50% in a few circles, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to control the spread of COVID-19 infection. The Aadhaar-based biometrics system, which was introduced three years ago for keeping track of the sanitation workers’ attendance, has been suspended since the start of the lockdown period, in order to avoid spread of COVID-19 through touch. Instead, the Sanitation supervisors, field assistants and medical officers are taking attendance manually. “Suddenly, the salary bills have spiralled from Rs. 21 lakh to Rs. 33 lakh. Upon checking the registers, we found that workers who had not been attending duties for the past six months, were marked attendance. When we sought explanation, they revised the bills to previous amounts,” a zonal level official informed, wondering how the bills could be reduced if they were genuine. Following this, strict instructions have been issued by the GHMC Commissioner, restricting the release of funds to the pre-lockdown period during which biometric attendance was being taken. Significantly, no official responsible has been suspended for the fudged bills. Instead, it is reported that the workers in a few circles were paid their wages on the basis of their attendance in February/March, 2019. Scam last year February last year bears significance, as a scam in Sanitation wing had been unearthed just a month before. Inspections by the Enforcement and Vigilance department then revealed that cloned finger prints were being used to circumvent the biometrics attendance. In a letter addressed to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, the Telangana Municipal Workers & Employees Union alleged that sanitation workers in Malkajgiri Circle of Secunderabad Zone had received reduced wages for April. The wage difference was noted to have been between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 7,000, the letter said. When workers protested, bills had been prepared for May restricting the pay-cut to two days, it said, and demanded that the workers who were rendering selfless services despite the fear of COVID-19 be paid in full. “Workers who were absent from duty during February/March last year, received reduced salaries. When questioned, the officials said they do not have sufficient budget. GHMC has funds to spend over mega projects, but not to pay poor workers,” fumed Paladugu Bhaskar, general secretary of the union. GHMC officials said they were not aware of any such pay-cut.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to organise PV centenary celebrations||The State government has decided to organise the birth centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao for one year. The main programme would start at PV Gnana Bhoomi here on June 28, coinciding with the birthday of the visionary leader and celebrations would be held at 50 different locations across the world simultaneously. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that the government had decided to organise the celebrations on a grand scale to recall and remember the services rendered by the multi-faceted personality. The government had decided to sanction Rs. 10 crore with immediate effect for organising the year-long celebrations. Review meeting The Chief Minister held a detailed review meeting to discuss about the arrangements that should be made for the centenary celebrations. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, celebrations committee chairman K. Keshav Rao, government’s chief advisor Rajiv Sharma and others attended the meeting. The Chief Minister would participate as chief guest in the main event at P.V. Gnana Bhoomi and wanted the officials to strictly follow the COVID-19 guidelines. Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao had been asked to coordinate the celebrations at 50 locations across the globe. Recalling the association the former Prime Minister had with different States, the Chief Minister wanted them to prepare an action plan relating to which programmes should be organised where. The government was actively considering the idea of setting up a PV Memorial on the line of the one for former president A.P.J. Abdul Kalam at Rameswaram, he said directing that a team headed by Mr. Keshav Rao visit Rameswaram and suggest how the memorial should be constructed. In addition, steps should be taken to instal bronze statues of PV at Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar, Vangara and Telangana Bhavan while his portrait should be kept in the Legislative Assembly. It was decided that the State Cabinet and the Legislature would pass a resolution demanding conferment of Bharat Ratna on PV while the Chief Minister said he would personally meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ryots told to raise nurseries of Telangana Sona in July 2nd week||As part of promoting cultivation of superfine variety of paddy, Telangana Sona, in 10 lakh acres this season, the Agriculture Department has advised the farming community to raise nurseries from the second week of July to have reduced impact of pests and reduced crop period of four months. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy stated that the government is promoting Telangana Sona (RNR-15048) superfine variety compared to other superfine varieties such as Samba Masuri (BPT-5204), Karimnagar Samba (JGL-3855), MTU-1010 and others since it has a lesser average crop period of 125 days against the average of 150 days for other varieties. Another added advantage the Telangana Sona, created by crossing MTU-1010 and JGL-3855, has is that its lowest glycemic index among all known varieties of paddy. Besides, its composition of protein, carbohydrates, energy, niacin (vitamin B3) is also higher compared to other popular varieties of paddy. He explained that Telangana Sona also has greater demand among the rice millers due to lesser broken grain after milling. “In view of such distinct features, the government has decided to promote Telangana Sona among the superfine varieties apart from meeting the twin objectives of meeting fine grain low glycemic index,” Mr. Janaradhan Reddy said explaining the reasons behind promoting the variety. He stated that the plan to cultivate Telangana Sona in 10 lakh acres this Vaanakalam season has been made keeping in mind the availability of seed with the government agencies such as Telangana State Seed Development Corporation (TSSDC), National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and private seed companies. At the requirement rate of 20 to 25 kg seed per acre, the availability of seed is 36,500 quintals with TSSDC and NSC and the private companies have 2,17,600 quintals. About 2.5 lakh quintals of seed would be sufficient to cover 10 lakh acres even if 25 kg per acre is used for raising nurseries, Mr. Reddy said. Telangana Sona has better (lesser) crop period compared to Samba Masuri and Cotton Dora Sannalu – average of 125 days against 150 days.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,842 patients with serious health issues defeat coronavirus||In what comes as a silver lining in these distressing times, at least 1,842 coronavirus patients, who suffered from other health complications including life threatening diseases, recovered and were discharged from Gandhi Hospital, the largest COVID-19 isolation centre in Telangana. More than one disease Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao said all the 1,842 patients suffered from bilateral pneumonia. Around 16 of them also had cancer, 38 were cardiac patients, 12 were paralysed, 54 patients suffered from kidney failure, 24 had liver disease while 88 others had bronchial asthma or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. “All of them recovered and were discharged,” Dr Rao said. On the whole, 4,056 persons with the novel coronavirus were admitted at the hospital and 3,423 were discharged. They include 1,395 patients who recovered after admission in ICU and were discharged. Newborns recover The list of COVID patients includes 135 pregnant women, 37 of whom had a C-section delivery. Two newborns who had contracted the virus from their mothers, also recovered and were discharged, said hospital authorities. A month-old infant who was admitted at the hospital has also recovered. Under 12 years Around 290 of the total patients admitted for COVID treatment were children under the the age of 12 years, including 35 in Newborn Intensive Care Unit.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3-day child-centric training in disaster risk reduction held||The Centre for Sustainable Development Goals of the Dr. MCR Human Resource Development Institute organised a three-day online course through video-conference mode for ICDS supervisors on “child-centric disaster risk reduction”. As part of the course organised in collaboration with National Institute of Disaster Management, participants were trained in basic aspects of disaster risk reduction and its importance in relation to children, the importance of safeguarding child rights during disasters and importance of ensuring proper psychological health of children, especially during disasters. The training comprised presentation on ways of making children part of decision making and in disaster risk reduction. According to a press release, experts in the field discussed the need for providing a safe physical and psychological environment and solutions related to various types of hazards, dangers and risks to children at home, school and other public/private places was discussed. More than 200 ICDS supervisors participated in the three-day training programme which concluded on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CRS clears 10.69-km railway line||The Commissioner for Railway Safety (CRS) has cleared the 10.69-km double line and electrification between Chingicherla and Zangalapalli, part of 90-km Rs. 636.38-crore Gooty-Dharmavaram doubling project for allowing railway traffic. This section connects Telangana and AP with Bangalore. The Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) has been working on the project and had earlier completed doubling and electrification between 11-km Kalluru-Garladinne in September 2019. Therefore, 22 km of the total project has been completed and the remaining work is being taken up expeditiously, said senior officials on Wednesday. “Once the project is completed, it will ease the congestion on this important saturated single-line section and enables us to run more passenger and freight trains. It also helps in improving connectivity towards Mumbai. Cement and other goods from Guntakal division can be easily moved towards Karnataka and for the traffic moving in the opposite direction," they explained. The work involved constructing 14 minor bridges and one major bridge constructed as part of doubling the section with around 22,000 sleepers utilised and spreading ballast of 33,000 cubic metres. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya said it was the third consecutive infrastructure project being commissioned this month and appreciated the entire rail force for the dedicated service being displayed even during the pandemic.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police academy director seeks retirement||Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer VK Singh on Wednesday applied for voluntary retirement and wrote to the Union Home Secretary. The 1987 batch IPS official, who is currently serving as Director of RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy, requested the government to give him pre-mature retirement from October 2, 2020 — the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the apostle of truth and justice.  ‘Ambitions failed’ "I joined Police with great hopes to change the Police system but I think I have failed in my ambitions. The Government of Telangana has also not been much impressed with my services. My advice to better the services in the government also, did not cut much ice," the sernior IPS officer wrote it in the letter. "Perhaps my opinion was not considered worth it. I have my considered opinion that I should not be burden on the Government. Government should not be burdened with worthless people," he said. Further, the director of the olice academy, said "I feel that my services can be better utilised outside the government service. I want to work for reforms among people and service to the state of Telangana.” So, he said, he decided to go for pre-mature retirement.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth stabbed||A case of attempt to murder was booked in the Nampally police station after a man was alleged waylaid and stabbed on Tuesday night. According to the police, the stabbing took place near the Ek Minar Masjid. Police said the victim, Nadeem Baba (25), a fruit-seller, was travelling in an autorickshaw with Ayesha. They stopped near the Yusufain Dargah and bought alcohol and began consuming it. Later, two unknown persons allegedly approached them and sought to know if they had ganja on their person to which they replied in the negative. The two men allegedly began to argue with Nadeem, but left soon after. When the autorickshaw was moving towards Ek Minar Masjid, the two men allegedly intercepted the vehicle and one of them stabbed Nadeem. The police booked a case under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PDS rice seized||Officers of the Civil Supplies department, revenue authorities and L B Nagar police on Wednesday seized around 350 quintals of PDS rice being which was “illegally diverted” in the Shivapuri Colony. Rangareddy Assistant Civil Supplies Officer KYL Narasimha Rao said that, on tip-off, officials rushed to the area where the rice was being diverted. Unscrupulous elements were buying rice from cardholders for around Rs. 10 per kg after which this was being illegally diverted, and then disposed of for a higher price. “We have sized the PDS rice, three two wheelers, and a truck. We handed them over to the L B Nagar police. A case under Section 6 (a) of Essential Commodities Act was booked,” he said.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haj pilgrimage cancelled||The Telangana State Haj Committee on Wednesday announced the cancellation of Haj Season 2020 given the Saudi government’s decision to allow pilgrims of different nationalities residing only within the Kingdom due to COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to the media, TSHC Chairman Mohammed Masiullah Khan and Executive Officer B Shafiullah said that with Saudi Arabia allowing pilgrims from only within the country to perform Haj, the candidature of Haj applicants for this Haj season stands automatically cancelled. As was reported in these columns, the Haj Committee of India had issued a circular to chairpersons of various State Haj committees, in which it was stated that on March 13, the Saudi government had asked them to halt Haj preparations. As a result of this, it had taken a decision to refund payments to pilgrims and issued cancellation forms. On Wednesday, Mr Khan said that the pilgrim quota for Telangana was nearly 4,600. However, a total of up to 10,000 pilgrims leave from Hyderabad.    These include pilgrims from certain districts of Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. He said that a vast majority of the pilgrims had paid the first two instalments. The payment sum of the third instalment was not decided as foreign exchange rates and other details were not decided.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC: give report on money spent on differently-abled||Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the State government to file a detailed report on its schemes for physically challenged persons, the funds allocated for them and the extent of their utilisation. Hearing a PIL plea on the plight of differently-abled persons in the backdrop of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy sought to know if any audit of the funds allocated for this section was done. Did the audit report point out any lacunae in the utilisation of funds for physically challenged persons, the bench asked IAS officer Divya Devarajan, who attended the hearing through video conferencing. The bench directed the officer to furnish details of the funds spent for education, medical facilities, crutches and artificial limbs for the physically challenged persons in the State. Ms. Divya Devarajan explained to the bench that Telangana government has allocated Rs. 1,800 crore towards pension for the differently-abled persons in the State. Out of this, each physically challenged person was being paid a pension of Rs. 3,016 a month. This was highest pension amount for a differently-abled person paid by any State government in the country. In addition to this, Rs. 1,500 financial assistance and 12 kilos of rice a month was being given to white ration card holders during the lockdown, she said. She said that there was a corpus fund of Rs. 3.5 crore for physically challenged persons to meet emergencies. In that case, why did the Director of Disabled Welfare write a letter to the government seeking a separate fund of Rs. 10 crore, the bench asked. Cannot the government allocate Rs. 10 crore for over 10 lakh physically challenged persons in the State, it asked the government. The matter was posted to July 16 for next hearing.  State allocated Rs. 1,800 crore towards pension for physically challenged persons. Ms. Divya Devarajan, IAS officer.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor urges institutes to take care of students’ health||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has called upon educational institutions and teachers to look after the health of students during the pandemic. There was need to make sure that students were in good health which in turn would have a positive effect on their mood and help them overcome this difficult time, the Governor said. Ms. Soundararajan was participating as the chief guest at the inaugural session of the two-day webinar on ‘Impact of COVID-19 on Higher Education Human Resources’ organised by the Gandhigram Rural Institute, a deemed-to-be university, from the Raj Bhavan, on Wednesday. She lamented that more than 1.5 billion students across the globe were out of schools, colleges and universities due to the pandemic. “We are offering online classes. But they cannot substitute regular classroom teaching. Students are missing their educational institutional surroundings, friends, and even the canteen. It is here we must ensure that they do not get depressed,” she said. Underlining the importance of maintaining positive mood among students, she said this would contribute to better immunity.
25 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Students oppose plea to up retirement age||Students and research scholars of Osmania University have opposed the government employee unions’ demand for increasing retirement age to 61 and said it was against the very spirit of the separate Telangana movement. Students and Unemployed Front chairman Changani Dayakar in a statement here said employees could seek enhancement of wages and perks but they should not block employment opportunities of lakhs of youngsters who played a key role in the Telangana movement to see better employment opportunities. He said even a country like US had put restrictions on H1B visas to protect jobs for Americans. The Chief Minister should realise the aspiration of the jobless. They would launch an agitation if the retirement age of government employees was increased.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 6,886 cr. credited into 54.21 lakh farmers’ accounts||Against the exercise of crediting the Rythu Bandhu investment support into the linked bank accounts of landholding farmers running into weeks in the past, the Agriculture Department with the cooperation of banks and Revenue department has credited Rs. 6,886.19 crore into the accounts of 54.21 lakh farmers in just 48 hours this year! Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated on Wednesday that the farmers who have been credited the Rythu Bandhu amount at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre also include 74,084 farmers having Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) pattas in the Agency areas. They were extended a benefit of Rs. 124.23 crore for their land of about 2,48,500 acres. The total extent for which the benefit extended so far is about 1.38 crore acres. No restrictions The Minister reiterated that the amount has been credited to the account of farmers who were issued pattadar passbooks till June 16 and those who did not get the amount could meet the Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) concerned for clarification. He however made it clear that there were no sanctions or restrictions on extending the benefit to any farmer. He claimed that crediting of nearly Rs. 7,000 crore in a matter of 48 hours to the bank accounts of farmers during the sowing period of Vaanakalam crops indicates the government’s commitment and sincerity towards the farming community, with which the State has become the rice bowl of India in a matter of just six years.  74,000 RoFR patta holders also received the benefit. S. Niranjan Reddy, Minister for Agriculture.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hetero prices Covifor at Rs. 5,400 a vial||Drugmaker Hetero has priced Covifor, its generic version of Gilead’s investigational drug Remdesivir for COVID-19 patients, at Rs. 5,400 per (100 mg) vial. Announcing the cost, Hetero on Wednesday said Hetero Healthcare, a group company, will deliver the first set of 20,000 vials within a week in two equal lots, in order to meet emergency requirements. The first lot of 10,000 vials will be immediately supplied to Hyderabad, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Mumbai and parts of Maharashtra.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister’s security personnel test positive||At least five security personnel of Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali have tested positive for COVID-19, said sources. All the five have been asked to quarantine themselves at their respective homes. Sources confirmed that there is a likelihood that the families of these personnel will also be tested. Sanitisation of premises where they were present is also under way. RTC official positive An officer of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has tested positive. He is being treated at Gandhi Hospital. While there were rumours of many more testing positive in Hyderabad, TSRTC officials rubbished the claims. On Tuesday, at least six employees of a section were sent for testing. Their reports are awaited.
25 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Komatireddy writes to KCR||Congress leader and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to complete the remaining works of the SLBC tunnel by allotting the works to any credible agency of Kaleshwaram project as the present agency has gone bankrupt. In a letter to Mr. Rao, he said the SLBC tunnel was sanctioned by the late CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in 2004. The agency that got the contract could execute only 34 km of the 44 km project in 15 years. The remaining 10 km work could be allotted to any other agency as there was no progress in the last two years, he said.
25 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Orthodox church to conduct mass wedding||Malankara Orthodox churches in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and UAE’s Ras-Al-Khaima, which come under Bishop Dr. Abraham Mar Seraphim of Bangalore diocese, will conduct a mass wedding for the needy and poor couples. Charity call Bishop Seraphim said here that even in the midst of COVID epidemic, the church would not go back on its charity projects. This year was special for the church in this region as it was the 10th year of the establishment of the diocese as well as the 75th year of the commencement of Worship Service in this region, according to a statement. Dr. Seraphim said that couples irrespective of caste, creed, religion or region, had already been identified by the church. Wedding dress The church will also offer wedding dresses and essential jewellery apart from hosting a get-together for the couples’ friends and relatives. The diocese had donated two dialysis machines to the local mission hospitals and this free dialysis treatment for the underprivileged will benefit about 5,000 patients in the next five years. Because of the pandemic, Platinum Jubilee celebrations of the commencement of Worship Service has been postponed for a suitable time later, according to Diocesan secretary Santhosh Samuel.
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sarpanch commits suicide in Vikarabad district||A sarpanch of Kothapally village in Pudur mandal of Vikarabad district reportedly committed suicide on Wednesday morning. The victim, K Sadanand, as said to have hanged himself. A ‘suicide note’ stated that nobody was to blame for his death. The victim was said to have been mentally disturbed. The Chengomul police registered a case.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914060202000 06 66661117)
25 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCR employee clears FIDE Instructor programme||Senior Chess player and national arbiter Kandi Ravi has secured Instructor from the International World Chess Federation (FIDE). The programme was conducted online this year where 81 chess players from 11 countries participated. A native of Domakonda village in Kamareddy, he is an accounts officer in SCR since the last 27 years.
25 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||New DCC president appointed||For the first time in the history of the Congress in Karimnagar district, a person hailing from Scheduled Caste community was appointed District Congress Committee president. A doctor by profession, Kavvampalli Satyanarayana was appointed Karimnagar DCC president by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday.
25 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Deeksha to protect govt. college land||Taking up cudgels on behalf of former students of SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College, town-based writer and social activist Nallamothu Tirumala Rao staged a day-long deeksha at his home here on Wednesday, demanding protection of valuable land of the college and its upgradation to a university. Recently, various student unions, including PDSU and SFI staged a joint protest against the government’s alleged move to convert the college’s arboretum (Botanical Garden) spread in five acres into an urban park. Several family members of the late Gentela Narayana Rao, who donated about 180 acres to the college, paving way for its establishment in 1956 in the town, extended their support to the deeksha by Mr. Tirumala Rao, a former student union leader of SR&BGNR college. Activists of the PDSU and a host of former students of the college also expressed their solidarity to him.
25 June 2020||Peddapalli,TELANGANA||TSTPP all set for trial run||The 2X800 (1600) MWs Telangana Super Thermal Power Project of NTPC Ramagundam is set for trial run of boiler and turbine auxiliary systems with the commissioning of 400 KV GIS switchyard on Wednesday. NTPC Ramagundam and TS Executive Director Raj Kumar along with CGM (Project) Prem Prakash commissioned the equipment of 400 KV GIS switchyard of Telangana Project which was very special and among 4 such switchyards of the NTPC.
25 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Water released to tanks from Kondapochamma||It’s a dream coming true. Officials have released water to tanks in both Gajwel constituency in Siddipet district and Aler constituency in Bhongir-Yadadri district from Kondapochammasagar on Wednesday. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao released water to Kondapochammasagar on May 29 and since then water is being pumped to the reservoir. The Chief Minister directed the officials to release water to tanks. It’s stated that about 60,000 acres would be irrigated under these tanks.
25 June 2020||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Probe ordered into ‘community hall scam’||Adilabad Collector A. Sridevasena has ordered inquiry into the alleged community hall construction scam in Adilabad municipality, brought to her notice by the Congress party the previous day. The Congress has alleged that funds allocated for construction of community hall in 22 wards out of the 36 in the municipality have been siphoned off without constructing the structures. The alleged scam runs into over a crore of rupees drawn from special development fund allocated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao following his visit to Adilabad town in February 2018. The Congress further alleged that the scam could stretch to the remaining wards and even to mandal head quarters. It all started when ward number 20 councillor A. Ashok was told by officials in the municipality that a community hall has been constructed last year and the contractor had even drawn all the money for it. The councillor was surprised over this revelation and began inquiring into the issue subsequently. To his consternation, he found that community halls were constructed in 22 wards as per orders but no structure existed on the ground. Congress party leaders petitioned the Collector on Tuesday demanding an inquiry. She asked the Additional Collector (Local Bodies) to inquire and submit a report by June 26.
25 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Discontent brewing in Punjab Cong.||After the Punjab unit of the Congress recently sent a proposed list of district committees and members of its new executive body to the party high command for approval, discontent has started brewing among senior leaders and workers over the process of finalising the list and choice of candidates. A few senior leaders told The Hindu that “wider consultations” were not held and the proposed list was prepared by a handful of people in the organisation. “It would have been much better had PCC president Sunil Jakhar taken the views of other senior leaders as well. There should have been a consensuses. They should have shown magnanimity and a bigger heart... Two people sat together and prepared the list for PCC, this is not the way it works. If the intention is to win the 2022 Assembly polls then wider consultations should ought to have taken place. The process should have been open for the entire family of the Congress,” said former PCC president and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. “It is unfortunate that a lot of people had worked hard for the party but they are not being heard. If they want to convert the Indian National Congress into a private limited company they are most welcome to do so... but let me tell you it is for such reasons that the party has been going down day by day, ” he said. In January, this year Congress president Sonia Gandhi dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the State. The State unit chief, however, was retained. According to party insiders, several leaders and party MLAs have sent letters to AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal against the “shortlisted” candidates for district president positions in Sangrur, Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Amritsar. Former Chief Minister and senior leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal said AICC’s Punjab in-charge Asha Kumari had not spoken to her on the issue.  ‘List made after inputs’ Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said: “Everybody’s concern has been taken on board. The list has been prepared after inputs from everywhere and it has been discussed among Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Ms. Asha Kumari and myself. Obviously there are more than one deserving candidates... We will be accommodating them. There’s lot of work to be done and there many responsibilities that need to be shouldered,” he said.
25 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Parties to meet PM over ordinances||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the major political parties of Punjab, barring the BJP, have resolved to appeal to the Centre to immediately withdraw the recently passed ordinances on the agriculture sector. A government statement said a delegation of parties led by the Chief Minister would meet the Prime Minister and the Union Agriculture Minister to convey their strong reservations on these ‘anti-farmer legislations’ and urge them to immediately withdraw them in public interest.
25 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Cannot allow police to act as recovery agents’||Granting anticipatory bail in a matter pertaining to recovery of money in a dispute between a property owner and its manager, the district and sessions court here on Wednesday remarked that it could not become an instrument in the hands of the police to allow them to act as “recovery agents”. The court also wondered how a First Information Report was registered in a civil dispute. Pronouncing the order on the bail application by Ram Chandra alias Ramesh Upadhaya, Additional Sessions Judge Sanjay Kumar Sharma observed that the contents of the complaint prima facie showed that there was hardly anything necessitating the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, to send the same to the ACP (East) Gurugram leading to the registration of the FIR. “It appears that there is lack of supervision, superintendence and effective control,” observed the court. The case pertained to Prem Bhushan Khanna accusing Mr. Upadhyaya, his property manager, of discrepancies in account books and not clearing the dues despite repeated efforts. An FIR was registered on December 12, 2016, in this connection under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and the arrest warrant of Mr. Upadhyaya was issued on August 24, 2018. The accused-applicant’s counsel Pawan Bansal argued that the dispute was between the complainant and the company managing his property. He argued that his client was the employee of the company and not the complainant and was falsely implicated. Mr. Bansal said from the entire complaint no criminal act was made out and the dispute, if any, was of civil nature. Seeking rejection of the bail application, Public Prosecutor Vikarn said that recovery of Rs. 4.5 lakh was to be effected from the applicant-accused. Justice Sharma observed that “this court fails to understand as to how an FIR, which is a criminal proceeding, can be registered for the recovery of the money if the same is in respect of some civil dispute”. The judge, in his nine-page order, quoted from the Madhu Khanna versus Union of India and Others case saying “it is not the job of the police to meddle with the civil dispute and the police officers cannot be given licence to meddle with the civil dispute”. The order also said that the Supreme Court in M/s Indian Oil Corporation Vs. M/s NEPC India Limited and Others had held that “any effort to settle civil disputes and claims, which do not involve any criminal offence, by applying pressure through criminal prosecution should be deprecated and discouraged”.
25 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Rising river may hit OIL well capping’||The rising level of the river from where water is being drawn could hamper the fight to tame the blaze and the blowout at one of Oil India Limited’s natural gas wells in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district, officials said on Wednesday. Fire-fighters had on Tuesday evening begun shooting jets of water drawn from the Dangori river after the Army completed the construction of a bridge at the blowout site in Baghjan.
25 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||FIR against unidentified persons filed in shelter home case||An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons on charges of allegedly circulating misleading information that some pregnant girl inmates of a government shelter home in Kanpur were diagnosed with HIV. This comes amid demands by the Opposition that the government probe the incidence of 57 girl inmates of the home, including five pregnant girls, testing positive for COVID-19. Kanpur District Probation Officer Ajit Kumar lodged a complaint at the Swarup Nagar police station alleging that since June 21, reports without any authorised statement claiming that two girls at the centre were eight months pregnant and were also diagnosed as HIV positive were being circulated. He clarified that the five pregnant girls were victims of sexual violence and had arrived pregnant at the home.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 70,000; Delhi is now the worst-hit city||Delhi recorded 3,788 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and overtook Mumbai to become the city with the highest number of total cases. Delhi’s case tally has risen to 70,390, while its death toll climbed to 2,365, with 64 more fatalities. Mumbai added 1,118 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its total to 69,528. The 3,788 new cases in Delhi is the second-highest single-day spike seen in the city so far. This is the fifth time in six days that the Capital has reported 3,000 or more cases. Tuesday had witnessed the highest number of new cases in a single day at 3,947. Of the total cases in the city, 41,437 people have recovered while there are 26,588 active cases. As cases in the city surged, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday visited Shehnai Banquet Hall, which has been converted into a 100-bed COVID Care Centre. Kejriwal thanks NGO “I want to thank the NGO ‘Doctors for You’ for taking up the responsibility of operating this facility. Many NGOs like these are coming forward to support the government at the time of the pandemic. This is the first banquet hall starting to operate as a facility for the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” he said. “Out of 13,500 beds, around 6,200 beds have been occupied in both private and government hospitals in Delhi. This number has been stagnant since yesterday [Tuesday], which means that the usage of beds has not increased, even though we have observed 4,000 new cases in the last 24 hours,” Mr. Kejriwal said, and added that this also shows that the virus is not very severe in Delhi. The Delhi government also advised all heads of hospitals and medical institutions under the Delhi government to extend the tenure of senior and junior resident doctors currently working there by six months to meet the shortage of resident doctors during the outbreak. In a related development, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice Chairperson Raghav Chadha on Wednesday visited a 10,000-bed under construction COVID Care Centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas to inspect water supply works undertaken by the DJB. “DJB has carried out engineering works and installed hydrants to connect the underground reservoir to which clean Ganga water will be provided to all the patients and healthcare staff,” Mr. Chadha said.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dip in mercury as rain lashes Capital||The Capital received pre-monsoon showers on Wednesday morning that lead to a drop in temperatures. The humidity, however, remained high. The weather station at Safdarjung that is the official reading for the city recorded 14.6 mm of rainfall between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. The maximum temperature was 34.6 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below normal for the season. The minimum temperature was 28.3 degrees which was normal for the season. Humidity hovered between 70% and 100%. The Met department said that the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced in some parts of Rajasthan, Chandigarh and north Punjab, most parts of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and the entire Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad. It added that conditions are becoming favorable for further advance in some more parts of Rajasthan, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, entire Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Haryana and Punjab during next 24 hours. The forecast for Thursday reads “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 36 and 28 degrees respectively”.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi can contact SDM to return home: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said if any labourer, who is currently working or residing in and around Azadpur Mandi, wishes to return to his or her hometown, the person shall be entitled to approach the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of the area for assistance. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said the labourers, if necessary, could also approach the Secretary, Delhi State Legal Service Authority (DSLSA) of the area for guidance. The Delhi government also told the court that earlier 686 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi had registered themselves with the help desk set up by the government, expressing their desire to return to their hometown. However, only 182 labourers had responded to the SMSes and telephonic calls and had turned up at Azadpur Mandi on June 18 for being transported to the Railway Station. Another 26 labourers had turned up on June 23. All of them have been transported, the Delhi government said. On June 18 itself, arrangements were made for the labourers who expressed their desire to go back to their hometowns. For this, three Shramik special trains were arranged for Bihar and one for West Bengal, that were to depart from Old Delhi Railway Station. Necessary intimation to the stranded labourers was conveyed in advance through SMSes, telephonic calls etc. and 20 DTC buses were deployed at Hira Singh Park to transfer them to the Screening Centre at Alipur and onwards to the Old Delhi Railway Station. Taking note of the submission, the court disposed of the petition by the Potato and Onion Masakhour Merchant Association to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi during the lockdown are provided two square meals a day till normalcy is restored.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Employees’ union writes to L-G about duty timings||A Delhi government employees’ union has written to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal complaining against duty timings extending up to 12 hours at COVID Care Centres (CCCs) without leave, lack of social distancing norms at government offices due to 100% attendance and deployment of staffers with co-morbidities at hospitals during the pandemic. The Delhi Government Employees Welfare Association, comprising officials from the Delhi Administrative Subordinate Services (DASS) and stenographer cadres, complained that personnel from both categories were being deployed at CCCs for 12-hour duty without regular leaves. This was taking a toll on their health as well as the well-being of their families. Besides demanding that all personnel posted in government departments from which positive cases had been reported be tested, the association requested the offices of all departments under the Delhi government be sanitised at the earliest. Employee strength Personnel with co-morbidities should be relieved from field duty during the pandemic and only 50% staffers should be called in to work, the association demanded. This, the association argued, would work out better, as only half the strength of a particular department would need to be quarantined in case of an infection. Duty timings could be reduced to 8 hours from 12 and field staffers, who had already performed duties for two months, should be replaced with other personnel before resuming work post leave in a healthier condition, it said.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Neighbour stabs 57-year-old for feeding stray dogs||A 57-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by his neighbour, after the street dogs that the former fed charged at the latter in Central Delhi’s Paharganj, the police said on Wednesday. On June 21 night, when Brij Mohan was feeding dogs, Prahlad picked up an argument with him after the dogs barked and charged at him, they said. Soon, the altercation became heated and they began to use abusive language. Prahlad, who works as a DJ, warned Mohan that feeding strays could increase incidents of dog attacks in the area. Then the dogs barked and pounced on Prahald, who alleged that Mohan then mocked him saying even the dogs were complaining about him, the police said. Prahlad then went home, but returned with a knife after sometime and stabbed Mohan. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he died, the police said. A case was registered and an investigation was taken up to nab Prahlad, who went absconding, said Sanjay Bhatia, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central). “After we received information that Prahlad was hiding somewhere near Krishna Market in Paharganj, we apprehended him,” he said. The accused was arrested on Wednesday and the weapon of offence was also recovered, he added.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Secretariat gets UV light file sterilisation machines||The Delhi government has started to install file sterilisation machines with UV light in offices in the Delhi Secretariat from this week as a precaution against the spread of COVID-19. Besides, 25 contactless hand sanitiser machines were installed in the Secretariat in the last two weeks while more will be installed in the coming days, the officials said. More than 20 stafffers working at the Secretariat, including Minister Satyendar Jain, have tested positive for the virus so far. Also, a staffer working at Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam’s office, who tested positive for the virus, has died. “We have installed the file sterilisation machines with UV light in at least five offices so far. These offices had raised the demand for the machines, which were procured from the GeM [Government e-Marketplace],” an official told The Hindu.  The official added that the government has not bought and stored these machines and it will be purchased when offices raise a request to the government for the same.“The machine has a capacity of 30 litres and files have to be placed inside the machine for about two to three minutes after switching it on for the files to get sterilised,” the official added. The machine, which is about 30 centimeters high, has two horizontal compartments in which files can be kept. The official did not disclose the price.  The wall-mounted contactless machine, each costing around Rs. 10,000, sprays sanitiser when a person keeps his/her hand under the nozzle. “It uses alcohol-based sanitiser and we have to refill it.”
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea against ban on export of PPE kits and masks||The Delhi High Court has sought response of the Centre and the AAP government on a plea by a company against the ban on export of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and medical masks during the pandemic. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva sought the stand of both the Central and Delhi government on a petition by Thompson Press Service, which has claimed that there was a dearth of buyers for PPE kits and medical masks in the country. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearing for the Centre, submitted that the ban on export of PPE kits and medical masks has been imposed to prevent any shortage in the country. She submitted that as per her instructions, there is no dearth of buyers. However, the petitioner and other manufacturers are wanting to export for making financial gains and not for the reason that there is any shortage of demand in the country. The court has posted the case for further hearing on July 10.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Gupta lauds Modi govt. for reviving Delhi’s health sector||The Capital’s health system is “coming back on track” after the intervention of the Narendra Modi government, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta claimed here on Wednesday. He alleged that it was due to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s model, that it had “collapsed” over the last 80 days. Meanwhile, north east Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari demanded a white paper on the Rs. 7,704 crore health budget, the highest allocation for the city’s health sector made by the Aam Aadmi Party government in the last three years, given the condition of the city’s hospitals during the pandemic. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, wrote to Union Minister Amit Shah for providing 19,000 beds equipped with required facilities for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Out of these, he said, 10,000 will be available at the Radha Swami Satsang Beas, 8,000 in railway coaches and 1,000 at a facility being built by the DRDO and Tata Trust.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||NGT seeks report over plea on slaughter house waste||The National Green Tribunal has sought a factual report from a joint committee over a plea, which alleged that waste water from a slaughterhouse in Ghaziabad was being discharged unscientifically resulting in the contamination of ground and drinking water.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Karawal Nagar MLA Mohan Singh Bisht and his wife got admitted at a city hospital on Wednesday, triggering speculation that he has contracted COVID-19. Mr. Bisht, however, took to Facebook later to state that he was down only with viral fever and he would resume his work soon.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||AIR and water||
25 June 2020||Chandrapur,||Tiger killed in territorial fight in Gadchiroli||The tiger found dead in Gadchiroli district on Tuesday had been killed in a territorial fight with another big cat, a Forest Department official said on Wednesday. The carcass of the tiger was found in a dry nullah in Khusra (Navegaon) forest in the district “The full-grown big cat was killed in a territorial fight with another tiger,” said S.V. Ramarao, Chief Conservator of Forest, Chandrapur, who holds additional charge of Gadchiroli circle. The carcass bore many scratch marks and deep injuries caused by canine bites.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Over 2 lakh fly out of, land in city in a month||More than two lakh passengers arrived at or travelled out of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in the last one month, since domestic commercial passenger flight operations resumed on May 25. GVK-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), which manages the airport, said that of the 2,01,258 passengers it catered to in this period, 1,40,878 were departing passengers and 60,380 were arrivals. 1,744 flights, 34 sectors Mumbai airport handled 1,744 domestic flights from May 25 to June 24, operated by 10 airlines and catering to 34 sectors in the country. Among the destinations served, the airport saw the highest passenger load capacity on the Mumbai-Delhi route, followed closely by flights connecting the city to Kolkata, Varanasi, and Patna, respectively. As many as 41,206 passengers flew on the Mumbai-Delhi route. When commercial domestic flight operations resumed on May 25, the airport was only permitted to operate 25 departures and arrivals each, per day. But with the recent permission by the Maharashtra government to double the commercial passenger flight movements, the airport has seen flights in six new sectors being added to its existing schedule. These include Thiruvananthapuram, Coimbatore, Raipur, Udaipur, Jabalpur, and Jalgaon. The airport now handles 50 departures and arrivals each, every day. Sectors like Goa and Chennai, however, are yet to see flights being operated. Stringent checks “The airport has allowed check-in through e-boarding pass on cellular devices for its passengers, besides placing stringent measures to screen drivers and fumigate the vehicles entering the airport premises. Conforming to the highest standards of safety and security, CSMIA has adopted numerous precautionary measures to help and support the passengers, including providing an efficient transit to its travellers,” an airport spokesperson said.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Death toll in State police touches 51||Fifty-one Maharashtra Police personnel, including two officers, have died of COVID-19 so far, a police official said on Wednesday. These include 34 personnel of the Mumbai Police force, the official said. Over 4,000 personnel of the State police force have tested positive for the virus. Of them, 998 are active cases, including 104 officers. All personnel are undergoing treatment in hospitals. More than 3,000 personnel have recovered from the viral infection, the official said. So far, 72 personnel of the Palghar rural police have tested positive for the infection, Palghar police public relations officer Sachin Navadkar said. While a police constable died of the infection, 41 personnel have recovered and 30 are undergoing treatment, he said. Most personnel tested positive after coming in contact with the accused in the Palghar mob lynching case, who had contracted the infection, the official said. A total of 387 police personnel from the Thane police commissionerate have contracted the infection so far, inspector (welfare) Ganpatrao Pingle said. “While 292 of them have been discharged, two have died and the remaining are currently undergoing treatment,” he said. Attacks on personnel Since the lockdown was enforced in March, there have been 279 incidents of assault on police, in which 86 personnel received injuries, the official said, adding that 858 people have been arrested in this connection. At least 52 incidents of attacks on health professionals were also reported during the period. Stern action was initiated against people attacking frontline workers. Till now, 1,34,604 offences have been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code during the lockdown, for which 27,481 people have been arrested and 84,187 vehicles seized. So far, the police have collected Rs. 8.72 crore as fine for offences during the lockdown.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||BMC allowed to use Byculla building for quarantine||The Bombay High Court recently allowed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to use a building at Byculla for housing individuals required to be kept in quarantine. It also accepted the BMC’s undertaking that it would start making payments aggregating to over Rs. 28 lakh per month to the original residential and commercial tenants from April 24. Around 975 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in ‘E’ Ward. There are about 2,699 high-risk contacts in the ward who have come in close contact with such patients, and need to be quarantined. Therefore, by an order dated April 25, the BMC requisitioned for the building. The possession was taken a day earlier and the BMC is willing to pay compensation to the developer/tenants for use of the building as a quarantine centre. The advocate appearing for the developer said it will not object to the use of the building by BMC if the civic body agrees to pay the actual monthly compensation payable to the original tenants in lieu of temporary alternate accommodation from April 24 onwards, till the building is being used as a quarantine facility. The BMC counsel said it was willing to pay the compensation to tenants who have yet to receive possession of their premises. Few tenants appeared The Division Bench of justices S.J. Kathawalla and N.R. Borkar noted that out of 218 tenants, 208 tenants had not even bothered to place their say before the court. Thus, it passed an order allowing the BMC to use the building as a quarantine centre, and accepted its undertaking that it will make payments aggregating to Rs. 28,38,587 per month to the original tenants. The court also ordered the arrears of compensation from April 24 be paid within 15 days and the monthly compensation shall hereafter be paid on or before the 24th day of each month, starting June 24.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||BMC to buy one lakh antigen testing kits||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to purchase one lakh antigen testing kits to ensure speedy results for suspected COVID-19 patients. The BMC has initiated Mission Universal Testing, under which it will use antigen testing kits, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research, that provide results within 15 to 30 minutes. These kits will be used at all civic, State-run hospitals and COVID-19 facilities to test suspected patients, the BMC said. Now, reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction tests are being used, but the results of antigen tests will be faster. BMC Commissioner I.S. Chahal has urged 35 major private hospitals in the city to procure government-approved antigen testing kits.
25 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||30-year-old held for assaulting daughter over broken eggs||A 30-year-old woman was arrested by the Panvel police on Wednesday for assaulting her daughter with a rolling pin and a hot pan. The mother lost her cool after the nine-year-old girl lied about not knowing how the eggs kept in the kitchen had broken. The mother then started assaulting the child by grabbing her hair. The case was registered on Monday by the accused’s 58-year-old mother, who works as an aayah in a private hospital, after she noticed the bruises on her grandchild’s body. In her complaint, the girl’s grandmother said the accused had been assaulting the child since she was two years old. The complainant alleged that her daughter is very short tempered and picks fights over the smallest of issues. “The grandmother said the accused has often tried to physically overpower her during fights as well. She said the accused’s husband abandoned her eight years ago and they were not aware of his whereabouts. Ever since, she and the victim lived with the complainant at Tapal naka in Panvel,” an officer from Panvel City police station said. On Sunday night, the family had bought a packet of bread and 12 eggs, of which they ate three. The remaining eggs accidentally fell out of the nine-year-old’s hand and broke. The complainant said she had a doubt that her daughter would assault the nine-year-old over this incident, and returned from work in four hours to check on the girl, when she found the bruises. The grandmother took the girl to the hospital where she worked and the doctor suggested that she file an FIR. “The accused was depressed and frustrated and took out her frustration on them,” police inspector Shatrughn Mali said. He said the accused was a beautician and worked in Vashi and had been out of work since the lockdown began. “The accused claimed that frustration about her husband leaving her, and the lockdown, made her take such a step,” Mr. Mali said. She was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act.
25 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC checks over 5 lakh mosquito breeding sites||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has checked 5.47 lakh mosquito breeding spots in its pre-monsoon drive. Every year, the NMMC looks for these spots in the outdoors as well as in homes. This year, though, due to the pandemic, the NMMC has asked individual societies for help with looking for breeding spots. “This year, we have written letters to society chairpersons and secretaries to ask residents to look for breeding spots inside their homes,” said an NMMC health officer. The NMMC has also asked societies to clean overhead tanks, cover all tanks with lids, and clear waste material from tins and buckets in terraces, balconies and windows. “If there is untouched waste material on the premises, it should be cleared or else, it will become a potential breeding spot,” the officer said. After a large number of migrants left Navi Mumbai, slum areas were found to contain the most number of breeding spots. Of the 5.47 lakh breeding spots checked, 595 were found to be positive. Of these, 250 have been destroyed and 345 treated with larvicide. Around 160 abandoned vehicle tyres, which are potential breeding spots, have been destroyed. From January to June this year, 28,265 blood samples were collected, of which five showed malaria infections and one was suspected for dengue. In the same period last year, 38,515 samples were tested, of which five showed malaria infections while 16 showed dengue. At least 1,14,757 blood samples were tested in all of 2019, with 52 malaria and 283 suspected dengue cases. In all of 2018, 1,17,082 samples were tested, of which 106 showed up malaria and 465 showed suspected dengue. No dengue deaths were reported in 2019 and 2018. ‘Need more oxygen beds’ “In the next few days, the complications in malaria and dengue associated with COVID-19 might increase. Hence, we are concentrating on more oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators,” said Dr. Rahul Gethe, deputy municipal commissioner (health). The NMMC is also looking at increasing beds at non-COVID-19 hospitals
25 June 2020||Pune,||12 trainee sailors of INS Shivaji test positive for COVID-19||At least 12 trainee sailors of the Lonavala-based INS Shivaji , one of the premier training establishments of the Indian Navy, have so far tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said. The naval establishment, spread over 800 acres in the hill town of Lonavala in Pune district, houses a population of nearly 5,000. Of these, 3,000 are naval personnel, including officers, sailors, trainees and other staff. The rest include are mainly family members, a senior naval officer said.  First case on June 18 The first COVID-19 case was found on June 18. The infected cadet was part of a batch of 157 trainee sailors who had reported back after leave following the easing of the lockdown, a release issued by the naval station on Tuesday said. “With the easing of lockdown as per Unlock 1.0 in the first week of June, a batch of 157 trainee sailors who were undergoing training at this establishment and were on extended leave in view of the lockdown, reported back and all were quarantined for 14 days in one of the institutional quarantine facilities prepared in the unit,” it said. One of the trainee sailors from the batch was found to be symptomatic during the quarantine period and tested positive for the virus, it said. “Further, all the other high-risk contacts who are staying in that particular quarantine facility are being tested as per the extant procedure and necessary medical support is being provided. Twelve out of 157 trainee sailors have tested positive as on date,” the release said. Infection contained Since the infection is contained to one particular quarantine block, the possibility of its spread to other areas or personnel of the establishment is negligible. However, all precautions have been instituted to obviate further spread, it said. All precautions, instructions and directions issued with respect to COVID-19 by the Government of India and the Indian Navy, from time to time, are being strictly adhered to, the release said. All personnel in the base are maintaining precautions.  INS Shivaji houses the Naval College of Engineering which trains officers of the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard.
25 June 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest surge||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge of 3,890 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing its tally to 1,42,900. The State also reported 208 more deaths, taking its toll to 6,739. Wednesday saw Delhi record 3,788 new cases and overtake Mumbai to become the city with the highest COVID-19 count in the country. The city’s tally has risen to 70,390, while its death toll climbed to 2,365, with 64 more fatalities. Mumbai added 1,118 new cases, pushing its case load to 69,528, of which 28,548 are active. The city’s death toll climbed to 3,964, with 20 more patients succumbing to the virus. 10 new cases in Dharavi The tally in Dharavi grew to 2,199, with 10 new cases being recorded on Wednesday. The death count in the area remains unchanged at 81. So far, 1,100 have been discharged and there are 1,018 active cases in the area. On Tuesday, Dharavi reported just five cases, its lowest since April 5. State health officials said among the latest deaths, 72 were reported in the last 48 hours, while the remaining 136 were recorded earlier. Of the total cases, 62,354 are active, while 4,161 patients have been discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 73,792. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stood at 51.64%, while its case fatality rate is 4.72%. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, 2,434 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours, the second-highest in June, pushing its tally of recoveries to 37,010. The city’s recovery rate stands at 53%, while its case doubling rate has improved to 39 days. Pune district’s case load, as per State Health department figures, rose to 17,445, with the district reporting a surge of over 500 cases on Wednesday. Twelve more deaths were also recorded in Pune district, taking its total toll to 637. Of the cumulative cases in the district, 7,401 are active, while 9,407 patients have recovered. Most areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported huge spikes on Wednesday. Thane district recorded a surge of 434 cases, pushing its tally to 11,220. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 268 new cases, taking its total to 4,843. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar too witnessed sharp spikes of 163 and 141 cases respectively, bringing their cumulative figures to 2,738 and 3,240. Nashik district in north Maharashtra reported a surge of 139 cases, with 108 being recorded in Nashik city. The district’s tally has risen to 3,104, of which 1,191 are active. The death toll in the district is193. In Aurangabad, 181 new cases increased its case load to 3,867, of which 1,674 are active. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of 8,23,775 laboratory samples, 1,42,900 (17.34%) have tested positive. Nearly 21,000 samples were tested across the State on Wednesday.” He said 5,57,948 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 33,581 are in institutional quarantine. Record spike in cases Navi Mumbai and Panvel reported their highest single-day surges of 321 and 95 cases respectively. Navi Mumbai reported its youngest COVID-19 death, with a 13-year-old boy from Airoli with congenital muscular dystrophy succumbing to the virus. Two other fatalities were reported, taking its death toll to 180. The city’s case tally has risen to 5,393. With the latest cases, the case load in Panvel has increased to 1,530. Two deaths were also reported in the area, pushing its toll to 65. Of the total cases, 410 are active. While the recovery rate is 68%, the case fatality rate stands at 4.2%. Panvel Rural recorded 37 new cases, taking its cumulative tally to 683. Seventeen patients were discharged, pushing its tally of recoveries to 473.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar and PTI)
25 June 2020||Pune,||Tigress dies at Aurangabad zoo||A nearly seven-year-old tigress suffering from a kidney ailment died in Aurangabad’s Siddharth garden and zoo early on Wednesday, officials said. The swab samples of the six-and-a-half-year-old tigress named Kareena have been sent for a COVID-19 test, said Aurangabad civic body officials. “The animal died a little after 5.45 a.m. She was suffering from a kidney infection. The tigress’ swab samples have been sent for testing and the results are expected soon. We will be completing formalities as per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation,” said a senior official from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. The feline, who was born at the zoo, had stopped eating for the last three days and had to be taken to a veterinary hospital attached to it for blood tests. Authorities from the Animal Husbandry Department and a team of veterinary doctors were treating the animal. Opinions were also solicited from experts of the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences in Parbhani, after the feline’s marked lack of appetite. Siddharth zoo had 12 tigers at the beginning of the year. On February 11, two of them had been moved to Mumbai’s Veermata Jijabai Udyan, commonly known as Byculla zoo. Bronx tiger causes scare With the COVID-19 pandemic raging across the globe, a four-year-old female Malayan tiger named Nadia had tested positive in America’s Bronx Zoo on April 5. Alarmed by this development, all 10 tigers at Aurangabad zoo, along with the zoo staff had been screened for any signs for the virus on April 8. At the time, all staff members had tested negative for any symptoms while the body temperatures and breathing of the tigers was also found to be normal.
25 June 2020||Pune,||Pune crosses 17,000 mark with over 400 new cases||With over 423 new COVID-19 cases being recorded on Wednesday, the number of active cases in Pune district touched 6,365 and its cumulative tally surged to 17,274. The district also reported four more deaths, taking its toll to 621. Over the past fortnight, the district has been reporting an average of 400 new cases every day. The district recorded its second-highest case surge on Tuesday, with 820 cases. The highest spike of 823 cases was reported on June 20. The next day, 675 cases were reported, while nearly 400 cases were recorded on Monday. Over 40% of cases in Pune city are emerging outside its 75-odd containment zones. Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said while 360 patients are critical, 10,288 patients have been discharged so far. The district’s recovery rate stands at 59.56%. In Pune division, the death toll has risen to 908, while the case load has reached 21,353. Of them, 7,256 are active, while 13,189 patients have recovered. Dr. Mhaisekar chaired a special emergency meeting with authorities in Solapur on Wednesday, after 26 more deaths pushed its toll to 230. He said the situation is under control in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur, but cases are rising in Pune and Solapur. The case fatality rate in Solapur is 10%, the highest in Pune division. “The rate is especially high in the areas covered by six of the 15 primary health centres in Solapur,” he said. 50,000 testing kits As per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s directive, Dr. Mhaisekar has asked authorities in Solapur to buy 50,000 kits in two lots of 25,000 each and begin testing. He said, “With the aid of these kits, we can increase the rate of early detection of asymptomatic cases while protecting people with co-morbidities.” The tally in Solapur has reached 2,187, with 33 new cases. Of them, 629 are active and 1,328 have recovered. Satara reported only six new cases, taking the district’s case load to 850. Of them, 132 are active and 678 have recovered. The district’s death count is 40. Sangli reported just two new cases, pushing its tally to 293. Of them, 93 are active. Seven new cases in Kolhapur took its total to 749, of which 38 are active and 703 have been discharged. Kolhapur has recorded eight deaths, and Sangli nine.
25 June 2020||Thane,||Policeman dies in Bhayandar||A 54-year-old traffic inspector attached to the Thane district rural police in Bhayandar died of COVID-19 at a hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday, an official here said.  At least 44 personnel from the Thane rural police have tested positive, of which 21 are undergoing treatment and 22 have been discharged so far, said Tukaram Tatkar, PRO, Thane district rural police.
25 June 2020||Ahmemdabad,||HC Judge gets phone call from man claiming to be Cong. MLA||A Gujarat High Court Judge has taken a serious note of a call she received on her official mobile number from a person claiming to be the Congress MLA from Petlad in Anand district and seeking to influence the court’s decision related to an anticipatory bail matter. Justice Bela Trivedi on Tuesday asked the Anand Superintendent of Police (SP) to get the statements of the MLA, Niranjan Patel, and a man identified as Toufik Vohra, based on call detail record obtained by the HC registrar. Justice Trivedi had said she will initiate proceeding under the Contempt of Courts Act against the caller for committing an “act which prejudices or interferes or tends to interfere with due course of any judicial proceedings or interferes or tends to interfere with the administration of justice in any manner”. Anand SP Ajit Rajian said he submitted a report to the court on Wednesday as directed, but declined to share its details, saying the matter was sub-judice. The matter was adjourned for Thursday. Mr. Patel could not be reached for a comment. Justice Trivedi, hearing the anticipatory bail matter of one Vijay Shah, said on Tuesday she received a call on her official mobile phone at 8.55 a.m. from an unknown number from a person, who identified himself as the Congress MLA from Petlad, Niranjan Patel. When he tried to talk about a criminal case, she said she disconnected the call after telling the person that he cannot make a call like this. The person called again three times, one after the other, then sent three SMSes related to the case number of Mr. Shah, saying he should not get pre-arrest bail, according to the court order.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||New BJP MLC Padalkar spouts virus analogy; NCP seeks apology||BJP’s new Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Gopichand Padalkar sought to compare Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar to the novel coronavirus at a press conference, triggering sharp protests from the NCP that has sought an unconditional apology from him and the BJP. Addressing a press conference at Pandharpur in Solapur district on Tuesday, Mr. Padalkar alleged that the bahujan samaj has been suffering because of the policies of Mr. Pawar, whose party is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. He said, “According to me, Sharad Pawar is the corona that has infected the State. Pawar has always taken steps that would hamper the prospects of the masses.” ‘For publicity’ The NCP did not take Mr. Padalkar’s comments lightly. NCP leader and Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said any minion who wanted to make a name for themselves in Maharashtra attacked a towering figure like Mr. Sharad Pawar. “It gives them publicity. The BJP in Maharashtra has been complaining to the police about internet trolling. What do they have to say now?” he asked. Mr. Awhad said, “Devendra Fadnavis inducted Mr. Padalkar in the BJP despite his criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Now it is the responsibility of Mr. Fadnavis to answer whether he supports such comments.” NCP workers across the State staged protests against Mr. Padalkar and places such as Solapur and Sangli will be witnessing more protests in the coming days, demanding an apology from him. Mr. Fadnavis, who was in Pune on Tuesday, agreed that the comments made by Mr. Padalkar were not appropriate. “I had a word with Mr. Padalkar. I told him that though Pawar saheb is our political opponent, he is not our enemy. I told him that forget Pawar saheb, making such remarks against any senior leader is not appropriate. If anyone wants to express his opposition, it should be done using appropriate words,” said Mr. Fadnavis, who is Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Mr. Fadnavis said Mr. Padalkar had accepted that it was an emotional outburst against the veteran NCP leader. “Mr. Padalkar said he will give a clarification. He has accepted ... Young leaders from all parties should exercise restraint while speaking,” he added.  Dhangar leader  Coming to the limelight as a leader of the State’s Dhangar (shepherd) community, Mr. Padalkar has claimed that he does not think that Mr. Pawar is in favour of reservations for the community. Interestingly, Mr. Padalkar had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as a candidate of Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) from Sangli. He had then criticised Prime Minister Modi but lost to the BJP candidate. After the Lok Sabha polls, he shifted sides to join the BJP in the presence of the then Chief Minister Mr. Fadnavis and contested the 2019 Assembly polls in the State against NCP leader and present Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar from Baramati. He lost deposit as Mr. Ajit Pawar won the poll by a huge margin. He was nominated to the State Council from the BJP quota last month. The Dhangars have been demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) status, while they are presently being categorised into the Vimukta Jatis and Nomadic Tribes category. The previous BJP government had promised to extend ST status to Dhangars in 2014, which was not fulfilled. A report was commissioned by the previous government from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences regarding the issue, which has not yet been made public.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sena hails ‘victory’ against coronavirus in Dharavi||With the number of new COVID-19 cases from Dharavi in Mumbai trickling down to a single digit, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday hailed the “defeat” of the coronavirus as a befitting reply of the party-led government to its critics, an oblique reference to the BJP. Dharavi, which was once a troublesome COVID-19 hotspot, had on Tuesday reported just five new cases, the lowest since April 5. The total number of cases now stands at 2,189. “Controlling the spread of the pandemic in Dharavi calls for celebrations. Those criticising the MVA government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis should also be invited for the celebrations,” said an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana . It said the difficult task to curb the spread of coronavirus in Dharavi has earned accolades for the State government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is ruled by the Sena, from the Centre. The Sena also thanked residents of Dharavi for adhering to the lockdown norms and following various other measures. Commenting on the strategy adopted in Dharavi, the edit said the BMC administration increased testing and tracing of contacts and also made lockdown rules stricter. The Sena also praised BMC Commissioner I.S. Chahal and Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh for the Dharavi success. “However, the war against the virus is not yet over. Cases are rising elsewhere in Maharashtra,” it said. With the highest population density of 2,27,136 persons per sq. km, Dharavi had 491 cases in April, with the growth rate of 12%, when the number of cases were doubling every 18 days. As per an official release, the proactive measures adopted by the BMC brought down the COVID-19 growth rate to 4.3% in May and further down to 1.02% in June. These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June 2020. It listed challenges like common toilets, high population density, narrow lanes and crammed neighbourhood, which made it difficult to ensure that people adhere to physical distancing norms. “The BMC adopted a model of actively following four Ts — tracing, tracking, testing and treating. This approach included activities like proactive screening. While 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 people were screened with the help of mobile vans. As many as 4,76,775 people were surveyed by BMC health workers,” the release said. Fever clinics were set up for screening high-risk category such as elderly or senior citizens, which helped screen 3.6 lakh people, it said.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sheena murder: Indrani seeks bail citing virus||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, has filed a plea in a special CBI court, seeking interim bail citing the risk of contracting coronavirus. She is currently lodged in the Byculla women’s prison in central Mumbai. The court had earlier rejected her four regular bail applications filed on medical grounds, while another one moved on the merits of the case is still pending. In her latest plea filed on Tuesday, Ms. Mukerjea sought temporary bail for 45 days, citing the COVID-19 outbreak and her medical history. The application claimed that given the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State, there is no certainty when the trial or hearing for the bail (merits) will begin. It further said that she has been in judicial custody ever since her arrest in August 2015 and she has been suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries. The application also said that she has suffered from blackouts time and again, and has been on medication. Thus, considering her medical history and the guidelines issued by the high-powered committee, the court should grant interim bail to her, the application said. During the hearing on the plea, the special court on Wednesday asked the investigating agency to file its reply on June 26. Meanwhile, the special court also rejected the interim bail plea of Ms. Mukerjea’s former husband Sanjeev Khanna, who is a co-accused in the case.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||State forms task force to address transport issues||A State-level transport task force has been set up by the government to iron out issues faced by goods transporters and those providing passenger transport services, and to take measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The task force will be headed by Transport Minister Anil Parab and will have representatives of various freight associations and civil transport organisations and companies. The task force has been set up to study the public transport system, its impact on transport-related issues, and problems in the transport system, and find solutions. It will have its first meeting on Friday via videoconferencing. The other members on the team will include additional chief secretary (transport), secretary (roads), Public Works Department, Additional Director General of Police (Transport), Maharashtra, vice-chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation, and the general manager, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking. The force will also have representatives of the Maharashtra State Trucks, Tempo, Tanker Federation, Bus Transport Federation, various autorickshaw and taxi unions, Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India, and president, Maharashtra Truck, Tempo, Owners Association, as members.
25 June 2020||Pune,||Village in Solapur bids tearful adieu to martyred son||Hundreds of citizens and villagers in Solapur’s Barshi taluk stepped out to pay their final tributes to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) head constable Sunil Kale, who was laid to rest in his ancestral village Pangaon on Wednesday. Kale, who was with the CRPF’s 182 Battalion, was killed in an encounter in Bundzoo in south Kashmir’s Pulwama sector in the early hours of Tuesday, in a joint anti-terror cordon and search operation launched by the CRPF, the Indian Army and the Jammu and Kashmir Police. Two militants also were killed in the operation. Mortal remains The jawan’s mortal remains were flown from Srinagar to Pune by a special military plane late on Tuesday. They were then taken to Solapur by road on Wednesday morning. Impassioned scenes of grief were witnessed as villagers gathered to bid their final farewell to the valiant martyr. Heart-rending vignettes and loud chants of “Sunil Kale amar rahe (long live Sunil Kale)” and “ Bharat Mata ki jai ” rent the funeral atmosphere. Stuff of lore A mournful congregation of citizens from Pangaon and other villages at Barshi paid tributes to the martyred braveheart whose daredevilry and fearlessness was the stuff of lore in this part of the district. His colleagues at the CRPF and his friends in Pangaon recalled that it was precisely because of his bravery that Kale was at the forefront of such dangerous operations. Earlier this month, on June 3, he was involved in another encounter which resulted in the deaths of three militants, his colleagues said. Spirit of self-sacrifice His family said that right from an early age, he was imbued with a strong spirit of self-sacrifice and a sense of patriotic duty, which led him to join the armed forces. He his survived by his mother, his wife and two children — boys aged 10 and 13 years, respectively. A close friend recalled how Kale, who was to retire from the CRPF some time ago, had remained in Pulwama owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. He had last visited his family in January. Besides his military service, villagers spoke of Kale’s caring nature and his deep interest in farming activity. Last rites His final rites were performed with military solemnity in the afternoon. In a noble gesture, the Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust in Mumbai has announced that it will sponsor the education of the martyred soldier’s children.
25 June 2020||Surat,||Sitharaman intervenes, policeman held for assaulting bank employee||A police constable was suspended and arrested for allegedly thrashing a bank employee in Surat district after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought timely action in the matter. Bank officials said police constable Ghanshyam Shyora entered the Canara Bank’s Saroli branch on Monday and asked the woman clerk to print his passbook. When told that the printer wasn’t working, he lost temper, abused her, and started slapping and pushing her. The video of the attack went viral on social media. “My office is being informed that the Commissioner of Police visited @canarabanks Saroli branch and assured staff of full cooperation; the accused police constable is placed under suspension,” Ms. Sitharaman tweeted on Wednesday. The minister said her office had spoken to the Surat Commissioner of Police R.B. Brahmbhatt who assured that the accused constable should be suspended immediately. “Will be closely following this matter. Wish to assure that the safety of all members of staff in banks is of importance for us. Amid challenges, banks are extending all services to our people. Nothing should threaten their safety and dignity,” the minister tweeted. Ms. Sitharaman said she also spoke to Surat district Collector Dhaval Patel on the incident and was assured of timely action. Mr. Brahmbhatt said the constable has been suspended and placed under arrest. A case was registered at Puna police station in Surat on Tuesday under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, a police official said. In the CCTV footage released by the bank, the police constable is seen manhandling the woman bank employee. In another video, shot by a bank employee, he is seen misbehaving and threatening other bank staffers after entering the restricted area.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Fight for right||
25 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||Next few weeks are critical in combating COVID-19, says Fauci||The next few weeks are critical to tamping down a disturbing COVID-19 surge, Dr. Anthony Fauci told the U.S. Congress on Tuesday — issuing a plea for people to avoid crowds and wear masks just hours before mask-shunning President Donald Trump was set to address a crowd of his young supporters in one hot spot. Dr. Fauci and other top health officials also said they have not been asked to slow down virus testing, in contrast to Mr. Trump’s claim last weekend that he had ordered fewer tests be performed because they were uncovering too many infections. Mr. Trump said earlier on Tuesday that he wasn’t kidding when he made that remark. “We will be doing more testing,” Dr. Fauci, infectious disease chief at the National Institutes of Health, pledged to a House committee conducting oversight of the Trump administration’s response to the pandemic. The leading public health officials spent more than five hours testifying before the committee at a fraught moment, with COVID-19 cases rising in about half the States and political polarisation competing for attention with public health recommendations. Dr. Fauci told lawmakers he understands the pent-up desire to get back to normal as the U.S. begins emerging from months of stay-at-home orders and business shutdowns. But that has “to be a gradual step-by-step process and not throwing caution to the wind”, he said. “Plan A, don’t go in a crowd. Plan B, if you do, make sure you wear a mask,” Dr. Fauci said. Record surges Troubling surges worsened on Tuesday in several States, with Arizona, California, Mississippi, Nevada and Texas setting single-day records for new COVID-19 cases, and some Governors saying they’ll consider reinstating restrictions or delaying plans to ease up in order to help slow the spread of the virus. Arizona, where Mr. Trump was headed for a speech at a Phoenix megachurch, reported a new daily record of nearly 3,600 additional infections on Tuesday. Arizona emerged as a COVID-19 hot spot after Republican Governor Doug Ducey lifted his stay-home orders in mid-May. Last week, he allowed cities and counties to require masks in public places and many have done so. Texas surpassed 5,000 new cases for a single day for the first time — just days after it eclipsed 4,000 new cases for the first time Another worrisome trend — an increase in infections among young adults. Dr. Fauci said while COVID-19 tends to be less severe in younger people, some of them do get very sick and even die. If people say, “’I’m young, I’m healthy, who cares’ — you should care, not only for yourself but for the impact you might have” on sickening someone more vulnerable, Dr. Fauci said. About 2.3 million Americans have been infected and some 1,20,000 have died, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.
25 June 2020||Colombo,||Tourism-dependent Maldives to open up for visitors in mid-July||The Maldives has decided to re-open its borders for international travel from July 15, President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih has said, as the Indian Ocean archipelago tries to revive its pandemic-hit economy and vital tourism sector. “This will provide much needed relief to our Tourism Industry and accelerate the country’s economic recovery,” Mr. Solih told a media conference in Male on Tuesday. Tourism accounts for over 70% of the country’s GDP and COVID-19 forced Male to shut down its capital and atolls to visitors, in order to contain the spread of the virus. According to data published by the Maldives’s Ministry of Health, the country, which is home to some four lakh people, has reported 2,238 cases as of COVID-19 and eight deaths as of Wednesday, with a total recovery rate of 81.72 %. Observing that COVID-19 had taken a toll on the entire world, Mr. Solih pointed to case numbers being “much lower than health authorities initially expected” and a “drastic decrease” in the number of active cases. “Much of this can be credited to the Government’s early interventions to halt viral spread, and the proactive efforts of our health authorities to test, trace and isolate positive cases,” he told the media. According to a statement from his office, prayers in congregation are expected to resume in July, while students will return to classrooms, and restaurants and cafes will open for dine-in service. Meanwhile, the Indian mission in Male has evacuated 5,000 Indians who were stranded in the country, through special flights and by sea. So far, 210 Indians in the Maldives tested positive, according to official sources in Male.
25 June 2020||Beijing,||‘Beijing outbreak under control’||The new COVID-19 outbreak that has infected 256 people in Beijing since early June is “under control”, officials said on Wednesday, but fears still remain over the risk of community transmission. “The Beijing epidemic directly linked to Xinfadi (market) is basically under control, but at the same time we have discovered household and workplace cluster infections and cases of community transmission,” said Beijing municipal government spokesman Xu Hejian.
25 June 2020||Islamabad,||‘Pak. crash was caused by pilot error’||A plane crash which killed 97 people in Pakistan last month was because of human error by the pilots, who were discussing the COVID-19 crisis during the landing, according to an initial report released on Wednesday. The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crashed into a crowded residential area on May 22 after both engines failed as it approached Karachi airport. “The pilot, as well as the (air traffic) controller, didn’t follow the standard rules,” said Ghulam Sarwar Khan, Pakistan’s Aviation Minister, announcing the findings in Parliament. He said the pilots had been discussing the virus as they attempted to land the Airbus A320 and had disengaged the craft’s autopilot.
25 June 2020||Dhaka,||Dhaka, June 24, 2020 (AFP) -||Police in Bangladesh’s Bhaluka said on Wednesday that they arrested Mohammad Emon, 15, during the weekend for criticising Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Facebook. The arrest took place after an official from the ruling Awami League made a complaint.AFP
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||China, Kashmir and the ghost of August 5||Sometimes, a seemingly rhetorical statement or a symbolic political decision has the undesirable ability to fundamentally alter the material reality around a particular issue, especially when it comes to sensitive international disputes and conflicts. The impact of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s decision on Kashmir in 2019 on the current China-India military stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is one such phenomenon. As a political scientist, I am aware of the apparent “methodological overreach” in my attempt at linking the two even though it might not be an analytical overreach. Consider the following. What is becoming clear now is that by “inventing” a rhetorical position around the issue of Aksai Chin, a territory India may never have intended to take back by force from China, New Delhi seems to have aggravated the existing Chinese sensitivities on it. Put differently, India’s infrastructure-building activities on its side of the LAC and the China’s China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) connectivity to Pakistan were already on a collision course, and it seems the reorganisation of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on August 5 last year, and the rhetoric surrounding it, may have finally triggered a conflict that was building up for a long time. The ground reality The impact of August 5 has been felt on two fronts — China and Pakistan. Official data show a steady rise in violence in Kashmir since 2014, and the August 2019 decision has done little to reduce this despite the restrictions of movement and a heavy security presence in Kashmir. Early trends on violence in 2020 show that the levels of violence will indeed cross those of 2019. The impact of August 5 goes beyond a mere spike in violence in Kashmir. Since August, retired Pakistani officials close to the establishment have argued that in the wake of India’s Kashmir decision, the Simla Agreement of 1972 — which forms a key basis of bilateral relations, including the management of the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir — is not valid anymore. The Pakistani side argues that the Indian decision vis-à-vis Kashmir goes against the spirit of the Simla Agreement since the agreement states that “pending the final settlement of any of the problems between the two countries, neither side shall unilaterally alter the situation....”. This of course does not take away from the fact that Pakistan has altered the situation in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) several times over in the past. If this indeed reflects an emerging official thinking within Pakistan, this might have serious implications. For one, this would mean that the agreement governing the India-Pakistan border in J&K will no longer be the Simla Agreement but would, as a result, have to be the one signed between the two sides in Karachi in 1949, at the end of their first war in 1948. Since the Simla Agreement formalised several territorial changes which took place after 1949 and until December 1971, such territorial adjustments could become null and void. This raises two specific issues. For one, since the current ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan (declared in 2003) is essentially a reiteration of the ceasefire agreement declared at the end of the 1971 war, this could mean an end to the existing ceasefire agreement between them. Second, if “Simla is dead”, does it mean that the LoC that came into being (replacing the ceasefire Line in 1971) also stands nullified? In other words, the entire basis of India-Pakistan negotiations on J&K since 1972 may cease to exist if Pakistan decides to undermine the Simla Agreement, or accuse India of having done so by the August decision and then decide not to abide by it. The China challenge Let us return to the impact of August 5 on the current India-China stand-off. It was clear soon after the August decision that Beijing was deeply uneasy about India’s decision for at least two reasons. One, India’s strong official claim about a territory, Aksai Chin, that has been under the Chinese control; and two, bringing Ladakh under India’s central rule annoyed Beijing since it considers Ladakh’s borders to be disputed between them. From Beijing’s perspective, the August decision also complicated the ongoing boundary talks between the two sides. Pakistani appeals to Beijing to push back against India may have sharpened the Chinese reaction. There is also some similarity between the Pakistani and Chinese positions on India’s August decision: both sides argue that India changed the status of a territory (J&K) whose borders were still being negotiated. Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar’s visit to Beijing in August 2019 and his assurances to China that India’s decision had “no implication for the external boundaries of India or the Line of Actual Control with China. India was not raising any additional territorial claims. The Chinese concerns in this regard were misplaced” did not calm Beijing. Mr. Jaishankar was right about the implication of the reorganisation of J&K, but not the Home Minister’s statement about Aksai Chin. China took the position that India “continued to damage China’s territorial sovereignty by unilaterally modifying the form of domestic law” and that it was “unacceptable”. Fallout of India’s official stand Cut to June 19, 2020. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after an all-party meeting to discuss the LAC stand-off, stated: “Neither is anyone inside the Indian territory nor any of our border posts captured.” Notwithstanding the clarifications from his Office, leading to even more controversy, the question is whether this was a deliberate climb-down from the August rhetoric so as to calm nerves in Beijing. We do not know. What we do know, however, is that the climbdown, if indeed that was the case, was not only ineffective but may also have had the opposite effect. Going by the Chinese statements thereafter, the Prime Minister’s clarification has clearly been used by Beijing to justify its position on the LAC. It could now further embolden China to undertake more border raids and land capture attempts. For both India and China, the region is of great strategic importance. For India, Chinese aggression close to Eastern Ladakh could frustrate its hold over Siachen glacier and compromise its security in the western frontier given the close partnership between Islamabad and Beijing. For China, the region is important for the CPEC and its access to Central Asia, both of which are part of its “Belt and Road” grand strategy. More worry More so, as a second-order consequence of the August decision, New Delhi may have unwittingly brought China and Pakistan closer than ever on the Kashmir question. From being somewhat neutral on the Kashmir question in the 1990s and 2000s, China today is an aggrieved party, or so it claims, in the Kashmir conflict. If Pakistani involvement in the Kashmir conflict were not enough, we now have China in the game as well as a much more powerful third party. Furthermore, we have always known that China and Pakistan shared a formidable strategic alliance and yet, by wisely deemphasising that and dealing with them separately — not as a strategic alliance — New Delhi had contained their combined effect on itself to a great extent. Not anymore. Our strategy should have been to continue to weaken the China-Pakistan alliance by engaging China economically, multilaterally and regionally. Instead we may have brought them closer than ever. The lesson is self-evident. A country the size of India can ill-afford to be narrowly tactical in its foreign and security policy decision making. Geopolitics in Southern Asia is changing way faster than we previously imagined and, therefore, our decisions should not be made based on tactical and political considerations, but on cold, clear-headed strategic assessment. Happymon Jacob teaches national security at the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The many questions about Favipiravir||The pandemic has not only exposed the dire situation of the public health infrastructure, but also the opacity with which drug/medical device approvals are granted in India. We have had many controversies over the last few months: the use of hydroxychloroquine for treating COVID-19 patients, grant of licences for diagnostic kits for COVID-19, and the specificity of serological tests for detecting antibodies against the virus. Another controversy is brewing due to the opacity surrounding the regulatory approval granted to Favipiravir for the treatment of COVID-19 patients with mild or moderate symptoms. No scientific consensus The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, an Indian pharmaceutical company, to sell generic versions of Favipiravir for the treatment of COVID-19. This drug, originally invented by a Japanese company, was meant to treat influenza. After the outbreak of COVID-19, doctors in China and Russia started using it to treat COVID-19 patients although there is no scientific consensus on the efficacy of the drug. As per Glenmark’s filing with the Bombay Stock Exchange, the company has received “accelerated approval” from the DCGI for “restricted emergency use in India”. On what basis did the DCGI grant approval? Will the underlying data be made publicly available to the medical community? While the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019 allow the DCGI to grant approvals for the use of certain drugs based on approvals granted overseas, they do not absolve it from making their rationale for such decisions public. There is no information on the DCGI’s website explaining the scientific basis of its approval of Favipiravir for COVID-19. Evidence-based medicine requires the testing of pharmaceutical drugs through randomised clinical trials (RCT) wherein one set of patients get a placebo (or an alternate therapy) and the other set of patients gets the investigational drug. Neither the doctors nor the patients know who gets what drug. If the set of patients that gets the investigational drug shows a better outcome, it can be presumed that the drug has a demonstrable therapeutic effect on the disease in comparison to the comparator. This is the gold standard for demonstrating the efficacy of a drug in treating a particular disease. The data collected from such clinical trials are usually published in a peer-reviewed journal where they are subject to scientific scrutiny. This system has worked during this pandemic to disprove claims that hydroxychloroquine was useful in treating COVID-19. With regard to Favipiravir, we know that Glenmark was conducting a clinical trial for this drug in India. According to the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI), Glenmark’s study was meant to be carried out on 150 patients at 12 different hospitals in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi with the aim of comparing Favipiravir with “standard care” provided to patients with mild or moderate COVID-19. The decision to enrol patients with “mild” COVID-19 is baffling given that virtually all these “mild” cases often resolve themselves without any intervention. Further, the CTRI does not explain the nature of the “standard care” being provided to the patients. It is important to disclose this information from a scientific and ethical viewpoint. If we do not know the treatment with which Favipiravir is being compared, how do we know if it is any better than perhaps a placebo? The Japanese regulator, which approved this drug for influenza, mandated a warning to be printed on the packaging of this drug for early embryo toxicity and teratogenicity, specifically cautioning its use in women in the early stages of pregnancy. The exclusion criteria listed on the CTRI list pregnant and lactating women, which is not necessarily the same thing. The protocol on CTRI also specifies that the 150 patients enrolled in the study will be randomised 1:1. This patient cohort is not adequate to substantiate statistically either the primary or the secondary endpoint of the study. Flaws in observational studies Glenmark claims in a letter to the Bombay Stock Exchange that it was granted approval based on evaluation of data and expert opinion. We tried to retrieve the scientific studies that have tested the effectiveness and safety of this drug among mildly ill COVID-19 patients. PubMed, a database that contains more than 30 million citations and abstracts of biomedical literature, lists a single study published in a journal calledEngineering. It shows that a group of Chinese investigators did an observational study on 80 patients and concluded that those who got the drug tended to have faster disappearance of virus and quicker improvement of shadows in their chest x-rays. The study was not a randomised controlled trial and therefore, small size apart, had two serious flaws — bias (the sample studied is not representative of the population it was drawn from or the population at large) and confounders (unable to control for all other factors that might differ between the two groups). The only way to eliminate these is to design a prospective randomised controlled study. We are unable to find well-designed robust scientific studies on the effectiveness and safety of this drug in COVID-19 patients. Therefore, the explanation that the grant was approved based on “evaluation of data” does not seem tenable. Subsequent to a scandal in 2012, the DCGI instituted a system of review by a Subject Expert Committee (SEC) to decide whether a new drug should be approved for the Indian market. The SEC was meant to have external experts who were specialists in the field of therapy being considered. After a SEC approval, the DCGI is required to take the final call on whether to approve a drug. Thereafter the information on which such decisions were made was required to be disclosed because the Right to Information Act requires such a disclosure. However, in this case, the minutes of the meetings, the composition of the SEC and the clinical trial results submitted to the SEC/DCGI are not available on the DCGI’s website. A representative of Glenmark disclosed on a channel that the approval for restricted use was based on an “early readout” from the study; the study is expected to be completed in the coming weeks and months. So, on what basis did the DCGI approve restricted use of this drug? A culture of secrecy around drug approvals serves no purpose except to benefit pharmaceutical companies. At Rs. 103 a tablet, the manufacturer stands to make a fortune once there are bulk orders for this drug. However, if the drug does not work as advertised, the DCGI could end up promoting widespread misuse of this drug and a false sense of security amongst the population. The regulator would be responsible for promoting irrational medicine as it has been on previous occasions. We would caution our countrymen against any such purchases until the DCGI makes public the clinical information on the basis of which the accelerated approval has been granted along with the minutes of the SEC meeting where this drug was approved. S.P. Kalantri is Professor of Medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences and Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, Sevagram, Maharashtra; Dinesh Thakur is a public health activist
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The perils of follow the leader syndrome||André Gide, the French writer, once said, “Everything has been said before, but since nobody listens we have to keep going back and begin all over again.” These words only underscore the need to be vocal especially when one has the country’s best interests at heart, more so when India is passing through one of its most difficult phases since Independence. Listen to the inner voice The novel coronavirus pandemic is causing great pain. But the reason for its most painful blow is its handling or mishandling by the government of the day, affecting not only the economy but also the very livelihoods of lakhs of Indians. We need to stir up our collective conscience, the inner voice that warns us that things are not normal. But how do we do it? We must remind ourselves of what B.R. Ambedkar said on November 25, 1949: “‘The second thing we must do as to observe the caution which John Stuart Mill has given to all who are interested in the maintenance of democracy, namely, not ‘to lay their liberties at the feet of even a great man, or to trust him with power which enable him to subvert their institutions.’ ‘... this caution is far more necessary in the case of India than in the case of any other country. For in India, Bhakti or what may be called the path of devotion or hero-worship, plays a part in its politics unequalled in magnitude by the part it plays in the politics of any other country in the world. Bhakti in religion may be a road to the salvation of soul. But in politics, Bhakti or hero-worship is a sure road to degradation and to eventual dictatorship’.” These words of caution hold good even today.  Managing disaster COVID-19 has posed a grave threat to India right from the the time of the national lockdown. And yet, even now, the planners in the country do not have a national plan to combat the disease. The Disaster Management Act, 2005 expressly defines “Disaster” as “a catastrophe, mishap, calamity or grave occurrence in any area, arising from natural or man made causes, or by accident or negligence which results in substantial loss of life or human suffering or damage to, and destruction of, property, or damage to, or degradation of, environment, and is of such a nature or magnitude as to be beyond the coping capacity of the community of the affected area”. The Act is comprehensive and provides for, inter alia , the constitution of a National Authority, a National Executive committee, the constitution of an advisory committee of experts in the field to make recommendations and to prepare a national plan. This plan must provide for measures for prevention or mitigation. The Act lays down “guidelines for minimum standards of relief, including “ ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life... and for restoration of means of livelihood”. It enables the creation of a National Disaster Response Fund in which the central government must make due contribution and requires “any grants that may be made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management” to be credited into the same Fund. It also provides for a National Disaster Mitigation Fund, exclusively for mitigation. The Act also provides for State and local-level plans and for creating State Disaster Response Fund among others. The Act was not enforced for a long time even by the United Progressive Alliance/Congress government which enacted it. The Supreme Court of India intervened at the instance of Swaraj Abhiyan ( Swaraj Abhiyan vs Union Of India And Ors ) and Prashant Bhushan. Justices Madan Lokur and N.V. Ramanna directed, in 2016, that the Act be implemented, and in particular the preparation of a National Plan, a National Disaster Response Fund, or NDRF, and a National Disaster Mitigation Fund, or NDMF. So, for the first time, the government came out with a National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP), 2016, which dealt with various kinds of disasters; it was amended in 2019. So why is this National Plan not even in place? Without it, the fight against COVID-19 is ad hoc, and has resulted in thousands of government orders, confusing those who are to enforce them as well as the public. Obtuse steps Worse still, the NDRF is inactive. On April 3, 2020, the government of India agreed to contribute its share to the NDRF. But curiously, “keeping in mind the need for a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like [that] posed by COVID-19”, a public charitable trust under the name of Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) was set up to receive grants made by persons and institutions out of the NDRF, in violation of Section 46 of the Act. The crores being sent to this fund are not even audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India. It is a totally opaque exercise. Curiously on May 22, the government of India issued a notification to fight the locust menace by extending relief under the NDRF as also the SDRF. So, according to the government, the threat of locusts is more severe than the novel coronavirus. Clearly, the government of the day has not only ignored the binding law but also circumvented it. The government has decided to fight the crisis in an ad hoc and arbitrary manner instead of the organised steps as mandated by the Act. In so doing, the experts have been sidelined. Unilateral decisions without the advice of others only cause problems, two classic examples being demonetisation that was forced on the nation in November 2016, and the national lockdown of March 25 that was thrust upon a one billion-plus people at four hours notice. To add to this is the face-off between India and China at the Line of Actual Control. To thinking Indians, the handling of these situations is not only unsatisfactory but also misguided. No one can deny that the Prime Minister means well, but his actions speak otherwise. With Parliament not in session and the judiciary virtually silent, despite its suo motu intervention in the migrants’ crisis, no one is even demanding the implementation of an immediate National Plan for COVID-19. It appears that constitutional bodies have not paid heed to Dr. Ambedkar’s warning. The media and civil society have to step in to guard the nation as they are the last bastions of a vibrant democracy. One can only think of the poem by Josiah Gilbert Holland, with the line, “...A time like this demands, Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands.” As Albert Einstein once said, “The strength of the Constitution lies entirely in the determination of each Citizen to defend it.” So, let us all take a vow to defend the Constitution of India. I know of no other way forward. Dushyant Dave is Senior Advocate and President, Supreme Court Bar Association of India. The views expressed are personal
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||How to battle depression||It pained me immensely when a bright star in Bollywood ended his life owing to depression. When a young person who had many years of productive life left, who was a National Olympiad Winner in Physics, and who left a career in mechanical engineering to become a talented and popular actor, takes such an extreme step, it’s a collective loss to the nation. He was also a budding entrepreneur. It is sad that a prodigious actor and an exceptional citizen is no longer with us. Life is sometimes filled with anxiety, internal conflict, disharmony, uncertainty and fear of the unknown. These thoughts give way to myriad feelings. One tends to feel like a stranger to one’s self. COVID-19 has acted as a catalyst inducing angst in the life of individuals who are already stressed because of various factors and modern lifestyles. Stress in modern life There are many factors that cause stress in modern life. They include more engagement with technology and less with people; more focus on “success” (the ends) rather than the process of learning (the means); never-ending aspirations; relationship issues; impatience while doing tasks, for this is a generation looking for instant gratification; and too many choices and the limitations of the human mind to choose wisely. With the bridging of gender inequalities, increase in employment of women, growth and development of urban and peri-urban areas, interference of the media and social media in every aspect of life, and disruption in the traditional joint family system, there is an underlying strain on the socio-cultural fabric. Some of this stress, if not handled well, can push human beings into depression. Some interesting cases and studies throw light on the coping mechanisms for anxiety and depression. Viktor Frankl, who was detained in Nazi concentration camps, studied the source of depression and found that it is the lack of meaning in life. Individuals who are able to discover meaning tend to achieve the will and strength to endure life. That brings us to the next question: how do we find meaning in life? Meaning can be found in love and work. Love for fellow beings is what motivates a person to work or take action. If we can base our actions and work on a shared love for family members and society at large, we can find effective meaning in life. ‘The Art of Living’ involves managing the self for others. Prescriptions for depression and anxiety can be found in the writings of Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore believed that being socially connected was an antidote to the mental estrangement that plague-affected people were undergoing in 1918. Tagore was aware that such a wildly contagious disease was likely to cause panic among the students. He organised many events in the Ashram which ensured that social connections existed despite physical distance. In an essay, he suggested that we generate bonhomie between the affected and those who were not, because the ill were not the enemy; the illness was. For immunity from psychological suffering, what was required was a design of togetherness, which Tagore insisted was ingrained in the famous Rig Vedic dicta, Yatra Visvam Bhavati Ekanidam (where the whole world meets in a single nest) and Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family). Connecting with others Besides finding meaning in life, social connect is very important. I feel that positive and continuous communication is the key to end the misery of anxiety, depression and stress to achieve higher levels of well-being. I want to make an earnest request to all the students and teachers who are under any form of stress, or tend to feel depressed, to reach out and talk to people, whether friends or relatives. A depressed person may not want to connect initially. Therefore, I appeal to family, relatives and friends to watch out for signs in their near and dear ones of persistent sadness, aloofness, loss of interest in activities and appetite, negative thoughts including about self-harm, and provide immediate support and connect. We must not stigmatise the condition of mental health issues; it can happen to anyone. Instead, let us support our family and friends to tide over the difficult times with love and care. In doing so, we will find meaning in our own lives. Every Indian citizen is unique as he/she undertakes life’s journey in this diverse and vibrant democracy. The onus lies on society and the immediate family to identify the unique talents in each member of society/ child and nurture them, so that people don’t feel neglected/isolated. Individuals should work for society and for themselves so that they are part of communities. This spirit of harmony between individual and society glued by communication is the best way we can overcome stress, anxiety and depression. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is Human Resource Development Minister, Government of India
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The U.S. trial at The Hague||U.S. President Donald Trump’s authorisation of new sanctions on the International Criminal Court (ICC) is an act of retaliation against the UN body’s high-profile investigation to bring justice to victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity.  In March, the Hague Court’s Appeals Chamber unanimously authorised investigation into alleged atrocities by U.S. troops in Afghanistan since May 1, 2003 as well as other alleged crimes committed since July 1, 2002 in the Central Intelligence Agency’s so-called black sites in Poland, Romania and Lithuania. The court overturned a 2019 pre-trial chamber decision and admitted the 2016 preliminary findings of the ICC’s chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda. Ms. Bensouda’s report claims systematic atrocities of torture, summary executions, forced disappearances and rape, in which the Taliban, the Haqqani Network and Afghanistan’s defence forces were also implicated. Decrying the probe Mr. Trump’s June 11 executive order, which decries the investigations of U.S. personnel as a threat to American national security and foreign policy, slapped asset freezes and family travel bans on investigators. The curbs build on the State Department’s revocation last year of Ms. Bensouda’s U.S. visa. At the time, the move was widely viewed as an attempt to pre-empt the decision over the Afghanistan probe, which the pre-trial chamber declined to authorise the following month.   Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has also said that the new measures would be deployed to shield Israel, which faces a separate inquiry following Ms. Bensouda’s application last December. It relates to Israel’s settlements on the West Bank and the 2014 invasion of Gaza, resulting in hundreds of Palestinian casualties. The latest sanctions could in theory apply to victims and witnesses, besides lawyers and researchers assisting investigators. But their effectiveness is doubtful, say commentators, since the presence of the Hague staff and others on U.S. soil may not be required for progress in the case. The U.S. has always refused to recognise ICC jurisdiction over U.S. personnel on the grounds that it is not party to the Rome Statute that underpins the court. In 2002, the George W. Bush administration suspended its signature to the Statute, when it failed to win backing to restrict the court’s remit solely to cases where the accused belonged to a ratifying state. To do otherwise was a negation of a basic principle of treaty law and would impair the U.S. from meeting its international humanitarian obligations, the officials had argued. Accordingly, the U.S. Congress passed the American Service-Members’ Protection Act, requiring the President to protect American forces from prosecution in The Hague court, besides extending such commitment to the troops of its allies. On the other hand, the 1998 Rome Statute provides for the prosecution of crimes committed in the territory of any one of the 123 states-parties, even if the accused come from a non-member nation. This is the basis for the current investigation wherein Afghanistan and the three European nations, the location of the alleged crimes, are within the ICC’s jurisdiction, even if the U.S. remains outside. Situation in Kabul Meanwhile, after nearly 20 years of Afghanistan’s brutal civil war, which claimed hundreds of thousands of lives, the country’s political future seems highly uncertain. Kabul’s government was excluded from the February agreement between the U.S. and the insurgent Taliban; the latter did not even commit to a lasting ceasefire. On the contrary, its leaders laid down the release of some 5,000 Taliban fighters as a precondition to begin negotiations with the government. The situation has thus strengthened the perception that the real aim behind the agreement was to demonstrate America’s troop reduction before Mr. Trump hit the campaign trail on his re-election bid. In the absence of a functioning government in Kabul, domestic remedies for victims of mass atrocities are a far cry. The grounds for Ms. Bensouda’s case could not be stronger. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Bad to worse||In another round of tit-for-tat manoeuvres, India, followed by Pakistan, has decided to halve the strength of diplomatic missions in each other’s capital. The government’s decision, conveyed in a démarche to the Pakistani Chargé d’affaires on Tuesday, follows the ill-treatment and torture of Indian personnel posted in Islamabad, in clear violation of their diplomatic rights. Pakistan’s contention was that the two men arrested were carrying fake currency, but it is more likely the action was a response to arrests and the expulsion of two Pakistani High Commission officials accused of espionage last month, who were also taken into custody by Indian security officials. New Delhi also accused Pakistan High Commission officials of maintaining “links to terror organisations” as a reason for its decision. While expulsions of diplomats are not uncommon between countries as inimical to each other as India and Pakistan are, this is the first time such a measure has been taken since 2001. Then, the Parliament attack in December 2001, and the largest military mobilisation of the time along the India-Pakistan border, Operation Parakram, were the triggers. Eventually, after a thaw in ties, and Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee’s visit to Pakistan for the SAARC summit in 2004, the move was reversed and diplomats were gradually taken back to a full strength of over a 100 in each High Commission. The latest decision follows not one event, but a general downslide in relations in the past year. After the Pulwama attack last February, the Balakot air strike and the August 5 decision to amend Article 370 of the Constitution and reorganise Jammu and Kashmir, India and Pakistan have snapped all trading ties, downgraded missions — now without High Commissioners — and shut down most diplomatic activities. India and Pakistan have had no talks since 2015, when PM Modi visited Lahore, and the External Affairs Ministers met a few months later. All sporting and cultural exchanges are at an end, and visas are rarely granted, apart from the rare exception being made for the Kartarpur corridor inaugurated last year. From the LoC, where ceasefire violations continue to claim lives of soldiers and civilians on both sides, to practically every multilateral forum India and Pakistan are a part of, both sides are at daggers drawn. Even on non-contentious issues such as cooperating on the coronavirus pandemic as a part of the SAARC grouping, or collaborating against the recent locust invasion that affected the region, Islamabad and New Delhi are unable to find common cause. While the present seems bleak, the future does not augur well for a change, particularly as India-China tensions occupy New Delhi’s concerns and focus. The decision to reduce mission strengths is unlikely to impact working relations between India and Pakistan at present. It is a sign, however, that just when it seems ties between the two neighbours cannot get much worse, they do.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Signalling intent||The Centre’s decision to make it mandatory for vendors on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) procurement platform to specify the country of origin of new products listed by them is on the face of it unexceptionable, aimed as it is at promoting India-made goods. Apart from the place of manufacture, the platform’s administrators have also sought details on the extent of local content and set guidelines on the percentage of localisation for enabling procurement in the case of bids of a specified value. However, the timing and thrust of the announcement — set in the backdrop of the government’s new-found push for self-reliance in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and its devastating impact on the global economy, coupled with the recent heightened border tensions with China — raises several questions. The government’s attempts to raise the share of manufacturing in the economy through the ‘Make in India’ programme have so far failed to significantly boost investment in new, cutting-edge technology-driven or export-oriented industries and instead only taken the country back to import substitution plants making goods predominantly for domestic consumption. To that extent, the drive for self-reliance and greater localisation risks once again eroding Indian industry’s global competitiveness by placing a premium on ‘Indianness’ over quality or cost. The Centre’s move with its GeM portal has also predictably kindled and amplified a gathering clamour for the identification and subsequent boycott of Chinese products including on private e-commerce platforms. The weaponisation of trade ties, especially one where India’s reliance on imports from China now extend̥s beyond smartphones and low-cost electronics to heavy machinery and active pharmaceutical ingredients, is a double-edged sword and fraught with risks for the Indian economy as well. India’s drug makers, who are seeking to entrench themselves as a pharmacy to the world amid the pandemic and accompanying rush for affordable generic treatments, depend on the northern neighbour for about 70% of their requirements of bulk drugs and intermediates. For India to wean itself off these dependencies will take time. The fact is that enhancing manufacturing capacities with improved efficiency and reduced cost would require an overhaul of bureaucratic processes. Attaining genuine self-reliance is a long and capital intensive process that would require far greater investment in education, skill-building and infrastructure. The GeM move on country of origin is at best symbolic. For now, policymakers ought to tone down any trade-linked rhetoric and give diplomats and military negotiators the room to smoothe ties.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for good sense (From an editorial)||So many West Asian peace moves have fallen flat in the last three years, the latest reports from the U.N. skyscraper in New York that the U.S. and Russia are in the mood for making concessions in the interests of a joint peace effort will have to be viewed only with skepticism. What seems to have given a lift to the mercury in the peace barometer is a cryptic remark by the inscrutable U Thant that he could see some “new elements” in the position of the two superpowers. With Russia underwriting one-hundred per cent the Arabs’ demand that Israel should first agree to withdraw unconditionally to its pre-war (1967) boundaries before they can even consider negotiations and the United States thinking in terms of Israeli withdrawal to “secure boundaries” and Arab acceptance of Israel’s sovereign rights, there has so far been no meeting of the minds between the two and this has stood in the way of any meaningful peace move being made. If the latest reports do turn out to have some substance, that would be the first break in the dangerous stalemate prevailing in West Asia.
25 June 2020||Washington,||India GDP to contract 4.5% on COVID-19: IMF||Key emerging market economies are taking a severe hit to GDP amid the COVID-19 pandemic, with India seeing the first contraction in decades, the IMF said. The updated World Economic Outlook shows India’s GDP will fall 4.5% this year, far worse than expected in April just after the pandemic first took hold outside of China. Mexico will see a double digit decline of 10.5% while Brazil just misses that mark with a drop of 9.1%. Argentina is projected to fall 9.9%, with the country already in the middle of a massive debt crunch on top of the health and economic crises. During the global financial crisis in 2009, these emerging markets, along with China, were booming, supporting the global economy even as advanced nations faced severe recessions. Meanwhile, South Africa’s GDP is seen dropping 8%, while oil-producer Nigeria falls 5.4%, it said. The pandemic has sparked an economic “crisis like no other,” sending world GDP plunging 4.9% this year and wiping out $12 trillion over two years, the IMF said. Jobs destroyed Worldwide business shutdowns destroyed hundreds of millions of jobs, and the prospects for recovery — along with the forecasts themselves — are steeped in “pervasive uncertainty” with the virus still rife, the IMF said. The U.S. economy is set to contract 8% in 2020, while China fares slightly better, posting growth of 1%, the report said. The IMF cautioned that trade and geopolitical tensions between the world’s largest economies could undercut a modest recovery in 2021.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||RBI slams banks, NBFCs as digital loan agents flout code||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come down heavily on banks and non-banks as it found violation of fair practices code by digital platforms that act as an agency of these lenders to sell loans. The banking regulator has now prescribed norms such as loan sanction letter to be issued to the borrower on the letter head of the lender concerned. The RBI said it found the platforms tend to portray themselves as lenders without disclosing the name of the bank/ NBFC at the back end as a result of which customers were not able to access grievance redressal avenues available under the regulatory framework. “Of late, there are several complaints against the lending platforms which primarily relate to exorbitant interest rates, non-transparent methods to calculate interest, harsh recovery measures, unauthorised use of personal data and bad behavior,” the regulator said. The RBI said it was concerned due to non-transparency of transactions and violation of guidelines on outsourcing of financial services and Fair Practices Code. “Outsourcing of any activity by banks/ NBFCs does not diminish their obligations, as the onus of compliance with regulatory instructions rests solely with them,” the RBI said. As a result, the lenders were now told to disclose the names of all digital lending platforms, engaged as agents, on the websites of banks/ NBFCs. “Immediately after sanction but before execution of the loan agreement, the sanction letter shall be issued to the borrower on the letter head of the bank/ NBFC concerned,” the central bank instructed. Upfront disclosure Digital lending platforms, engaged as agents, should be asked by the banks to disclose upfront to the customer, the name of the bank/ NBFC on whose behalf they are interacting with him. A copy of the loan agreement along with a copy each of all enclosures quoted in the loan agreement shall be furnished to all borrowers at the time of sanction/ disbursement of loans, the banking regulator said.
25 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Litigation won’t hit businesses’||Three Hinduja brothers — G.P. Hinduja, P.P. Hinduja and A.P. Hinduja — asserted that an ongoing litigation with their eldest brother S.P. Hinduja would have no bearing on the group’s global businesses, adding that they would continue to defend their claims. “It will be apparent from the judgment of the High Court in England that Mr. S.P. Hinduja’s health has been deteriorating for a number of years suffering from Lewy Body disease, which is a form of dementia,” the three brothers said in a statement. “Vinoo, his younger daughter, acting as his litigation friend, is bringing these proceedings on his behalf,” they added. The case has been brought by S.P. Hinduja, 84, against his brothers and revolves around the “validity and effect” of a letter dated July 2, 2014, Press Trust of India reported. The letter includes statements to the effect that the brothers appoint each other as their executors, and that assets held in any single brother’s name belong to all four. A related second letter, dated July 1, 2014, is also linked to the dispute. “In summary, SP seeks a declaration that neither document has legal effect, whether as a will, power of attorney, declaration of trust or other binding document, or alternatively that the documents are revocable and have been revoked,” PTI cited Justice Sarah Falk as noting in her judgment on June 23. “It is very unfortunate that these proceedings are taking place as they go against our founder’s and family’s values and principles that have stood for many decades, especially that ‘everything belongs to everyone and nothing belongs to anyone’,” the three brothers said in the statement. The Hinduja group’s interests in India include Ashok Leyland Ltd., IndusInd Bank Ltd. and Gulf Oil Corp.
25 June 2020||Chennai,||Sales dip spurs cash-n-carry mode at India Cements||Impacted by lower sales volume due to the lockdown, The India Cements Ltd. (ICL) has switched over to a cash-and-carry system to help improve liquidity. “To combat liquidity issues, we have instituted the ‘cash and carry’ system,” said N. Srinivasan, vice chairman and MD, ICL. This, he added, helped improve liquidity as buyers pay immediately for their purchases, instead of opting for credit. “Due to the impact of the Covid necessitated lockdown and lower volume, ICL lost Rs. 150 crore in sales in 2019-20,” he said, adding the firm made up for this by pruning costs; the final net loss in sales was contained to Rs. 57-60 crore in FY20. “If Covid had not happened, the demand would have been better. We are doing well in places where the lockdown has been lifted. Rural demand is decent. There is already a smart rise in cement prices,” he said. ICL reported a standalone net loss of Rs. 111.07 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020, including provision of Rs. 100.04 crore towards an airline subsidiary, the infrastructure division and on account of a vendor who had approached the NCLT. ‘Worst behind us’ Asserting that ICL had crossed the worst in the COVID-19 context, Mr. Srinivasan said the second quarter of FY21 would be better than the year-earlier period. On Q4 of FY20, he said, “We lost 10 lakh tonnes in volume in January-March due to Covid. The last week of March saw a loss of 6-7 lakh tonnes, an impact of about Rs. 85 crore. If we had maintained the volume, we would have netted profit of Rs. 14 crore,” he said. Total income fell to Rs. 1,170 crore from Rs. 1,581 crore. For the full year, total income was Rs. 5,085 crore (Rs. 5,659 crore). The board declared a dividend of Rs. 0.60 a share for the year. For the full year, ICL posted a loss of Rs. 35.51 crore against a profit of Rs. 69.44 crore. ‘Takeover by Damani?’ On the reported takeover of ICL by investor R.K. Damani, he said: “[What appeared in the media] is an incorrect report. We have clarified to SEBI. There is nothing [more] to say.” “Stability of management will be okay. Mr. Damani is a respectable person, who has chosen to invest in India Cements. I should not say more. This company has been around for more than 70 years. We will continue to make cement.”
25 June 2020||Chennai,||Rane Holdings Q4 net profit plunges 77%||Rane Holdings Ltd, (RHL) the holding company of the Rane Group, reported a 77% drop in its net profit before exceptional items to Rs. 73.7 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 on lower volumes across vehicle segments. During the period under review, total net revenue decreased 17.4% to Rs. 4,436.8 crore. The board declared a final dividend of Rs. 4 per share taking the total dividend for the year to Rs. 8 per share, the company said. RHL said revenue from Indian original equipment customers declined by 22% and that from international customers declined by 8%. There was a drop in steering products and light metal casting products partially offset by growth in occupant-safety products. Revenue from the Indian aftermarket segment declined by 5%. This drop was mainly due to the lockdown in the last week of March 2020, according to RHL.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||OVL gets nod for investment in Myanmar||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday approved an additional investment of $121.27 million (about Rs. 909 crore) by ONGC Videsh Ltd. (OVL), for further development of the Shwe oil and gas project in Myanmar. According to an official statement, ONGC Videsh has been associated with the exploration and development of the Shwe project in Myanmar since 2002, as part of consortium of companies from South Korea, India and Myanmar, and has invested $722 million till March 31, 2019 in the project. GAIL is also an investor in this project. The first gas from the Shwe Project was received in July 2013 and plateau production was reached in December 2014. The project has been generating positive cash flows since FY15, the government said.
25 June 2020||Chennai,||KVB Q4 profit rises 40% to Rs. 84 crore||Private sector lender Karur Vysya Bank Ltd. has reported a 40% increase in its standalone net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 to Rs. 84 crore. During the period under review, the bank’s total income grew by Rs. 57 crore to Rs. 1,803 crore. Net interest income stood at Rs. 591 crore, according to a statement from the lender. During the quarter, net NPAs dropped by 106 basis points to 3.92% to Rs. 1,809 crore, the bank said.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Bharti Infratel defers Indus Towers merger||Bharti Infratel on Wednesday extended the deadline for merger with Indus Towers by over two months till August 31. The telecom infrastructure company said in a regulatory filing that its Board of Directors met on Wednesday and took note of the status of the scheme of arrangement between Indus and Bharti Infratel.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Fund for meat, dairy processing infra gets CCEA nod||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given its nod to set up a Rs. 15,000 crore Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund. “Eligible beneficiaries under the scheme include farmer producer organisations and MSMEs with a minimum 10% margin money contribution by them,” said a statement.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||RSWM ties up with HeiQ to offer antiviral fabric under Mayur brand||RSWM Ltd. of the LNJ Bhilwara Group has unveiled anti-viral fabric ‘ViroSecure’ via a technology partnership with Swiss firm HeiQ. Suketu Shah, CEO and business head, Mayur Suiting and LNJ Denim said, “ ViroSecure fabric range offers anti-COVID protection against the spread and transmission of the pathogen.”
25 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Sponsorship relook: BCCI finds itself in a tight spot||The decision to review the IPL’s sponsorship deals in the wake of India’s border dispute with China has evoked a mixed response — both within the BCCI and from industry. IPL authorities had recently issued an unattributed statement on its verified Twitter handle, indicating that a Governing Council (GC) meeting would be convened to “review” sponsorship deals. This put a question mark over title sponsor Vivo as well as three other associate sponsors of the BCCI/IPL — Dream11, Byju’s and PayTM, which are funded by Chinese entities. In bad shape Given the ‘sensitivity’ of the matter, no BCCI official was available for comment. However, a GC member, on condition of anonymity, conceded that terminating sponsorship deals now will significantly affect BCCI’s already troubled financial situation. “We aren’t sure about the fate of IPL this season. Moreover, with the economy in a bad shape, chances of getting a new sponsor at the same price are remote, to say the least. I am not sure whether this is a wise move,” he said. Mobile handset manufacturer Vivo shells out approximately Rs. 440 crore per IPL edition. Byju’s, the Indian team’s main sponsor, pays Rs. 4.61 crore for each of India’s international matches, except those in ICC events (Rs. 1.56 crore per match). Sleight of hand Ad film director and entrepreneur Prahlad Kakkar offered a solution. “It’s a no-brainer that you can’t get the same price should you decide to replace the sponsor. Instead, it’s best to make them pay for the sponsorship deals and boycott the products,” Kakkar told The Hindu . “That’s a good Indian rhetoric: Take money from one hand and don’t pass it on from another. It’s called a sleight of hand or divine justice.” Interestingly, even if the BCCI decides to follow Kakkar’s prescription, captain Virat Kohli, who is the brand ambassador of Vivo India, will find himself in a difficult situation.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Academies in dire straits: Raj||Sports persons are trying to cope with the effects of lockdown in their individual capacity with varying degrees of success. But, the sports academies are choking without resources and players. The coaches and other personnel have been demoralised without any income for months. “Right now, most of them are struggling to make ends meet. That is the ground reality. They have lost their livelihood for about four months, and have spent their savings. They are worried about clearing their credit with the grocery shops, pending school fees of their children, rent dues etc. They need support for their personal lives first before they get back to sports,” said Raj Hazarika who runs seven sports academies in Delhi and Gurugram, catering to 12 sports activities. Positive side On the positive side, Raj mentioned about the Union Minister Nitin Gadkari expressing confidence in a webinar about restarting the fitness industry with social distancing and strict hygiene norms. A national-level tennis player from Assam, Raj has taken up the pitiable plight of the sports academies with the Union Sports Minister, Kiren Rijiju, through a public petition. “These sports academies work at the grass-root level. They give easy access to the sports lovers to get into sports. They are also the platform where the sporting talent is identified and nurtured till they are taken by the State and national federations,” said Raj. Backbone “These small centres, with their limited infrastructure, are working as the backbone for nurturing talent and providing the ecosystem for grooming future stars,” he said. He warned that Indian sports could be “pushed back by ten years” if the sports academies were not revived quickly.
25 June 2020||Bengaluru,||A feat of human endeavour and mental toughness||Kieren D’Souza is a tired man. Only a few days ago, he finished a gruelling 5,289-metre trail run on the Pir Panjal mountain range in Himachal Pradesh. While most climbers take around six days to scale ‘Friendship Peak’, Kieren did it in just under 12 hours. The 27-year-old followed the global trend in mountaineering and trail runs, where the emphasis is on recording fast times. After securing permission from the local police and government officials, he began the trek from Dhundi. The scheduled start time of 1 a.m. was delayed by a few minutes, as a couple of uninvited, inebriated guests crashed the party. Low inclines Once the trail run began, Kieren eased through the initial stages, aided by good weather and low inclines. At around the 4,000m mark was when he was forced to slow down. Sub-zero temperatures and chilly winds made for a punishing combination. Kieren had to change out of his running gear — a thin water-proof jacket, shorts and gloves — to protective mountaineering clothes. “My hands started to swell; I was really struggling. I had to take help from my friends in the production house who were doing the video shoot. They helped me put on my boots and pants,” Kieren said. Approaching dawn, Kieren was dehydrated and sleepy, but most crucially, he managed to keep his mind sharp. “One wrong step could result in a 1km free fall. You also had to watch for dangerous crevasses,” Kieren said. Taking a slow and steady approach, Kieren finally made it to the peak. The exhilaration he felt was short-lived, as he had to gear up for the arduous descent. Due to the steep decline, Kieren could not walk down in normal fashion. He had to ‘down climb’ — similar to the technique used to come down a ladder. He was soon running on fumes. Pure instinct took over, with Kieren stumbling through the final stretch. He nevertheless got the job done — a feat of human endeavour and mental toughness. “The accepted norm may be to climb a mountain in 10 days, but that’s not the only way. One must think out of the box — set new challenges and overcome them.”  The accepted norm may be to climb a mountain in 10 days, but that’s not the only way. One must think out of the box — set new challenges and overcome them
25 June 2020||Paris,||Djokovic under fire after fiasco||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic was widely criticised for hosting the tennis exhibition where he was one of four players to test positive for the coronavirus, a lapse that sent shudders through a sport struggling to get back on its feet. The Serbian star said on Tuesday that he was “deeply sorry” in an unstinting apology for the now-cancelled Adria Tour. In the latest repercussion, Serbian NBA player Nikola Jokic has reportedly tested positive. He was pictured with Djokovic at an exhibition basketball event in Belgrade recently. Scathing Among the scathing criticism of Djokovic, there were questions about whether he, or tennis, should be allowed back. Many also voiced concerns over attempts to restart professional tournaments in August, including the US Open from August 31. The last few months have been a public relations disaster for Djokovic. He broke lockdown rules to train while in Spain, raised eyebrows over possible compulsory vaccination for players in future and described limits on players' entourages at the US Open as “extreme”. Some have now questioned his presidency of the ATP Player Council. ATP chairman Andrea Gaudenzi said the Adria Tour fiasco was a lesson for other tournaments. “When you tell your kids when they try to learn to ride the bike to wear the helmet, it's 'no, no, no',” Gaudenzi said. “And they ride the bike, they fall, and then they wear the helmet.” Father blames Dimitrov Meanwhile, Djokovic’s father Srdjan Djokovic defended his son and instead blamed Grigor Dimitrov, the first player to test positive, for spreading the coronavirus. “Why did it happen? Because that man probably came sick, who knows from where,” he told RTL Croatia TV. “He inflicted damage to both Croatia and to us as a family in Serbia.”  I don’t think it has been a great look for tennis. It’s not something that should have gone ahead. Not surprising how many people have tested positive.  Andy MurrayThree-time Major champion    A couple weeks ago I said yeah it looks like a 'normal' tennis event to me. I'm not sure everyone got my point. Maybe they are getting it now. Nothing’s foolproof so don’t be foolish  Patrick McEnroe   Former player and noted commentator    Yikes this is not good and it’s a pattern. Hope Novak will be ok of course! What now, U.S. Open? Roland Garros? We have a lot of work to do  Martina Navratilova  18-time Major champion   Prayers for all the players that have contracted COVID-19. Don’t tag me for anything I’ve done that has been ‘irresponsible’ or classified as ‘stupidity’ — this takes the cake  Nick Kyrgios   Australian tennis player
25 June 2020||Pune,||To mark Tilak’s death centenary, Pune NGO aims to revive spirit of ‘Lal-Bal-Pal’||In a bid to revive the Independence-era spirit of the ‘Lal-Bal-Pal’, named after nationalists Lala Lajpat Rai, ‘Lokmanya’ Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal, and to mark the death centenary of Tilak, Pune-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) ‘Sarhad’ will launch a series of literary and cultural programmes to strengthen connections between Maharashtra and West Bengal. The programmes are to be inaugurated on August 1 through videoconferencing in the presence of Chief Ministers of West Bengal, Punjab and Maharashtra. Sarhad’s two-year-long event, ‘Maharashtra-Bengal friendship chapter’, and envisioned as a people’s cultural revivalist movement in these two States, will commence on Tilak’s death centenary (August 1, 1920-August 1, 2020) and will go on till August 15, 2022 to mark the 150th birth anniversary of the great philosopher, Sri Aurobindo Ghosh. “We are in touch with the offices of Mamata Banerjee, Capt. Amarinder Singh and Uddhav Thackery, as well as with Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar. Their response has been most positive. We have also spoken with the descendants of Lala Lajpat Rai, Lokmanya Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal who have expressed their readiness to participate in the various programmes from August 1,” said Sanjay Nahar, founder, Sarhad. “Punjab, Bengal and Maharashtra have played significant roles during the struggle for Indian Independence. The historical association and cultural bonds among the three States was solidified in the modern era by the trinity of ‘Lal-Bal-Pal’. In a way, these leaders also represent the bonds that writers, poets and artists from these States have shared over so many years,” Mr. Nahar said. Socio-cultural bonds “After Independence, while the socio-cultural bonds between Maharashtra and Punjab have grown stronger, our ties with Bengal have somewhat weakened, despite a rich pedigree of literary and cultural affinity in the past,” Mr. Nahar said. “Satyendranath Tagore had translated Tilak’s Geetarahasya and Sant Tukaram’s abhangs [devotional poetry] into Bengali, while Rabindranath Tagore had penned a poem on Chhatrapati Shivaji. In the mid-1970s, eminent Marathi litterateur P.L. Deshpande, known as ‘Pu La’, had visited Tagore’s Shantiniketan and had penned his masterful Vang-Chitre soon after. It is precisely such ties that we seek to revive through this mega cultural event,” Mr. Nahar said. He said around 50 literary works in Bengali, Marathi and Punjabi would be translated into respective vernaculars. A number of Marathi plays would be performed in Bengali and Punjabi and vice-versa, while Bengali films would be screened in Pune and other places. He said Sarhad would be facilitating the publishing of these translated works.
25 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxers join camps||Several top boxers of the country have joined different camps following lockdown relaxations. With the resumption of the National camp pushed delayed due to clearance issues from authorities, boxers are joining camps run by their employers or organisations supporting them. Asian silver medallist Kavinder Singh Bisht and National champion Vinod Tanwar have joined the camp at the Air Force Station at Jalahali, Bengaluru. “Training alone at home is difficult. I chose to come to the camp, which has 14-15 boxers. I am about to complete 17 days of quarantine and join others in training. The atmosphere of a camp motivates you,” Kavinder told The Hindu . International Duryodhan Singh Negi and National champions P.L. Prasad and Naveen Boora were among those who joined the Army Sports Institute in Pune. “Only Gaurav Solanki (Commonwealth Games gold medallist) trained here during the lockdown. I joined on June 3. Around 10 boxers are training right now. About 10 more are going through quarantine in order to join the camp,” said Negi. “I was doing my training at home (at Haldwani, Uttarakhand), but it’s difficult to stay focused as you are bound to face distractions. It’s better to stay in the camp even though sparring and close contact exercises are forbidden due to the social distancing protocols. At least you can maintain a routine here.” While Asian championships medallist Manisha Moun and prominent heavyweight boxer Sanjeet have been training at the Institute of Sports (IIS), Vijayanagara, Olympics-qualified boxers Vikas Krishan and Ashish Kumar are going through a 14-day mandatory quarantine period with the hope to begin their training on the IIS campus soon. “Training was getting affected at home due to the long duration of the lockdown. I will get good equipment here and prepare better for the Olympics. Besides, I will get good care and recover from minor injuries to become fully fit,” said Ashish.
25 June 2020||BARCELONA,||Rakitic is Barca’s hero||Barcelona midfielder Ivan Rakitic came off the bench to give his side a 1-0 win at home to Athletic Bilbao on Tuesday, averting a second consecutive draw which would have further dented the champion’s LaLiga title defence. Barca, which put in a sluggish display at an empty Camp Nou, finally found a way through in the 71st minute when Messi slipped the ball into the path of Rakitic, who kept his nerve to beat Athletic’s in-form goalkeeper Unai Simon. In the Premier League, Tottenham’s first win in eight matches in all competitions kept it in the hunt for a Champions League qualification berth. After the 2-0 win over West Ham United, Jose Mourinho’s side is seventh with 45 points, one behind fifth-placed Manchester United.  The results: Premier League: Leicester 0 drew with Brighton 0; Tottenham 2 (Soucek 64-og, Kane 82) bt West Ham 0.   LaLiga: Levante 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 1 (Gonzalez 15-og); Valladolid 1 (Unal 45+5-pen) drew with Getafe 1 (Mata 41); Barcelona 1 (Rakitic 71) bt Athletic Bilbao 0.   Serie A: Hellas Verona 0 lost to Napoli 2 (Milik 38, Lozano 90); SPAL 0 lost to Cagliari 1 (Simeone 90+3); Torino 1 (Belotti 16) bt Udinese 0; Genoa 1 (Falque 59-pen) lost to Parma 4 (Cornelius 18, 33, 53, Kulusevski 87) .
25 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Yoga session held for cricketers||Karnataka senior State cricketers participated in a yoga session at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium on Wednesday. This is among the first official training sessions involving senior cricketers, authorised by the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA), since the lockdown was imposed. The likes of R. Samarth, Devdutt Padikkal, Prasidh Krishna, D. Nischal, Prateek Jain, J. Suchith and others took part and were joined by players from the junior State teams. All players were restricted to the stadium field, as other facilities remained closed. To maintain social distancing, players were divided into batches.
25 June 2020||Chennai,||Need greater corporate support: Sumariwalla||Athletics Federation of India (AFI) president Adille Sumariwalla has sought a closer partnership with corporates to make India more competitive at the Olympics. He was speaking during a webinar organised by Sports For All to mark International Olympic Day, on the topic ‘Making of an Olympic Athlete’. Sumariwalla, a former sprinter who represented the country at the 1980 Moscow Olympics, said, “I don’t think any federation can survive without corporate funding. “We get some funding. However, the government funds most of the programmes but not the national federation. It supports the athletes and coaches. So corporates need to chip in, to partner with federation and government and must see it as a part of nation-building.” Building an ecosystem The AFI president also felt corporates need to support the system rather than just trying to drive marketing mileage through their programmes. “We can have a special board, with corporate, government and federation, and control the whole infrastructure and build the ecosystem that we so badly require,” he added. On developing Olympic-level athletes, Sumariwalla explained the two-pronged approach the apex athletics body follows, with one for the grassroots and another for elite athletes. “The grassroots is the harder part and it is a long-term strategy. We need to put structure, plans, processes and resources. But more importantly, we need patience,” he said. “We conduct the largest grassroots programme with the national inter-district athletics championship that started with 90 districts participating 15 years ago to 500 districts last year in specific events at the under-14 and 16 levels. Identifying talent Over the last year, we have started to identify talent and evaluate them over 14 parameters from the meet and try to get the best. “After 15 years, we now have a couple of junior world champions and a world university champion.”  I don’t think any federation can survive without corporate funding. We get some funding
25 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Vihari begins training with makeshift nets||India cricketer Hanuma Vihari resumed training with some of his teammates in the ‘nets’ — a makeshift facility in his gated community on the outskirts of Hyderabad. “The training is limited, but the sessions are intense thanks to my former Ranji teammate D.B. Ravi Teja, who helped me get to my comfort zone as far as my skills are concerned,” he said. “I want to be the best batsman in the world and contribute to the team’s success as the lead performer as Pujara (Cheteshwar) did last time,” the 26-year-old Vihari told The Hindu at his residence on Wednesday .  Vihari said he has the trust and confidence of teammates, the support staff and the administration which should help him realise his immediate goal of taking his game to the next level on the Australian tour. “I have the ability to adapt to different conditions and change gears very easily as I believe I have the skills and mindset to play all formats of the game,” he said. Added advantage On his bowling, Vihari feels it is a great advantage for any team if a fifth bowler can contribute some 10 to 15 overs and get crucial breakthroughs. “Personally, I want to keep scoring consistently to be in contention for in ODI format also,” he said. Vihari said he was training with a plastic ball a lot to get used to the bounce which is expected when India tours Australia later this year. On the chances against Australia, Vihari, who missed a chance to play in English county this season because of COVID-19, felt with Steve Smith and David Warner coming back to the team, the hosts are expected to come hard. “This was the longest break in my 15-year-career and it has been very difficult to be away from knocking around with the willow,” he said with a smile.
25 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Vaishali wins, Humpy loses||Chennai girl R. Vaishali stunned former World champion Antoaneta Stefanova of Bulgaria and entered the quarterfinals of the first leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess on Wednesday. Her 6-5 victory gave India something to cheer about after Koneru Humpy, the reigning World rapid champion, was shocked earlier in the day by Vietnam’s Le Thao Nguyen Pham. Humpy lost the match 4.5-5.5. The scores were level at 3.5 after the first two segments before Le Thao’s wins in the first two games of the final phase secured her a berth in the last eight stage.
25 June 2020||Mumbai,||ICC chairman: Board meets today to finalise process||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board is set to meet on Thursday to finalise the process of electing chairman Shashank Manohar’s successor. The issue has been on the agenda for the ICC Board since last month but has had to be postponed due to other issues — T20 World Cup fate and breach of confidentiality clause — taking centrestage in the last couple of meetings. As a result, the ICC Board is scheduled to meet on Thursday primarily to finalise the election process. Manohar, despite being eligible for another two-year term, has made it clear he will step down after being the first independent ICC chairman. While the pandemic has resulted in his term being extended, all the national Boards are hoping that the election process kicks off at the earliest. The uncertainty over T20 World Cup, scheduled to be played in Australia in October-November, is unlikely to be over until the Board nails down the new ICC chief.
25 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vachier exits, Giri tops||Anish Giri held on to his position at the top but overnight joint-leader Maxime Vachier-Lagrave lost the last four rounds to tumble out in the league phase of $150,000 Chessable Masters on Tuesday.  The results: Group ‘B’: (10th round): Anish Giri (Ned, 6) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 5); Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 4.5) drew with Ding Liren (Chi, 5.5); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 3.5) lost to Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 5.5); Ninth: Nepomniachtchi drew with Giri; Caruana drew with Radjabov; Liren bt Vachier; Eighth: Radjabov drew with Giri; Liren bt Nepomniachtchi; Caruana bt Lagrave; Seventh: Giri bt Liren; Vachier lost to Radjabov; Nepomniachtchi bt Caruana.
25 June 2020||LONDON,||Vaughan critical of British PM’s comment||Former England captain Michael Vaughan has criticised UK Prime Minister and self-confessed “village cricketer” Boris Johnson over the latter’s statement on upholding the ban on the recreational game saying the ball is a ‘natural vector of disease’. Vaughan tweeted “hand sanitiser in every players pocket...use every time you touch the ball ... SIMPLE... Recreational Cricket should just play from July 4th...utter nonsense it’s not being allowed back.”AFP
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 07:28 IST,||Sudoku - June 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Hit and miss||This lockdown, a phone call changed Abishek Kumar’s life. The call was from his cousin, studying in Class X, who jubilantly informed him that her board exams were cancelled due to the COVID-19 situation. Barely minutes after that call, the stand-up comedian borrowed his mother’ssalwar kameez, created an Animoji of a teacher, and went on to say a few lines before camera. There was no script, no storyboard. “ Ishtathukku adichu vitten (I just reeled on without any thought),” he laughs. But in those few minutes was born a fictional character that would go viral — ‘Mrs Janaki teacher from KRSNM Matriculation School’. Abishek’s humorous interpretation and body language of a quintessential Chennai school teacher has appealed to people of various age groups; so much so that the stand-up comedian gets ‘requests’ every time news breaks. Even his old school teachers — from Balalok Matriculation in Virugambakkam — have started reaching out to him. “They all loved it, thankfully,” says the 24-year-old, who has been using the lockdown to write new material and binge-watch the latest Malayalam films on OTT platforms. Abishek has shifted to what he calls ‘clean comedy’ over the past couple of years. “I was thrown into a lot of corporate and private shows where the age group, mostly above 50, demanded comedy without expletives. Also, I’m a very physical comic: I move around and act a lot. All these physical actions compensate for the lack of dirty humour. The advantage of going clean is that there is no target age-group for the comedy set. That helps it go viral.” He is now being described among comedy circles as Chennai’s answer to Bengaluru comedian Danish Sait, whose lockdown videos have gone viral. “Danish is among my inspirations, and it’s a huge compliment that people are saying that,” says Abishek, whose latest video packed in three trending topics: the eclipse, Chinese products and FaceApp. “I’m not sure how people would have reacted had I shown my face. Mrs Janaki teacher has given me the freedom to talk about things honestly.” Abishek holds an Engineering degree, but his passion was always theatre. “I love stage performances, and have been part of theatre since I was young. The company I was part of also produced comedy shows. One day, when the stand-up who was supposed to come didn’t turn up, I became one by accident.” He still feels that his first show was his best. “There was no plan; it was all on the go, and I felt the audience enjoyed that the most,” says Abishek, who describes his father, Balaji, as someone whose actions inspire a lot of his comic material. Abishek’s near future promises a lot more Mrs Janaki, a character that has helped him increase his follower count from 5,000 to more than 17,000. He has, in fact, conceptualised two other characters surrounding her life. “I’ll be bringing them out soon, and hopefully, have a few videos of all three of them together.”    Catch his work on Instagram handle @theabishekkumar   Know your comedian  Abishek is a big fan of late Tamil actor Nagesh and late American actor Robin Williams  He has binge-watched Malayalam films this lockdown; Driving Licence and Vikrithi are among his recent favourites  Is a sucker for on-the-spot interactions and clean humour   Abishek is being described among comedy circles as Chennai’s answer to Bengaluru comedian Danish Sait
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Say my name||“You know my name was one of the options for a KBC ( Kaun Banega Crorepati ) quiz?” asks BlaaZe, imitating Amitabh Bachchan’s deep baritone voice sounding out his full name: Lakshmi Narasimha Vijaya Rajagopala Sheshadri Sharma Rajesh Raman. Admittedly, it can be a mouthful and is not the easiest to remember. So he did what he does best: he made a rap out of his name. The playback singer who has rapped for many feature films, from his breakout Boys to Sivaji , Slumdog Millionaire , 2.0 and Vinnaithaandi Varuvaayaa , took to social media to respond to a fan’s request and sang a whole rap explaining the origins of his long name. “My passport just says Rajesh Raman. My mother was a big Rajesh Khanna fan,” he laughs. The recent downtime due to the lockdowns has forced many of us to introspect on our priorities, and for BlaaZe, one thing easily stands out. “If I can entertain, I will. I feel that’s what I was born to do. To create something, that’s it,” he says. Over the past two months, he has been putting out content on Instagram, Facebook and YouTube: varying from Rap Kitchens, where he raps out Indian recipes while cooking, to Rap Ramayana and Poems to Songs. “When I was in my boarding school in 12th grade, in the UK, food was always a big issue. I would dream about my mom’s vatha kuzhambu ! I promised myself then that I would figure out how to cook,” he recalls. And while he has been cooking for several years, during the lockdown, like many of us, he started talking and singing to himself while cooking. Why not make a rap out of it, he figured. “I already know the ingredients by heart, so thought it should be fun!” ‘Create to survive’ He went on to post recipes and cooking instructions for jeera rasam , egg curry, moor kozhambu and kovakai . “People around the world don’t know much about the variety of Indian food available,” says the rapper who grew up in Zambia and moved to England and then, the US. He attempts this portrayal of Indian culture in another video, titled ‘Rap Ramayana’, where he explains the Buddhist interpretation of Hindu mythology. In this, he speaks about the idea of Ravana whose 10 heads represent 10 ‘egos’ holding a person down. “All these terrace videos that I had been making took several hours to record and process. But ‘Rap Ramayana’ is such a simple idea, conveyed over a production loop, that it barely took any time,” he says. He believes that it was because he was rapping live that so many people liked it. Through the process, he has now come to realise that anything, however small, if made with enough heart, wins a following. “My audience is not going to listen to just my rap songs in Rajinikanth films,” he says. And so he started delving into poems, making songs out of ones written by Suresh Kailaash, partner of fellow singer and friend, Malgudi Shubha. “His words inspired me to sing them out loud for my kids to listen. I sent it to them and they loved it. So now whenever he writes a poem, I turn it into a song.” In these testing times, when the world is getting used to living under a blanket of general stress, he says that singing and rapping are his therapy. “Whatever issues you have going on, put it all in a poem and get it out. We create create create, to survive.”  During the lockdown, like many of us, he started singing to himself while cooking. Why not make a rap out of it, he figured
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Give treats, not kibbles||You have heard about subscription models for human diets: the right balance of proteins, carbohydrates and everything else, planned, packed and tailored to your lifestyle and daily needs so you don’t have to think about it. But have you heard of a similar plan for your dog? “Big dogs like German Shepherds need food that helps with their bone development. I suggest red meat for them, but only 10 meals a month, out of the total of 60. For small lap dogs, we stick largely to chicken and egg,” states Praveen M, founder of Oscar Daisy, that tailors subscription boxes of canine meal plans, delivered across Chennai. Praveen’s startup stemmed from the nutritional needs of his own dog: he did not want to feed his furry friend preservative-laden kibbles, but was not sure how to cook the right mix of foods at home. His friends, he realised, faced the same dilemma – thus began months of research that culminated in Oscar Daisy in early 2018. Now, Praveen plans to take his offering to Bengaluru and Hyderabad as well. “Primarily, dogs need animal-based proteins. So we have recipes of chicken, egg and beef,” he states, adding that the brand used to do lamb recipes as well, but have discontinued them for a while, because of concerns related to COVID-19. Besides the meat, liver and gizzards, other ingredients include “natural” vegetables like carrots, sweet potatoes, green beans, yellow pumpkin, beetroot, cucumber and even fruit. “It has to be balanced, so the ratio of ingredients is decided according to the profile of the pet,” states Praveen, adding that the food plan varies from dog to dog based on age, size, breed, activity levels and particularly weight. – “Whether the dog is too skinny or overweight factors into the plan and portions.” He says that all ingredients are steam cooked at low temperatures and delivered once a week. “Since we use vacuum seal packaging, it will last for a while if you don’t open it, and if you store it in the fridge. The idea is to finish all the meals within the week, but it can stay longer – about as long as the average dosa batter stays,” he says by way of example. Do pet parents get a say in the plan? Yes, says Praveen, but the team will still give its pointers. He, however, refuses to divulge just how the final calculation takes place – “that’s the secret”.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||A magic carpet ride||From the steps of Jama Masjid, the scene that unfurls is a blur of colour. Boys playing an intense game of cricket, a sole blue kite wandering the expanses of the sky, bright buildings huddled together, the distant cacophony of horns... A second later, silence takes over as we follow the course of a dry river bed in Alice Springs, Australia, followed by lush meadows, cattle and the imposing Alps in Austria. So, where to next? Goethe Institut Max Mueller Bhavan’s latest project Graphic Travelogues, takes viewers on a journey around the world. The website has an interactive map of the world, with little images, marking the cities that are ready with works of comic artists. This includes sketches, graphic novels, graphic diaries and illustrations. There are works of 18 artists to choose from now, spread across Delhi, Bengaluru, Cairo, Havana and Istanbul among others. “Goethe Institut, all over the world, works with different art forms; one of them is visual arts and graphic novels,” says Thomas Meyer, (director of Information Services, Region South Asia, Goethe-Institut), adding, “Sometimes we do residencies with comic artists and notice that their travel experiences resonate in their comics. We thought it’s such a nice collection and wanted to make that visible.” Though these are illustrations, you can almost hear the sounds and smell the air of the location depicted. For example, the jalebis on the streets of Delhi, or the fresh popcorn and salty scent of the sea in Casablanca. Toggling between cities in different countries also highlights similarities that some of them share. Some could be clichés, and some eyeopeners. It is entirely the perspective of the artist, what he/she sees, experiences and imbibes from a place or a scene. While photography is mostly associated with travelogues, Thomas said their research found there is potential for “travelling through comics”. “This art form adds a new perspective. Though you can depict a lot of things in photographs, it is a moment in time. But in a comic, there can be multiple perspectives and you can add text to it,” says Thomas. The website also lists categories such as Everyday Heroes, City Explorers, Seekers of Meaning, Adventurers and Gourmets, to draw in different types of travellers and pique their interest. “Travel is an important factor. COVID-19 has changed it,” says Thomas, adding, “It is interesting to see how art in graphic travelogues copes with this phenomena of travelling.” “Our target groups are people interested in travelling and comics. Through this we are providing them with the possibility of discovering new places even when they are not able to leave their couch,” he says. There are works from artists from around the globe: Germany, Russia, India. The idea was to have a global perspective and showcase a variety of styles and countries. STheir social media pages are also active with artists giving a peek into how graphic novels are developed.  For details, log on to www.goethe.de/india/ graphictravelogues
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||hotel life||Lunch, packed and delivered by the ITC. A bartender from The Park shaking martinis in your living room. Blazers dry-cleaned by the Hyatt. Sounds like the film star life? Well, this is real life in 2020. This year has forced the world to change rapidly as companies and professionals pivot, finding innovative ways to stay afloat. As they weather this storm, the learnings from the last three months are likely to permanently influence the hospitality business. Faced with empty rooms, restaurants and banquet halls, luxury hotels around the country have diversified into food deliveries, laundry and housekeeping. COVID-19 and lockdowns around the world have kept diners and travellers from going to hotels. So instead, the hotels are going to them: and in true five-star fashion, they are doing it in style. Order Peshawari’s signature mutton raan , dal makhani and chicken kebabs, and it will arrive in a chauffeured car, with a butler in tow. Their newly-launched ‘Gourmet Couch’ menu has a minimum order of Rs. 5,000 for free delivery to a radius of 15 kilometres around the hotel. Set in cane baskets, the food is packed in plant-starched clamshell boxes, and biodegradable bags. Thebiryanianddals come in colourful handis , sealed with dough. A label on each dish gives details on date and time of preparation, as well as specific heating instructions. Need help? Just ask the butler. If you prefer a more low-key dinner, the hotel is also now on Swiggy. The show must go on “Every industry, in the current scenario, is thinking of sustainable ways and means to rediscover the way their businesses are run,” says Chef Ashutosh Nerlekar of The Park Chennai. The Park is taking their restaurants to clients’ homes, where they will cater for anything from two to 50 guests. They are also launching a Home Bartender segment after lockdown. With this, guests can avail mixologist services. Or, they can opt for a Bar Takeover. “The hotel’s bartender will turn up at your house with chasers, glassware, cocktail syrups and garnishes. Only liquor needs to be provided by the guest,” says Kiron Kumar, F&B director at The Park Chennai. At the Hyatt Regency in Gurugram, the general manager Vishal Singh says they started home delivery in April with cakes. It proved popular, so they went on to create a multi-cuisine delivery menu, competitively priced 25% lower than the hotel’s regular in-house dining rates. He admits that it took a change in mindset to move to a delivery platform, adding “As hoteliers, we are equipped to adapt. We also learnt things from Swiggy and Zomato on how this model works.” Though the hotel has resumed all operations (except pool, gym and spa) since June 8, the number of deliveries are still higher than footfall. This is why hotels are also beginning to diversify now, finding avenues beside F&B for generating income. Out of the comfort zone “We started our laundry services last month,” says Vishal, explaining that with most households not having domestic help and with dry cleaners and launderers not functioning, this seemed like a good idea. “Also in North India, this is when people dry-clean and pack away their woollens,” he says. Though the volume of demand for this is not as big as home delivery, they get between one to three orders in a day, and are hoping to grow as word spreads. Stating that they have a pick-up and drop-off option, Vishal says, “We deliver after 48 hours. As safety is top priority, we have a hygiene manager. Our biggest advantage is that we have an in-house laundry on our premises, as opposed to other laundries which are collection points, which send the clothes to a laundering facility.” Everything is machine-washed at a high temperature, chemicals are used to disinfect, the garments are then ironed and steamed. The hotel is now in talks with corporate clients and complexes to take over housekeeping. The Green Park hotel in Chennai, is one of the first players to enter the housekeeping business, post lockdown. They started in mid-May and have so far catered to 25-odd corporate clients. While the terms ‘sanitise’ and ‘disinfect’ might be in use a lot these days, these are standard procedures at hotels. “Any good five-star hotel, will have at least 60 to 100 housekeeping staff alone. These professionals have mastered the art of cleaning rooms and sanitising places,” says Sudip Sen Gupta, vice-president operations, at Green Park. “With offices reopening, workspaces need disinfecting. So we started doing that here, as well as in Hyderabad and Vizag, where we have our properties,” says Sudip. “Now, it has become mandatory for corporates to sanitise their buildings. We also train their housekeeping team to deep-clean effectively,” he explains. Rates vary depending on the square feet, starting at Rs. 3 and going up to Rs. 6, depending on the kind of cleaning required. Meanwhile, The Oberoi, Bengaluru, has been receiving queries from corporations who are looking for independent or group work spaces in hotels. “We have ample choices with us, starting from our business centre meeting rooms, board room, independent work stations and even our alfresco restaurant spaces which are ideal for work with fresh air and lush green views,” says Visheshwar Raj Singh, vice president and general manager of the property. Apart from a slew of measures that the hotel says they have undertaken, the other benefits of working from a luxury hotel include customisable food and beverage menus available. Given that a few companies are shutting down their physical office space and moving towards a permanent WFH platform, Visheshwar believes there is potential for this segment to see reasonable growth, “especially with many corporates seeking a neutral, peaceful, non-cluttered environment for their work hours keeping safety and convenience both in mind.”    Changes around the world  New World Wuhan Hotel is planning to push its weddings to open spaces instead of banquet halls, and is pre-booking for socially distanced weddings  Anantara Siam and The Sukhothai hotels are among many luxury properties in Bangkok now offering fine dine delivery Australian hotels have a string of cautious reopening packages, including Ovolo Hotels’ work-from-your-room day office package with WiFi and minibar, and Crowne Plaza’s micro-weddings for limited guests with social distancing protocols
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It’s the best seat no one could get’||For someone credited with creating the billion dollar franchise that is Hamilton , the record-setting Broadway musical, Lin-Manuel Miranda wears the hat lightly. As he pulls up a chair to discuss Hamilton — a live recording of the Broadway musical that is releasing as a film on Disney+ Hotstar on July 3 — over Zoom, he occupies the immediate focus of dozens of journalists from across the globe, though he is joined by the rest of the original cast and crew from the production. “The world turned upside down, and I think it took us a while to realise Hamilton wasn’t going to be playing in any theatres live... in our five productions or in London (West End). It took us a minute to adjust to the new timeline of the world,” says the 40-year-old American multi-hyphenate artiste. Since debuting on Broadway in 2015, Hamilton turned into a trendsetter, breaking several records on its way to critical and commercial acclaim. It tells the story of one of the USA’s founding fathers, Alexander Hamilton, and has artistes of colour portray historical figures: like Daveed Diggs playing Thomas Jefferson and Renée Elise Goldsberry playing Angelica Schuyler. Miranda himself plays Alexander Hamilton. For Miranda, Hamilton premiering on a streaming platform is a way for millions of people, who were priced out of a live show on Broadway and other theatre productions, to access the musical. Co-star Daveed Diggs agrees. Ringside view “One of the things that we were always running up against on Broadway is how prohibitive it is for a lot of people... So, it makes me feel good that this show is going to be seen by a lot of people,” says Diggs. In fact, such was the demand for a ticket that it sold for as high as $849, which made Hamilton the costliest show to watch on Broadway. Inflated prices were attributed to the resale market run by scalpers. For Leslie Odom Jr., who plays Aaron Burr, the premiere on Disney+ Hotstar signifies “the closing of a loop”. The actor recalls growing up not watching Broadway shows due to expensive tickets. “The fact that this show is going to live on and be preserved in this way means quite a bit,” he says. Director Thomas Kail says that capturing Hamilton in such a format is all about “honouring” the work of the company. “We tried to embrace the love we have for theatre but also take some of the cinematic techniques and apply them to the musical,” he says, adding that the live recording was shot from June 26-28 at the Richard Rodgers Theatre on Broadway. Miranda, whose previous Broadway production, In the Heights , is being adapted into a movie-musical starring actor-singer Anthony Ramos, who is also part of Hamilton ’s cast, and which is set for release in June 2021, adds: “This [film] is better than the best seat in the house at Hamilton . This is a seat no one else could have been granted. Tommy (Thomas Kail) very deliberately breaks the proscenium in places and it is really thrilling. It honours the incredible work of our choreographer and ensemble members who were like this unit unto themselves.”  Money spinner  Hamilton , the musical, was nominated for 16 Tony Awards in 2016 eventually winning 11 of them. It was the first single-author show to be awarded a Tony in 20 years since Jonathan Larson’s rock musical Rent (1996). It was also awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Drama while Hamilton ’s best-selling cast album earned a Grammy.  Hamilton played on Broadway, London’s West End and also did several tours across the US until shows had to be cancelled due to COVID-19 outbreak. According toForbes,on Broadway alone,Hamiltonhas so far raked in over $600 million. The record revenue ensured Miranda figured in Forbes’ 2020 list of the highest earning celebrities. In February 2020, Disney announced it paid $75 million for the film’s distribution rights. Although it was initially pegged for release in October 2021, Disney advanced the date to July 3, 2020 to coincide with USA’s 244th ‘Fourth of July’ independence day observance.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Better t o g e t h e r||Since its inception in 2010, WeWork New York has seen startups and billion-dollar tech giants alike grow in their spaces across the city, overlooking the Manhattan skyline, across Central Park, on Wall Street. But, post this pandemic, change is afoot. While, WeWork is in talks with NYC’s private schools about holding classes in its offices this fall, IBM, on the other hand, has plans to pull out of a nearly 70,000 square foot WeWork outpost in Union Square — as many in the tech industry are hoping to make remote working the norm. Much like Facebook and Google, closer home, Infosys has announced permanent WFH for 33% to 55% of its employees. TCS too has proclaimed that by 2025, only 25% of its workforce will need to come to its offices. And it is this breakdown of the idea of traditional workspaces that co-working spaces are trying to turn in their favour. Convinced that work from home cannot be a permanent set-up for India, co-working units are hoping to act as ad-hoc spaces while companies try to figure out the new normal. When home isn’t enough In January, Chennai-based Karya Space opened a new centre on Nungambakkam High Road, eager to invest in the booming market of co-working spaces. The company which saw a flood, a cyclone and a drought since its inception in 2015, has now been facing a pandemic since the beginning of this year. Soon enough, over fears of infection, their client base dropped by 30% in March. However, once the lockdown eased in May, they have received nearly 100 enquiries to rent desks from July. “Of the people who are looking to join in July, one section sees new opportunities in co-working. Looking to cut down costs, they have changed their plans of getting their own office (for which they would have to pay a hefty deposit, and would be locked in) and are using our spaces instead,” says Arjjun Chander, founder of Karya. Arjjun believes that for any company to develop and grow, real-life interaction of colleagues is essential. “It is only when you meet that you can creatively inspire each other. The importance of offices will never come down,” he says. Vaidhyaraman S, co-founder of Chennai-based IT startup Engauge, which caters to hotels and restaurants, is no stranger to co-working spaces. Until December 2019, he was working from Resolution 501 in Teynampet. His plans to move to a bigger space had to pause for the pandemic. “Right now, I don’t think it is safe to work outside, as I have old parents at home. Also, lockdown rules keep changing. But once everything settles, I would like to move to a big co-working space,” he says. At home, he explains, it is easy to get distracted — not to forget, the power outages and network connectivity issues. Moreover, you begin to associate your home, your one safe place, with work. “An employee of mine works from home in Kerala. He’s a really good resource. But there are days when he isn’t motivated to work. That can happen when you are working alone. In an office or a co-working setup, there’s more social connection and interaction, which can improve your work,” says Vaidhyaraman. But given a choice between an office and a co-working space, he would choose the latter. “Unlike a traditional office set up, in a co-working space, you get to interact with people from similar and different businesses. It’s like an informal collaboration because you can exchange new ideas, perspectives and contacts. Even a half-an-hour coffee break with someone can lead to something,” he says. Recognising this need for human interaction, Hyderabad’s The Chalet, a spacious bungalow in Jubilee Hills, which had earlier positioned itself as a multicultural centre with opportunities for co-working space has now introduced The Chalet Social. This will be a lounge where creative professionals can hire workspace and explore collaborations, while following personal distancing norms. The Chalet Social plans to function in an area of approximately 3,200 square feet, with an additional 250 square feet that can be hired for music, dance performances or workshops. Pivot to survive In Chennai, AtWorks is learning from the hospitality sector. “This pandemic scenario, in a way, has proved that remote working environments are manageable,” says Ashwin Shankar, CEO of AtWorks. “So, startups, which form the majority of our clients, will choose to work remotely so they can cut down expenses. They will probably use co-working spaces on an ad-hoc basis... like hotels, where you can book a room for two or three days.” Before the pandemic, this six-year-old co-working space offered 450 seats across five centres in Chennai. Now, they are down to two centres and 240 seats. “In order to attract clients, we will have to move from a rental model to a hospitality set-up. Apart from infrastructure, we have to provide them with services, software, strategy… We have to be an incubator for the startups. That’s how we are thinking of packaging ourselves after COVID-19,” he says. It is a similar story at The Hub in Bengaluru, which mostly caters to content-and tech-based startups. Though it was shut from mid-March to mid-May, The Hub states it has been receiving a lot of new enquiries post resumption. Founder Azaan Sait says the role of a co-working space has changed. “It’s become more collaborative. It’s now not enough to just provide good infrastructure to our clients. Many of them work on content. So, we offer them editing services and streaming softwares like OBS.” But it is not just startups drawn to the co-working life. Arjjun of Karya Space reveals how he has a group of clients who work for an MNC, but as they have been asked to WFH, they choose to come work at his centre in a group of five. Purely for a change of space. With no clarity on the safety of public transport, and when they will start operating within the city, he believes that easy access neighbourhood co-working spaces will be the future of 2020.  Safety standards to check Restricted entry with body temperature check.  Masks and gloves for clients before they come in.  Regular two-hourly disinfection of office spaces including desks and bathrooms. Any surfaces prime to touch like chair handles should be sprayed.  Desks must be kept at a distance of five to six feet, this may mean a decrease in the number of workstations.  New facilities such as an isolation room, an evacuation path, several sanitising stations, and even reprogrammed elevators to reduce contact.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Cast and effect||She has many memories of her illustrious career in films, but the foremost among them is her role as a heroine in the only film in which MG Ramachandran and Sivaji Ganesan ever acted together. BS Saroja was signed up by her producer-director husband TR Ramanna to act alongside the two leading stars of that era in Koondukkili (1954). BS Saroja, now 93, lives with her son, music composer Ganesh Ramanna, and fondly recalls the heady days of her career that spanned from 1941 to 1978, during which she acted in more than 60 films. She started her career at the age of 10, as as a singer. So, how did the MGR-Sivaji casting come about? “My husband TR Ramanna was close to both actors, each one calling the other ‘anna’. On many occasions, the topic of him casting them in his films would come up. Knowing that they were huge stars those days, he would tell them that he would do so only if they totally agreed to his requirements. After both agreed to this, when the opportunity arose, he called both of them and announced his decision to cast them in the same film. And, to top it all, I was the heroine,” recalls Saroja. The story, screenplay and dialogues for Koondukkili were by Vindhan, a social activist and reformist writer, with music by KV Mahadevan. The film revolved around Thangaraj (MGR), his wife Mangala (Saroja) and Jeevanandam (Sivaji Ganesan). “There’s a twist in the tale: that Jeevanandam had espied Mangala on an earlier occasion and had instantly fallen in love with her. Unfortunately that didn’t work out,” she recalls.  Koondukkili had only a few sequences featuring the two matinee idols. “But those were very dramatic and highly-charged sequences that stood out. It was the first time that I was acting with these two talented and popular stars of that era and I was always in awe of them. But, their professionalism and friendly approach and attitude helped me while enacting the required scenes with ease,” says Saroja, who has, during her long career in films, acted with almost every hero of those times.  BS Saroja, now 93, has acted in more than 60 films in a career that spanned from 1941 to 1978
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Master of the game||Malavika Mohanan’s career could possibly be split into three timelines: her début in Malayalam film Pattam Pole (2013); her true breakout role that informed the rest of the country of her considerable talents with Majid Majidi’s Beyond the Clouds (2017); and then, a small but significant part in Rajinikanth’s Petta (2019) that somehow catapulted her towards becoming the ‘it’ girl of social media. Now, Malavika is part of the most-anticipated Tamil film of the year with Vijay’s Master and set to star in a big-budget Bollywood film shortly too. Speaking to us from Mumbai where she resides with her family, and having spent the last few months in lockdown, Malavika is quite Zen waiting for her big-ticket film to finally hit screens. Your social media persona is coveted; be it the pictures you post or the opinions you share. I realised something about the person I am: I want to know someone or be friends with them when I know that they are interesting beyond the scope of what they do: their interests, hobbies, how they approach their career… it’s a combination of all these factors. So, I too aspire for people to know me outside my films. I don’t have anyone managing my social media; I post pictures and updates myself, with a little help from my friends. What did you learn from responding to theMasterfan-poster sometime back? When the lead actress of such a big film responds to a fan poster, clearly people smelt drama. The artist was actually really sweet and his intention was nothing but good. But it boils down to gender representation: there is a room full of men with everyone doing their work, and the only girl in the crowd has to be cooking? Maybe people didn’t see what was problematic with that, because it’s so deeply embedded in our consciousness. I understand feedback, but I’m not going to accept unnecessary trolling and bullying. You recently spoke about casual racism and colourism in India, in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement. I’m all for equality. I’m not at all a judgemental person when it comes to personal choices, but I will totally judge you if you don’t believe in equality. Equality in gender, class, race… that’s the school of thought I come from. Treating everyone the same way is just normal — I don’t expect to be praised for it — it’s just how you are supposed to be. Now, lots of people suddenly have this notion that I’m a feminist and that feminism equates man-hating. I’ve met so many incredible men in my life: my father, brothers, friends, co-actors, and most of all, the likes of Vijay and Lokesh. I have nothing against men, but I am definitely against gender roles and stereotypes. That shouldn’t exist. I like to think that I can make a difference in the long run. Are you looking forward to working more in Tamil films? I’ve grown up familiar with Mumbai and Hindi films, and it was my dream to do one of those ‘mass’-y big Bollywood movies — and I’ve finally signed one of them. But Tamil cinema has shown me so much love and acceptance; the kind of which I’ve never experienced before, so I really want to keep working here. I love Gautham Menon, Mani Ratnam and AR Rahman. I love how beautiful the Tamil language sounds and I’m learning to speak it as well. How is Vijay, as an actor? Was it intense shooting for a film of this scale alongside a huge star? Vijay is… so charming and easy to work with, that it didn’t even strike me — the magnitude of his persona in the real world — during the shoot. That’s what is special about him: he never lets his off-screen image come onto the sets. He was so helpful and comfortable to act alongside, that I never felt like I couldn’t talk to him openly. People in the industry can make you feel a certain way and have their guard up — but he never gave the slightest indication of that. A word onMasterand your experience being part of the movie? The entire team is really young, even Lokesh and his ADs, so the excitement throughout the shoot was palpable. Obviously, the pandemic has dampened our spirits, but in a way I’m glad the film didn’t come out before the lockdown, and then if the theatres had shut, it would have been really disappointing.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Bulbbul: strikes at the putrid core of patriarchy||Back in 1962, in Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam , Abrar Alvi took us in to one of the many crumbling havelis of a decaying feudal Bengal. Mansions in which the desires of lonely women are throttled by unfaithful aristocratic husbands, where they strike undefined relationships with other men without quite being able to take them to a logical conclusion. In her debut film, Bulbbul , which starts off in Bengal Presidency in 1881, Anvita Dutt does something similar but adds to the locale. She mixes the feudal with the supernatural and the spooky, the mythological and the fablesque to strike at the putrid core of patriarchy in a thoughtful, moving, engaging and powerful manner. A word— vash (control) — and an image, that of bichchue (toe rings), conveys it all about the lot of young girls. Bulbbul, a child bride, arrives in the Thakur family thinking life is all about fun and games with Satya, her devar (husband’s younger brother), who is her own age. Not quite. Over time the rot in the haveli begins to reveal itself. It’s a world of twisted relationships, dysfunctional families and perversions. The women inside it — Bulbbul (Tripti Dimri) and Binodini (Paoli Dam) — are competitors, always in a game of one upmanship and insinuations, giving it back to each other with wordplay. However, they also bond in an indistinct but sinewy sisterhood in a space that denies them anything private. As Bulbbul’s husband Indranil (Rahul Bose) asks her rhetorically: “ Ek patni ka uske pati ke alawa kya niji ho sakta (What can be personal for a wife other than her husband)?” Sharm (shame), maryada (propreity), sahi (right), galat (wrong) — that’s all that seems to govern a woman’s life.  Bulbbul doesn’t baulk from showing extreme violence and violation. A doll here, the talk of broken bones there, a reference to falling down the stairs of the house—bit by bit the hints at the intrinsic oppression, and their repercussions, pile on and reach the peak in a rousing, powerful monologue by Binodini about “ badi haveli ke bade raaz (the big secrets of the big mansion)” wherein women of the household might be showered with silk and jewellery, but told to stay silent about secrets. Dam packs in a punch as does Dimri in the lead. From the vulnerable and the innocent to the transformation into the mysterious tease, Dimri is a stunner who speaks volumes with her eyes. And the audience can do little but stay enraptured. Dutt shows delicacy in dealing with the indecorous, a touch of the poignant and the poetic in highlighting the pain. The film is essentially about companionships that unknowingly blossom into more and then some friendships that crave to find a fruition that they can’t. Then there are jealousies that raise their heads, as they do between Satya (Avinash Tiwary) and Dr Sudip (Parambrata Chattopadhyay, the confidante after my heart) due to unresolved emotions for Bulbbul. The film is essentially be a re-imagination of the legend of chudail (witch) with the twisted feet as a devi with a cause and a mission but I was swept away by the overwhelming romance — unexpressed but implicit, fulsome in its tacitness. Like a simple conversation towards the end of the film, between Bulbbul and Sudip, over a shared bidi (cigarette). The oblique talk of hope, boundaries and the unreachable between them even as their eyes stay transfixed on the other. The gaze of love, or something like that. “ Kahani poori kaise hogi ,” weeps Bulbbul at one point in the film. No some love stories don’t ever come a full circle to a conclusion. And that makes them all the more beautiful.
25 June 2020||June 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Global Pride aims to be world’s largest virtual queer celebration||Queer organisations across the world world, led primarily by the Global North, have come together to organise a 24-hour virtual Pride. This virtual celebration of queerness comes in light of several parades being cancelled or postponed in cities like London, New York and Madrid, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The first of its kind, Global Pride, includes non-stop streaming of content from Pride organisations, activists, civil society groups, politicians and world leaders. The digital Pride will replace live gatherings and seek global participation, even from countries where homosexuality is criminalised. Taking place across various time zones, the virtual Pride event will begin at 10.30 a.m. on Saturday, June 27 and go on till 12.41 p.m. on Sunday, June 28 in India. More than 20 Pride organisations in India will feature in this event, alongside Trans Pride Pakistan and Nemat Sadat from Afghanistan. Political support Politicians like former American Vice President Joe Biden, who is gunning for the Presidential seat in the upcoming November elections; Canadian PM Justin Trudeau; and Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen will participate in the virtual event. They will band for queer pride alongside political leaders like the only openly transgender MP in Europe Vladimir Luxuria; Mayor of New York Bill de Blasio; and Argentinian government legislator, Vilma Ibarra. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, more than an estimated 200 Prides have been cancelled or postponed globally, compelling queer organisations to find quick and relevant alternatives. “I remember the first conversation we had about this project, and how so many people thought it would be an impossible task to deliver, especially in less than three months,” said Steve Taylor of European Pride Organisers Association. “But yet again the grit and determination of the LGBTQIA+ community have ensured we will have a historic, ground-breaking show that will bring our community together in these trying times.” Queer resistance The Global Pride line-up includes Denise Ho, a Hong Kong-based Cantopop singer and actress who is also a pro-democracy and Hong Kong human rights activist. Ho has been blacklisted by the Chinese government for her active participation in the 2014 Umbrella Movement in Hong Kong. Ahmed Alaa, was jailed in Egypt after raising a rainbow flag at a concert in Cairo in 2017, will also participate. During the Global Pride broadcast, there will be a tribute to Sarah Hegazi, a lesbian activist jailed with Alaa, who took her own life earlier this month. She had reportedly suffered post-traumatic stress disorder following torture while in prison. Sophia Jimémez, a singer and drag queen from Mexico is part of the line-up as well. She has performed with contestants of Ru Paul’s Drag Race and was a finalist in La Más Draga 2 , a television talent show of drag queens. Among 40 contributions from Africa: there is Ahmed Umar, a sculptor from Sudan who will talk about the fight for LGBTI+ equality in his country where homosexuality can still attract the death penalty. LGBTQIA+ people, who face severe social and legal restrictions in countries like Iraq, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Syria, Iran, Palestine, Libya, Tunisia, Morocco and Jamaica, have also made their contributions. The show will also feature a contribution from Antarctica. “Global Pride is our movement's response to the COVID-19 crisis,” says J. Andrew Baker of InterPride, one of the organisers of Global Pride. The hope is to create the largest virtual queer event in history and raise funds for Pride and queer organisations that may find it difficult to survive the pandemic.  Global Pride will be broadcast on Saturday, June 27 at globalpride2020.org; on Todrick Hall’s YouTube channel; and on Facebook page: GlobalPride2020
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Virtual meeting facility suspended in Tihar jail’||Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal told the High Court on Wednesday that due to “large scale violence” inside Tihar jail on June 16 video conferencing facilities for inmates had been suspended and they were unable to get in touch with lawyers. The allegation was refuted by Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra who said as per instructions from the Director General (Prisons) there was a connectivity issue which was being resolved. Ms. Natasha was arrested on May 23 along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalitha in relation with an FIR registered on February 24 over a sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Justice C. Hari Shankar, who was hearing Ms. Narwal’s petition seeking direction to jail authorities to allow her access to her counsel by way of video conferencing, asked Mr. Mehra to submit a report on the matter. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on June 29. It also asked Mr. Mehra to look into another grievance of Ms. Narwal that she was unable to make the daily call to family members, allowed under prisons rules. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak, jail mulaqaat facility has been suspended since March.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: HC refuses bail to Pathan||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to grant bail to a man, who allegedly pointed a pistol at a police head constable during the north-east Delhi riots, saying if someone takes law in his hands, then he will have to face the law. After Justice Suresh Kumar Kait made it clear that he was not inclined to grant any relief to Mr. Pathan, his counsel withdrew the plea. Mr. Pathan, in his bail plea, had said that he has to take care of his 76-year-old father who is unwell and there is no one in the family to look after him. His advocate said Mr. Pathan has been in judicial custody for 113 days and has clean antecedents and not required for investigation as the chargesheet has been filed. The Additional Public Prosecutor opposed the bail plea, saying they have got two more CCTV footage clearly showing the accused firing. The Delhi police had registered a case against him under the IPC and the Arms Act. They said they had recovered the pistol that he had allegedly pointed at a policeman during the communal violence, from his house.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells police to reply to Ishrat’s plea||The High Court on Wednesday asked Delhi Police to reply to a plea by former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan, arrested in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case, challenging a trial court’s order extending time for completing the probe by 60 days. The court asked the police to submit written arguments within 10 days and posted the case for further hearing on July 7. Ms. Jahan has challenged the trial court’s June 15 order granting 60-day extension to police to complete its investigation against her and activist Khalid Saifi. Her lawyer argued that Ms. Jahan, in her petition filed through advocate Lalit Valecha, said that the FIRs registered does not ascribe any “overt act” or specific role of violence to her, but the investigating agency has gone on to add sections under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act against her. She said the application of the public prosecutor seeking extension of time to complete the investigation was “an abuse of the legal process as the same fails to make out any legal or factual basis that justifies extension of time”. “This exercise is only to subvert and defeat the right of the petitioner [Ms. Jahan] to seek regular and statutory bail,” the petition said.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Civic bodies get new mayors||Mayors to the three civic bodies here were elected on Wednesday along with members to the Standing Committees during voting undertaken at House meetings of the respective corporations. With the BJP holding a majority in all three corporations, the Mayors and Deputy Mayors were elected from the party. In the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jaiprakash, who was Standing Committee chief earlier, was elected Mayor while councillor from Rohini- I, Ritu Goel, was elected his deputy. In SDMC, Anamika Mithilesh, councillor from Rohini and Subhash Bhadana from C.R. Park were elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor respectively. In East Delhi, Nirmal Jain, who was the Leader of House earlier, was elected Mayor and Hariprakash Bhadur, councillor from Saboli, elected the Deputy Mayor.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||High Court grants bail to AAP MLA||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to Prakash Jarwal, AAP legislator from Deoli Assembly Constituency, in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi. The court took into consideration the fact that Mr. Jarwal was in judicial custody since May 09, 2020, and he was no more required for further investigation and that the trial would take substantial time. The High Court also noted that the doctor died by suicide on April 18, 2020, but immediate prior to the date, there were no allegations against Mr. Jarwal in the note left behind by the deceased and the diary recovered by the police. “Thus, it seems, there is no proximity and link in alleged commission of the offence,” the court said. Senior advocate Rebecca M. John and advocate Ravi Drall, appearing for Mr. Jarwal, submitted that the FIR mentioned that the deceased’s wife gave one complaint against Mr. Jarwal to the Delhi Jal Board on April 09, 2020, just a week before the death. “Name of the petitioner as well as name of co-accused persons has not been mentioned,” Ms. John argued, adding that “no allegations of extortion or threat has been made ”.
25 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 1 lakh register at DU||The number of registrations for Delhi University’s undergraduate programmes stood at 1.38 lakh on Wednesday. As many as 46,132 people have also applied for postgraduate programmes, while 5,932 have applied for M.Phil and Ph.D programmes at the university.
25 June 2020||Noida,||Noida metro station dedicated to transgenders renamed as ‘Rainbow Station’||The Sector 50 station of Noida-Greater Noida metro has been renamed ‘Rainbow Station’, a move dedicated to the transgender community, officials said on Wednesday. The NMRC took the decision based on suggestions from people and NGOs.PTI
