25 July 2020||JAIPUR,||After HC order, Gehlot stages dharna for Assembly session||After the Rajasthan High Court ordered status quo to be maintained in the disqualification proceedings against rebel leader Sachin Pilot and dissident MLAs, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot along with his legislators supporting him staged a sit-in on the lawns of Raj Bhawan here on Friday, demanding that the Governor give approval for convening a session of the State Assembly. “We want an Assembly session from Monday. The [State] Cabinet has taken a decision on this,” Mr. Gehlot told journalists outside the Raj Bhawan, while accusing Governor Kalraj Mishra of not giving the go-ahead “under some pressure from above”. He said he wanted to go to the floor of the House and prove his majority. Court relief Earlier in the day, the 19 dissident Congress MLAs of the Pilot camp got partial relief from the High Court, which ordered maintenance of status quo on the disqualification notices issued by Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi to them. The court order has essentially put the disqualification procedure on hold. No action will be taken against the legislators until the Supreme Court resumes the hearing on the Speaker’s special leave petition on July 27. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta passed the interim order after agreeing to a request by the Pilot camp to make the Union government a party to the writ petition challenging the notices. The caveat plea said no ex parte should be passed by the court. It said prior notice should be given to the legislators’ designated lawyers so that they can be present in case of any hearing. Unprecedented scenes of the MLAs raising slogans supporting Mr. Gehlot and demanding the Assembly session be held were witnessed in Raj Bhawan after members of the Gehlot camp gathered. The legislators raised the slogans: “Call a session now” and “We want justice”. The dharna ended after about five hours with a decision taken to hold a Cabinet meeting later in evening. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said a list of 102 MLAs was submitted to the Governor with the claim of a clear majority in the 200-member Assembly and with the plea that a floor test had been suggested during the recent court hearings on the Speaker’s disqualification notices.
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State sees slight dip in cases at 885||After registering over 1,000 COVID-19 cases for two consecutive days, the State breathed a sigh of relief on Friday when the daily case tally showed a slight dip, registering only 885 cases. The relief is the recovery rate which exceeds the new case rate. On Friday, the number of recoveries was 968. However, local transmission continues unabated, with 753 out of the 885 new cases being locally acquired infections and 56 of which have no epidemiological link. On Friday, 24 health-care workers tested positive. Four deaths Four more deaths were reported, two from Kasaragod and one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha, taking the toll to 54. The total case burden now is 16,995, of which the active cases or the patients currently in hospitals number 9,371. However, two deaths reported from Ernakulam have not been included in the overall tally, pending confirmation. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that despite the slight decline in cases, the epidemic situation merited serious concern. The spread of COVID-19 in several care homes and convents in Ernakulam district is an emerging issue which required serious attention. A flare up in transmission can result in a huge number of deaths amongst the elderly and infirm in care homes, as it happened in the U.K. where over 16,000 deaths occurred in care homes in a matter of days. Tests done in a care home at Thrikkakara found 40 positive cases amongst the 135 occupants. Mr. Vijayan said that no visitors would be allowed to care homes and that trips outside by care home officials would have to be restricted. The government has decided to convert some of these care homes as COVID first-line treatment centres with medical care round the clock so that the inmates would not have to be taken outside for care. The capital district of Thiruvananthapuram, where 161 out of the 167 cases reported on Friday were through local transmission, continues to be a hot bed of disease transmission. Five major clusters here continue to have intense disease transmission and dangerously spreading to more coastal hamlets. Mr. Vijayan said the test positivity rate at Pulluvila cluster was 42.92, with 288 out of the 671 tests turning out to be positive.
25 July 2020||Chennai,||Cases cross 13-lakh mark, daily deaths are over 750||With 48,962 COVID-19 positive cases and 757 deaths on Friday, for the third consecutive day cases and deaths in India crossed the 45,000 and 750 marks. Total cases stood at 13,36,874, with more that one lakh cases added in just the last two days. Data for Tripura was not available as this report went to press. Of the confirmed cases, 63.44% have recovered, but active cases went up further to 4,57,387. Maharashtra (9,615 cases and 278 deaths) and Tamil Nadu (6,785 cases and 88 deaths) continue to contribute the highest increases. States such as Andhra Pradesh (8,147 cases, 49 deaths), Karnataka (5,007 cases and 110 deaths) and Uttar Pradesh (2,667 cases and 50 deaths) have also added substantially to the overall infections and fatalities. The death toll in India is 31,413, the sixth overall among countries with the third highest daily rise (730 deaths on average in the last week) behind Brazil (1,056) and the U.S. (849). India has significantly ramped up tests. The ICMR reported that 3,52,801 samples were tested on Thursday, adding to a total of 1.54 crore samples tested overall. But in terms of tests per million people, India continued to lag behind many countries with a high case load. With cumulative test positivity rate close to 8% and increasing further, a relatively lower test rate suggests that infections are still not being captured adequately. Cases are doubling in fewer than 20 days (based on data from last week), with no immediate peak for the infection curve in sight.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight die as 1,640 test positive in TS||A day after COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 50,000 mark, as many as 1,640 positive cases were reported on Friday. This brings the total number of cases in the State to 52,466. According to the bulletin released by the Health department, eight fatalities were reported on Friday, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 455. GHMC area with 683 cases continued to record the highest number of COVID positive cases. 135 cases in Rangareddy This was followed by Rangareddy district with 135 cases, Sangareddy with 102 cases, and Karimnagar with 100 cases. As on Friday, the total number of active cases in the State stood at 11,677. As many as 15,445 samples were tested on Friday, spiking the total number of tests to 3,37,771. The positivity percentage on Friday was put at 10.6% and the cumulative sample positivity rate at 15.5%. Friday witnessed 1,007 COVID recoveries and the number of recovered patients has been put at 40,334. Recovery rate The recovery rate now stands at 76.8% The Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare has appealed to public not to panic and for tele-medicine they can call 180059912345.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Bengaluru Urban has most deaths, but CFR higher in other dists.||Although Bengaluru Urban contributes nearly half of the total COVID-19 cases and deaths in the State, the case fatality rate (CFR) is actually higher in some other districts. At 2%, the CFR in Bengaluru Urban is the same as the State average as of July 24. While Mysuru and Bidar have 4% and 3.87% respectively [almost double that of Bengaluru Urban], Haveri, Bagalkot and Tumakuru have a CFR between 3.3% and 3.8%. Apart from these districts, at least eight more have a CFR higher than that Bengaluru Urban. Here, the CFR ranges between 2.2% and 2.9%. However, in terms of deaths per million, Dharwad, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada have reported 37, 35 and 32.7, respectively. These are after Bengaluru Urban where 67.1 deaths per million population have been reported. Yadgir has the lowest CFR as well as deaths per million. Although this backward district has reported 1,864 cases till July 24, the CFR here is 0.05 and the deaths per million is 0.7. The high CFR in districts that have a low caseload is mainly due to late reporting by patients. It also reflects on the medical infrastructure and the quality of care available in such districts, said experts. Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State's COVID-19 technical advisory committee, said a high CFR indicates that there is a need to step up testing in those districts. “While in Bengaluru, one positive case is being detected in every five persons tested, in Bidar it is one in eight persons. The overall prognosis is better in districts where fewer deaths are reported. For example, Yadgir and Mandya have a CFR of 0.05% and 0.84 % respectively. This indicates that more young people are getting infected here and hence the recovery rate is also better,” Dr. Babu explained. “Higher deaths means that a higher proportion of people with comorbidities, especially the elderly are getting infected. This also indicates that patients are not only reporting late but are also shying away from getting tested because of fear and stigma,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said although the number of tests being conducted daily has increased considerably in the last 10 days, there is a need to further step up testing. “Testing and treating patients aggressively when they have moderate symptoms should be the mantra now. People whose infection starts showing up with fever develop breathing difficulty rapidly even before they get tested,” he pointed out.  Districts with high CFR  Mysuru: 4%  Bidar, Tumakuru : 3.8%  Bagalkot: 3.6%  Bengaluru Urban: 2%  State average: 2%
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Home quarantine picking up pace in Visakhapatnam||The home quarantine initiative, initiated earlier this month in Visakhapatnam district, is picking up pace with 101 COVID-19 patients being given the facility. Doctors said many of the patients have already recovered. According to the doctors, there are some criteria to allow a person to stay in home quarantine. The person must have tested positive, should be young, educated and not having any health issues. He/she must be able to monitor body temperature, pulse, and oxygen levels whenever required as advised by doctors. Moreover, the patient should be living in an independent house which should have an attached bathroom. The facility will not be allowed if there are any elderly persons (over 60 years with health issues) or children below 10 years in the house. “Doctors are working throughout the day on shifts and are enquiring about the health conditions of the patients. If the patient has video-calling facility, our doctors are interacting with them through video calls,” said District COVID-19 Officer P.V. Sudhakar. Though the demand for home quarantine for people living in apartments is going up, the district administration is yet to take a call. Unlike in major cities, people living in apartments in the city are not given home quarantine. If any apartment resident tests positive, they are shifted to COVID-19 care centres or hospitals. In Visakhapatnam Urban region, most of the residents live in apartments. “Most of the apartment associations are objecting to the proposal as of now,” said Mr. Sudhakar. A senior doctor from the city said that initiative needs to be taken first by the municipal corporation by conducting a meeting with the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and seeking their support in enforcing home quarantine.
25 July 2020||Pune,||With 9,615 new cases, State tally crosses 3.5 lakh||Maharashtra reported its third consecutive spike of over 9,000 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, with 9,615 cases taking the State’s total case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to reach 3,57,117. A high fatality surge of 278 deaths saw the total death toll rise to 13,132. “Till date, of a total 17,87,306 laboratory samples, 3,57,117 (19.8%) have tested positive with nearly 50,000 samples being tested across the State in 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the recovery rate stood at 55.99% while its fatality rate was 3.68%. Of the total case tally, 1,43,714 are active, said State Health Department officials. With 5,714 patients being discharged on Friday, the total recoveries till date has gone up to 1,99,967. Over 2,500 cases in Pune Pune district reported yet another massive surge of over 2,500 new cases and a high fatality spike of 74 deaths as its case tally surged to 69,919 while its death toll reached 1,666. District authorities said of the total case tally, a little over 24,000 were active. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported a record-high surge of 843 cases. With 1,057 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally reached has 1,06,980. Significantly, its number of active cases has come down to 22,443. With 54 new deaths reported today, the city’s death toll has risen to 5,984. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 13 deaths, taking its death toll to 356 while Mira-Bhayander reported 16 fatalities as the toll rose to 255. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur saw a massive spike of 245 fresh cases as its tally surged to 3,327 of whom 2,138 are active. The district’s death toll has reached 80. Nashik and Jalgaon, the two major hotspots in north Maharashtra, reported 15 and 13 fatalities respectively. Nashik reported a massive surge of 439 fresh cases as its case tally rose to 11,740 of whom 4,853 are active. Jalgaon reported a big spike of 245 cases as its total tally reached 8,746 of whom 2,512 are active. In the MMR, Thane reported another big spike of 546 new cases as the district’s total case tally crossed the 30,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 369 new cases, taking its total case tally to 20,249. Navi Mumbai reported 331 new cases taking its total case tally to 14,495. Raigad district reported a big surge of 314 cases as its total tally touched 7,209, while 10 deaths took its cumulative death toll to 132.  Spurt in Aurangabad Aurangabad in Marathwada saw a spurt of 268 cases as its tally reached 11,246. Of these, 4,776 are active. With five deaths reported across the district today, the death toll has risen to 431. Dr. Awate said 8,88,976 people across the State were in home quarantine and 45,838 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
25 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Advani records statement in Babri demolition case||Senior BJP leader and former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani recorded his statement before a special CBI court here on Friday in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Mr. Advani, 92, who is accused of criminal conspiracy, recorded his statement through videoconferencing for 4 hours and 30 minutes before special CBI judge S.K. Yadav. The veteran BJP leader was asked over 100 questions, said his lawyer K.K. Mishra. Mr. Advani denied the charges against him and when asked by the court why then was a case lodged against him, said it was due to “political reasons,” said Mr. Mishra. Mr. Mishra said the BJP leader did not deny his presence in Ayodhya on the day of the demolition. He said he arrived there for akar seva, which had been allowed by the Supreme Court. Mr. Advani, however, asserted that he had no role in the demolition, nor did he participate in any act that could impact the unity and integrity of the nation. With this, Mr. Advani became the 31st accused to record his statement against the evidence presented by the prosecution. His long-time colleague and former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi recorded his statement on Thursday. Kalyan Singh, who was the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh when the mosque was demolished, and Uma Bharti, former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister, too had recorded their statements recently. Another accused, Satish Pradhan, will record his statement on August 6 as he is unwell, said Mr. Mishra. The court passed orders to attach the property of accused Om Prakash Pandey, who did not appear before the court despite repeated summons, said the lawyer. Charges restored The special CBI court framed charges of criminal conspiracy in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya against Mr. Advani and several others, most of them linked to the Sangh Parivar, in 2017. The Mughal-era mosque was razed to the ground by a frenzied mob ofkar sevakson December 6, 1992. The Supreme Court had used its extraordinary constitutional powers under Article 142 to restore the criminal conspiracy charges framed against Mr. Advani and others in 2017, overruling the Allahabad High Court judgment dropping the charges. In 2010, the Allahabad HC had upheld a special CBI court’s decision in 2001 to drop the conspiracy charges against Mr. Advani and others. The special CBI court is conducting day-to-day hearing in the case to complete its trial by August 31 as directed by the Supreme Court.
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL to be held in UAE from Sept. 19 to Nov. 8||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has decided to hold the Indian Premier League (IPL) from September 19 to November 8 in the United Arab Emirates, pending the Central government’s approval. The league’s 13th edition had earlier been postponed because of the COVID-19 outbreak. “In consultation with various stakeholders, we have decided on the window considering various aspects. The governing council will be convened once we get a formal response from the government, which we hope will happen early next week,” IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel told The Hindu on Friday.  The Hindu understands that Mr. Patel, BCCI’s interim CEO Hemang Amin and other BCCI office-bearers have been involved in discussions with the IPL franchises, the broadcast partner and the Emirates Cricket Board over the last couple of days. The matches are set to start at 3.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. (both IST), instead of the conventional 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.
25 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. kidnap case: 11 policemen suspended||An IPS officer was among 11 persons suspended in Kanpur after a lab technician, whose family alleged that kidnappers escaped with a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh in the presence of police personnel, was found to have been killed last month itself. Five persons, including a woman, were arrested on charges of kidnap and murder of Sanjeet Yadav, the police said. Interrogation revealed they had thrown Yadav’s body in Pandu river, the police said. SP (South Kanpur) Aparna Gupta, DSP Manoj Gupta, former inspector in-charge of Barra Ranjeet Rai, outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar, sub-inspector Yogendra Pratap Singh and six constables were suspended on the charge of negligence, the police said. ‘Police team failed’ Yadav’s family alleged last week that he was kidnapped last month, following which they were asked to arrange a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh. They claimed that they threw a bag with the cash on a road from a flyover as instructed in the presence of police personnel who could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back the victim. Yadav’s sister Ruchi said they sold jewellery and property to arrange the money. Ms. Aparna Gupta rejected allegations that the money was handed over in the presence of police, saying it was “not practically possible”. Following this, Ms. Ruchi released a video, in which she says she lied about filling the bag with the cash and claims she made up the claim to expedite police action. However, she later said she was pressured to change her statement by a Crime Branch officer, who allegedly told her that her statement about paying Rs. 30 lakh could endanger her brother’s life. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P. said the police received a missing complaint about Sanjeet on June 23, and on June 26, it was converted into an FIR under the charge of kidnapping in order to murder. On June 29, the family received a ransom call. Mr. Kumar said that upon interrogation of two of those detained, it was found that Sanjeet was killed last month itself. The two had worked with him in a pathology lab.
25 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal records 2,216 new cases, 35 deaths||West Bengal on Friday recorded 35 deaths in 24 hours as it braced for another shutdown on Saturday. The State recorded 2,216 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 53,973. Active cases in the State stand at 19,154 while the number of samples tested daily increased to 15,485. Of the 35 fatalities, 16 were from Kolkata, six from North 24 Parganas, and three each from Howrah and South 24 Parganas. During the day 1,873 persons were discharged from different health facilities. The State will go for another complete lockdown on Saturday. No flights will operate from Kolkata airport and fair price ration shops will remain closed. The State government has announced two days lock down in a week and had observed a near total lockdown on Thursday. Controversial video Meanwhile, a video posted by Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra on social media created a controversy. In the video, patients at a COVID-19 treatment facility in Jalpaiguri have alleged there are no facilities at the centre. Trinamool Congress leader and State Tourism Minister Gautam Deb denied the allegations and said that he has spoken to the district magistrate in this regard.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CM flays wrapping MGR statue with saffron shawl||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday condemned the recent incident in Puducherry, in which a statue of AIADMK founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran was found with a saffron shawl. The AIADMK co-coordinator contended that Tamils would not accept the “conspiracy of a few people to disturb national integration and unity only for survival in vote politics.” In a strongly-worded statement, he said that the act of some miscreants wrapping a saffron shawl on the late leader’s statue was hurtful and regretful. “It is against human civilisation to hurt others’ sentiments in the name of freedom of expression. Tamils will not accept the conspiracy of a few people, who are attempting to disturb the national integration and unity on linguistic, communal, religious and caste lines only for survival in vote politics.” Condemning the incident as a “barbaric act,” Mr. Palaniswami said it was regretful that the statues of great leaders, who had served the society, were being damaged and disrespected. The people's beliefs should be respected, he said. He urged the Puducherry Chief Minister to identify the miscreants, bring them to book and expose them to society. MGR, the late AIADMK founder and a Bharat Ratna recipient, remained a symbol of equality beyond religious and caste lines and had his rightful place in the minds of the poor and the downtrodden. He also continued to be an unparalleled leader for the Tamils living across the world, Mr. Palaniswami said. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, in a tweet on Thursday night, strongly condemned the incident. He also urged the Puducherry government to initiate severe action against those responsible for the incident. The statue of the late AIADMK founder, located on the Puducherry-Villianur Road, was found with a saffron shawl around its neck on Thursday afternoon. The Villianur police have registered a case. AIADMK legislators of Puducherry staged a protest inside the Assembly to condemn the incident.
25 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. kidnap case: 11 policemen suspended||An IPS officer was among 11 persons suspended in Kanpur after a lab technician, whose family alleged that kidnappers escaped with a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh in the presence of police personnel, was found to have been killed last month itself. Five persons, including a woman, were arrested on charges of kidnap and murder of Sanjeet Yadav, the police said. SP (South Kanpur) Aparna Gupta, DSP Manoj Gupta, former inspector in-charge of Barra Ranjeet Rai, outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar, sub-inspector Yogendra Pratap Singh and six constables were suspended on the charge of negligence. Yadav’s family alleged last week that he was kidnapped last month, following which they were asked to arrange a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh. They claimed that they threw a bag with the cash on a road from a flyover as instructed in the presence of police personnel who could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back the victim.
25 July 2020||Kolkata,||No flights to, from Kolkata on State’s lockdown days||The Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata will not operate any incoming and outgoing flights on the days West Bengal government observes a complete lockdown. Containing spread In an attempt to contain the spread of pandemic, the State government has decided to have a two-day lockdown every week. Kaushik Bhattacharya, the airport director, said the airport will remain functional but no arrival or departure flights will operate on days of lockdown. The State went for a total lockdown on July 23, and will observe a complete lockdown on Saturday, July 25. Therefore, no flights will operate from the airport on July 25. The decision was made by the airport authorities on the request of the State government. Mr. Bhattacharya said the airport has been operating about 90 flights daily (45 arrivals and 45 departures) since the lockdown was lifted. Restricted cities Earlier this month, the airport authorities decided to extend the restrictions on incoming flights from six cities to July 31. Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad — have remained suspended to Kolkata Airport from July 6 at the request of the State government.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Water woes||
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL to be held in UAE from Sept. 19||The BCCI has decided to hold the Indian Premier League (IPL) from September 19 to November 8 in the United Arab Emirates, pending the Central government’s approval. The league’s 13th edition had earlier been postponed because of the COVID-19 outbreak.     The Hindu understands that Mr. Patel, BCCI’s interim CEO Hemang Amin and other BCCI office-bearers were involved in discussions with the IPL franchises, the broadcast partner and the Emirates Cricket Board over the last couple of days. The matches are set to start at 3.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. (both IST), instead of the conventional 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SC declines to stay Ramesh Kumar’s plea||The Supreme Court refused to stay the contempt petition which N. Ramesh Kumar filed in the Andhra Pradesh High Court (HC) against the non-implementation of the High Court order to restore him as State Election Commissioner (SEC). Hearing the State government’s application for a stay on Mr. Ramesh Kumar's contempt plea on Friday, a three-Judge Bench of the apex court headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and comprising Justice A.S. Bopanna and Justice V. Ramasubramanian took serious objection to the government’s violation of the High Court order dated May 29. Govt. faulted The Judges also reportedly faulted the government for creating a situation where the Governor of the State had to intervene in the matter. The CJI and the other Judges reminded that they had earlier declined to stall the High Court judgment, which went in favour of Mr. Ramesh Kumar, who alleged that the State government removed him from the post of State Election Commissioner by promulgating the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Sibal criticises Rajasthan Governor||In a sharp criticism of the Rajasthan HC order and of Governor Kalraj Mishra for refusing to act on the advice of the State govern-ment, former Law Minister and Congress leader Kapil Sibal said the nation is “witnessing a new definition of democracy”. He accused the Governor of “acting at the Centre’s behest”.page 9
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Shekhawat should go, says Congress||After a court ordered a probe into Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s alleged role in a multi-crore scam involving Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society, the Congress demanded his resignation. It said the scam was the ‘biggest ponzi scheme’. The party had earlier alleged that Mr. Shekhawat was behind efforts to topple the Gehlot government.page 9
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||30-year-old gets first shot of Covaxin||A 30-year-old man on Friday became the first person to be administered the first dose of India’s indigenous COVID vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, at AIIMS, Delhi, one of the 12 testing sites. He was monitored for two hours and discharged.page 10
25 July 2020||YADGIR,||Narrow escape for four after house collapses||Four members of a family, including a nine-month-old baby, had a narrow escape after a house collapsed at Naikal village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district. The incident occurred at around 10 p.m. on Thursday. Mallamma, Ghalappa and his wife, Gangamma, and their baby, Pallavi, escaped with minor injuries. The house, which had a tin roof put up on stone walls, collapsed after another house, just behind it, fell on it.  Wadagera Tahsildar Suresh Ankalagi visited the spot.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports 5,007 more cases, 110 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 5,007 new COVID-19 cases and 110 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the State touched 85,870 and the death toll rose to 1,724. The daily toll, that had crossed 100 last Friday, was hovering around 90 till Thursday.
25 July 2020||Belagavi,||VTU exams between August 24 and 30||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will hold offline, pen and paper examinations from August 24 to 30, Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa announced in Belagavi on Friday. The examination is only for the current terminal semester which is the 8th semester.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||In Delhi, active cases nearly halve in 3 weeks||As many as 1,025 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,28,389, read the government health bulletin released on Friday. Of the total cases, 1,10,931 people have recovered and there are now 13,681 active cases — down from 27,007 on July 1.
25 July 2020||Kolkata,||Danseuse, artist Amala Shankar takes last bow||Renowned Indian dancer and artist Amala Shankar, who celebrated her 101st birthday last month, passed away here on Friday. Wife of classical dancer Uday Shankar, she was awarded the Banga Bibhusan award in 2011 for her contributions to the field of art. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee condoled her death and the final rites of the danseuse were performed with full State honours.
25 July 2020||Kolkata,||Eminent danseuse Amala Shankar takes last bow||Eminent danseuse Amala Shankar passed away in Kolkata on Friday morning. She was 101. Wife of classical dancer Uday Shankar, she was awarded the Banga Bibhusan award in 2011 for her contributions to the field of art. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences and said Shankar had achieved international acclaim, rising over boundaries of State and country through dance.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||Chavan seeks probe into BJP link to State CEO ads||Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Friday alleged that an advertising and social media company owned by a BJP office-bearer was hired by the Chief Electoral Officer of Maharashtra to issue election-related online ads during the Assembly polls.
25 July 2020||Mumbai/Nagpur,||Focus on zero mortality rate, says Thackeray||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the State government is aiming to achieve zero mortality from COVID-19. Meanwhile, Nagpur civic authorities on Friday announced a Janata curfew in the city on Saturday and Sunday to check the spread of the virus.
25 July 2020||Yadgir,||Two bodies retrieved||The bodies of a man and his son, who had gone missing in the Gundlabanda waterfalls near Golapalli village in Hatti police limits in Raichur district, were retrieved on Friday. The two were identified as as Krishnappa (35) and Dhanush (5). Water from the Hatti Halla flooded the waterfalls when four people, including the two dead, were taking bath. And, personnel from Fire and Emergency Services and police with help from local people rescued two of them.
25 July 2020||Yadgir,||Two children among four killed in two incidents||In two rain-related incidents, four persons, including two children, were killed on the spot, and one was injured, in Raichur district on Friday. The two children were killed and another was injured after a rock from a hillock fell on them in Guramma Pet area in Deodurg town. The dead were identified as Veeresh (13) and Ramesh (10). An injured Mounesh was shifted to hospital, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy said. In the other incident, two brothers who were taking shelter in a hut in an agricultural field died after being struck by lightning in Singanodi village. They were identified as Ravichandra (21) and Vishnu (18). Mahadevi, the mother of the two, became unconscious, Dr. Vedamurthy said.
25 July 2020||Chennai,||17,207 jobs created in formal sector in May||As many as 17,207 new jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in May this year, in a rebound from the negative number in April. However, the new jobs were nearly 70.81% down from the March figures.
25 July 2020||Chennai,||State records over 6,000 cases for second day||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 6,000 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. With 6,785 new cases and 88 deaths, the State’s tally inched closer to the two lakh-mark. A total of 53,132 persons are under treatment.
25 July 2020||Chennai,||Most deaths due to co-morbidities: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijaya-baskar on Friday said the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 alone was fewer in Tamil Nadu; most fatalities occurred due to co-morbidities. He reiterated that the only way to control the spread of the infection was early intervention through aggressive testing.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka sees unabated rise in cases||Andhra Pradesh on Friday reported 8,147 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike thus far, raising the tally to 80,858. Forty-nine persons died and the death toll mounted to 933. With the discharge of 2,380 patients, recoveries went up to 39,935 and patients in various hospitals were put at 39,990. Also, 48,114 samples were tested in a day. The new deaths were reported in 10 districts, including East Godavari with 11 deaths, the highest. Krishna reported nine deaths and Kurnool eight, Srikakulam seven and West Godavari five deaths. Guntur and Visakhapatnam had three deaths each and Chittoor, Vizianagaram and Prakasam one death each. East Godavari reported the highest case number at 1,029, followed by Anantapur (984), Kurnool (914), and Visakhapatnam (898). After registering over 1,000 cases on each of two consecutive days, Kerala breathed a sigh of relief on Friday, when the daily incidence dipped to 885 cases. On Friday, the number of recoveries was 968. Local transmission continued unabated, with 753 out of the 885 new infections being locally acquired, and 56 had no epidemiological link. Also, 24 health care workers tested positive. Four deaths were reported, two from Kasaragod and two from Thiruvananthapuram and Alapuzha. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said COVID-19 in care homes and convents in Ernakulam was an emerging issue. A care home at Thrikkakkara had 40 positive cases among 135 occupants. Mr. Vijayan said no visitors would be allowed to care homes and trips outside by care home officials would have to be restricted. For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 6,000 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Another 6,785 persons tested positive and 88 persons died, and the State’s overall tally was closer to the two lakh-mark. The State’s recovery rate stood at 71% and mortality rate was 1.66%. Of the total tally of 1,99,749 cases, 53,132 were under treatment. A total of 6,504 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of persons discharged to 1,43,297. The State’s toll rose to 3,320. Apart from Chennai, 18 districts accounted for over 100 new COVID-19 cases each. Chennai led the table with 1,299 cases, while Virudhunagar recorded 423. Chengalpattu witnessed a surge as 419 persons tested positive. Among the other northern districts, Tiruvallur recorded 378 cases, Kancheepuram 349 cases, Ranipet 222 cases, Kallakurichi 179 cases, Vellore 174 cases, Villupuram 164 cases and Tiruvannamalai 134 cases. In the south, Madurai recorded 326 fresh cases, while the surge continued in Thoothukudi with 308 persons testing positive. Kanyakumari had 266 cases, while Theni and Tirunelveli had 234 and 170 cases respectively.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Governors are not protecting rule of law: Sibal||In a sharp criticism of the Rajasthan High Court order that stayed the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker’s disqualification notice to dissident lawmakers of the party, and of Governor Kalraj Mishra refusing to act on the advice of the State government, former Law Minister and senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday said the country is “witnessing a new definition of democracy”. SC order ‘ignored’ He said if High Courts start ignoring orders passed by a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, then “lawyers could well take off their robes”.  Mr. Sibal also accused Governor Mishra of “acting at the behest of the Centre and abdicating his constitutional duty”. The former Union minister also charged rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot of making a tamasha (mockery) of the party in public. “There is today a new definition of democracy and a new way of functioning of Governors of States in this country. Governors are supposed to uphold the Constitution and the laws, but Governors in this country are acting at the behest of the Union government,” Mr. Sibal told reporters at a virtual press conference. “Governors are no longer protectors of the rule of law, but they are protectors of the party in power,” he added. “If Governors are going to flout the law and if the courts are not going to accept precedent, then why are institutions being set up? Why did our forefathers set up these institutions?” Mr. Sibal asked. He claimed that Friday’s Rajasthan High Court order overturns an order of the five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court that made it clear that courts cannot interfere in a disqualification petition prior to the Speakers’s decision. “You are trying to create a situation where Constitutional authorities’ hands are being tied by virtue of court orders against the orders of the Supreme Court of India. So, should we now just give up law? Maybe it’s time for us to just take off our robes and say forget it, why practise in a court of law,” Mr. Sibal said. Several Congress leaders took to Twitter to slam the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “trying to topple a democratically elected government”. Rahul slams BJP “The country is ruled by the Constitution and law. And governments are formed by the majority mandate of the people. BJP’s conspiracy to topple the Rajasthan government is clearly visible and it will be an insult to the 8 crore people of Rajasthan. The Governor should convene the Assembly and let the people of the country know the truth,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi tweeted on the Rajasthan crisis.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘China yet to disengage from LAC spots’||China is yet to either fully disengage or dilute its extensive military build-up at most points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), according to a new assessment of satellite images by Stratfor, the United States-based intelligence platform. The report, published on July 22, has documented 26 new Chinese encampments, 22 new support bases and two new heliports, underlining the unprecedented scale of the Chinese build-up on its side of the LAC. The build-up, India believes, has gone against past commitments to keep the peace on the border.  The constructions were “a mix of permanent and semi-permanent positions,” Sim Tack, the author of the report, who is a military analyst at Force Analysis and Stratfor, told The Hindu . “Some of these have been hosted at existing permanent infrastructure, while others have been established new and consist mainly of large tent camps, vehicle depots, and artillery positions,” he said. “Their significance is of course providing direct support to the forward encampments. They are further behind the flashpoints on the LAC, but an important element of China’s deployment as they project military strength to deter Indian counteraction.” The report noted that since May, China has been “accelerating efforts to secure its military presence and access to water rights along the Indian border.” “But while it appears Beijing has largely achieved this objective for now, the harsh Himalayan winter could again escalate its standoff with India by challenging China’s ability to maintain a presence throughout the disputed territory,” it said, noting that “over 10,000 Chinese troops have flooded into the disputed area on the Indian border” this summer. Following the four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks, the report noted that China has withdrawn some positions in Galwan Valley, Finger 4 area of Pangong Lake and Hot Springs. These “limited drawdowns”, the report said, “have so far had little impact on China’s greater military advancement in the border region”, noting that “Chinese troops still maintain a significant presence just kilometres away from Indian positions, effectively upholding Beijing’s deterrent.” The report, however, suggested that “dramatic changes” to operating conditions in winter will test China’s forward deployments.
25 July 2020||PATNA,||Bihar flood situation turns grim||The flood situation northeastern Bihar turned grim on Friday after the water levels in several rivers rose dangerously and breached embankments at many places. Gushing waters forced the Railways to stop train services on the Darbhanga-Samastipur section. “Floodwater was rising near railway bridge number 16 at Hayaghat. Operations on the section had to be stopped,” said East Central Railway Chief Public Relations Officer Rajesh Kumar. An approach road linking Gopalganj with Bettiah was washed away by waters from river Gandak. “The road had started flooding on Wednesday, but the erosion caused by the high pressure water flow could not be prevented... We hope to resume traffic on the road soon,” said Gopalganj District Magistrate Arshad Aziz. About 8 lakh people in 10 districts of northeastern Bihar, comprising 64 blocks and 426 panchayats, are currently affected by floods. The government has set up 28 relief camps and community kitchens. Rescue services Twenty-one teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 14 teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been pressed into service to rescue marooned people. “More than 3,200 people and 126 livestock have so far been safely evacuated by NDRF personnel… Last night, when the embankment breached at Bhawanipur village in East Champaran, our personnel from the 9th battalion rescued 1,200 people,” NDRF Commandant Vijay Sinha said. “Due to the heavy rain in the last two days, water levels in rivers have risen sharply, flooding many areas... but our department officials are on high alert and responding to the emerging situation,” said State Water Resources Department Minister Sanjay Jha. On Friday, river Saran breached at two places, Devapur village under Barauli block and Puraina village of Majahgarh block in Gopalganj district. Villagers were forced to take refuge in higher places, including national highways and government buildings. The State government has, meanwhile, announced Rs. 6,000 as compensation to all flood affected families.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nine States told to ramp up COVID-19 testing||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday reviewed the management of COVID-19 in nine States with high active caseload, and advised Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Assam to urgently ramp up testing, strictly implement containment plans, augment health infrastructure and ensure effective clinical management. “Cabinet Secretary had a detailed review on the State specific COVID response strategy with the Health Secretaries and other State officials as well as on the factors that were leading to rising caseload in these States,” noted a release issued by the Central government. The Union Health Ministry said that in keeping with the “Test Track Treat” strategy, the States were advised to ramp up testing, with special focus on containment zones. “Areas of concern with respect to low-testing in certain States was highlighted. It was reiterated that sustained and aggressive testing is crucial for early identification of cases and to prevent spread of infection,” said a senior health official. The States were also advised to focus on health infrastructure, including requisite number of beds, oxygen and ventilators, with the implementation of clinical protocols, ensuring quality care and seamless patient management.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||More calls for Shekhawat to resign||After a court in Jaipur ordered a probe into Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s alleged role in a multi-crore scam involving Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society, the Congress on Friday again demanded his resignation. It said the scam was to the tune of Rs. 884 crore and called it the ‘biggest ponzi scheme’ in Rajasthan which, it alleged, has the involvement of Vikram Singh, a close aide of the Minister. Mr. Singh, who is a director of the Sanjivani Society, has been is in judicial custody since September 2019 on forgery charge and in connection with other cases as well. The Congress had alleged that Mr. Shekhawat was behind efforts to topple the Ashok Gehlot government, released audio clips to back its claims and demanded his resignation. “Vikram Singh ji is associated with Gajendra Shekhawat ji in several other companies...The Congress demands the immediate resignation of Mr. Shekhawat whose name has come up in the Sanjivani scam,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters at a virtual press conference. The party alleged that investors’ money was transferred to the Society employees and then to other companies that bought properties in India and abroad, including 2,500 hectares in Ethiopia, a part of which was used for banana cultivation. The Congress also slammed Central agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate, the Income Tax Department and the CBI for not investigating the scam. “Mr. Shekhawat is trying to make us a Banana Republic while growing bananas in Ethiopia….He has no address for these [Central] agencies,” Mr. Khera said.
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA team summons Sivasankar to Kochi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has summoned M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, to its office in Kochi for further questioning. It had interviewed him at the police club here for four hours on Thursday. A State police officer privy to the NIA procedure said the agency might have stumbled upon evidence that required more clarification from Mr. Sivasankar. A mere subpoena need not always be an indication of wrongdoing or precursor of an arrest. The NIA was traditionally tight-lipped about matters of investigation. Mr. Sivasankar had repeatedly maintained that he was innocent of the crime though he had on some occasions associated with a few of the suspects in the case. Political implications The NIA summons was not without political implications. It had reportedly sought surveillance video footage of Mr. Sivasankar’s office in the Secretariat. The Opposition has called for a Statewide protest on August 1 seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Vijayan reacted to the development by stating that the “NIA was on the right track.” Crowdfunding Meanwhile, Customs enforcers said initial inquiries indicated that at least two of the accused had crowd-sourced seed money for the smuggling operation from some people in North Kerala. They said the financiers had substantial cash reserves at hand always. They believed that their faith frowned upon the practice of interest and hence were against depositing cash in bank accounts. Investigators said gold smugglers paid the funders a share of their profits as commission. The system operated based solely on trust like hawala networks. Undeterred  Moreover, the financiers were also willing to take risks and not easily deterred if they lost money when law enforcers busted gold smuggling runs. “It’s like gambling. The financiers hope to recover the money by investing in a fresh smuggling bid. Loss is part of the game. So are profits and many do not view the offence as a heinous crime,” an official said.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Irked by slow Net, MPs want to switch to private players||With virtual meetings being the new normal, parliamentarians at a meeting of the Lok Sabha House Committee on Thursday complained about the slow Internet facility provided by MTNL/BSNL and batted for replacing the PSUs with private service providers. This is not the first time MPs have complained about the government-owned telecom providers. All parliamentarians are provided three telephone connections, one of which can be used for broadband. As per the Housing and Telephone Facilities (Members of Parliament) Rules, 1956, MPs get 50,000 free calls each month and broadband bill worth Rs. 1,500 are also paid for. Together, the annual concessions amount to Rs. 1.5 lakh per MP. However, no reimbursement is provided for connections from private telecom companies. “All the political activity is now happening via videoconferencing. We need a reliable and hi-speed Internet facility. The one provided by BSNL/MTNL is subpar,” one of the members who attended the meeting said. In a presentation during the meeting, the MTNL said it has increased the speed of broadband connection from 20 Mbps to 100 Mbps and data download limit from 200GB to 500 GB. However, sources said members were not convinced by these assurances. Last October, the Union Cabinet had approved a package worth nearly Rs. 70,000 crore for the revival of the two struggling telecom PSUs — BSNL and MTNL. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had also given an in-principle nod for the merger of the two entities. Under the package, 4G spectrum worth Rs. 20,000 crore is to be administratively allotted to the two firms and their debt is to be restructured by raising of bonds with sovereign guarantee worth Rs. 15,000 crore.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Congress kicks off Rao centenary celebrations||The Congress rank and file recalled the contributions made by former Prime Minister late P.V. Narasimha Rao in bringing in economic reforms and liberalisation that changed the destination of the country forever. Speakers including former President Pranab Mukherjee, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was the Finance Minister during PV’s tenure, former Union Ministers P. Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh recalled the bold decisions taken by P.V. Narasimha Rao at a time when the country was undergoing worst economic crisis that paved the way for India to become the fifth economic super power. They were participating in a virtual meeting convened by the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee to mark the launch of the centenary celebrations of PV Narasimha Rao on Friday, coinciding with the day on which Narasimha Rao government presented its first budget ushering in path breaking economic reforms 29 years ago in 1991. Mr. Pranab Mukherjee said it was P.V. Narasimha Rao who recognised the inefficiency of the public sector which was enjoying commanding respect and ushered in radical reforms. “He was the second Prime Minister to introduce radical reforms to harness the potential for growth in the country,” he said. P.V. Narasimha Rao became the Prime Minister at a crucial time when the foreign exchange reserves plummeted and there was political instability. There was uncertainty too as the government was a coalition of parties with divergent views. Dr. Manmohan Singh recalled how he presented the budget on July 24, 1991, that changed the country in many ways. “He (PV) gave me the freedom to roll out the reforms. He knew what was ailing the economy. It was real tough decision in 1991 when forex reserves were down, bringing the economy to a precipice,” he said. While economic reforms and liberalisation were P.V. Narasimha Rao biggest contributions, his contribution in foreign affairs was no less. “The Look East policy was his brainchild to foster friendly ties with the south Asian region,” he said. One of the major features of P.V. Narasimha Rao was his resolve to take the Opposition into confidence on crucial matters as could be seen from his decision to depute former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee to the United Nations Human Rights Commission, he said. Mr. Chidambaram said July 24, 1991 is not just remembered for economic reforms, but also for the new industrial policy that was introduced the same day. “He broke away from the path which we followed for nearly 50 years. One can understand how difficult it was to break away from what we call Nehruvian path,” he said. Mr. Jairam Ramesh recalled how P.V. Narasimha Rao took over the reign during the most difficult of circumstances and took unpopular decisions like two-step devaluation of the rupee. He readily accepted the bold trade policy which was entirely different and allowed reforms in the sector to continue. “The manner in which he said we are embarking on a long journey, Mahaprasthana, responding to opposition’s queries symbolised the erudition of P.V. Narasimha Rao,” he said. Leave alone the opposition, people in the Congress too were not entirely convinced of the reforms, but P.V. Narasimha Rao put his foot down and pursued the middle path which he described as change with continuity. Narasimha Rao’s brother P.V. Manohar Rao stressed the need for organising similar celebrations at the national-level to ensure that youth and the generations to come are educated about the contributions made by the former Prime Minister. PV centenary celebrations committee chairperson J. Geetha Reddy welcomed the participants while TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and others spoke.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Amid lockdown, ambulance from T.N. takes baby to A.P. home||A four-month-old baby started her journey back home to Madanapalli, Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh on Friday afternoon after undergoing a cardiac surgery at the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children, Egmore. In a special gesture, doctors of ICH and officials of the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project (TNHSP) arranged her travel in the neonatal ambulance of the 108 ambulance network. Almost a month ago, Reddemma and her husband Ramanjaneyulu, a daily wage labourer, rushed their second child Swapna to ICH with complaints of fast breathing for five days. According to doctors, the child was received in the emergency room with high respiratory rate and respiratory failure. She was intubated and put on medications. She was diagnosed with large Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA), multiple Ventricular Septal Defects and moderate Atrial Septal Defect, S. Srinivasan, State Nodal Officer-Child Health, said. “The baby had a combination of three cardiac defects and pulmonary arterial hypertension. We stabilised her, and performed one surgery for PDA ligation at the hospital. Post-surgery, the baby was doing well. When we decided to discharge the child, we were wondering on how to send her and her family back home due to the lockdown. So, we requested TNHSP to provide an ambulance for their transportation back home, and they granted immediate permission,” he said. The family, in fact, resided on the hospital premises for a month. “We arranged for food to be provided for the baby’s mother and grandmother,” he added. Special permission Officials of the 108 ambulance network said dispatching ambulances for transportation outside the State borders required special permission from the government. “We arranged for the neonatal ambulance for the baby and her family with special permission from the government. The ambulance is covering a distance of nearly 200 km to take them to their home in Andhra Pradesh. We have obtained such special approvals during the Moulivakkam building collapse and Vardah cyclone. This is one such instance where we got approval for the baby,” an official said. Dr. Srinivasan added that the cardiothoracic surgeons have advised the parents to come for follow-up.
25 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Babri case: Advani records statement||Senior BJP leader and former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani recorded his statement before a special CBI court here on Friday in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Mr. Advani, who is accused of criminal conspiracy, recorded his statement through video conferencing for 4 hours and 30 minutes before Special CBI judge S.K. Yadav. The veteran BJP leader was asked over 100 questions, said his lawyer K.K. Mishra. Mr. Advani denied the charges against him and when asked by the court why then was a case lodged against him, said they were due to “political reasons,” Mr. Mishra told The Hindu . Mr. Mishra said the BJP leader did not deny his presence in Ayodhya on the day of the demolition. He said he arrived there for a kar seva , which had been allowed by the Supreme Court. He, however, asserted that he had no role in the demolition, nor did he participate in any act that could impact the unity and integrity of the nation. Other accused With this, Mr. Advani became the 31st accused to record his statement against the evidence presented by the prosecution. His long-time colleague and former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi recorded his statement on Thursday. Kalyan Singh, who was the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh when the mosque was demolished, and Uma Bharti, former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister, too had recorded their statements recently. Another accused Satish Pradhan will record his statement on August 6, as he is unwell, said Mr. Mishra. The court passed orders to attach the property of accused Om Prakash Pandey, who did not appear before the court despite repeated summons, said the lawyer. The Special CBI court framed charges of criminal conspiracy in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya against Mr. Advani and several others, most of them linked to the Sangh Parivar, in 2017. The Mughal-era mosque was razed to the ground by a frenzied mob of “kar sevaks” on December 6, 1992.
25 July 2020||Kolkata,||Eminent danseuse and artist Amala Shankar takes last bow||In 2012, when Amala Shankar walked the red carpet at Cannes to attend the screening of her restored film Kalpana , she jokingly described herself as “the youngest film star you have seen at Cannes this year”. She was 93 years old then. Amala Shankar was indeed very young when she first visited France. She was 11 when she first visited Paris in 1931 with her father and met Uday Shankar at the International Colonial Exhibition. Later on, for decades, Amala Shankar with her illustrious partner Uday Shankar took Indian dance to a global platform. The eminent danseuse passed away in Kolkata on Friday morning. She was 101. Wife of classical dancer Uday Shankar, she was awarded by West Bengal government’s Banga Bibhusan award in 2011 for her contributions to the field of art. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressing condolences over her death and said that Amala Shankar had achieved international acclaim, rising over boundaries of State and country through the form of dance. The final rites of the artiste were performed with full state honours. Netaji’s impact Born Amala Nandy on June 27, 1919 in Jessore, Bangladesh into a merchant family, her father Akshay Kumar Nandy was a gold trader. “It was at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who knew about her interest in dance, who convinced her father to send Amala to the Uday Shankar Dance Academy in Almora. Netaji also sent both of them as cultural ambassadors to Europe,” Sugata Bose, Netaji's grand nephew and eminent historian, told The Hindu . Her first performance was in the production titled Kaliya Daman ,  staged in Belgium in 1931. She married Uday Shankar in 1942. Amala Shankar acted in the film Kalpana (1948), the only film made by Uday Shankar. Recalling her performance in the film, director and actor Aparna Sen described Amala Shankar as the epitome of grace. A versatile woman, Amala Shankar took to painting and also wrote. Her last performance was the dance drama Sita Swayamvar at the age of 92, in the role of King Janaka. Many prominent artists and film personalities from Kolkata recalled the artiste’s 100th birth anniversary celebrations in Kolkata on June 27, 2018. Sreenanda Shankar, granddaughter of the artiste, said the family celebrated her grandmother’s 101th birthday last month. “This is the end of an era,” Ms. Shankar wrote on social media. Amala Shankar’s daughter Mamata Shankar said that she passed exactly the way she wanted to, without bothering anyone. “She died in sleep,” her daughter said.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China set for more military talks||India and China have agreed to hold another round of high-level military talks to take forward the slow-moving disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which remains only partially complete after four rounds of talks between Corps Commanders. This was agreed to on Friday after a third convening of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) in the past month, with the disengagement process along the LAC still facing many hurdles. This was the 17th WMCC meeting in eight years, and was held through video-conference. A statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said both sides agreed it was necessary for both sides “to sincerely implement the understandings reached” at the four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks held since June. At the last round on July 14, talks went on for 15 hours, but appeared unable to break the impasse. Both sides disengaged at standoff points in the Galwan Valley the site of the June 15 clash, and at Gogra, following an agreement reached at the third round of military talks on June 30. Both sides have only disengaged “partially” at Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops pulled back from the base of Finger 4 but moved to Finger 5, well within India’s side of the LAC at Finger 8. Corps Commanders will continue meeting to take this process forward, officials agreed on Friday. Friday’s talks were led by Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA, and Hong Liang, Director General of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs in China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). The MEA said both sides agreed that “early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for smooth overall development of bilateral relations.” MFA’s statement China’s MFA said in a statement that both sides “affirmed the positive progress made in disengaging the frontline border troops of the two countries” and would maintain dialogue “through military and diplomatic channels” to “promote further de-escalation”. It said both sides agreed to continue meeting through the WMCC and Corps Commander-level talks.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Phase-1 clinical trials for Covaxin kick off||A 30-year-old male, on Friday, became the first person to be administered the first dose of India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, one of the 12 sites selected to test the vaccine. The subject, who was monitored for two hours at the hospital, has been discharged and will be under medical supervision for the next two weeks, said doctors. Speaking to The Hindu, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, AIIMS, Sanjay Rai said: “The screening process has been on for voluntary participants who wanted to be enrolled for the first phase of human clinical trial of Covaxin. Of the candidates, 50% were found eligible and we selected this subject to administer the first dose of India's COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS, Delhi.” Dr. Rai said the first dose of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection was given to the subject around 1.30 p.m. and no immediate side-effects were observed. “Tomorrow onwards we will be administering the proposed vaccine to other volunteers,” he said.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||No business as usual with China: Envoy||India has made it clear to China that it will not be business as usual until there is a complete disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Indian envoy in Moscow D.B. Venkatesh Varma has said. He said that India does not believe in trade war with any country. Officials, however, said India’s engagement with China on multilateral fora like Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS), Russia-India-China (RIC) and Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) were expected to continue. The comments come amid the disengagement process at the LAC that appears to be stalled after an initial pullback by Chinese troops from some of the stand-off areas. “India seeks to resolve these problems through dialogue and we have made it clear that we will not do business with China as usual until there is a complete disengagement of military forces along the Line of Actual Control and de-escalation in the border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted, this is an era of development, and the era of expansion has come to an end,” Mr. Varma said in an interview to Russian newspaper Izvestiya in Moscow on Thursday. He said India and China were negotiating to resolve the situation, including talks by Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval with their Chinese counterparts. “The ban on some Chinese apps is a measure to ensure digital security,” he added. BRICS, SCO meetings Meanwhile, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who took part in the Russia-India-China trilateral last month, just days after the Galwan clash, is expected to attend Foreign Ministers’ meetings of BRICS and SCO due to be held next month. Russia, which is hosting this year’s summits, has proposed September 10 for the meetings for both. On Thursday, Commerce and Industries Minister Piyush Goyal attended the 10th BRICS Trade Ministers meet, held by virtual conference, along with his Chinese counterpart. When asked about the government’s decision to go ahead with multilateral meetings with China despite the LAC tensions, an official said the government had taken a broader position.“ [Our stand is that] we should not vacate multilateral platforms, but use them to moderate the unilateral impulses of China and others,” said the official, adding that as the host this year, Russia had been helpful in keeping bilateral issues out of the the talks.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,||An ASHA, an auto and a yen for service||When the woman in a rural area of Karnataka was going into labour at 3 a.m. on Thursday, she knew the number to call. It was that of Rajeevi, 53, an autorickshaw driver and an accredited social health activist (ASHA) too. Since she had taken the pregnant woman from Pernankila village for a check-up to the Government Maternity Hospital in Udupi just a day ago, when it was time for the delivery, she promptly got the call. Ms. Rajeevi drove from Pernankila to the temple city before dawn, and the woman gave birth to a baby girl. “I drove her slowly to the hospital. She gave birth on Thursday at noon and I am happy that both the mother and the child are in good health,” she told The Hindu . Working as an ASHA till noon, Ms. Rajeevi shifts to her autorickshaw in the afternoon. She has offered free rides to many pregnant women. “I have so far dropped around 150 pregnant women in hospitals,” she said. “Since COVID-19 has spread, ASHA duties take a long time. There has been less time to drive the auto in the last few days,” said Ms. Rajeevi, who has two children. She has been driving her autorickshaw for 20 years and was supported in this venture by her husband until his death about five years ago. “A local government doctor encouraged me to become an ASHA 10 years ago,” she said. She manages her family with the earnings from her twin professions. Her daughter is now married and her son employed. The health worker’s autorickshaw is used by people in the interior parts of Pernankila, who suffer without a bus service.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online campaign demands bail hearing for Bihar activists||Activists, academics, politicians joined a social media campaign on Friday, to demand a hearing for the bail plea of two social activists, who were sent to jail along with a gangrape survivor following an unprecedented order of a judicial magistrate in Araria in Bihar. The Twitter storm marked 14 days since the two — Tanmay Nivedita and Kalyani Badola — were sent to jail. The arrest of the two members of Jan Jagran Shakti Sangathan (JJSS) was ordered by Judicial Magistrate Mustafa Shahi on July 10 at the Araria District Court for allegedly obstructing him in his official duties as they came forward to help the survivor during the evidence gathering process after her gangrape on July 6.. On July 17, the Chief Judicial Magistrate ordered the release of the survivor but rejected the activists’ bail plea. Kamyani Swami of JJSS says the petition in the Patna High Court for the release of the two women as well as a bail plea before the Sessions Court has been pending for a week. “It’s 15 days in jail for Tanmay and Kalyani for standing with a gangrape survivor. Shouldn't the High Court ask: why no hearing for them so far? Shouldn't the Supreme Court worry: what message does it give to everyone?” tweeted Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav. “Neither the gang-rape survivor nor her caretakers deserve to go through the indignity or horror that they have! The higher judiciary should have by now pro-actively heard the matter and released them,” tweeted Meera Sanghamitra, rights activist and Convenor of National Alliance for People’s Movement, among the organisers of the campaign.
25 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nearly 28 lakh people affected by Assam floods, toll rises to 93||The flood situation in Assam improved marginally on Friday but three people drowned to take the death tally to 93. Another 26 were killed in landslides triggered by the intermittent heavy rainfall since May 22. Large swathes of East Siang and other districts along the flow of river Siang in Arunachal Pradesh have also been affected, with 500 metres of a strategic road washed away. Siang is one of the three rivers that form the Brahmaputra in Assam downstream. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said a break in rainfall helped some 52,000 flood-affected people return to their homes on Friday. The number of affected people across 26 flood-hit districts stood at 27.8 lakh till Friday evening. “A person each died in Barpeta, Kokrajhar and Morigaon districts. We had to increase the number of relief camps to 301 with the number of inmates totalling 50,136, almost 3,000 more than on Thursday,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. Goalpara continued to be the worst-affected district with 4.7 lakh people marooned, followed by Barpeta (4.61 lakh), Morigaon (3.75 lakh), Dhubri (2.87 lakh) and South Salmara (2.5 lakh). The male one-horned rhinoceros that had taken refuge on the highway after labouring out of a flooded Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) on July 17 was found dead inside the park at about 11 a.m. on Friday. Park officials and veterinarians of an animal rescue centre at Kaziranga had provided multivitamin-laced sweetened grass to the tired rhino. They had also sprayed an antibiotic eye-drop at the rhino found to be suffering from corneal opacity and conjunctivitis. “The cause of death of the rhino was ascertained as sickness associated with old age. He was found near the Dusuti anti-poaching camp of KNPTR’s Bagori Range,” park official Ramesh Kumar Gogoi said. The rhino was the 13th to die during the flood in KNPTR, about 85% of which has been submerged. At least 112 other animals of the park have died in the floods, with 18 run over by speeding vehicles on the highway along the southern edge of the park.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India invites Israeli defence companies to strengthen ties||India on Friday invited greater participation from Israeli defence companies under the new liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) regime in defence manufacturing. This was conveyed during a telephonic conversation between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Israeli counterpart Lieutenant General Benjamin Gantz. The conversation took place as the Indian Armed Forces are undertaking a series of emergency defence purchases, including from Israel, amid ongoing tensions with China on the border. In May, the government increased the limit for FDI in defence through the automatic route from 49% to 74%. “Both the Ministers expressed satisfaction at the progress of strategic cooperation between the two countries and discussed possibilities of further strengthening the defence engagements,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The two Ministers also expressed satisfaction at the ongoing collaboration in research in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The Defence Minister of Israel responded positively to an invitation from Mr. Singh to visit India at the earliest opportunity, it added. The Army has already taken a decision to order another batch of 12 launchers and around 250 missiles of Spike Anti-Tank Guided Missiles (ATGM) and additional Heron Undermanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), among others, from Israel through the emergency procurement route.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hyderabad encounter: panel gets more time||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a six-month extension to the Justice V.S. Sirpurkar Commission of Inquiry probing into the Hyderabad police encounter of four men accused of the rape and murder of a veterinarian in December last. Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, heading the three-judge Bench, refused a plea made by petitioner-advocate G.S. Mani to intervene and pass directions directing to ensure and prevent custody deaths in the future. “How can any court in the world grant such a relief, there will not be any crime... How can we ensure there is no deaths in custody - there may be heart attacks in custody”, he addressed the lawyer. The Commission, represented by advocate K. Parameshwar, wanted an extension because the pandemic had hindered their work. The three-member panel was set up by the Supreme Court in December with a six-month deadline. The application filed by the Commission said it first met on February 3 and proposed to sit again on March 23 and 24 in Hyderabad. But the meeting did not materialise owing to the pandemic. The Telangana High Court had also suspended all judicial and administrative work till April 14. The Commission members said they lived in different cities, none of which is Hyderabad. Their work was thus hampered by travel restrictions and the quarantine regime in place. These pandemic travails of the Commission prompted the CJI on Monday to express the court’s keenness to appoint persons hailing from the same place in the inquiry commission for the Dubey case. However, the Commission said that despite the pandemic restrictions, they had received a whopping 1365 affidavits from the Hyderabad police officers allegedly involved and the families of the accused. It had also collected the reports of the National Human Rights Commission, the Special Investigation Team, post mortem reports, etc. The four accused — Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jollu Shiva and Jollu Naveen — were taken to the scene of the crime around 60 km from Hyderabad on December 6 for a reconstruction of the crime scene. The Telangana government has stuck to its version that the accused men surprised their police escort there, grabbed their guns and tried to kill the policemen to escape custody. The posse retaliated and the four were killed in the crossfiring.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC grants time to lawyers in Prashant Bhushan contempt case||The Supreme Court on Friday gave time till August 4 to lawyers to research and prepare their defence for noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan and former Tehelka magazine editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal in a decade-old contempt case that has popped back into the spotlight. The case was registered in 2009 after the court took suo motu cognisance of an interview of Mr. Bhushan in Tehelka in which remarked about the judiciary and the presence of former Chief Justice of India S.H. Kapadia on the Forest Bench of the apex court which decided the Niyamgiri mining lease case in Odisha in favour of Sterlite Industries. “The last lawyer who defended Prashant Bhushan was the late Ram Jethmalani. The records of the case run into three or four volumes. I need time to go through them thoroughly,” senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, for Mr. Bhushan, urged a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal for Tarun Tejpal said the last hearing in the case was in 2012. “We need time to prepare,” Mr. Sibal said. “Mr. Sibal, we will give you enough time to prepare. [To Mr. Dhavan] We know your capacity and memory,” Justice Mishra said.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid pandemic, President modifies protocol requirements in his own quiet style||As he completes three years at Rashtrapati Bhavan, President Ram Nath Kovind, like other heads of state, has had to modify the requirements of protocol and visibility to the new challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic that emphasises distance and remoteness. And he has done the modification in his own quiet style. For weeks after the all India lockdown was announced, President Kovind’s family, including First Lady Savita Kovind, prepared and sent across meals for 150 people every day from the private kitchens in their quarters to the nearby Gurdwara Rakab Ganj to feed the indigent. This was done for at least 8-10 weeks at a stretch and were quietly merged with the gurdwara’s own efforts at running a community kitchen for free food. At least 30% of President Kovind’s salary every month is also being sent across to the PM CARES Fund for COVID-19 relief. Mrs. Kovind’s move to take to her sewing machine and stitch cloth masks during a COVID-19 awareness workshop in Rashtrapati Bhavan was also an endorsement of the benefits of mask-wearing from the topmost office in the country, and an unambiguous championing of a behavioural change that hasn’t had an easy acceptability the world over. Message to Governors While these were some private initiatives of the President, those in the know say that even publicly, his effort had been to project the unity of India’s response to the pandemic whether participating in the initiatives announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, or telling the Governors that their efforts should be to complement the work of the elected government, rather than work at cross purposes. In a meeting of Governors called during the lockdown period, the message of supplementing the efforts of the State governments by facilitating the work of the Red Cross etc., was emphasised by President Kovind. Notwithstanding differences, in West Bengal, for example, between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Dhankar. Reinventing protocol in the times of COVID-19 has also been important, with oath-taking ceremonies now being very restricted, as was seen when India’s new Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) Sanjay Kothari took oath. At least 10 diplomats posted to India, presented their credentials in two different videoconferences to President Kovind. After averaging meeting 20 people a day in his presidency, the number of visitors has been curbed to a large extent. Heads of states depend on their visibility and ceremony in their jobs as living symbols of the State. For President Kovind, his third year in the job has been a tightrope between negotiating the thin line between being physically present in a pandemic that privileges remoteness.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC points to ‘bias’ in panel probing Dubey’s death||A lawyer filed an urgent application in the Supreme Court on Friday seeking the reconstitution of the Commission of Inquiry set up under the chairmanship of former Supreme Court judge Justice B.S. Chauhan to probe into the circumstances leading to the gunning down of eight police officers on July 2 and the subsequent encounter deaths of their alleged assailants Vikas Dubey and his associates. Two days after the court approved the Uttar Pradesh government’s choice of the expanded Commission, advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay sought an urgent hearing to argue his case for the “disqualification” of the two members — retired DGP K.L. Gupta and former Allahabad High Court judge Shashikant Agrawal — from the Commission. Mr. Upadhyay also sought the removal of the case’s Special Investigation Team member Ravinder Gaur, a former DGP, as the latter is “likely to be biased”. The application said Mr. Gupta “justified the police encounter and supported the police versions in the case of encounter of Vikas Dubey” during a TV debate on July 23. On June 22, the court directed the Commission to begin work in a week and submit a report in two months.
25 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Cong. seeks probe into COVID-19 ‘corruption’||The Assam Congress has asked the State Upa Lokayukta to investigate allegations of corruption associated with efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. Debabrata Saikia, the party’s Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, in his July 21 letter to Justice Chittaranjan Sharma, the Upa Lokayukta, has cited complaints by an NGO and documents received through Right to Information petitions on overpriced medical equipment procured by the State government. “...serious allegations have surfaced regarding irregularities and preferential treatment given to certain suppliers in procurement of various items pertaining particularly to the COVID-19 pandemic, including Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits by the Health & Family Welfare department of Assam,” Mr. Saikia said in his letter. Cartel on procurement He referred to a letter from Assam Public Works, the NGO whose 2009 petition in the Supreme Court led to the updating of the National Register of Citizens in the State, to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal a few days ago. The NGO had complained about a business cartel monopolising the supply of PPE kits and masks, besides “irregularities in the tender” for supply of other items. It had also sought transparency in the spending of Rs. 630 crore provided by the Centre for battling the pandemic. RTI petition Mr. Saikia also cited an RTI activist who provided documentary evidence about “overpriced testing kits” procured by the Health and Family Welfare department under the National Health Mission. The activist had pointed out that the NHM had paid Rs. 1,145 for each kit that cost the Uttar Pradesh government just Rs. 490, he said. “These are extremely serious allegations and deserve to be probed, especially because the issue involves reported profiteering at a time of general human misery,” the Congress leader said. The Health department officials had earlier dismissed the allegations.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||File counter affidavit on content, HC tells Twitter||Telangana High Court on Friday directed Twitter, the social networking forum, Cabinet Secretary and Union Home Secretary to file counter affidavits in a PIL petition seeking action against posting hateful content against Islam. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the rights of the three respondents to file counter affidavits would be forfeited if they fail to respond by August 20. The issues raised by lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin, who filed the PIL petition, would be decided ex parte if the respondents fail to file the counter affidavits. The matter would be adjudicated on merits, the bench said. The court told Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao to ensure Cabinet Secretary and Union Home Secretary filed their counter affidavits. The bench also told the ASG to ask the two top officials to ensure Twitter company filed the counter affidavit. Mr. Aijazuddin said in the petition that Twitter remained a mute spectator despite objectionable content targeting Islam was being tweeted. He said the Central and State governments also failed to act against the persons posting the content and ensuring the hateful comments were taken off Twitter. The Hyderabad police, representing the State government, filed a counter affidavit stating that they were pro-active in initiating criminal action against persons posting objectionable content online. Already, mails were sent to Twitter to take off all posts, tweets, pictures and video clips triggering hatred against particular religion, the affidavit stated. The matter was posted to August 20 for next hearing.
25 July 2020||TENKASI/CHENNAI,||Farmer dies in custody of Forest personnel||A septuagenarian farmer in Tenkasi, who was taken away by Forest Department personnel around Wednesday midnight on the charge of erecting an electric fence around his farm by drawing power illegally, died within hours, triggering charges of custodial torture. State Human Rights Commission member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss on Friday sought a detailed report from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Chennai, within four weeks. The report should contain copies of the statements of the witnesses examined by the inquiry officer. Relatives of the victim, Anaikkarai Muthu, 70, of Vagaikulam near Kadayam, staged a protest and refused to accept his body, leading to tension. Denying that Muthu had drawn power illegally, his daughter A. Vasanthi alleged that he was wrongfully detained. “We have lost our innocent father. He died of custodial torture. Those responsible for this crime should be punished,” she said. Forest officials said that while in custody, he had developed chest pain and was taken to the nearby primary health centre and then to the Tenkasi Government Hospital where he died. Ambasamudram Judicial Magistrate Karthikeyan conducted an inquiry amid allegations by Muthu’s relatives that he was beaten up. They demanded that a case of murder be registered and a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh be paid to the kin of the deceased farmer. Tenkasi DSP Gopalakrishnan and RDO Shaikh Abdul Khader tried in vain to convince them to meet Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan to discuss the issue. With tension prevailing at Vaagaikulam, DIG Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Tenkasi SP Suguna Singh camped at the village. DMK MLA and former Minister Poongothai Aladi Aruna wrote to the Collector, demanding suspension of the Forest officials. She alleged that the Alwarkurichi police were trying to shield them. Ms. Poongothai said that an hour after Muthu was picked up, his son was asked to bring a shirt for him. While the family members were en route, they were stopped by the forest ranger’s vehicle in the back of which Muthu was found unresponsive, and he was later declared dead at hospital. Alleging that this was a case of “custodial murder”, she said the officials had picked him up at 11.30 p.m. without even giving him time to wear a shirt. “The second crucial aspect is why the forest officials were bringing the ‘dead body’ of Muthu back to his village when they should have been taking him to the government hospital,” she asked, demanding a fair probe.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Gehlot stages dharna for Assembly session||The dharna ended after about five hours with a decision taken to hold a Cabinet meeting later in evening. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said a list of 102 MLAs was submitted to the Governor with the claim of a clear majority in the 200-member Assembly and with the plea that a floor test had been suggested during the recent court hearings on the Speaker’s disqualification notices. The caveat plea said no ex parte should be passed by the court. It said prior notice should be given to the legislators’ designated lawyers so that they can be present in case of any hearing. Before heading to the Raj Bhawan, Mr. Gehlot addressed a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at the hotel and said the Governor, as the Constitutional head of the State, was bound by the Cabinet’s decision on convening a session. If the Assembly session was not called and people from the entire State laid siege to Raj Bhavan, the government “would not be responsible”, he said. Amid the show of strength by the agitating MLAs, Mr. Mishra came out to meet them and assured them of taking an early decision. Fresh proposal According to sources in the Raj Bhavan, the Governor, who had earlier sought a legal opinion on whether an Assembly session could be allowed when the Supreme Court was seized of the disqualification matter, would consider a fresh proposal to be sent by the Cabinet after its meeting. The Cabinet’s earlier proposal, received on Thursday, was not very clear and had not mentioned the agenda for the session, said the sources. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said party workers would stage demonstrations at all district headquarters on Saturday against the BJP’s “conspiracy” to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government. “While the people want the elected government to complete its term, some invisible powers sitting in Delhi are trying to influence the Governor,” he said. Under 10th Schedule The High Court had earlier asked the Speaker to wait for its verdict before taking any action on his notices. The court admitted the petition, while framing 12 legal questions to be examined, and said it would hear arguments on the prayers to quash the show cause notices and declare the anti-defection law under the Tenth Schedule unconstitutional. The notices were issued to the MLAs on a plea made by Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi, who said that Mr. Pilot and his supporters did not attend CLP meetings despite the whip issued.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. kidnap case: 11 policemen suspended||Following this, Ms. Ruchi released a video, in which she says she lied about filling the bag with the cash and says that she made up the claim to expedite police action. However, she later said she was pressured to change her statement by a Crime Branch officer, who allegedly told her that her statement about paying Rs. 30 lakh could endanger her brother’s life. SSP Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P. said the police received a missing complaint about Yadav on June 23, and on June 26, it was converted into an FIR under the charge of kidnapping in order to murder. On June 29, the family received a ransom call. Teams formed Mr. Kumar said that upon interrogation of two of those detained, it was found that Yadav was killed last month itself. The two had worked with him in a pathology lab. “They confessed that Yadav was murdered on June 26 or 27 by them along with other friends and they disposed of the body in Pandu river,” said the SSP. Teams were formed to recover the body, he added. The accused were identified by the police as Gyanendra Yadav, Kuldeep Goswami, Neelu Singh, Ramji Shukla and Preeti Sharma. They had rented a flat for Rs. 15,000 in the Barra area on June 15 as per a plan to kidnap someone for ransom. On June 22, the four men took the victim in a car, saying they were going for Gyanendra Yadav’s birthday party. The accused andthe victim consumed alcohol in the car but his drink was laced with a sedative. Unconscious, Yadav was taken to the rented flat where the accused took turns to keep a watch over him in the following days, said the police. On June 26, he tried to escape, and the next day the accused strangulated him with a rope as they feared they would get caught, said the police. The body was wrapped in a plastic bag and thrown into Pandu river. One of the accused Simmi Singh is absconding. Ms. Ruchi broke down on hearing the news of her brother’s death and accused the police of inaction. Despite receiving 17 ransom calls, the police could not trace the callers. “Police were sleeping for a month. If they had acted, this would not have happened to my brother,” she said. Her father alleged the police had “played a game” with them. ADG PHQ B.P Jogdand was deputed to go to Kanpur immediately and probe the matter.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||IPL to be held in UAE from Sept. 19 to Nov. 8||The BCCI had initially proposed September 26 to November 8 as the window, but decided to advance the start by a week in order to reduce the number of afternoon matches, which are both physically challenging for players and not as attractive in terms of advertising revenue for the broadcaster as night matches. This additional week means that only weekends will stage double-headers (both afternoon and night games). The matches are set to start at 3.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. (IST), instead of the conventional 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. — a change in accordance with the broadcaster’s demand that the governing council is likely to formalise during its meeting next week. Second time If the BCCI secures the government’s approval, this will be the second instance of the UAE hosting the IPL. In 2014, the first 20 games of the 60-match tournament were played there to avoid a scheduling clash with the Lok Sabha election. The IPL was also shifted overseas for the same reason in 2009, when South Africa played host.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||Family appeals to NHRC for information on Rao||Family members of detained 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao, who has been diagnosed with COVID-19, have written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday saying neither Nanavati Hospital, where he is under treatment, nor Taloja jail authorities have shared any information with them about his health. The letter, addressed to Debindra Kundra, Focal Point - Human Rights Defenders & Assistant Registrar of the NHRC, states, “We are denied any information about his condition or his treatment at Nanavati Hospital. From the time he was shifted out of Taloja Jail to St. George’s hospital to Nanavati hospital, the only official information provided to the family was that he had tested positive for COVID-19”. Mr. Rao’s wife Hemalatha and daughters Sahaja, Anala and Pavana have urged the Commission to intervene urgently in this matter.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Steps taken to provide health services to Saibaba’||The Maharashtra government on Friday told the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court that the prison administration was taking every effort to provide all necessary health services to wheelchair-bound G.N. Saibaba. A Division Bench of Justices Z.A. Haq and S.M. Modak was hearing a criminal appeal filed by Professor Saibaba who suffers from 90% disability and is incarcerated in the anda cell of the Nagpur Central Jail. Mr. Saibaba is seeking suspension of his sentence and temporary medical bail due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Sub-Divisional Police Officer at Aheri, Gadchiroli, filed a reply through Special Public Prosecutor K. Sathianathan that said Mr. Saibaba is an active member of the Naxalite movement and helping them in their cause. “The prison administration is taking every effort to provide all necessary health services, including his regular check-up by expert doctors of the Government Medical College and Hospital and Super Speciality Hospital and by the Chief Medical Officer of the Nagpur Central Prison,” Mr. Sathianathan said. The matter will be heard on July 28.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,||HC dismisses bail plea of rights activist||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed an anticipatory bail plea of a rights activist in a case registered in connection with her posting a video on social media showing her two minor children painting on her semi-naked body. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan, while dismissing her bail petition, observed: “If the painting on the naked body of the petitioner happened inside the four walls of the house of the petitioner, there cannot be any offence. I have no hesitation to appreciate the talents of the children. They deserve encouragement. But not in the way the petitioner encouraged them.” The petitioner had got the freedom to teach her child according to her philosophy. But, that should be within the four walls of her house and should not be forbidden by law, the court added. Dismissing her contention that her action did not attract the offence charged under Section 13 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the court observed that it was of the opinion that “the petitioner uses the children for the purpose of sexual gratification because the children are represented in the video uploaded in an indecent and obscene manner because they are painting on the naked body of their mother.” The court made it clear that the investigating officer should investigate the matter untrammelled by any of its observations.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bypoll dates will be put out later, says EC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will announce the schedules for by-elections to Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies at an appropriate time. “Decision to hold by-elections to Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies was taken by the Commission after a review today. The schedule shall be announced at an appropriate time,” said an ECI spokesperson on Friday. The ECI had deferred bypolls to a Lok Sabha seat in Bihar and seven Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala “due to some extraordinary circumstances peculiar to these constituencies”. The deadline for filling these vacancies ranged from July 30 to September 7. The decision to defer the by-elections was taken due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation and also because certain States or districts would witness heavy rainfall and flood situation during the monsoon season. Accordingly, the eight bypolls that were due till September 7 were deferred.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Papad can cure COVID-19, says BJP MP||Union Minister of State and BJP MP from Bikaner Arjun Ram Meghwal on Friday claimed that a particular brand of the ubiquitous Indian snack, papad, had a role in boosting immunity and antibodies that could help cure COVID-19. A video of the Minister endorsing Bhabhiji papad, which he called a health supplement, has gone viral on social media. Mr. Meghwal, who is the junior minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, said the papad was created under the government’s Atmanirbhar initiatives and would “help boost” the creation of antibodies that were necessary for immunity. He wasn't accessible on his phone when The Hindu reached out for clarifications on the claim.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre silent on restoring status quo’||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday questioned why India has not mentioned restoring thestatus quo antebefore May 2020, even as he welcomed the Ministry of External Affairs’s (MEA) statement on disengagement by China on the Ladakh border. Mr. Chidambaram said the statement also “rebuffs” the comment that “none had intruded into Indian territory”. “MEA’s statement last night speaks of India’s expectation as ‘complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas’. So far, so good. But why is the statement silent on India’s demand of ‘restoration of status quo ante as on May 5, 2020,’ ” he asked. Slams judicial system In another tweet, he said the legal system which denied bail to activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Professor Shoma Sen and revolutionary poet Varavara Rao, was ‘turning the law on its head and has become a dysfunctional system’.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||New jungle raj in U.P., says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday lashed out at the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the deteriorating law and order situation in the State and called it a “new jungle raj that has surrendered before goons”. Ms. Vadra’s comments on twitter came after Sanjeet Yadav, a resident of Kanpur, was killed by his kidnappers despite the family paying a ransom amount to secure his release. Ms. Vadra said the law and order situation in U.P. has completely collapsed and common people don’t feel safe. “After Vikram Joshi, now abducted Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur has been killed. The police got the money paid to the kidnappers and he was killed as well. A new goondaraj has come into being. In this jungle raj, law and order has surrendered before the goons,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress leader has been consistently targeting the U.P. government over the rising crime rate in the State and also referred to the recent killing of Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi, whose complaint was allegedly ignored by the local police.
25 July 2020||Mumbai:,||Sushant case: Police summon Kangana to record statement||The Mumbai Police on Friday issued summons to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, asking her to record her statement in connection with Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case, an official said. The police is looking into allegations that professional rivalry, besides clinical depression, drove the actor to suicide. “We want some inputs from Ms. Ranaut and have sent summons to her by post at her residence in Manali,” the official said.PTI
25 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Drug cartel busted in Punjab||The Punjab police on Friday said they have busted an inter-State drug cartel operating in more than 50 districts of the country spread across 11 States, using the hawala channel route. “Twenty persons have already been arrested with a huge cache of drugs, proceeds from drugs and five vehicles, in an operation that spanned over eight weeks,” said Punjab Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta.
25 July 2020||Srinagar,||Shutdown in Kargil over jobs, discrimination||Ladakh’s Kargil on Friday observed a shutdown in protest against “growing unemployment” and “discrimination” during recruitment for jobs. The call for a shutdown was issued by the All India Kargil Ladakh Students Union and was supported by local political parties and religious bodies. Most shops and business establishments remained closed in Kargil.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID victim’s wife moves HC for body||Justice T. Vinod Kumar of Telangana High Court on Friday instructed the State government to conduct an inquiry into the allegation that Continental hospital in Gachibowli demanded high charges for treating a COVDI-19 patient who died while undergoing treatment. The 49-year-old patient K. Mohan Babu’s wife K. Lavanya, who moved a lunch motion, also alleged that the hospital management refused to hand over her husband’s body till the entire treatment charges running close to Rs. 9 lakh were paid. The judge heard the writ petition after the lunch break and instructed the Public Health Director and the Ranga Reddy District Medical and Health Officer to conduct an inquiry into the issues. The officials and the Continental hospital management were directed to file counter affidavit in the petition within six weeks. According to the petitioner, her husband was admitted in the hospital on July 13 with high fever. During treatment, he tested COVID-positive. Initially, the petitioner’s family paid Rs. 2.5 lakh. On Wednesday, the hospital authorities declared the patient dead Stating that total charges for treating the patient were Rs. 8.91 lakh, the hospital urged the victim’s family to pay the remaining sum. The petitioner alleged that the hospital declined to hand over her husband’s body till the total amount was paid. The judge expressed unhappiness over the instances issue and observed that incidents of private hospitals charging huge sums for treating COVID patients were coming to the notice of the court. This was against government order no. 248 guidelines, the court said. Meanwhile, the hospital’s counsel informed the court that the body was handed over to the patient’s family in the afternoon. He told the court even the cremation was completed. The counsel’s statement was recorded.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||Chavan seeks EC probe into online ads issue||Former chief minister of Maharashtra and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Friday alleged that an advertising and social media company owned by a BJP office-bearer was hired by the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Maharashtra to issue election-related online ads during the 2019 State Assembly polls. Mr. Chavan demanded a probe by the Election Commission of India (ECI) into the matter. Mr. Chavan said he had written a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner seeking an inquiry into the alleged episode, which took place when the BJP was in power in Maharashtra. ‘Need thorough inquiry’ “The sanctity of the election process has to be maintained. We request you to conduct a thorough inquiry into the whole episode because the very integrity of free and fair conduct of the election process appears to be undermined,” said Mr. Chavan in the letter. He said the CEO, Maharashtra, ran an advertisement campaign related to election on Facebook. The advertisements issued under the campaign had the private address of the advertiser and not that of the CEO, Maharashtra, he said. On a complaint raised by social activist Saket Gokhale, the ECI has already sought a factual report from the CEO, Maharashtra. ‘Appointed by BJP govt.’ “On inquiry, it was discovered that this address belonged to an advertising agency Signpost India. The company is a social media and outdoor agency and was appointed by the erstwhile BJP government for government publicity. On further enquiries it was found that the same address was also used by a digital agency called Social Central. All these agencies belong to and work for the BJP in Maharashtra,” Mr. Chavan said, adding that the agency Social Central was owned by Devang Dave, an office-bearer of the BJP. “He is the national convener of the IT and social media cell of the BJP Yuva Morcha,” the Congress leader said. ‘Propaganda pages’ There was evidence to establish that the CEO, Maharashtra’s social media campaign was being run by a BJP-sponsored company owned by Mr. Dave, he said. Mr. Dave also operated social media pages like ‘The Fearless Indian’ and ‘I support Narendra Modi’ which were propaganda pages, Mr. Chavan claimed. Mr. Chavan said the website claimed that Mr. Dave was a member of the “IT board” of the Maharashtra government. “I have been the chief minister and am not aware of such a post in the government,” he said.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows 53 foreigners from 3 countries to walk free on payment of fine||A Delhi court on Friday allowed 53 people from Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan and South Africa to walk free on payment of fines, after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process related to various violations, including visa norms, while attending the Tablighi Jamaat event here during the COVID-19 lockdown.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-challans stuck on improperly parked vehicles on Anna Salai||In a move to regulate parking violations, police have begun pasting e-challans on vehicles parked haphazardly on Anna Salai and have also started taking videos and photographs of vehicles flouting norms. “Earlier, we used to either clamp the haphazardly-parked vehicles or tow them away. Now, the numbers have increased drastically as many people throng Ritchie Street. Hence, we have started pasting challans on the vehicles,” said N. Kannan, Additional Police Commissioner, Traffic. Motorists coming to Ritchie Street and other shops started parking their vehicles on Anna Salai — from the Wallajah Road junction all the way to the Periyar Statue junction. Stretch barricaded Police have placed barricades and are trying to ensure that only two rows of bikes are parked on the stretch. “We have made arrangements on Blackers Road, Dams Road, Swami Sivananda Salai and a paid parking lot at Casino Theatre. We have also deployed policemen to regulate parking. Despite this, people still park haphazardly,” a senior police officer said. After the complete lockdown was relaxed on July 6, the police have registered 2,892 cases of parking violations on Anna Salai and Blackers Road. Of these, 741 were no-parking cases, and 2,151 were for causing obstructions to traffic. “If the motorist is present near the vehicle, we hand over the challan to him. Otherwise, we paste it on the vehicle. They have to make the payment through SBI, Paytm, the Greater Chennai Corporation E-Seva centres, post offices or at court,” the police officer said. A senior police officer added that they were working with the Corporation to identify vacant plots of land near arterial roads to turn them into paid parking lots.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State tops 6,000-mark for second day||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 6,000 new cases of COVID-19. As another 6,785 persons tested positive on Friday and 88 persons died, the State’s tally inched closer to the two lakh-mark. The State’s recovery rate stood at 71% and mortality rate at 1.66%. Of the 1,99,749 cases, 53,132 persons are still under treatment. A total of 6,504 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number to 1,43,297. The State’s toll rose to 3,320. Apart from Chennai, 18 districts accounted for over 100 new COVID-19 cases each. Chennai led the table with 1,299 cases, while Virudhunagar recorded 423. Chengalpattu witnessed a surge in cases as 419 persons tested positive. Among the other northern districts, Tiruvallur recorded 378 cases, Kancheepuram 349, Ranipet 222, Kallakurichi 179, Vellore 174, Villupuram 164 and Tiruvannamalai 134. In the southern part of the State, Madurai recorded 326 cases, while the surge continued in Thoothukudi with 308 testing positive. Kanniyakumari had 266 cases, while Theni and Tirunelveli had 234 and 170 cases respectively. Among other districts, a total of 217 persons tested positive in Tiruchi, while Coimbatore saw 189 cases. Thanjavur had 186 cases and Salem 121. A total of 56 returnees tested positive for COVID-19. With this, Chennai’s tally stands at 92,206, while Chengalpattu accounts for a total of 11,308 cases and Tiruvallur 11,008. Children infected The number of children who tested positive in the State crossed 10,000. A total of 10,006 children aged below 12 and 24,748 persons aged over 60 have tested positive till now. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 65,150. Till date, a total of 22,23,019 samples have been tested in the State. A total of 21,38,704 individuals have been tested till now. Of the 88 deaths, 22 persons died in Chennai, 10 in Madurai, six in Virudhunagar, five each in Kanniyakumari and Tiruvallur, and four each in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram and Tirunelveli. As of date, a total of 1,969 persons have succumbed to the infection in Chennai, 218 in Chengalpattu, and 193 each in Madurai and Tiruvallur. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, a 37-year-old man with obesity was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever for four days, cough for three days and difficulty in breathing for two days on July 19. He died on July 22 due to COVID-19 and type-I respiratory failure. A 62-year-old man from Chengalpattu was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough, difficulty in breathing for four days and decreased sense of taste and smell for four days on July 22. He died on July 24 due to septic shock with multi-organ failure and COVID-19. 3 nonagenarians dead Three nonagenarians succumbed to the infection. This included a 96-year-old woman from Chennai who was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on July 20. She died on July 24 due to viral pneumonia, respiratory failure and COVID-19. Another private laboratory — Laboratory Services of Harshitha Hospital Pvt. Ltd., Madurai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. There are now a total of 114 testing facilities — 58 in the government sector and 56 in the private — in the State.  The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 65,150. Till date, a total of 22,23,019 samples have been tested in the State
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials asked to follow Central law on contract farming||The State Agriculture Department has asked its officials to follow the Central law on contract farming — Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance — and get at least one contract signed in each district initially. Stating this, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Agricultural Production Commissioner and Principal Secretary (Agriculture), told The Hindu on Friday that the Central legislation had prevailed over the State law — Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act of 2019. A few days ago, the Union government notified rules for the Ordinance on its gazette too. Apart from giving a legal framework to an activity which has been largely unorganised, the Central law envisages the provision of integrated service delivery to farmers, dispute settlement mechanism and protection to purchasers. The State government wants to bring under the fold of the law pacts between food processing industries (including those under food parks) and farmers for production and supply of assured quantities of raw materials at better prices than under normal circumstances, Mr. Bedi said. According to the rules, in the event of disputes over farming agreements, the respective sub-divisional authority — sub-collectors in Tamil Nadu — should be approached first. If no conciliation process has been mentioned in the agreements, the sub-collectors will form conciliation boards. A period of 30 days has been prescribed for settling the disputes. In case the boards are not able to thrash out the problems or parties to the dispute have failed to settle the issues under the conciliation process, as stipulated in the agreements, the sub-collectors can step in and give their decision within 30 days. The appellate authority would be Collectors concerned or Additional Collectors nominated by the Collectors. The rules also have stipulated proforma for application to the sub-divisional authority, memorandum of settlement and that of appeal to Collectors or Additional Collectors.
25 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fewer deaths in State due to COVID-19 alone: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Friday said the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 alone was fewer in Tamil Nadu, while most deaths occurred owing to co-morbidities. He reiterated that the only way to effectively control the spread of the infection was early intervention through aggressive testing and isolation of the infected. “There have been several instances of people with terminal illness, like advanced stage of cancer, having died after testing positive for COVID-19. It was a coincidence that they contracted the virus. This is why people with chronic diseases, such as uncontrolled diabetes/hypertension, cancer, tuberculosis, HIV and other major ailments, are sensitised to the need to take adequate precautionary measures,” he told The Hindu . “Even in cases of death by suicide of patients who tested positive, we are classifying them as COVID-19 deaths in compliance with the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar acknowledged that many persons who tested negative in RT-PCR tests turned out to be positive after lung involvement was diagnosed in CT-scan. “We have purchased six advanced CT-scan equipment for government hospitals, which are being installed this week,” he said. The State had sufficient stock at all government hospitals of remdesivir, an anti-viral drug which has proved to be effective in treatment. Siddha and Ayurveda treatment is being tried on asymptomatic patients at some hospitals. As for some private hospitals charging exorbitant sums, he said these allegations had to be substantiated with evidence. Private hospitals had limited beds, but the government had asked them to ramp up facilities. The number of beds was being increased in government facilities, he said, citing data to drive home his point that there was no shortage. About 10,000 people had used the eSanjeevani application. The Minister, however, said wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing had to improve. “In Salem, 50 people who attended a funeral were infected with the virus. The basic requirement is a face mask and keeping safe distance... I am wearing a mask and interacting with positive patients frequently. Awareness is good, but it can get even better,” he said.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patanjali’s Coronil tablets case: HC refuses to gag media||The Madras High Court on Friday refused to gag the media from reporting court proceedings on an application preferred by Patanjali Ayurved to vacate an ex-parte interim injunction granted on July 17 restraining the company from using the term ‘Coronil’ for tablets marketed by it to boost immunity against COVID-19. When an advocate representing the company said there was tremendous adverse reporting in the media regarding its Coronil tablets and his clients were disturbed, Justice C.V. Karthikeyan replied: “We have to face all of that. Media is a part of the game. You can be assured that this court will not be swayed by media reports.” He also cited The Hindu’s reporting of the case proceedings on Thursday. Earlier, in an affidavit, too, Patanjali stated that many media houses reported about the interim injunction on July 17 though the order copy was not available even on the High Court website till July 20. The submissions were made after the judge heard senior counsel P.R. Raman, representing Chennai-based Arudra Engineers Private Limited which alleged infringement of trademarks Coronil-213SPL and Coronil-92B used for its industrial cleaning chemicals for some time, and then decided to continue the hearing on Monday. No conspiracy Mr. Raman stoutly denied Patanjali’s claim of the present civil suit being part of a larger conspiracy to scuttle its business, whose revenues had grown from about Rs. 100 crore in 2010-11 to Rs. 9,500 crore in 2018-19. “There’s no conspiracy here. I am purely on infringement of my marks, which I have been using for nearly 30 years,” he said. Relying on a series of media reports to contend that Coronil tablets were falsely promoted as a cure for COVID-19 before there was a shift in stance to claim that they were just immunity boosters, he claimed such an act had caused irreparable damage to the trademarks owned by the plaintiff company.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All eyes on Centre for decision on reopening of cinema halls||With a surge in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere, the Tamil film industry has been left with no choice but to hit the pause button for now. Insiders said the industry would be able to get back on track only if cinema halls open throughout India. Producers and theatre owners said it was up to the Central government to decide when theatres would be reopened. A senior executive from a popular theatre chain said there was already a perception that it would be a long-haul before theatres reopen. “We can see that cinema halls are going to be one of the last businesses to open. It won’t be high-priority right now,” said the executive, requesting anonymity. Producers said decisions on making substantial investments in movies had been put on hold for now. Speaking to The Hindu , producer G. Dhananjayan said there was a “pause” in operations. “There is a lot of fear among people. Artistes and technicians are scared of contracting the infection. Pre-production activities are going on but that doesn’t mean anything. Everybody is in pause. Everyone is waiting for the pandemic to end,” he said. Even financiers had stopped pressurising producers to pay interest on loans. “The issue has not been resolved. They told us these could be discussed once normalcy returns.” ‘Not just T.N.’ Well-known film distributor and exhibitor Tiruppur Subramaniam said the exhibition industry would only benefit if cinema halls opened throughout India. “The Central government has to take a call. It won’t work if Tamil Nadu alone opens cinema halls. They must open all over India for movies to release on a scale like before,” he said. He added that the issue of movies releasing directly on OTT platforms had been resolved for now. “We have decided not to speak of anything and wait until the theatres reopen,” he said.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17,207 jobs created in formal sector in May||As many as 17,207 new jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in May this year, in a rebound from the negative number in April. However, the new jobs were nearly 70.81% down from the March level. Job creation is measured in the number of new net enrolments made with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The net enrolments were in the negative (-14,098) in April. In March, the number of new jobs was 58,948. “In Tamil Nadu, the May number, compared with April, is hugely positive owing to the unlocking of companies in the manufacturing, supply chain and construction sectors,” said Aditya Narayan Mishra, CEO of CIEL HR Services, a staffing firm. In May, the State government relaxed some curbs for industrial establishments to function. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories in India, and is a key manufacturing State with the presence of major automotive, auto components and other labour-intensive units. But Mr. Mishra pointed out that many organisations had not filed their PF returns because of the lockdown. “Some delays in the March and April filings have played a significant role in this upswing. The real picture will be visible in September.” K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations, said that until May 20, the State was under full lockdown. “The additions are shrinking in the higher age brackets, indicating that mid-level and semi-experienced people are losing jobs and finding it difficult to find a new job,” he said. He said August would see more job losses because the demand was bleak. “Unless the demand is increased on a war footing with more government spending, it will be a gloomy picture on the jobs front.” He said job losses would continue in July and August in sectors like education and services such as salons and cinema halls. The increase of COVID-19 cases in districts and the resultant lockdown, he argued, would also contribute to job losses.  Unless the demand is increased on a war footing with more government spending, it will be a gloomy picture on the jobs front K.E. Raghunathan Convener, Consortium of Indian Associations
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors to reconcile death reports daily||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Friday instructed District Collectors to co-ordinate and ensure that COVID-19 death reports are reconciled on a daily basis. This will be done in consultation with local bodies so that the reports can be submitted to the Health Department. Sources said he also asked the Collectors to clear over 14,000 cases, whose COVID-19 results have been pending for over 24 hours. Sources said that at a virtual meeting, he urged Collectors to focus on the daily analysis of data to identify potential hotspots for conducting fever camps. “In factories and in the case of international passengers, where the number of cases are likely to be less than 5%, he suggested that pooled testing be taken up, so that testing capacity can be put to optimal use,” an official told The Hindu . The Chief Sceretary also spoke about how some districts were conducting excessive tests and others less. “He instructed Collectors to rationalise testing with better prioritisation. Some Collectors requested repatriation of medical personnel deputed to Chennai. Mr. Shanmugam instructed the Health Department to immediately examine such cases and find a solution,” another official said. Collectors were also instructed to take the help of community leaders and volunteers in containment areas to impress upon the need for observing preventive measures. Mr. Shanmugam also wrote to Collectors mandating the daily reconciliation of COVID-19 death reports so that the State-level committee, constituted on Wednesday, could continuously scrutinise and reconcile the death reports, on a weekly basis, to avoid omission in the future. Comparing data Collectors must verify daily COVID-19 death reports from government and private hospitals and compare it with the cremation/burial records of local bodies to ensure there is no omission, the Chief Secretary said. The Directors of Medical and Rural Health Services and Medical Education and Public Health and Preventive Medicine must instruct hospitals accordingly, so that ICMR and central guidelines on the issue are followed. Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Public Secretary P. Senthil Kumar and other senior officials attended the meeting.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Uncertain times ahead for the speech and hearing impaired||V. Sudha, 40, who is speech and hearing impaired, recently pledged all her jewellery after her savings ran out. She was employed in an automobile company, earning Rs. 10,000 a month, but she lost the job as a result of the lockdown. “My husband has a cleaning job, which will get us Rs. 8,000 a month now. But with two children and Rs. 6,000 a month as rent, I don’t know how to run the family. I have asked people for a job as domestic help, but none replied,” she said. Persons with speech and hearing impairments said they struggled to get employed but even those were lost now as several companies remain closed or have decided to downsize drastically. ‘Nowhere else to go’ Sheikh Mohammed, 54, with speech and hearing impairment, said his landlord asked him to vacate since he was unable to pay rent. He has been surviving on porridge every day, and occasionally gets onions and tomatoes. “All my friends are hesitant to lend me money. If I’m forced to leave this house, I have nowhere else to go and have no job as well,” he added. G. Naveena and Durga Devi had jobs in private companies. “They asked me not to come after the lockdown began. My mother, a construction worker, is also getting old. I thought this job would better our lives but it was gone too soon,” Ms. Durga Devi said. K. Priya, a cook, who was employed in a hotel, said,“I have been asking if people can hire me as domestic help. Every day, when I wake up, I think of the uncertainty of how this day will go and where to go for money. This is a routine now.”
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sun Pharma’s plea to expand near Vedanthangal returned, says govt.||The State government told the Madras High Court on Friday that it had “returned” as early as on June 15 a plea for environment clearance by Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited to expand operations within the premises of its existing unit situated close to the Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary in Kancheepuram. Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy were informed by Additional Advocate-General S.R. Rajagopal that environment clearance was one of the many permissions required by the company for the proposed expansion but the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests-cum-Chief Wildlife Warden had returned its proposal. The submission was made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by T. Vennila, 36, secretary of the environmental wing of Naam Tamilar Katchi.  The petitioner had sought a direction to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority to reject the proposal submitted by the pharmaceutical company. Her counsel Rajiv Gandhi told the court that the sanctuary was home to around 40,000 species of migratory birds that visit it every year. On July 3, 1998, the State had declared all places within the 5-km radius from the wetland a wildlife sanctuary zone. However, the pharmaceutical company was permitted to continue operations since it had been established before 1998. On May 30 this year, the company applied for environmental clearance to expand its operations. Pending proposal Since the proposal had been returned, the judges said the petitioner’s prayer had become infructuous. The Additional Advocate-General said a proposal to declare the immediate radius of zero to 1 km as a core zone, a further radius of 1 km to 3 km as buffer zone and 3 km to 5 km as eco-sensitive zone, as per the Centre’s stipulations, was pending with the National Board for Wildlife. Since no decision had been taken yet on this issue, the judges disposed of the PIL petition after granting liberty to the petitioner to approach the appropriate authority before which the matter was pending.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s decision to meddle with creamy layer disappointing’||PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss on Friday said that he was disappointed by the Central government’s revised guidelines to consider “family income” to determine the creamy layer threshold for 27% reservations for OBC. In a statement, Mr. Anbumani said that the Centre’s decision to scrap the earlier decision to include monthly salary and instead take into account taxable income to decide family income was “disappointing”. “In the notification released by the Central government in 1993, it is mentioned clearly that agricultural income and salary will not be taken into account to decide the income, which will determine creamy layer. Only income from other sources will be taken into account. However, last February, the Centre said that monthly salary and agricultural income would be taken into account to decide the Creamy layer. PMK strongly opposed this decision,” he said. No benefit Mr. Anbumani said that the decision to not include salary but take into account only the taxable income and increase the creamy layer limit from Rs. 8 lakh to Rs. 12 lakh would not benefit the OBCs in any way. “According to the income tax rules announced this financial year, we can only get Rs. 2.5 lakh tax exemption. There are no other exemptions and deductions possible. Therefore, there is not much difference between gross income and taxable income. If an OBC family gets income from other sources, it will be impossible to avail reservation for themselves. The new plan will be gross injustice,” Mr. Anbumani said. He asked why the Central government was trying to meddle with the creamy layer concept and OBC reservation when there were so many other issues in the country that needed to be resolved.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Enrol graduates in Bar Council through videoconferencing’||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the Bar Council of India (BCI) as well as the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) to respond by Monday to a writ petition seeking a direction to enrol law graduates in the State council through videoconferencing due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. A Division Bench, comprising Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Pongiappan, also directed counsel for the BCI to get specific instructions on the possibility of postponing the last date for submitting applications for the All India Bar Examinations (AIBE) since it was mandatory to mention the Bar Council enrolment number in the applications. S. Harikrishnan, 24, of Tiruvarur district, had filed the writ petition. His enrolment to BCTNP could not take place due to the lockdown.  The BCI counsel was directed to get instructions on the possibility of postponing theapplication deadline for AIBE
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gastroenterologist Chandramohan remembered||Dedication, phenomenal patient service and humility personified — these were only a few of the words used to describe renowned surgical gastroenterologist S.M. Chandramohan, who passed away earlier this month. At a tribute meeting held on Friday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said Chandramohan was an example and role model for the kind of commitment he had towards patients. “He is one of the few who focused on patient welfare. Everyone should follow his example. His work and contributions will be significant in the history of the Madras Medical College.” He noted that Chandramohan was a multi-faceted personality and had presented several important papers at both national and international levels.  ‘Extremely talented’ Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan said he still had a sense of denial and it was only sinking in now that the doctor was no longer with them. Not only was he extremely talented and skilled, but also very humble, he added. “He was deeply involved in social commitments and didn’t do anything for the sake of publicity. He was an eminent scholar and teacher,” he added. ‘Sharing of knowledge’ Mohan Rajan, of Rajan Eye Care, said one of the best qualities of Chandramohan was that he was knowledgeable and never hesitated to share it. “I have known him for nearly four decades. If there is anyone who had all the qualities — vision, passion, courage, character, competence, self-belief and discipline — it was him; it is very rare to see such a combination. When he took up any work, he gave it all he could and was devoted to it,” he added. S. Tiruvadanan, senior surgeon, a close friend, partner and colleague of Chandramohan for decades, described how legendary surgical gastroenterologist N. Rangabashyam, under whom people queued up to be trained, himself spotted Chandramohan and chose him to work under him. Chandramohan also became an exemplary teacher and researcher, he added. Several of his colleagues, and students paid tribute to the departed doctor on the occasion.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Making ‘halwa’ to protest against diesel price hike||Members of the Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation resorted to a novel protest in the city on Friday, holding a mock Budget session against the continuous hike in diesel prices. They prepared halwa , similar to the customary halwa ceremony which precedes a Union Budget session. “We already staged a few demonstrations earlier on the fuel price hike in the city. We thought of the mock Budget session and halwa preparation to gain the government’s attention,” said S. Yuvaraj, president of the federation. Members raised slogans against the hike and underscored the need to bring fuel under the Goods and Services Tax to control pricing. “We cooked about 10 kg of halwa and sent a portion of it to the Union Minister for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Steel by courier, along with our charter of demands,” he said.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers return for Metro work||Many migrant workers, who left the city after March because of the COVID-19 lockdown, are being brought back to complete Chennai Metro Rail Ltd.’s phase I extension project. Sources in Metro Rail said many workers from Jharkand, Bihar and West Bengal were being brought back in buses to work at the site. “Initially, we had very little manpower and it was a struggle to carry out the work. Now, we have about 400-500 workers. The work should pick up well and should get better in the coming weeks,” a source said. The Rs. 3,770-crore phase I extension project will run for about 9 km from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar. Although this stretch was to be completed in June, it has been delayed because of the lockdown. Work on the project, which employed over 3,000 workers, had to be stopped. “The workers were willing to come back after spending time with their families. Because they also need money to send home. So, those who wanted to return were brought in buses. The construction of stations and other viaduct work is on now. We are hoping to finish it as fast as we can,” another source said. According to CMRL officials, precautionary steps had been in place ever since the lockdown was imposed a few months ago.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murugan’s claims about BJP stand on social justice in T.N. amusing: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Friday said BJP State president L. Murugan was shedding crocodile tears about social justice in Tamil Nadu and his attempts to use the controversy over Kandha Sashti Kavasam issue to build the BJP in the State were amusing. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri said, “It is amusing that the BJP, which has its background from the RSS that has been opposed to social justice, is now talking about social justice in the State. There are lots of instances to prove that the BJP is against social justice and disrupted reservation in the country. In the last six years of Modi rule, there is proof of how the backward classes, OBCs have been affected with regard to getting jobs.” Following the implementation of the Mandal Commission report, the OBCs got a lot of benefits. In 2004, the number of BCs and OBCs who were in Central government jobs was 16.6%. In 2014, this had increased to 28.5%, he said. Mr. Alagiri claimed this reservation was now under threat under BJP rule with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing the merger and privatisation of public sector undertakings. Detailing various figures on jobs, Mr. Alagiri said the BCs and OBCs had lost out on opportunities in the last six years due to government policy. “The BJP government believes that it is its daily duty to snatch the benefits of those who belong to the BC, OBC and SC/ST communities,” he said. Further, he said the Medical Council of India had submitted before the Madras High Court that no changes could be made to the reservation quota in medical admissions. The BJP-led Central government had buried the reservation for backward classes, he said, adding, “If BJP acts against social justice in Tamil Nadu, it will end up as a big failure.”
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An additional Rs. 76.5 cr. for preventive efforts||The State government has allotted an additional Rs. 76.5 crore for COVID-19 prevention and management works. In a statement on Friday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that the Chief Minister had already sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 75.28 crore for establishing oxygen pipelines in government hospitals. The additional funds will be utilised for prevention activities by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine and for works to improve oxygen facilities, hospital buildings and electricity infrastructure in taluk and non-taluk hospitals.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One-tenth of added deaths were home/transit fatalities||About one-tenth of the 444 deaths added to Chennai’s COVID-19 toll based on recommendations of a Death Reconciliation Committee on Wednesday were home and transit deaths, according to the Health Department. The remaining were hospital deaths. In all, 402 patients died in hospitals due to COVID-19 and co-morbidities, and 42 deaths occurred at home or during transit. The committee scrutinised 820 deaths of COVID-19 patients from March 1 to July 9. On the committee’s recommendation, the government constituted a State-level committee, headed by the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel rejoin duty||As many as 69 police personnel, including Joint Commissioner of Police C. Mageshwari, rejoined duty on Friday after recovering from COVID-19. They were welcomed by Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal at his office in Vepery. Of the 1,616 police who tested positive for the virus, 1,187 have rejoined duty after recovering.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against YouTuber Maridhas||The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai city police has registered a First Information Report against an ‘unknown fake mail creator’ for the offences of forgery, using forged document as genuine, and hacking, on a complaint from Vinay Sarawagi, Associate Executive Editor, at the News18 Group, lodged against Maridhas, a man who runs a YouTube channel. In his complaint, Mr. Sarawagi alleged that the forged email had harmed his reputation and that of his news channel.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest gang robbing beggars||The police arrested three suspects who formed a gang and committed a series of robberies targeting beggars in Royapettah and Mylapore. Police sources said Kannammal, 75, sleeping on the pavement along South Mada street, was beaten up and robbed by two youth who came on a bike on July 18. They also robbed Sankaran, 65, who was sleeping nearby. Police traced Sulaiman, 23, and based on his confession, arrested his accomplices Dhanapalan, 20 and Sakthivel, 21.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light rainfall likely in interior places of T.N.||Several interior places may experience light to moderate rain for the next two days. There is likely to be heavy rainfall in one or two places in districts along the Western Ghats till Sunday, according to the Meteorological Department. A cyclonic circulation over east-central Arabian Sea and easterly winds are set to trigger thunderstorm activity over the State. Met Department officials said one or two places in districts, including Erode, Coimbatore, Nilgiris and Theni, would get heavy rain. Chennai, too, has chances of light rain in some areas till Sunday. During the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Vedasandur in Dindigul district recorded rainfall of 15 cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said interior parts of the State would continue to see thunderstorms because of the prevalence of easterly winds. The weather models indicate that there would be an increase in rainfall over interior parts around July 30. The southwest monsoon has brought good rainfall so far over the State. Tamil Nadu has registered an average of 16cm of rainfall against its normal of 11cm since June 1. The seasonal rainfall is in excess by 43%.
25 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE dept. takes over temple property||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department on Thursday took possession of 32 grounds of prime property at Kilpauk here, belonging to the Ekambareshwarar temple in Kancheepuram. The land, worth Rs. 200 crore, had been in possession of a private trust, and the 99-year lease ended in 1998.
25 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three more UPHCs shut down for disinfection in Coimbatore||Three more urban primary health centres (UPHCs) in the city were closed on Friday after one staff in each centre tested positive for COVID-19. The Coimbatore Corporation had already shut down the centre on Pattu Nool Lane, near Sukhrawarpet. Sources familiar with the development said the civic body closed the Ramanathapuram centre near Sungam, the Gandhipuram centre on the 8th Cross Street, and once again the Vysial Street centre. The closure would be for two or three days for the civic body to disinfect to the premises, and to test the other staff. The Corporation was looking at reopening the centres by Monday, sources said. The Corporation had last week closed down the Vysial Street centre after a staff tested positive. The centre was shut for two days and reopened only a couple of days ago. Meanwhile, in East Zone, the Corporation had formed 15 special teams of two domestic breeding checkers each to rush to areas with COVID-19 cases, conduct door-to-door check for persons with fever or showing symptoms and ask for the assistance of mobile medical teams to lift samples from people it had identified vulnerable. As of Friday, the Corporation had formed 12 such teams and by Saturday it would add three more teams to take the total teams to 15.
25 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek extension of moratorium on loan repayments||With the six-month moratorium on repayment of loans to end in August, industries in the manufacturing hubs of Coimbatore and Tiruppur have sought extension of the moratorium for another six months. “The industries are in no position to start repaying the loans in September. The units are operating with a lot of restrictions. And the demand has not revived. So industries cannot repay the loans now,” said Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. The TEA had been asking for one-year moratorium from the beginning. While the banks had given the six-month relaxation, a lot of private finance companies that had lent to industries started asking for repayment after three months, he said. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association R. Ramamurthy said industries were currently operating only at 40 % to 50 % capacity. When the moratorium period ends in August, the amount to be repaid would be converted into term loan. The industries would not be able to start repayment from September. Further, banks should not ask the units to repay the accrued interest. The association planned to write to the Union Finance Minister in this regard, he said. According to S. Surulivel, president of Coimbatore chapter of Railway Suppliers Association, the Government had anticipated that the Covid-19 pandemic would end soon. But, it had not happened. Fresh cases were reported every day. The migrant workers had not returned and wholesale and retail businesses were yet to return to normalcy. In such a scenario, the government, Reserve Bank of India, and the banks should decide at providing relief to the industries. They should extend the moratorium for another three months and then go in for loan restructuring, he said.
25 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages demonstration||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party staged a demonstration at Siddhapudur in the city on Friday demanding the arrest of those running the YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam in which a video denigrating Kanda Shasti Kavacham , a Tamil song in praise of Lord Muruga, was uploaded. Goondas Act District president of the party R. Nandakumar, who led the demonstration, told mediapersons that the accused must be detained under the Goondas Act. The members recited Kanda Shasti Kavacham as part of the demonstration.  ‘Missed call’ protest Members of the Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions staged a ‘missed call’ protest across Coimbatore district on Friday where they left missed calls to the TNSTC Coimbatore Division officials. The protest was conducted with multiple demands including adequate remuneration and attendance for the employees during the COVID-19 lockdown. General secretary of CITU Coimbatore unit M. Velankanni Raj said that employees from 23 depots in Coimbatore district participated in this protest.
25 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown in Coimbatore from Saturday evening to Monday morning||There will be a complete COVID-19 lockdown in Coimbatore from 5 p.m. on July 25 (Saturday) to 6 a.m. on July 27 (Monday).  Essential services The district administration said in a release on Friday that except for medical service, milk, power and other essential service it would be a complete lockdown. Farmers’ markets (uzhavar sandhai), vegetable markets, grocery stores, fish and mutton stalls, liquor shops and other such commercial establishments should remain closed. Stringent action Police would initiate stringent action against those found in public. On duty Officials from police, Revenue and Public Health departments and local bodies, who have been engaged in battling the spread of COVID-19 would be on duty.
25 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecture on lean manufacturing||The Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise a free guest lecture on ‘Lean Manufacturing’ via Google Meet on Saturday at 3 p.m. Coimbatore-based lean consultant Prabhakaran Kuralnidhi will be the speaker for the webinar. Plant heads, managers and engineers shall participate in this webinar, a release said. Those interested may contact 99524 04302 or 82200 00371/2/3/4 for registration.
25 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to monthly maintenance work at Mylampatty sub-station, there will be no power supply between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on July 27 in the following areas: Karayampalayam, Chinniyampalayam, Mylampatty, R.G. Pudur, Kaikolampalayam and Venkittapuram.
25 July 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Medical officer tests positive||After a senior officer in the rank of a joint director in the health and family welfare department attached to the Government Hospital here tested positive for COVID-19, the civic authorities shut the office and disinfected the area. The official was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai for treatment.
25 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode advocate takes to selling tea to make a living||Due to the lockdown, S.A. Syed Haroon, a 69-year-old advocate at the Madras High Court, sells tea to eke out a living. A native of Thirunagar Colony in Erode, he has been practising in various courts for 41 years and returned to Erode on March 22 just before the commencement of the lockdown. “For the past four months, we have been finding it extremely difficult to meet our needs,” he said. Mr. Haroon claimed that 80% of the advocates were affected due to the lockdown and were yet to recover. “There was no income and hence, I started selling tea from Friday,” he said and added that he was confident of earning at least Rs. 500 a day. Though courts were functioning via videoconferencing, only physical functioning could help advocates earn income, he said. Financial crisis had caused extreme pressure on advocates and they needed immediate support, Mr. Syed said and appealed to the State government to provide financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 and a loan amount of Rs. 1 lakh to each advocate. He wanted the full-fledged functioning of all courts in the State with protective measures in place against the virus. Mr. Haroon recalled that the Supreme Court had expressed concern over advocates losing their income due to the lockdown. The court had on July 22 asked the Bar Council of India whether advocates could be allowed to take up alternative professions during the lockdown, he said.
25 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects control room||District Collector S. Prabhakar inspected the COVID-19 control room here on Thursday.  He urged the control room staff to aid in the tracking of the contacts of COVID-19 infected persons with diligence. The Collector asked officials to rope in volunteers in the containment zones to provide essential supplies to the quarantined families. Those in quarantine were asked to contact the control room on 04343-230042 for emergencies and other necessities.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 69.3%||Despite recording a high number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, the recovery rate stands at 69.3% as per the data on July 24. The total number of cases recorded till date is 9,302 and those discharged is 6,448. Collector T. G. Vinay says that the district has been particularly recording a high recovery rate between July 17 and 23. “The number of discharges have recently been high because we saw a large number of patients testing positive for COVID-19 between June 26 and July 6. During this time, we saw 400 odd cases every day. All these people have now completed their treatment lasting either 10 days or 14 days,” he said. The Collector says that when the first few cases of COVID-19 were recorded in Madurai district, they were predominantly asymptomatic. “Ever since the fever clinic model was introduced, we have had mostly symptomatic influenza like illness cases who have displayed quick recovery,” he says. He adds that contacts of these index cases identified at fever camps however, have mostly been asymptomatic. This is apart from those who are undergoing monitored home isolation. “If a patient is asymptomatic, they spend around 10 days in a government quarantine facility. If they are symptomatic, they spend around 14 days in a hospital ward or a quarantining facility based on the severity of the symptoms,” he says. Post recovery, the Collector says that lists of those discharged are submitted to the district's telemedicine centre and to sanitary inspectors and sanitary officers so that they can keep tabs on the person. “Those who have been discharged must be isolated for an entire week and will also have access to the numbers of local health workers,” he says. DMK MLA of Madurai Central constituency P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan says that the recovery rate should not necessarily be a cause of celebration. The global trend has shown that 95% of the patients will recover, he says. The MLA says that though the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines say that exit swab tests need not be conducted for COVID-19 patients , it would be useful to do so in order to contain the risk of spread. “Hospitals do not even seem to check the blood oxygen levels before they discharge patients. This is when we hear of patients dying two days after returning home after a full recovery. When we do not conduct exit swab tests, both the spread and fatality risk is high,” he says. He adds that stringent mechanisms to monitor those who have recovered are needed.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s tally of positive cases crosses 9,000 mark||With 326 people testing positive, Madurai district’s overall tally of cases crossed the 9,000 mark, here on Friday. As on date, the total number of cases registered are 9,302. A total of 483 people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities on Friday. The overall number of discharged persons as on date was 6,448. There were 10 deaths recorded in the district, taking the toll to 193. Nine of these 10 patients succumbed due to comorbidities. Active cases in the district were 2,661 cases. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Friday recorded six COVID-19 deaths equalling the highest number of deaths in a single day that was registered on July 22. With this, the total number of fatalities due to the viral infection has touched 43. Among the dead are three men and three women, in the age group of 54 years and 78 years. They died in different hospitals between July 21 and 24. Besides, the district recorded 400-plus number of positive cases for the second consecutive day on Friday with 424 people testing positive. On Thursday, the district had registered the highest number of 480 positive cases. This has taken the total number of positive cases past the 5,000-mark and stood at 5,193. However, with a higher number of 454 patients getting discharged from various hospitals (total number of discharge till date 2,947), the number of active cases was 2,203. The district administration has recruited seven doctors to meet the demand of increasing number of cases. Collector R. Kannan said 14 lab technicians and three microbiologists have been recruited on temporary basis for three months. Meanwhile, salary for 36 nurses recruited on temporary basis in May has been paid in the last two days after non-payment of salary for 70 days was taken up with the district administration. Theni Theni recorded 234 fresh cases which took the total positive cases to 3,321. There were 69 discharges from the hospital. Dindigul Dindigul tested 82 new cases which took the tally to 2,012. The hospital had discharged 479 patients on a single day, which took the total discharged persons from 971 to 1450. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram district had 73 positive cases with which the tally went up to 2,865. There were 41 discharges from the hospital. Sivaganga Sivaganga had 82 new cases with which the total positive cases stood at 1,906. There were 110 discharges from the hospital. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts had 843 COVID-19 positive cases on Friday. While Thoothukudi continued to lead the race over other districts with 313 cases, Kanniyakumari had 266 new patients. Consequently, Thoothukudi has total infections of 4,971 and 2,354 active cases. In Kanniyakumari, 3,124 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported so far and the district has 1,774 active cases. At the same time, 432 patients were discharged in Thoothukudi district and 347 positive patients got discharged in Kanniyakumari district. In Tirunelveli, 171 new cases including 170 indigenous cases were reported on Friday that took the district’s tally to 3,387 and the number of active cases to 1,459. Twenty-three patients were discharged from various hospitals. Number of COVID-19 positive patients in Tenkasi district rose to 1,506 on Friday with the addition of 93 more cases and the district now has 1,047 active cases. Patient kills himself A 42-year-old labourer from Aavudaiyaarpuram near Thiruvenkatam, who tested positive for the viral infection and subsequently kept in a ‘COVID Care Centre’ in a private polytechnic at Vasudevanallur, committed suicide by hanging. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Puliyangudi, Sakthivel and Tashildar of Sivagiri, Anand visited the spot. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A couple pitches in by brewing ‘kabasura kudineer’||A couple from TVS Nagar have been helping Madurai Corporation by preparing 2,000 litres of kabasura kudineer concoction everyday for the past 70 days. While the Corporation supplies kabasura kudineer powder, water and gas cylinders, the couple- R. Kannan and Geeta Kannan, help in preparation of the concoction- a Siddha drug to boost immunity. Mr. Kannan said that they read about the Corporation’s request for volunteers for the preparation of the kabasura kudineer concoction and hence approached the civic body. He said that they begin work by 3.30 a.m. to 4 a.m. everyday and it continues upto 11 a.m. “During the preparation of the kabasura kudineer, it is important to constantly keep stirring the concoction when it is boiling,” said Ms. Geeta Kannan. The Corporation officials then collect the prepared concoction from the couple for distribution in Zone 3 and Zone 4. “We distribute it in areas where COVID-19 positive cases are recorded and in densely-populated areas,” said a Corporation health official. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan hailed the couple’s efforts and said that more volunteers must come forward to help the civic body. He also said that currently the Red Cross Society was volunteering in distribution of medical kits to the residents.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two more CBI sleuths test positive||Two more sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team that is investigating the Sattankulam police station custodial deaths case, as well as an accused in the case, Pauldurai, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, have tested positive for COVID-19. A special CBI team from New Delhi arrived here on July 10 and took over investigation of thecase of the custodial deaths of trader, P. Jayaraj and his son Benicksfrom the Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department. The team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police, Vijaykumar Shukla, has been staying in the Circuit House here. It has taken into custody eight of the 10 accused – all police personnel -- and interrogated them in two batches. The accused were taken to the Sattankulam police station in Thoothukudi district as part of the investigation. Two of the sleuths, who developed fever, undertook swab tests, andtested positive on July 21. They were admitted to the Railway Hospital here where a special COVID-19 ward has been set up for the Madurai City police personnel. Soon after, another two sleuths of the agency developed fever. Madurai Corporation officials conducted tests on the remaining six sleuths too. Two of them tested positive on Thursday and were shifted to the Railway hospital. Madurai Corporation officials took up disinfection at the CBI office at Aathikulam here. Health officials have advised the CBI officials for closure of chambers, where these officials had worked, for 48 hours. Meanwhile, one of the accused, Pauldurai, who has been lodged in Madurai Central Prison, tested positive on Friday. He was taken to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Pauldurai and another accused, Francis Thomas, who had chronic ailments like diabetes and hypertension, had been admitted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital for few days before they were lodged at the Madurai Central prison. Disinfection has been done on the prison premises. On Thursday, the other accused, Inspector of Police, Sridhar, was shifted to the GRH for a chronic spinal cord problem.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Battling all odds, transmen launch eatery in Madurai||For Jaison Joshva, a 27-year-old transman and a graduate, life had been extremely difficult ever since he underwent a sex selection surgery a couple of years back. He had faced several job rejections and had been denied homes for rent due to his gender identity. Battling all odds, today Mr. Joshva and his family, comprising his wife and two of his graduate transmen friends - Subin and Shakthiadhavan - are running a pushcart eatery, Mercury Chicken Stall, at Palanganatham in Madurai. While Priya Babu, head of the Transgender Resource Centre, had sponsored the pushcart, SELCO Solar Light Private Limited had given a solar-panel powered light at a subsidy. “Through various sponsors, we have been arranging utensils for the eatery,” says Ms. Babu. The lockdown had pushed the family into the brink of starvation. “Since the NGO I work for pays the salary once in four months, we were left with little income during the lockdown. Shakthiadhavan sold vegetables and tea to earn a meagre income. We survived mainly through provisions supplied by members of the transgender community,” says Mr. Joshva. “Despite being graduates, we have not been able to get a job matching with their educational qualifications,” says Mr. Shakthiadhavan. Recalling his first job after the surgery at a shop, Mr. Joshva says, “When the owners checked my Aadhar card for paying my first month salary, they identified that I was a transman. So, they immediately asked me to resign from the job,” he says. “Due to social stigma and lack of awareness on transmen, we have to disguise our identity to even rent a house,” says Mr. Shakthiadhavan. “But, by starting our own eatery, we can work independently. Though we might not be able to earn higher profits, we can at least satiate our hunger through the eatery. We still have to take up other jobs to run our family,” says Mr. Joshva. The stall, which started functioning from Wednesday, saw a good number of customer footfall, he adds. Mr. Joshva’s wife cooks mutton soup and chicken fry, which is sold at the eatery in the evenings. They are also planning to introduce idlis and dosas for breakfast.
25 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide free rations for 6 more months’||Members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Friday urged the State government to provide free ration to people across Tamil Nadu for six more months in view of the lockdown. During a State-wide protest, DYFI State secretary S. Bala said the country had been under lockdown for five months, leaving hundreds jobless. The autorickshaw and taxi drivers were yet to get back into business, he said. “Many others who would travel outside their district for work cannot do so now. How do we expect them to purchase essential commodities,” he asked. Mr. Bala said that since the lockdown was likely to continue for a while, free rations had to be provided for a longer period. That was the only way to sustain people from low socio-economic background. The people across districts raised complaints of ration shops running out of commodities. The government must hire more persons to work at fair price shops as there were vacancies. Families of workers who had contracted COVID-19 and died while at work too must be provided compensation, he demanded.
25 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘We are forced to collect more for gas cylinder’||Members of Tamil Nadu LPG Delivery Men’s Union on Tuesday petitioned Collector T.G. Vinay about unreasonable activities of a private delivery agency here. Its president T. Thangavel said the proprietor often forced delivery men to collect Rs. 690 for a cylinder priced at Rs. 635. “Since bills are sent directly to mobile phones of customers, many don’t pay us anything additionally. However, if delivery boys don’t bring Rs. 50 more for each cylinder, the employer holds back their salary,” he said. The owner had not contributed to pension fund or Employees’ State Insurance of his employees. He said when employees complained about the unfair practice, the proprietor terminated 18 of them.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail petitions dismissed||The Madurai District Court dismissed the bail petitions filed by Thomas Francis and Muthuraj, constables accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, on Friday. Sessions Judge M. Thandavan dismissed the bail petitions taking into account that the investigation in the case was in the initial stage. The prosecution had strongly opposed the granting of bail. Earlier, the bail petition of constable Murugan was dismissed by the Sessions Judge. In an intervening petition, the family members of Jayaraj and Benicks had opposed the granting of bail to the accused and said that their lives had been ruined.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NEET case: HC directs CB-CID to file counter affidavit||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the CB-CID to file a counter affidavit in the petition filed by the first student accused in the NEET impersonation case. He had sought a direction to the CB-CID to return his certificates that were taken for investigation, as he wanted to pursue higher studies. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the CB-CID to file the counter and adjourned the hearing in the case by a week. The petitioner sought the return of his Class X and Class XII marksheets, transfer certificate and community certificate, taken by the CB-CID at the time of inquiry. He said that he had approached a few colleges in Chennai seeking admission to arts and science courses and the college authorities had asked him to produce his original certificates. If the documents were not returned his future will be in jeopardy, he said. Earlier, the High Court Bench had granted him bail in the case.
25 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||H. Raja case: HC grants more time to file report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted additional time of two months to the Thirumayam Police to file a final report on the investigation into the incident where BJP leader H. Raja made a derogatory remark against the High Court.  In 2018, H. Raja had entered into an altercation with the Thirumayam police, after they had denied BJP cadre from erecting a stage in the middle of the road during Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations. The permission was denied citing a High Court order. In a video clipping that went viral, Mr. Raja can be seen asking his supporters to go ahead and erect the stage. He had verbally abused the police and also went on to pass derogatory remarks against the High Court.
25 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide details on patients with COVID-19 symptoms’||District Collector K. Megraj has advised private hospitals and private medical practitioners here to provide information on persons visiting them with COVID-19 symptoms. In a release, Mr. Megraj said that despite Joint Director of Health Services advising private hospitals to report cases with COVID-19 symptoms, there has been some delays on that front. He said that early detection of cases was essential to contain the spread of the disease. Mr. Megraj advised hospitals to report patients visiting their facility with COVID-19 symptoms to nearest government hospital or primary health centres. Hospitals can also inform the district control room at 1077 or 8220402437.
25 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Amid boycott by ruling party MLAs, Bedi addresses Puducherry House||Delivering her customary address to the Assembly amid a stand-off with the government on several issues, Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi on Friday said the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of the Union Territory has increased by 10.95% in 2019-20 over the previous year. Amid a boycott of her address by two Ministers and three legislators belonging to the Congress, she said the GSDP was estimated at Rs. 37,943 crore for 2019-20. The per capita income also increased from Rs. 2,20,208 (current price) for the year 2018-19 to Rs. 2,32,057 (current price) for the year 2019-20. It was a growth of 5.3%. The government firmly maintained its borrowing, interest payment, fiscal deficit and revenue deficit within the limits prescribed in the fiscal roadmap, which augers well for the economy of the Union Territory, she said. On the financial front, the government has performed well during 2019-20. The expenditure incurred was Rs. 7,927 crore as against the total outlay of Rs. 8,525 crore, which worked out to 93%. Non-receipt of GST compensation of about Rs. 360 crore before March 2020 was a major reason for the reduction in targeted expenditure, the Lt. Governor said. “It is a matter of great pride to all of us that this Union Territory has secured not only the first position in four good governance indicators, such as human resource development, public health, justice and law and order but also ranked top among the 7 UTs in the Good Governance Index,” Ms. Bedi said. Complimenting the Chief Minister, Ministers and elected representatives working in the fight against COVID-19, the Lt. Governor appealed to the public to strictly avoid venturing out, except under essential circumstances, to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, Government Whip R. K. R. Anantharaman, and Congress legislator T. Djeamourthy stayed away when Ms. Bedi addressed the members. AIADMK legislators staged a walk-out after the Lieutenant-Governor completed her address.
25 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Detained under Goondas Act||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Friday issued an order to detain Raja, 26, arrested on the charge of raping and murdering a minor girl at Embal village recently, under the Goondas Act, said police sources. Raja had recently escaped from the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital a few days ago while admitted for conducting medical tests. He was nabbed the same day.
25 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 rise: Traders down shutters in Pudukottai||A majority of shops and business establishments in Pudukottai were closed on Friday as the traders have decided to down shutters till July 30 as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The traders have taken the decision voluntarilyto protect the traders, those working in the shops and the general public from getting infected by the viral disease.
25 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects hospitals to check quality of food||Collector P. Uma Maheswari conducted surprise checks at old Government Headquarters Hospital and Government Ranees Hospital here on Thursday night to ascertain the quality of food provided to COVID-19 patients. The checks were conducted amid complaints from certain quarters alleging that poor quality of food was being served to the patients. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Uma Maheswari said food was being provided at the right time three times a day. Quality food was being given to the patients, the Collector said adding that the diet was being given under the supervision of the District Food Safety Officer. Adequate manpower had been appointed at the hospital to provide food at the right time. A board containing the diet menu provided to the patients would be installed at the hospital.
25 July 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fishermen stay off sea, hoist black flags||Opposing the National Fisheries Policy - 2020, fishermen representing various workers’ unions including the CITU, hoisted black flags on their anchored boats and staged demonstrations in Rameswaram on Friday. Participating in the nationwide call for a strike, the fishermen said that the policy was neither friendly to them nor did it protect their interests. It was aimed at enhancing the profits of certain corporate houses, as the policy was highly export-oriented and curtailed the movement of fishermen to deep sea fishing, Sesu Raja, a fishermen association leader said. The policy would only lead to insecurity and uncertainty for the fishermen. Already, under the guise of crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL), the fishermen were harassed and attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel. The policy encouraged deep sea fishing, which would not be feasible, the leader charged. Citing the COVID-19 pandemic, he said that a majority of the fishermen had lost their livelihoods in the last 120 days. At a time when the fishing industry looked to the governments for relief, such policies only triggered them to take extreme steps, he claimed. In Pamban, country boat fishermen association leader Rayappan said that the State government should voice its opposition on behalf of fishermen and ensure that the Centre withdrew the policy. “The policy should at least be amended in such a way that it is friendly to the fishing community, as there are different classes in the sector,” he said. Expressing their concern, over 1,600 anchored boats including country and mechanised boats raised black flags. The fishermen said that the protests would be intensified in the days to come, if the governments failed to take notice of their appeals. Already, some of the fishermen associations have not been venturing into the sea since last week, blaming the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department for not issuing subsidies for diesel. The government, which had permitted the fishermen to venture into the sea from June 1 after the COVID-19 lockdown and the annual ban period, the fishermen in Rameswaram set off for fishing only from June 13. However, within two days, four fishermen went missing and three among them had died mid sea.
25 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Patient recovery rate at 80% in Salem GH: Dean||The recovery rate among COVID-19 patients at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is 80%, said Dean R. Balajinathan. As of Friday, 29 patients, including 17 women and 12 men, have died at the hospital, he said. Of the 248 active cases at the hospital, 30 are under intensive care. The patients include those from Namakkal, Karur, Kallakuruchi, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. Till Friday, 1,098 patients have been discharged from the hospital. Dr. Balajinathan said they have sought approval for collection and usage of plasma from recovered persons for treating COVID-19. The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at the hospital, which was given sanction to test COVID-19 samples in March, has tested 83,000 samples, including those from neighbouring districts, till date. Nearly 79,000 samples from Salem alone have been tested at the lab, he said.
25 July 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Golden car pulled at Andal temple||The annual car festival of Andal temple here that attracts thousands of people was held within the temple praharams on Friday on the occasion of Aadi Pooram festival. The golden car was pulled by a small crowd of officials and administrators. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, Srivilliputtur MLA M. Chandraprabha, temple official K. Ravichandran and others took part in it. Special pujas and deeparathana was performed to the presiding deities, Andal and Rengamannar. Owing to COVID-19, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments wanted the festival to be conducted within the temple premises without much crowd.
25 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Home isolation for asymptomatic patients||Asymptomatic COVID 19 positive patients will be allowed to be in isolation at their residence in Thanjavur district, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. Disclosing this to reporters here on Friday, Collector M. Govinda Rao said 1,500 persons had tested positive for COVID-19 infection in the district so far and nearly half the number had been discharged. Hitherto, those who were diagnosed to be asymptomatic were moved to the COVID-19 care centres at Thanjavur, Vallam and Pattukottai to remain in isolation till they were cured and patients who required extra medical care were admitted to the special wards. Hereafter, asymptomatic patients would be allowed to remain in isolation at home, provided they had a separate room and restroom facility for their use during the 14 to 21 days of isolation. Further, those houses should also contain facilities required for quarantine of the family contacts of the person seeking to remain in home isolation. However, if those opting for home isolation suffer from immunity compromised status due to prolonged diseases or a transplant recipient or aged above 60 years or with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/kidney or cerebro-vascular diseases, their request for home isolation will not be entertained. The request for home isolation would be granted based on the inspection report to be presented by a team of health and revenue officials, the Collector said. Stating that all out efforts were being made to reduce the percentage of mortality caused due to COVID-19 virus infection from the present 0.8%, Mr.Rao said the health department had shifted its focus to influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) cases. For this purpose, special camps were conducted at places from where COVID-19 positive cases were reported in order to identify people suffering from ILI or SARI complications. New care centre A 300-bed institutional COVID-19 care centre will come up at a private engineering college near Kumbakonam.
25 July 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Encroachments should be removed’||The State government should immediately direct PWD engineers to remove encroachments along the 18-canal project to help irrigate over 50,000 acres of land, the Pathinettam Kaalvai Vivasaayigal Sangam (18-Canal Farmers’ Association, Thevaram) said on Tuesday. A. Tirupathi Vasagan, coordinator of the Sangam, told journalists there were 51 tanks along the 18 canals. Most of the tanks were encroached with bushes and structures which had come up over the years. The PWD engineers should take up a survey and remove the encroachments. “It will be a right time to do it now as there is no water flow in the canal,” he said. By doing so, not only water for irrigation would be assured for farmers in seven panchayats and 30 village panchayats having close to two lakh population, but drinking water would also become a reality for people in Gudalur, Cumbum and Bodi municipalities. “The Pathinettam Kaalvai was established with an objective to recharge the waterbodies. Only when there is a surplus of water in the reservoir, the canal gets water,” said Sangam president P. Ramaraj and suggested construction of sluices at four locations including Kombai, Renganathapuram and Thevaram. The association also wanted prohibition of sand mining. The administration should release water for irrigation for 120 days with an assured 100 cusecs of water, which has been the norm for other farmers’ associations in the district. Presently, they were getting 98 cusecs of water for 30 days.
25 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers tense over bid to lay pipes across lands||Tension prevails in Pottalkaadu, Kulaiyankarisal and Servaikaaranmadam villages as farmers allege that the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) which is laying pipes to carry natural gas to a fertilizer manufacturing unit here, was forcibly laying the pipes via cultivable lands with the backing of the police. As IOCL is laying pipes for about 142 km via 53 revenue villages to carry natural gas from Ramanathapuram to the fertilizer manufacturing unit, work has been completed in about 134 km. In Thoothukudi district, the oil major has proposed to lay pipes via the cultivable lands in Kulaiyankarisal and Pottalkaadu. They, instead, say laying of pipelines should be carried out through alternative routes instead of the cultivable lands, where farmers cultivate banana, vegetables and paddy during ‘pisanam’ season (between October and February) whenever water level in the dams is comfortable. When the IOCL tried to lay pipelines despite the public’s resistance, Pottalkaadu villagers tied black flags in their houses for two days last week as a mark of protest. Only when they gathered in the village to decide on their protest strategy, the police and revenue officials rushed to the spot to hold talks. As talks did not yield any result, tension prevails in villages. Speaking to reporters at Kulaiyankarisal on Friday after having marathon discussion with the farmers from Pottalkaadu, Kulaiyankarisal, Servaikaaranmadam and other villages, farmers’ welfare association representatives said the IOCL, which started the survey of lands for laying the pipes via cultivable lands in 2017, was laying pipes without fulfilling the promises they had made earlier to the land owners. “Since the compensation being given for the land is not sufficient, we’d asked the IOCL to increase the compensation by three times from the present rate. Moreover, we told the oil major to deepen the Pottalkaadu irrigation tank and desilt the irrigation channels in this area. Though they had agreed to our demands, they are now trying to lay the pipes with the backing of the police, which will trigger major law and order issues in this area. If the IOCL continues to adopt coercive posture, we’ll also make our stance harder,” the farmers warned. Meanwhile, the IOCL authorities had discussion with Collector Sandeep Nanduri, who has temporarily stalled the pipe laying work.
25 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID grills mother of dead labourer||The CB-CID, which is investigating the mysterious death of a construction labourer due to the injuries reportedly sustained in police torture, interrogated the victim’s mother here on Thursday. The helpless widow had approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking probe. The CB-CID team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar, who arrested 10 policemen in connection with the custodial death of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks recently, interrogated S. Vadivu, mother of 28-year-old Mahendran, the deceased on Thursday Mahendran was picked-up in connection with the murder of a police informer by Sub-Inspector of Police Raghu Ganesh and his team. He allegedly sustained serious injuries during police torture and died in the hospital. The CB-CID team grilled Ms.Vadivu on Thursday for more than two hours in the presence of her advocates Ramasamy and Jayachandran. Earlier, they had interrogated his sister
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Call for total lockdown in Tiruchi||Amid concerns being expressed by doctors over the increase in COVID-19 cases and the poor physical distancing norms followed in public places, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has sought a total lockdown for at least two weeks in Tiruchi. Describing it as a “message and feedback” and a “note of apprehension” from front-line doctors, the IMA has made a representation to the district administration, seeking the lockdown. In the communication addressed to the Collector, R. Gunasekaran, president, and B. Senthilvelkumar, secretary, IMA, Tiruchi Branch, pointed out that the number of cases was increasing day by day. Patients testing positive after CT scans was high, too. Asymptomatic carriers could spread the disease exponentially in the community. “This may result in a deluge-like situation. To add to the problem, healthcare workers are in panic... the [healthcare] delivering mechanism could be jeopardised,” the communication read. Stating that they were aware of the socio-economic implications of a lockdown and empathised with the hardships that would be faced by individuals, the IMA representatives, however, argued that survival was more important. Justifying the demand, Dr. Senthilvelkumar said the number of positive cases reported in Tiruchi over the past few days was quite high for a Tier-II city. Doctors treating the COVID-19 patients were also falling sick. “It is important to protect doctors as we need as many hands as possible to treat the patients. If doctors fall sick, they have to isolate themselves for two to three weeks. A lockdown will help reduce the load and give time for doctors to recover,” he said. The IMA’s demand comes amid concerns aired by a cross-section of doctors in the city over the poor physical distancing norms followed in public places. “Until a vaccine is available, we have no alternative but to adopt physical distancing, maintain hand hygiene and use masks. This should be practised with discipline. But here is hardly any physical distancing visible in public places such as tea stalls, shops and markets,” said M.S. Ashraf, a senior physician of the city and former national vice-president of the IMA. Urging residents to avoid venturing out needlessly, Dr. Ashraf said that even if someone tested negative in the RT-PCR test, it did not mean they could go out carelessly; they might contract the novel coronavirus subsequently. He suggested that volunteers such as Home Guards be deployed in public places to continuously and politely request residents to practise physical distancing and educate them on hand hygiene and the use of masks.
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 helplines launched to help those stuck at home||The Tiruchi Corporation on Friday launched helplines for residents suffering from cold, fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 but are unable to reach a fever clinic. Through the helplines, the civic body plans to monitor the health of residents and conduct doorstep checks for fever, if necessary. While door-to-door checks and fever camps will continue to be held, the helpline will reduce the anxiety of residents. With change in weather and other factors, many are experiencing flu-like symptoms. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said,“There are elders, women with infants and others who are unable to get themselves checked. Many are also afraid to visit fever camps. For these people, we will go to their doorstep ourselves. If the patient seems to have COVID-19 symptoms, a sample will immediately be lifted.” A special team of six people have been trained and appointed to handle the helpline. “When a patient complains of symptoms, they will guide them to the nearest fever camp or if they are unable to visit, with put a health official directly in touch with them,” Mr. Sivasubamanian said. Those suffering from cold, fever, cough, sore throat can dial the toll-free helpline, contact their zonal office or send their queries on WhatsApp. The WhatsApp number is 83001 13000, the toll-free number is 1800 425 5396. The zonal office numbers are: Srirangam - 76395 11000, Ariyamangalam - 76395 22000, Ponmalai- 76395 33000 and K. Abhishekpuram - 76395 44000. Residents can also call these numbers to alert authorities on entry of travellers from other high-risk States or districts or about neighbours or relatives who are experiencing fever symptoms.
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Testing to be scaled up||The COVID-19 testing capacity at K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College will soon be scaled up. The hospital laboratory would soon be able to process 1,500 samples in a single day. “A fourth thermal cycler machine, required for Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ), a PCR machine, has been ordered and will be commissioned by next week,” Collector S. Sivarasu said. The lab’s current testing capacity is 1,200 and, on an average, around 1,300 test samples are collected every day. Up to July 18, 48,112 samples were tested. As a few other districts send their samples to the lab, the load increases. “Last week, some samples were sent to the testing facility at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Once the capacity is scaled up, more samples can be tested,” a health official said. The administration came in for criticism recently over delay in declaration of COVID-19 test results. “Since the individuals were kept in home quarantine immediately after giving the swab test, the spread of the infection is low,” the official said. Meanwhile, an advisory by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has directed 21 districts, including Tiruchi, to go for pooled testing. Accordingly, samples on a 1:5 ratio will be taken in areas with low positivity rate to keep a check on viral load in a community. Five samples can be tested at once and if a pool tests negative, all individual samples are negative, but when a pool tests positive, each sample is tested individually. “This saves time, and more importantly resources,” a doctor said. In Tiruchi, the guidelines are practised with the throat swab samples lifted from passengers at the airport, Mr. Sivarasu said. Areas with a low number of cases can also be tested this way, but it cannot be applied to the entire district, especially in containment zones, he added.
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||HPO shut for two days as official tests positive for COVID-19||The Tiruchi Head Post Office has been closed for two days, July 24 and 25, after one of its staff members tested positive for COVID-19. Disinfectants were sprayed inside and outside the HPO premises. Meanwhile, three woman constable recruits of the Railway Protection Force, who were undergoing training at RPF Zonal Training Centre, as well as three instructors, tested positive for COVID-19. They were undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The training for 393 Woman Constable Recruits, which resumed last week at the training centre, had to be suspended a few days ago after some of the staff at the training centre tested positive for COVID-19.
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special camp renovated||The special camp on the Central Prison premises here has been renovated at a cost of Rs. 2.71 crore. Foreign nationals involved in drug peddling and smuggling; overstay; making fake passports and other crimes are accommodated in the special camp till the case against them is over. The camp has 54 rooms and 30 toilets. A wall inside separates men and women. Electric fence has been installed on the boundary wall and 24 CCTV cameras monitor the inmates. Collector S. Sivarasu and Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan inspected the renovated camp on Thursday.
25 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 66.78 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 4,794 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.
25 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||No supply of essential goods in containment zone, allege residents||The residents of S.V. Colony, which was declared as COVID-19 containment zone by the Tiruppur Corporation, on Friday demanded that they be allowed outside to purchase groceries, medicines and other essential goods. Speaking to mediapersons, the residents alleged that they did not receive any help from the Corporation as well as the District Administration in the last 10 days and they had run out of groceries. When contacted, City Health Officer N. Boopathy claimed that the residents were primarily demanding that the containment restrictions should be lifted. “They have completed eight days [in containment] and there are six more days left, before which we cannot lift the restrictions,” he noted. Corporation officials supplied vegetables to the residents on Friday, Dr. Boopathy said. In coordination with Tiruppur North MLA K.N. Vijeyakumar, Tiruppur Corporation will supply free rice to all households within the containment zone on Saturday. A total of 21 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in S.V. Colony, which is the highest number of cases among any containment zones in Tiruppur Corporation limits. A 71-year-old man, who is said to have spread the virus among other residents, died on Wednesday at a private hospital in Coimbatore. Nearly 2,700 residents were screened and swab samples of 94 persons were lifted as part of the contact tracing process, Dr. Boopathy said.
25 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Tiruppur||Many parts of Tiruppur city experienced heavy rain on Thursday evening, resulting in water-logging and power outage. According to the rainfall report from the district administration, Tiruppur North region alone received 131 mm of rainfall on Thursday, while the Collectorate at Karuppa Gaundanpalayam saw 65 mm rainfall. The rain began at around 5 p.m. and continued for over two hours. Tiruppur-Avinashi Road, Uthukuli Road and Pushpa Theatre Junction are some of the locations in the city that witnessed water-logging. Following the rain, many areas in the city also experienced power shutdown. A revenue official said on Friday that Corporation workers drained the rainwater overnight and the power supply was also restored in most areas. Tiruppur City Police cautioned the public on Twitter to avoid commuting unnecessarily, particularly on two-wheelers during the heavy rain. Outside of Corporation limits, Mulanur witnessed 92 mm rainfall. Uthukuli and Kundadam saw around 15 mm rainfall. The district received an average rainfall of 28.53 mm till 7 a.m. on Friday.
25 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Business hours reduced||Business hours of TASMAC-run IMFL retail outlets in Tiruvarur district have been reduced by two hours from Friday. Hitherto they functioned for 10 hours from 10 a.m. The business hours would be reduced by two hours and the shops should down shutters by 6 p.m. The decision was taken in view of a large number of customers converging at the retail outlets after 6 p.m.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four deaths and 189 new cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district on Friday reported the death of four COVID-19 patients and 189 fresh positive cases. The deaths had occurred between Tuesday and Thursday, an official media bulletin said. Salem district reported one death and 122 new COVID-19 positive cases. A 59-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension, who tested positive on July 19, died on Thursday at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. A 52-year-old man who suffered head injuries and also had coronary artery disease was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on July 20 and tested positive the next day. He died on Wednesday, the media bulletin said. The other deceased were men aged 70 and 61, and both were diabetic. The district has so far reported 32 COVID-19 deaths. In Salem, a 65-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for a few other ailments died on Friday and she had tested positive for COVID-19. Health officials said the diabetic woman was admitted to the hospital with respiratory ailment. While her swab sample was sent for COVID-19 test, she died in the early hours of Friday. The results that arrived later in the day said she tested positive. Out of the 189 new cases, 14 were reported from Mahalingapuram in Vellalore. Other locations in Coimbatore district where a high number of cases were reported were C.K. Colony in New Siddhapudur, Palli Street in Veerakeralam and Saramedu within Coimbatore Corporation limits and Ammani Aruna Nagar in Annur, Health Department sources said. A total of 180 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday. Out of the 2,966 positive cases so far in the district, 1,659 have recovered and 1,275 were active cases. Out of the 122 new cases in Salem district, 106 were indigenous, including 64 in Salem Corporation limits. Fifteen of the fresh cases had travelled from other districts such as Chennai, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Perambalur, Vellore, Villupuram, Madurai, Coimbatore, Erode, Kallakuruchi and Tirupattur. One person had returned from Uttar Pradesh. Namakkal district had 28 new cases on Friday. Health officials said 15 cases were contacts of previous cases and two had travelled to Tiruchi and Salem districts.  92 in Krishnagiri Ninety-two persons tested positive for the disease in Krishnagiri on Friday. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 315 as of Friday. Dharmapuri district recorded 36 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 286. 25 in Erode Erode district reported 25 new cases, taking the district’s tally so far to 564. While 18 cases were reported in Erode Corporation limits, three were reported from Gobichettipalayam and one each from Kodumudi, Athani, Sathyamangalam and Guruvareddiyur. A total of 416 people have been discharged so far, and 140 continue to be under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. 18 in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 18 fresh COVID-19 cases. The daily tally dipped below 20 for the first time in 10 days on Friday. Twelve of the new cases were from Tiruppur Corporation limits and the remaining from Avinashi, Dharapuram, Palladam, Pongalur and Uthukuli Blocks. Within Corporation limits, the cases were reported from Anupparpalayam, Kumar Nagar, Velampalayam and Rakkiyapalayam. Among the total 617 cases in the district so far, 325 have recovered and 285 were active cases. The district reported seven COVID-19 deaths. On Friday, 25 patients were discharged and 848 swab samples were lifted across the district, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spike in central region||The central region continued to record a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases with 698 patients testing positive on Friday. Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur recorded single-day high numbers with 217, 186 and 96 positive cases, respectively. The region also recorded four deaths - one each in Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruchi. Meanwhile, Pudukottai saw 95 new COVID-19 positive cases, 46 in Nagapattinam, 37 in Ariyalur, 16 in Perambalur and five in Karur districts. Among the 217 persons who tested positive in Tiruchi district were a doctor who had been posted to the COVID-19 ward at the SRM Medical College Hospital and a few police personnel from the RPF training camp. Meanwhile, 36 patients, including 32 from Tiruchi who were admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 67 persons from the COVID Care Centre at Khajamalai, were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. In Thanjavur, 186 patients, many of whom were direct contacts or secondary contacts of people linked to the Darasuram market tested positive. The patients are undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. A total of 95 patients tested positive in Pudukottai - among them were inter-district travellers, and primary and secondary contacts of travellers. All patients have been admitted to Ranee’s Government Hospital for treatment. A total of 136 patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday. Of the 46 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam, 30 were local primary contacts of patients who tested positive. Three returned from Cuddalore, three from Thanjavur, one from Kanniyakumari and one from Dindigul. One patient had returned from Karnataka, and two from Chennai. In Ariyalur, 37 patients tested positive, while 96 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur. In Perambalur, of the 16 patients, eight were inter-district travellers, while two were secondary contacts of a single man, three were contacts of an interdistrict traveller while two were immediate family members of the Deputy Block Development Officer of Kunnam block, who tested positive earlier. In Karur, five patients, including a woman, tested positive for the viral infection. The patients have been admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, nine patients were discharged.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Conduct training programmes for workers from rural areas’||The Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore, district administration, and Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA), organised a virtual meeting recently on ‘Impact of COVID-19 in MSME Sector and Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’. A power point presentation was made at the meeting on the impact of COVID - 19 in MSMEs in the State based on a study carried out by MSME associations in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai jointly with IIT - Madras with the support of ConsoTree, a research organisation. The officials who spoke at the meeting, including the District Revenue Officer T. Ramaduraimurugan, explained the steps taken by the Government and the district administration to support the MSMEs on issues such as bank loans, migrant workers, etc., during the last four months. R. Ramamurthy, president of CODISSIA, sought training programmes for rural workers through a skill development centre so that the MSMEs get local labourers and in turn lead to development of an industrial corridor between Coimbatore and Salem.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against doctor||Stating that derogatory remarks made by an orthopaedician of a private hospital against government doctors has caused immense hardship to the doctors’ fraternity, G.S. Gomathi, Joint Director (Health Services), has lodged a complaint with the Erode South Police Station demanding action against the former. In her complaint, she said that on July 20, the doctor in a conversation with a person claimed that that post-mortem report issued at the Erode Government Headquarters Hospital can be altered by payment of Rs. 5 lakh. The complaint said that the message that went viral on social media had tarnished the reputation of government doctors. Hence, she wanted action to be taken against the doctor.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe on against HM for felling trees||An inquiry has been initiated against the headmaster of a Panchayat Union Elementary School for felling teak and neem trees on the school premises. According to education department officials, Arokya Southiraj, headmaster of the elementary school at Bodireddipatti here allegedly fell seven teakwood and three neem trees on the school premises without the permission of officials. Based on a complaint from Parents Teachers Association representatives, senior education department officials launched an inquiry against the headmaster. District Education Officer M.A. Udhay Kumar said that the inquiry was progressing and a memo had been issued against him under 17(b) of the Tamil Nadu Government Servants Conduct Rules.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 24   Persons tested +ve so far: 2,966 Indigenous cases: 2,928 (189 new cases on Friday) Imported cases: 38 Persons recovered: 1,659 Deaths: 32 Active cases: 1,275    House quarantined: 2,965 Indigenous cases: 609 (18 new cases on Friday) Imported cases: 8 Persons recovered: 325 Deaths: 7 Active cases: 285
25 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||VTU to hold exams between August 24 and 30||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will hold offline, pen and paper examinations from August 24 to 30, Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa announced in Belagavi on Friday. The examination is only for the current terminal semester which is the 8th semester. There will be no examination for new students of 2nd, 4th and 6th semesters now. They will be given an automatic extension and grades based on internal marks, said the VC. However, the university will allow the 8th semester students, who may have failed in some subjects in earlier semesters, to attempt examinations of their earlier semesters, in a different set of examinations. The timetable for those backlog examinations will be announced soon. College-level exams There will be three-hour examinations with open choice. They will be college-level examinations with all examiners from the same college, he said. The college principal, who is the chief superintendent of the examination, will decide on the examiners and the timetable, Dr. Karisidappa said, in a Facebook live session to students and parents on Friday. University Public Relations Officer Harish Bendigeri said the chat had reached over 70,000 persons, including students and parents. A look at the comments revealed that a majority of students opposed the examination plans, owing to the COVID-19 scare or due to the travel restrictions between States and districts. However, the VC said that these were as per the special regulations issued by the UGC for all graduate and postgraduate courses. The colleges need not approach the university’s board of examinations for approval, he said. Project viva voce and course work examinations will be held from August 17 to 24. PG examinations will be held from August 25, to avoid a clash with the KPSC examinations. COVID-19 SOP and other standard practices will be followed in the conduct of examinations. Those who cannot appear for the examinations, can appear for the immediate next ones, the VC said. “Examinations for terminal semesters, for UG and PG students will be held first and then the reducing semesters will be held next. That will be treated as the first attempt,” he said. They will not be penalised for not taking the examination now, according to him. Backlog examinations for terminal semester students will be suitably scheduled, the VC said. Hostels to be opened From August 1, all hostels will be opened. Even students who are staying off campus can seek temporary accommodation in hostels till the end of examinations, he said. For students coming from outside the country or from high-risk areas, there is no institutional quarantine. They will be referred to home quarantine for 14 days, said Dr. Karisiddappa. All teachers, whether they have examination duty or not, will be expected to be on campus during the examinations. A COVID-19 cell will be created in each college that will have senior teachers and administrators, the VC said. The colleges were asked to complete internal assessment by May 31. The internal marks are ready and VTU will collect that data and award marks, he said. Project submission Students can submit project reports in the form of emailed PDF documents or Compact Discs. If the fabrication for the projects was not ready, students can use synthetic data to prepare the final report. Fabrication videos can be shot and shown to the teachers, the VC said. Reports will be accepted even if they complete their projects based on secondary data, without going to workshop or not doing fabrication and without physical handling of material. What is open choice? Earlier, the students could attempt only some questions from different units in the syllabus, and attempt five out of 10 questions. But now, they can attempt five out of 10 questions from any unit. This is to introduce flexibility, said registrar A.S. Deshpande.
25 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ganesh Chaturthi festivities with some protocol||The State government has no plans of completely banning Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations by public Ganesh mandals, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said in Belagavi on Friday. The officer told a delegation of Ganesh mandals that they would be allowed to celebrate the festival by following some protocol as per COVID-19 guidelines. The mandal representatives told him that they would oppose any move by the government to ban the festival. Mr. Hiremath said that the district administration officers were waiting for the Standard Operating Procedure from the State government about holding the festival during rising COVID-19 cases. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan asked the mandals to maintain self-discipline and act responsibly to battle the epidemic. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi said that around 5,000 Ganesh idols would be installed by the public mandals in the district, including the city, during the festival season. This is likely to attract large crowds. The mandals should work with the government and police to ensure COVID- 19 protocol is followed, he said.
25 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||977 new cases in North Karnataka districts||As many as 977 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in North Karnataka districts on Friday. They included 116 in Belagavi, 184 in Bagalkot, 158 in Vijayapura, 174 in Dharwad, 108 in Gadag, 88 in Uttara Kannada, 77 in Davangere, 59 in Haveri and 13 in Chitradurga. The total number of deaths on Friday were 14 in the region. The total number of discharged persons was 357.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Airport metro line will see 4.33 lakh passengers per day’||The long overdue metro line to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) from K.R. Puram via Hebbal will be used by an estimated 4.33 lakh passengers per day in 2024, the first year of operations. Ridership is projected to increase to 8.35 lakh by 2031 and 11.14 lakh by 2041. These are the estimations submitted by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) in the Environmental Impact Assessment (Draft) on the K.R. Puram to KIA metro line under Phase II B. The report states that the proposed station at Hebbal will see the highest footfall (60,987), followed by K.R. Puram station (51,983), Nagawara (50,470) and KIA terminal station (48,113). The 38-kilometre elevated line will have 17 stations. BMRCL officials envision Hebbal station as a major hub. “Provisions will be made to integrate other modes of transport at the station, including Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses and long-distance services by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation. For this purpose, BMRCL is acquiring additional 1.5 acres from the BMTC,” said a BMRCL official. Hebbal station will ease the commute to and from KIA for those living in the west and northwest parts of the city. According to the draft EIA report, the proposed station at Doddajala will see lowest ridership at 5,365 per day, followed by Bettahalasur (8,048), Bagalur Cross (8,382) and Airport City (10,842) stations. This is because residential and other establishments in these areas are lower compared to other parts of the metro alignment, said officials. “The travel model generated for the RMP for Bengaluru 2031 has been used for the estimation of ridership for the proposed metro corridor to KIA. That assessment has been complemented by a subsequent study by RITES in 2016 for demand assessment of metro lines up to 2041,” the report noted.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,007 cases, 110 deaths in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 5,007 new COVID-19 cases and 110 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the State touched 85,870 and the death toll rose to 1,724. The daily toll, that had crossed 100 last Friday, was hovering around 90 till Thursday. With 2,037 people discharged on Friday, the total number of recoveries now stands at 31,347. Of the remaining 52,791 active cases, 611 patients are being monitored in the ICU while the condition of the rest is said to be stable. A total of 29,819 tests were conducted in 24 hours, including 7,411 rapid antigen tests. Meanwhile, continuing the trend of reporting nearly half the total cases in the State, Bengaluru Urban saw 2,267 cases and 50 deaths on Friday. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban crossed 40,000 to touch 41,467. The district toll now stands at 833. The State government has now issued an order capping the price for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in private labs. According to the order, while the rate of RT-PCRtesting for samples sent by the government for tests in private labs has been reduced from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,000, the ceiling rate for private samples in private labs has been reduced from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 3,000. The price includes that of screening and confirmatory tests and the cost of PPE kits. Likewise, the rate of rapid antigen tests for private samples in private labs has been fixed at Rs. 700 per sample, inclusive of PPE kit. Graduates on duty All graduates, postgraduates and super-specialist students graduating from medical colleges in the State will henceforth be deployed on COVID-19 duty after the completion of their examination. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said an order to this effect has been issued by the Director of Medical Education (DME). The heads of institutions have been directed to inform the students to report to the office of the DME after their exam for posting, he said.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes to labour laws will put most workers out of legal protection: Unions||As the State government unveiled the New Industrial Policy, 2020–25, to attract investors, trade unions are protesting over the manner in which several crucial labour laws have been amended to tilt the balance in favour of industries. The sweeping changes brought to Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act, and Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, unions fear, will put more than 70% of the factories in the State outside the purview of the labours laws, which makes workers vulnerable for exploitation and without any legal safeguards. “The Factories Act, which governed workers’ overtime wages, hours of work, shift timings, safety and health issues, and even designs of the industry for workers’ safety, will not be applicable to a majority of factories any more. The factories were already circumventing the law by reducing the permanent workforce and increase contract labour, and changes to the Industrial Disputes Act will only push workers into penury,” said M.D. Harigovind, general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru, said. Industrial jurisprudence that has to set a level-playing field between capital and labour, Centre of Indian Trade Unions general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram pointed out, will now be tilted in favour of industrialists. “Though attempts were made to dilute the labour laws before, the workers had fought against it. Now, the COVID-19 pandemic situation has been used to bring in changes. Workers who have now lost the legal cover, will also lose the bargaining power. With most factories out of the purview of the Factories Act, even those designated as hazardous will be out of the legal purview,” he said. In Karnataka, Mr. Sundaram said, the labour-industry relationship had been congenial, and did not have labour unrest unlike in other places. “In most factories, there are single unions. There was really no need to bring this Ordinance to change the labour laws,” he argued. Since 2017 The Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has been pushing for such changes since 2017, and Union Labour Ministry had in May 2020 sought changes in the labour laws on priority. The State sought concurrence from the Ministry of Home Affairs before the Cabinet approved the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Meanwhile, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar defended the changes stating that they would help bring in investors, especially those relocating from China. “The State Cabinet only confirmed the Ordinance since it has already received the Presidential assent,” he said.  The Ordinance has received the Presidential assent and we [the State] only confirmed it in the Cabinet. The Government of India has shown interest in this to bring more investments. Industries wanting to come out of China could be attracted for which we have to create a good environment. I will convene a meeting of trade union representatives to convince them.Shivaram Hebbar,Labour Minister
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industrialists say it was a long-pending demand||Industrialists say it was more than three decades after their demand that the Karnataka government decided to promulgate the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, that seeks, among other things, to change Chapter 5 (B) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Threshold changed The Chapter 5 (B) of the Act that deals with the government permission required to layoff, retrench or close the industry if the workforce is more than 100 has been changed to increase this threshold to 300. “This was among the long-pending demands of the industry as capitalists were scared to open big industries since they did not have the flexibility to alter the workforce,” president of the Karnataka Employers’ Association B.C Prabhakar said. He said the original Act did not have the Chapter 5 (B) at all that set the threshold limit. It was introduced in 1976 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi during the Emergency with a threshold of 300, which was reduced to 100 in 1978 only to be quashed by the Supreme Court in 1979. It was reintroduced with a threshold of 100 in 1984. Similar changes to labour laws have been made in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Maharashtra. “Since 1984, factories have been demanding removal of the chapter or increase of the threshold to 300 or 1,000. Though this threshold limit is a recommendation of the ILO no other country has adopted it. The increase in the threshold will bring more investors and generate employment as capitalists,” Mr. Prabhakar said.  ‘Not anti-labour’ According to him, the changes are not anti-labour since there were other provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, and a host of others, including the Minimum Wages Act, Payment of Wages Act, Gratuity Act, Payment of Bonus Act, PF Act, and ESI Act are still applicable.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on plea questioning Ordinance to amend stone crushers’ law||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition questioning the correctness of promulgating an Ordinance during the pandemic without any public urgency to dilute the law regulating safe zone norms for stone crushers. The petition has questioned the correctness of the exercise of power in law, citing urgency, to promulgate the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 on March 31, 2020. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order on the petition filed by R. Anjaneya Reddy from Chickballapur. The Ordinance was promulgated to amend the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers Act, 2012, which was enacted to define the safer zones for stone-crushing activities and regulate them. “The promulgation of the Ordinance was bad in law as there was no specific public emergency that existed which rendered it necessary for the Governor to take immediate action by promulgating an Ordinance and amend the provision of a particular legislation during the period of national lockdown. It is evident that the amendment was carried out during the lockdown period solely with an intention to aid and support the mining and crusher lobby which veiled its hands in the corridor of power,” it has been alleged in the petition. Pointing out that the 2012 Act was enacted based on the directions of the HC and the SC to protect the environment by regulating stone-crushing activities, the petitioner has contended the Ordinance only benefits private individuals and companies, and not the environment. The amended provisions relaxed the licensing condition by allowing transfer of license, extension of license from the existing five years to 20 years, and permitting setting up of crushing units within 100 meters by reducing safer zone limit only to 50m distance from major district roads, the petitioner pointed out.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State raises two more tranches of development loans through RBI||The Karnataka government raised two more State Development Loans (SDLs) of Rs. 1,000 crore each on July 21 through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This is the third SDL raised through the RBI in July, with the State government raising Rs. 1,000 crore on July 14 to meet the challenging financial situation amid COVID-19 pandemic. With this, so far, the State has raised Rs. 10,000 crore through the RBI in the current financial year, according to RBI data. Of the two latest loans, the rate of interest on one is 6.09% for an eight-year tenure and another is 6.12% for a seven-year period. Along with Karnataka, Bihar accepted a loan of Rs. 2,000 crore, Kerala Rs. 500 crore, Maharashtra Rs. 3,000 crore, and Tamil Nadu Rs. 2,500 crore on July 21. An official in the government said, “This is a normal borrowing programme of the government which is budgeted and approved by the State legislature. We will be borrowing more in the coming months as expenditure picks up.” Karnataka’s borrowing is expected to touch Rs. 50,000 crore this fiscal year (2020–21), but it would be within the borrowing limit of the State, according to sources. Expecting a shortfall in revenue owing to COVID-19, the Centre in March raised the borrowing limit of State governments from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5% in 2020–21. This would make available extra of Rs. 4.28 lakh crore to all States. Conditions apply The Union government has imposed certain conditions and part of the increased borrowing limit would be specific to reforms such as universalisation of One Nation-One Ration Card, ease of doing business, power distribution, and urban local bodies’ revenue. The Union government increased the borrowing limit of States following letters written by various Chief Ministers and Finance Ministers to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March.  State has raised Rs. 10,000 crore through the RBI in the current financial year  Karnataka’s borrowing expected to touch Rs. 50,000 crore this fiscal year  The Union government in March raised the borrowing limit of States from 3% of the GSDP to 5% in 2020–21
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress, BJP leaders continue to spar, now on Twitter||Leaders of the Opposition Congress and the ruling BJP continued to spar on Twitter on Friday over the expenditure incurred on management of COVID-19 and purchase of equipment. While Ministers continued to deny misuse of funds in the purchase of equipment, Congress leaders asked why the government was “afraid of a probe” if no corruption had taken place. In a series of tweets, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, “We are not interested in doing politics during COVID-19 pandemic. Which is why we have not taken up many other pressing issues. But how can we be quiet when hundreds of people are succumbing due #Covid19 mismanagement?” Referring to the Ministers’ statement on Thursday that ventilators had been purchased at Rs. 21 lakh per unit in January 2019 by the Congress-JD (S) coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “I was not in the government then. If they have documents, let them investigate about that also. Let the truth be revealed.” He said in another tweet, “It is true that the Medical Education Department has sent a proposal worth Rs. 815 crore. It is also true that there is a note on the proposal which says that these are not recommended by experts. What is the significance of this note?” In another tweet, the former Chief Minister said that there were corrupt practices in the distribution of food packets and sought details for Rs. 1,000 crore spent. Medical Education Minister K. Sudharkar tweeted: “I am shouldering the responsibility of the Medical Education Department for the last five months. When baseless allegations are levelled, all true facts are placed before the people.” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra too tweeted and criticised the Congress for levelling “baseless charges.” Deputy Chief Minister Govid M. Karjol, who also holds the PWD and Social Welfare portfolios, provided details of the amount spent on masks, sanitizer, and food kits and said there was “no scam” in handling of the pandemic or purchase of equipment. He said 500 ml bottles of each sanitizer were purchased at Rs. 250 and not at Rs. 600 as alleged by Mr. Siddaramaiah. Masks were purchased at Rs. 17.24, he said.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. gets new director||The Governing Council of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) has appointed Govindan Rangarajan as the next director of the institute. He is scheduled to assume office on August 1, following the superannuation of the incumbent Anurag Kumar. Responding to the appointment, Professor Rangarajan said that it was an honour and privilege to be appointed as the director of IISc. “The institute has a glorious 111-year-old legacy of impactful contribution to science and engineering. I will strive to uphold this tradition and take the institute to even greater heights in the coming years,” he said in a release. He is currently serving as the chair in the division of Interdisciplinary Research in the IISc. He is also professor in the Department of Mathematics, IISc. Mr. Kumar said, “It has been an honour for me to serve as the Director of IISc., India’s top-ranked university of science and engineering....I congratulate Prof. Govindan Rangarajan on being appointed as the next Director of IISc., and wish him all success in taking this unique institution to the next level.”
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Legal recourse, protest planned||The move to promulgate the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, will be challenged in court, CITU general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram has said. Workers will also burn the copies of the Ordinance and the standing order on fixed-term employment at the factory gates on July 29. “Save India”, a massive protest by workers has been planned on August 10 to protest dilution of labour laws, he added. On Friday, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions also met the Principal Secretary Labour Maheshwar Rao and handed over a memorandum, expressing opposition to the changes to labour laws. The JCTU has asked the government to withdraw the changes.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to provide Rs. 961 cr. to RTCs to pay salaries||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi announced on Friday that the State government has taken a decision to provide Rs. 961 crore to the four road transport corporations to pay the salaries of the staff. In a press release, the Minister said the government has already released Rs. 426 crore required to pay the salaries of June and July. Financial distress The road transport corporations, which are facing severe financial distress after the imposition of lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, have been relying on government funds to pay the salaries of 1.25 lakh employees since April. The employees have not yet received the salary for June. With the release of money, they are likely to get the salary in a few days. Prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, the staff members used to receive salary in the first week of every month. Mr. Savadi said the State government would pay their September salaries too.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Girl booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder||The 15-year-old girl whose father was killed when the two allegedly got into a scuffle early Thursday morning has been housed at Government Children's Home. The 46-year-old man died after being fatally injured by his daughter at their flat in Mico Layout Police Station limits. According to police sources, the girl said she grabbed a pair of scissors and was trying to protect herself when her father came at her with a knife. She has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Before she was taken to the Government Children’s Home, she participated in the last rites of her father, which were performed by her uncle earlier on Friday. “We are yet to question the girl. We will produce her before the Juvenile Justice Board,” a senior police officer said. However, he added that the girl was also a victim given the living conditions of the family and the fact that she and brother were removed from school. “We will work with the Child Welfare Committee and counsellors to provide help,” said the senior officer. The deceased, a former software engineer, had quit his job to take care of his two children – the girl and her 10-year-old brother – after his wife died nine years ago. However, he reportedly turned to alcohol and became an addict. He allegedly came at his daughter with a knife when she objected to him playing the piano around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shift patients with mild symptoms to BIEC, says CM||To reduce pressure on hospitals in the city, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday instructed BBMP officials to shift patients with mild COVID-19 symptoms to the care centre at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on Tumakuru Road. Though the BBMP has made arrangements to establish a COVID Care Centre at BIEC, it has not become operational. During a South zone meeting here, the Chief Minister said those with mild symptoms would be shifted to the BIEC, which would reduce the burden on hospitals located in the city. Moreover, city hospitals should also make available beds for treatment of non-COVID-19 patients, official sources said. Mr. Yediyurappa told officials to take action against private hospitals who continue to deny beds to patients. He chaired four meetings with managements of private hospitals and directed them to allocate 50% of their beds to COVID-19 patients.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drivers protest||Several drivers of garbage compactors staged a protest on Friday, demanding their salaries.
25 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Order on containment zones withdrawn||Shivamogga district administration has withdrawn the order declaring localities in the city, where COVID-19 cases were reported, as containment zones. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, announced this in Shivamogga on Thursday evening. Earlier, the administration had announced lockdown in several wards of the city corporation considering the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also in-charge of the district, told presspersons that lockdown had been lifted in other places. People in Shivamogga had also said that they would follow guidelines to curb the spread of infection. “Considering public opinion, we have withdrawn the order on containment zones. From now on, only houses of those infected will be sealed,” he said.
25 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||28 more test positive||As many as 28 people tested positive for COVID-19 and three women died of the infection in Chikkamagaluru district on Friday. With this, the total number of infected persons in the district went up to 574.
25 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||117 fresh cases||As many as 117 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Friday taking the total number of such cases to 1,356. Two deaths were reported taking the number to 39. As many as 606 are undergoing treatment and 711 have been discharged.
25 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Transport corporation staff yet to get their salaries for June||Although lockdown restrictions have been lifted and public transport buses have been allowed to operate, employees of the four road transport corporations in the State are still waiting to get their salaries for the month of June. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) together have 1.3 lakh employees, and an average of Rs. 365 crore goes towards their salaries. During the lockdown period, when all public transport services remained suspended, the State government had released special grants to the four transport corporations to pay salaries to employees. However, although transport services resumed partially after lockdown was relaxed, there was not much revenue, forcing them again to approach the government for assistance. Last month, the salaries for May were paid to the transport corporation employees (on June 20) and this month, though 24 days have passed, the employees are still waiting for their remuneration. However, all the transport corporations have witnessed a drop in revenue because of lockdown in some districts and social distancing guidelines. Adding to their trouble is people’s reluctance to avail of public transport services because of the fear of them catching the virus. Consequently, none of the transport corporations is in a position to pay the salaries of employees given the meagre collections. Although the Transport Minister had told the employees federation that steps would be taken to extend the necessary assistance, it is yet to materialise and as a result, the corporations have no funds to pay the salaries. Meanwhile, employees unions have urged the State government to help the 1.30 lakh employees and their families. The district units of the Indian National Trade Union Congress have submitted memoranda to the transport corporations seeking early release of the salaries, while All Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Employees Federation has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi. Special grants Federation president K.S. Sharma has urged Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Savadi to allocate a special grant of Rs. 365 crore immediately to meet the salary needs of the employees. Mr. Sharma has also urged both of them to ensure an assistance of Rs. 365 crore monthly till the COVID-19 crisis ends. This apart, the federation has urged both to give exemption to the four transport corporations from paying Motor Vehicle Tax and also to allocate an one-time special grant to clear all their outstanding debts. The federation has also appealed to them to take steps to release grants that have been long pending.  During lockdown, the government released special grants for payment of salaries  The salaries for the month of May were paid to the employees on June 20
25 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SIH Software goes online||Smart India Hackathon conducted by the Ministry of Human Resource Development’s Innovation Cell annually has gone online this year because of COVID-19, and Hubballi’s KLE Technological University (KLETU) has been chosen as a nodal centre. Smart India Hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students a platform to solve pressing problems people face in their daily lives, and thus inculcate a culture of product innovation and problem-solving. Smart India Hackathon has been conducted every year since 2017 in two formats — SIH Software and SIH Hardware. Earlier, SIH was conducted at various nodal centres, where student participants, industry representatives and mentors would congregate physically to provide a solution on select problems. But considering the pandemic, SIH is being conducted online this year. According to a release issued by KLETU, student participants, SIH coordinators and industry evaluators will come together on a digital platform designed to facilitate the implementation of the event seamlessly, managed centrally by the HRD Ministry’s Innovation Cell and the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). KLE Technological University will facilitate the SIH Software edition’s operations and support to participants. This year, five teams with 30 participants will be in competition for one problem statement from two ministries and 19 teams having 114 participants will be in competition for four problem statements from one ministry. KLETU will hosting the problem statements given by the Department of Information Technology and Bio Technology, Karnataka, and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The winner of each problem statement will take home a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh. Inauguration The inauguration of SIH will be on August 1 from New Delhi by the Union Minister for HRD and the Minister of State for HRD. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the participants at 7 p.m. on August 1. As this is the software edition, SIH teams and experts will centrally monitor the performance of each student innovator to decide on funding innovation and offering internship opportunities. For more details, contact professor Satyadhyan Chickerur of KLETU on 96326 01460, or send an email to chickerursr@kletech.ac.in.
25 July 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Changes to labour laws opposed||The proposed amendments to Labour laws in the State have been opposed by various organisations and political parties saying that the State government was misusing the pandemic period to weaken them. In press releases issued on Friday, the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and others have condemned the State Cabinet decision in strong terms. They said that COVID-19 was being used as a pretext to bring in amendments to Industrial Disputes Act and also Labour laws, which, they added, would mainly help the corporate sector and industrialists and not workers. The government has allowed industries with less than 300 workers to shut down operations or lay them [workers] off without the need to take permission from it [government]. The staff who lose their jobs cannot approach courts against such decision, they pointed out. In its press release, SUCI(C) has said that over 80 % of industries in the State were functioning with less than 300 workers, and because of the government decision, lakhs of workers would be in trouble. Overtime duty for contract workers has been increased from 75 hours to 125 hours in a duration of three months, and this was mainly aimed at getting the maximum work done with fewer number of employees, the release said. SUCI(C) has urged the Governor not to give approval to the Ordinance in the interest of workers. Instead of protecting the interests of workers in this hour of crisis, the government has thrown them on the streets, the release said. Opposing the proposed amendments, CITU and AICTU have urged the government to immediately revoke the decision and take steps to help the workers. In a joint statement, the organisations have threatened to launch an agitation from July 27, if their demand for withdrawal of the amendments was not met.
25 July 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi boy shines in exam||For Shubodh H.M., a native of Kalaburagi and a student of Bishop Cotton Boys School in Bengaluru, physical disability was not an obstacle to showcasing his mental calibre as he has scored 100 marks out of 100 in four subjects — History, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology — and 91 marks in English in the ISC 12th board examination conducted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) this year. With History and Political Science being his favourite subjects, Shubhodh, who is visually impaired, wants to crack the Union Public Service Commission exam to become an IAS officer. Shubodh has not just topped his school this year, but has also set a record by emerging as the all-time topper by becoming the first to score 100 marks in four subjects. What is noteworthy about his accomplishment is that he was not a student of a school for the visually handicapped, but that of a normal one. Nor did he take any special coaching. Shubhodh completed class 7 at Raghavendra School in Kalaburagi and joined Tunbridge High School, Bengaluru, for class 8. He was earlier trained in Braille language by Basavaraj from Tumakuru and Nagaraj from Bengaluru, under the aegis of the National Association for Blind. It was on their advice that he shifted to Bengaluru. After completing his high school at Tunbridge High School, he joined Bishop Cotton Boys School for class 11 and 12 in the Humanities stream. Up to challenge Unlike most of the students coming from backward districts such as Kalaburagi who lack proficiency in spoken English and, hence, find it difficult to adjust to the environment at reputed schools in big cities, Suhbhodh took little time to stand on equal footing with other students. “I studied in State Board till class 7 and joined an ICSE school where the syllabus was tougher. With the guidance of my teachers and support from my parents, I could overcome the problem,” he said. Shubhodh believes more in quality of study in a smart way rather than quantity. He feels understanding the basics of the subjects, learning question paper patterns from the previous years, and developing abilities and skills to solve all questions within the time framehelps a lot.
25 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Appoint academic from Kalyana Karnataka as V-C’||Hyderabad Karnataka Janapara Sangharsh Samiti has urged the State government to appoint an academic from the Kalyana Karnataka region to the vacant vice-chancellor post in Gulbarga University. Samiti president Lakshman Dasti, in a letter addressed to the Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi district in-charge Govind Karjol, has stated that the government appoint a full-time vice-chancellor from the region who remains available to faculty and administration during office hours.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||In a new experience, teachers take the joy of learning to children||An Assistant Teacher of Government Upgraded Higher Primary School, Moodambail, Vitla, Anita Kumari holds activity sessions for three hours in her house in Mudipu on the outskirts of the city on Saturdays and Sundays, for 10 children, including two of hers. On the other days, she engages herself in activities that she has assigned to 11 Class 5 students over phone and WhatsApp. Ms. Anita Kumari’s colleague Vinoda Kumari B., who lives in Benjanpadavu, also on the outskirts of the city, holds similar sessions for nearly an hour for 10 students in her locality in the evenings after she returns from school. Rajesh Nellyady, a teacher from Government Higher Primary School in Hokkadigoli village in Belthangady taluk, has been holding activity sessions for the last several days for a group of 15 students in the latter’s localities. Ms. Anita Kumari, Ms. Vinoda Kumari and Mr. Rajesh Nellyady are among those teachers in Dakshina Kannada who are trying to implement the concept of “Vatara Shaale” (neighbourhood school) wherein teachers go to the houses of students and teach them, while adhering to social distancing and other safety norms. “Students eagerly wait for these sessions, held outside classrooms, on topics they are interested in,” Mr. Nellyady said and added that these activities are designed in such a way that children learn as they play. “It is more like the integrated learning that is followed under the Nali-Kali system (play and learn mode of teaching for Classes 1 to 5),” he said. Among the activities that the children are involved in include story-telling, story building, recitation of poems, singing mathematical tables, yoga, craft, drawing, collage-making and dictionary-reading. Citing an instance of involvement by children, Ms. Vinoda Kumari pointed out that one day they brought to her house dishes they made without the use of fire when they were told to write a recipe. “I messaged Class 6 students of my school to send me stories that they heard from their grandparents. And, I continue to get such stories on my WhatsApp and email,” she said. Not just these students but parents too are actively involved in this effort, Ms. Anita Kumari said. Mr. Rajesh Nellyady said that teachers have formed groups to discuss ways and means to reach out to students and children in their neighbourhood. “It is a new experience for us. We are refining the concepts and making efforts to take the joy of learning to children,” he said.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||It’s a proud moment for this Udupi company||WhileKakrapar Atomic Energy Plant-3 in Gujarat, said to be the country’s biggest indigenously developed pressurised heavy water reactor, attained first criticality on Wednesday, Karnataka’s coastal district Udupi took pride in being part of this project. For, Udupi-based Bell-O-Seal Valves Pvt. Ltd., an MSME, catered to the entire requirement of isolation valves and 3-valve manifolds of Kakrapar-3 under Make in India programme. These valves were used to shut off flow in high pressure heavy water instrument lines in nuclear power stations and were manufactured for the first time in the country by Bell-O-Seal as acknowledged by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. (NPCIL). Located near Santhekatte, off Udupi, Bell-O-Seal employs around 400 people in its two units. Company director (HR) B.K. Narayan told The Hindu , “Once the Kakrapar-3 criticality test was passed through on Wednesday, the chief scientist congratulated us and we too were elated for being a part of the project.” NPCIL approached Bell-O-Seal a few years back with its requirement and the company accepted the challenge. Valves were manufactured to the requirement that went through various stages of testing under different conditions so as to withstand any calamity, including earthquake, he said. The company developed new welding procedures and got its welders qualified as per the ASME sec IX, hydro and pneumatic followed by helium leak test. The products underwent endurance test to guarantee valve performance for 40 years inside the heavy water reactor and also pre-seismic, seismic, and post-seismic tests. Saving costs Mr. Narayan said the valves were being imported from European countries earlier and their indigenous manufacturing had saved costs considerably. The cost of indigenously produced valves is just 10% of what was being imported. Bell’s valves are being installed in all other projects under construction, including Kakrapar-4 and Rawatbhata-7 and 8 units at Rajasthan. The company was founded by Gilbert Salins 29 years ago and presently Rakesh Kumar Salins is its managing director, Mr. Narayan said.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT also a nodal centre||Manipal Institute of Technology, a wing of Manipal Academy of Higher education (MAHE), has also been selected as a nodal centre for Smart India Hackathon. A total of 23 teams with 138 participants are in competition for six problem statements from three companies/organisations. MIT will host the problem statements given by BEML Limited, Bharat Electronics Limited, NCR Corporation (India) Private Limited.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People opposing the last rites of those dying of COVID-19 cautioned||Deputy Commissioner of Udupi G. Jagadeesha said on Friday that the government will take legal action against people opposing the cremation of those dying of COVID-19. In a release, he said that instances of people opposing the cremation of patients who died of COVID-19 have been reported. It is not a good development, he added. People need not be apprehensive as the last rites were being carried out as per government protocol. Such deceased should be cremated with respect, he said. He reminded people of the fact that the number of COVID-19 patients is increasing and so was the related deaths.
25 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisheries centre to be set up at Mangaluru college under Smart City Mission||The College of Fisheries here and Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) have entered into an MoU for establishing a skill development in fisheries and safety training centre at the college, at a cost of Rs. 4.75 crore sanctioned by the MSCL. Of the total project cost, Rs. 2.4 crore has been demarcated to construct the skill development centre, while Rs. 2.35 crore will be reserved for training programmes, according to professor and Dean of the college A. Senthil Vel. The centre, being taken up under the Smart City Mission, will come up in the technology wing on the Hoige Baazar campus, he said in a release. The foundation stone for constructing the training centre building was laid last month. Training will be imparted to unemployed youngsters, school and college dropouts, and homemakers, primarily from the fishing and farming communities. Training will be imparted in eight areas — aquarium fabrication, maintenance and propagation of ornamental fish; aquaponics/hydroponics integration with kitchen gardening; production of value-added fish products and promotion; advanced technology of fish preservation and its reward; utilisation of fish waste for manure; SCUBA diving and snorkelling; modernisation and safeguarding of fishing boats; and manual fishnet making and mending. Teachers from the college, entrepreneurs, industrialists, scientists from different institutes, and NGO representatives willimpart the training. Professor A.T. Ramachandra Naik and assistant professor Kumar Naik A.S. of the college had, last year, submitted a proposal to the MSCL on establishing the centre. Prof. Vel will be the director and Prof. Ramachandra Naik will be the nodal officer-cum-coordinator of the centre.
25 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kota police rescue 59 head of cattle||The Kota police arrested four persons on the charge of illegally transporting cattle in a container lorry on Friday. The police seized 59 head of cattle and sent the animals to a relief centre. According to the police, the accused are Abdul Jabar (35), Joman (36), Shamshuddin (34), and Mukhim (18). Abdul Aziz of Wayanad in Kerala, to whom the cattle belonged, and Rafiq, owner of the lorry, have also been named as accused. A Kota police team, led by Sub-Inspector Santosh B.P., stopped the container lorry near the Cyberkatte checkpost and found that the cattle had been loaded on to the lorry in an inhuman manner. There were no records with the lorry driver authorising their movement. The animals were being taken to Kerala, the police added.
25 July 2020||Mini Tejaswi,KARNATAKA||Malavika pens letter to Coffee Day employees||Malavika Hegde, wife of the late V.G. Siddhartha, who passed away about a year ago, on Friday penned a letter addressing the Coffee Day Group’s over 25,000 employees. In the letter, she expressed her resolve to help the group out of the morass the company is currently in. She said she was trying to maintain the legacy of her husband Siddhartha who with his visionary thinking had helped build up a group with interests in multiple sectors, including information technology, having helped build Mindtree. He had also built the Global Village Tech Park, Way2Wealth, Global Edge, Edge and The Serai, a resort in Chikkamagaluru, she said. “Knowing him for the last 32 years, I can tell you that his company was his world and the employees were his family,” she wrote. She added that while the challenges were far from over, for an Indian coffee company that started the coffee revolution in India in 1996, it continues to remain a force to reckon with.
25 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||160 fresh cases reported in two districts||As many as 160 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Friday. Of these, 107 were from Raichur and 53 from Yadgir. In Raichur, the total number of positive cases went up to 1,503 and of these, 751 patients have been discharged and 734 are getting treatment. As many as 18 patients have died so far. In Yadgir, the total number of cases reached 1,864. Of these, 1,507 have been discharged, while 356 are getting treatment. One patient has died.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Another case of BBMP sealing with metal boards||A day after civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad issued an apology for boarding up two flats in an apartment complex in Domlur with metal sheets, another such instance has come to light. On July 18, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials had sealed the only entryway of a two-storey building in Vivekanagar Further Extension. This was done after a 17-year-old resident tested positive for COVID-19. The teenager, who is asymptomatic, is currently in home isolation. The sheets were removed after five days on Friday following the outrage in Domlur. Siddeshwar M.B., the house owner, tried to reason with BBMP staff when they came to seal the house. “They claimed they had been ordered to do so. I asked them to show me the written order. All my pleas to cordon off the road and not seal the gate fell on deaf ears,” he said, adding that he was a diabetic, and his wife was asthmatic. “What if there had been a medical emergency? How long can we depend on neighbours to buy us essential items, such as milk and medicines?” He claimed to have called multiple helplines and officials. “I even called the office of the Governor and the BBMP Commissioner… but I did not get any response.” Local councillor Shivakumar K. told The Hindu that the COVID-19 positive person had completed eight days of home isolation. “I have tested positive and am isolating myself at home,” he said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said following Thursday’s incident, he had instructed all the zonal commissioners to ensure that houses and flats are not sealed with metal sheets. “Stringent action would be initiated against any official for allowing such sealing,” he said.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Upgrading UVCE: Panel submits recommendations||The six-member committee that was constituted to deliberate on upgrading University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) to make it on a par with the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) submitted its 112-page report to Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Minister for Higher Education. The committee has recommended that UVCE have two campuses, one at K.R. Circle and another at Jnana Bharathi. It has recommended that Bangalore University allocate 100 acres to the UVCE at Jnana Bharathi and suggested it be mentored by either IIT-Madras or the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.). The committee has recommended seeking a grant of Rs. 500 crore from the government over the next two to three years to improve existing infrastructure and make provisions for digital infrastructure as well as online and distance learning. Tuition fee Tuition fee can be increased to 50% of IITs in one year and gradually to match 100% of fees in IITs in five years, said the report. The institution should follow a “need-blind” admission process as practised by other leading institutions to ensure availability of scholarships, income sharing agreement and loans so that the cost of education does not deter students. Complete autonomy to UVCE in the matters of finance, administration and academics is another key recommendation. UVCE should be self-governing and work as an independent entity with “ownership” to be with the State government and Governor as the Visitor, said the report. The committee, headed by S. Sadagopan, was formed by the State government in May 2019.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A fall||
25 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||General Hospital staff among 44 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 44 new COVID-19 cases and 49 recoveries on Friday. The positive cases include 32 patients who contracted the disease through local contact, one health staff, five each who came from abroad and other States, and a 52-year-old Arthunkal native. The Arthunkal native’s source of infection is untraceable. Chettikkad cluster Of the contact cases, 16 are from the Chettikkad COVID-19 cluster. A boy from Kalavoor on the contact list of a lab technician from Chettikkad, who was diagnosed with the disease earlier, also tested positive. Four Alappuzha natives on the contact list of a COVID-19 positive policeman at Alappuzha South police station; a 46-year-old Thuravoor native on the contact list of a patient with links to Chellanam harbour; a 25-year-old woman from Perumbalam; a 23-year-old woman native of Cherthala; a 67-year-old man hailing from Mararikulam South; a 55-year-old woman from Kareelakulangara; a 36-year-old Chandiroor native; a 35-year-old man from Aryad and two each from Kayamkulam and Kuthiathode also contracted the disease through contact. The health staff who was diagnosed with COVID-19 is an employee of General Hospital (GH), Alappuzha. At least 15 police personnel at Alappuzha South police station were put in quarantine after the policeman tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. Besides, 15 police personnel at Pattanakkad police station have been put under observation after two persons arrested in connection with the illegal sale of liquor tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Officials said 3,140 beds were arranged in 29 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres. Containment zones Ward 14 in Muhamma, ward 19 in Mannancherry, ward 10 in Pallippad, ward 17 in Mararikulam South grama panchayat and wards 4 and 23 in Chengannur municipality were declared containment zones. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 779.  3,140 beds have been arranged in 29 COVID first-line treatment centres in the district
25 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Local cases surge in Idukki||Of the 29 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday, 24 were infected through local contacts. The infection source of one case could not be traced. Those who tested positive on Friday included residents of Adimaly, Konnathady, Edavetty, Vannapuram, Keerithode, Rajakkad, and Karimban. Five of the infected persons had come back from Tamil Nadu. The source of infection of a Karinkunnam resident, who had gone to a private hospital in Kottayam on July 22, could not be traced. As per official data, 247 persons in the district have recovered from the virus. A record number of 96 recoveries were registered on Friday. The total number of persons undergoing treatment at various hospitals rose to 262. Triple lockdown Ward numbers 11 and 14 of the Vathikudy grama panchayat have been exempted from the list of the containment wards in the district. Triple lockdown was announced in four wards of the Vannapuram grama panchayat. The other wards in the panchayat would be containment zones. In the past few days, the infection had spread rapidly through local contacts. Porous border routes are being strictly monitored following reports that people from Tamil Nadu are entering plantation areas in the district through these routes. A police official said people were coming in through the many border routes which were once used to smuggle cardamom to Tamil Nadu. Residents in plantation areas have been alerted to inform the police if instances came to their notice. He said those working in Tamil Nadu, including doctors, were daily passing through the border check-posts. They were directed to stay either in Tamil Nadu or in Kerala.
25 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||100 acres of fallow land to be brought under plough||The Agriculture Department, with the support of the Water Resources Department, is preparing farm over 100 acres of fallow land under the Banasura Sagar and Karapuzha irrigation projects in the district. The project would be executed under the Subiksha Keralam project. A joint meeting of the senior officials of various departments, chaired by C.K. Saseendran MLA, decided to use the fallow land in the Kalpetta Assembly constituency for the purpose. The land would be used for the cultivation of rice, cool season vegetables, fodder, fruits, and ornamental plants. The project would be executed through farmer self-help group groups or farmers’ collectives in the area.
25 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||KMCH gets into prevention mode as more staff test positive||With more members of the medical staff in the Kannur Medical College Hospital (KMCH) testing positive for the SARS-COV-2, the management is on high alert and has started taking preventive measures. The hospital authorities said that the spread of the virus had not affected the medical staff in COVID-19 wards. Most of the cases that were reported in the past few days had emerged from those who were on duty in non-COVID-19 wards. This indicated that the spread of the virus was taking place from asymptomatic patients. This accidental detention of the disease pointed to the possibility of social spread, K. Sudeep, Superintendent of KMCH told The Hindu.  Twenty members of the medical staff, including eight on Friday, have been confirmed positive for COVID-19. They include doctors, nurses, and technical staff. Besides, 60 members of the staff have gone on quarantine as a precaution. Dr. Sudeep said that following the detection of positive cases among the medical staff, the management had decided to carry out a rapid antigen test for all medical employees, patients arriving at the casualty, in ICU and in the wards. The recent tests conducted helped to detect patients admitted to the ICU and wards with the virus, he observed. “We have also requested the district administration to take steps in reducing unnecessary referral to the hospital here and to ensure that the patients are treated at the local health centres,” he said. In such times, it was important that the health workers be fully protected, he said. It has also been decided to provide N-95 mask to all the health workers and wearing gowns, googles facial masks and using hand sanitizers compulsory. 18 more cases In Kannur, 18 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. They include three persons from abroad, four from other States, and one person who contracted the disease through local contact, while 10 others are health workers.
25 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Police detain fleeing patient||The police arrested an 18-year-old prisoner who fled the Anjarakandy Medical College Hospital while being treatment for COVID-19, at Iritty on Friday. Dileep had a case against him at the Aralam police station and was in the Kannur sub-jail. He was admitted to hospital on Thursday after he tested positive. He fled from the hospital on Friday morning.
25 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Cases in Kasaragod cross the 100-mark again||On Friday, 106 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district. Of them, 76 contracted the disease after coming into contact with COVID-19 patients. The residents of Thrikkaripur (3), Madhur panchayat (9), Meenja panchayat (5), Mangalpady panchayat (17), Manjeswaram panchayat (5), Vorkady panchayat (11), Paivalike panchayat (1), Karaduka panchayat (1), Mogralputhur panchayat (5), Kumbala panchayat (10), Puthige panchayat (1), Madikai panchayat (2), Kayyur-Cheemeni panchayat (2), Kinnanur-Karinthalam panchayat (1), Kanhangad municipality (4), Nileswaram municipality (2), Kallar panchayat (5), Kasaragod municipality (3), Chengala panchayat (3), Badiyadukka panchayat (5), Chemmanad panchayat (6), Valiyaparamba panchayat (1), Kodom Belur panchayat (1), Charvathur panchayat (1), Ajanur panchayat (1) and a resident of Payyanur, Kannur working at Kumbala police state are among those infected. In Malappuram Fifty-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Friday. Thirty-six of them, including three health workers, contracted the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 25 of them could not be located. More curbs The district administration will impose more restrictions in the wake of COVID-19 transmission in several parts of the district. Shops outside the containment zones will be allowed to function till 6 p.m. from Monday. The restrictions will continue till August 10. Relief for Ponnani Meanwhile, Ponnani municipality heaved a sigh of relief as it could contain the local spread of the virus. The second phase of antigen tests was completed in Ponnani on Friday, and only five people were found to be infected. District health officials ruled out the possibility of a community transmission in Ponnani. In Palakkad Fifty-eight persons, including a man from Kannur, tested positive in Palakkad district on Friday. Twenty-five of them were identified through antigen tests held in and around Pattambi. Eight of the new cases had come from abroad and 16 from other States. The source of infection of nine could not be traced. In Wayanad Fifteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Friday. Six of the infected persons are contacts of COVID-19 patients and nine others came from abroad and other States.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad and Wayanad bureaus)
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vyttila, Kundannoor flyovers may be ready by August-end||The Public Works Department (NH wing) has fixed August-end as the deadline to complete all work on the six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor on the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass. Almost 95% of work on the two flyovers has been completed. Work is pending on the Palarivattom side of the Vyttila flyover and on the Aroor side of the Kundannoor flyover. It includes fixing of approach slabs which have been cast. Their foundation is ready. The other work included fixing of RCC slabs, filling of areas within retention walls on the approach portion on the two pending sides and finally surfacing using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC), said sources associated with the flyover work. Dry weather is needed for the BMBC work. Simultaneously, work at the two junctions such as readying medians and installing signal systems will be carried out. Already, lights have been installed on the structures, except on the approach portions. Some more painting work too is pending. Damaged service roads at the two junctions would be restored in a week, they added. In Kundannoor, the area beneath the central span of the flyover has been covered using paver blocks and traffic is being allowed to take turns. The demand is rife to introduce such a measure in Vyttila too to prevent vehicles having to travel an additional 3 km (to Chalikkavattom and Thykoodam on either side) to cross the junction. The worst affected are private and KSRTC buses which have to travel the extra distance every trip, wasting time and fuel. The PWD is slated to take a call on the second phase development work at Vyttila Junction, once the flyover is commissioned. The work includes constructing an underpass to enable hassle-free movement of vehicles on the S.A. Road-Thripunithura stretch. Extending the service roads northward for a wider underpass beneath Vyttila railway overbridge is yet another long-pending proposal. The existing underpass cannot cater to two-way traffic and does not have a footpath.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two succumb to infection in Ernakulam||Two persons succumbed to COVID-19 in the district on Friday, while 69 people tested positive for the disease. Of them, 61 acquired the infection through local contact. A 76-year-old bedridden resident of a home for the elderly in Thrikkakara, who had been diabetic, died on Friday, said K.T. Eldho, Thrikkakara municipal vice chairperson. She had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after an antigen test on Thursday. A 59-year-old resident of Edathala who had been receiving treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, died of complications caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. Despite receiving plasma therapy, he had been critical and was placed on a ventilator. A total of 43 persons have tested positive at the institution which houses 143 people. Around 90 of the residents are over 60 years old, and a few residents suffer from terminal illnesses. Taking the gravity of the situation into account, a medical team, along with a palliative care specialist, has been posted at the institution for the care of residents who remain in quarantine there, and the home itself has been turned into a temporary medical facility, said V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, at a press briefing here. An ambulance has also been stationed outside the institution. A team of three doctors, along with a few nurses, are residing close by to deal with any exigencies, Mr. Eldho said. Around 400 institutions in the district which house elderly people, children, and differently-abled persons, will be closely monitored and have been asked to strictly adhere to COVID-related protocol, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. From the Chellanam cluster, 12 persons tested positive on Friday. One from Mattancherry and another from Fort Kochi have also been infected. From the panchayats falling within the Aluva cluster, five persons from Choornikkara, two from Keezhmad (including a health worker at the primary health centre), three from Karumaloor, four from Alangad, and one from Aluva have tested positive. The district recorded 151 recoveries. Around 68% (949 people) of the total number of COVID-19 patients so far in the district have acquired the disease through local contact. 6,500 beds at FLTCs Around 6,500 beds have been set up so far at COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) across the district. Seven of these facilities are currently functioning, and the others will turn operational depending on the number of positive cases in various panchayats. Considering the number of positive cases from the West Kochi area, the Women and Children’s Hospital at Mattancherry will soon be converted into a COVID care facility. An FLTC with 70 beds has also been set up at the Mattancherry town hall, said T.K. Ashraf, councillor representing Mattancherry. Another is likely to function at the Palluruthy community hall, he said.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rights panel issues notice to KSRTC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Friday issued notice to the Managing Director of the KSRTC, seeking an action-taken report on steps being taken to ensure a well-maintained and hygienic restroom in the Ernakulam depot for the bus crew. The commission initiated suo motu proceedings since no action had been taken despite it ordering proper restrooms for drivers and conductors. The action-taken report must be submitted within three weeks, said Antony Dominic, Chairman of the commission. He noted that crew members had to wade through dirty water to enter the restroom. The situation inside the room was no better. The roof leaked and crew slept on cots that had been raised using bricks. They also had to pump out water often times from the room. The walls had become extremely damp while the windows were on the verge of collapse. The menace posed by mosquitoes was yet another issue and further hindered the sleep of the crew members who needed much-needed rest after manning long-distance buses. It was high time a modern facility was readied for them, he observed. The KSRTC had done little, although the SHRC had issued many similar directives during the past decade about the condition of the restroom, the waiting area for passengers, and the workshop-cum-garage. Responding to the development, Biju Prabhakar, MD of KSRTC, said that steps were under way to introduce air-conditioned resting spaces for crew by converting old buses. Each converted bus would have beds, lockers and dining space for up to 16 crew members. A mobile unit would be readied in Karipur, while two static structures had been planned in Pappanamcode in Thiruvananthapuram and one in Ernakulam, he said. On the dilapidated structure which houses the restroom, Mr. Prabhakar said it would be demolished.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold ornaments, cash seized from bank locker||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has seized gold ornaments weighing around 1 kg and Rs. 1 crore in cash from the bank lockers of Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The details of the seizure were submitted by the investigating agency in the NIA Special Court on Friday while opposing the bail application of Swapna and Sandeep Nair, two of the accused. At the same time, counsel for Swapna submitted that she was given gold ornaments weighing 5 kg and Rs. 25 lakh among other gifts during her wedding 20 years ago. Her father was employed in the palace of a ruler of a Gulf country and the royal family had sponsored the wedding as retirement gift to her father, he submitted. The counsel for the NIA submitted that the Additional Solicitor General wished to appear in the case and the bail application shall be posted for next week. In remand The court, which remanded the accused till August 21, posted the bail application for Wednesday. The investigation agency also submitted that the custodial interrogation of the accused was required after analysing the digital evidences seized from them. Medical help Meanwhile, the court also ordered that Swapna be provided professional psychological support and medical treatment after she complained that she was facing a mental breakdown. On her request, the court directed the jail authorities to make provisions for her to meet her children at intervals. If the physical presence of the children could not be arranged due to the pandemic situation, facilities shall be arranged for her to interact with her children through video calls or videoconferencing, the court directed. Charge against Customs While stating that NIA officials had treated her well in custody, Swapna complained to the court that the Customs officials forced her to give some statements which were factually incorrect. The court recorded the complaints raised by the accused. The court also ordered that the materials seized by the investigation agency from the accused be removed to the State treasury in sealed envelops.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits plea of assistant public prosecutors||The Kerala High Court on Friday issued notice to the State government and the High Court Registry on a writ petition seeking to consider assistant public prosecutors for the posts of special public prosecutors in the new fast-track special courts (FTSCs) set up for expeditious trial of rape cases and cases under the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
25 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks progress of probe||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the State government to inform the court of the progress of the investigation into the suspicious death of four inmates at the Sanjeevani Psycho-social Rehabilitation Centre at Karukachal, Kottayam. The court passed the order on a petition filed by Fr. Jacob Vattakkattu, director, Sanjeevani, seeking an investigation by an officer not below the rank of Dy.SP into the deaths. He alleged that there were lapses in the police probe.
25 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||No let-up in Kollam with 133 cases||The district reported 133 fresh COVID-19 cases and 54 recoveries on Friday. Among the patients are 119 contact cases, 9 NoRKs, one health worker and four others with no travel history. The district currently has 704 active cases while 1,117 persons went into home quarantine on Friday. The Health Department has traced 4,979 primary and 1,691 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. A total of 1,708 samples were collected for antigen and RT-PCR tests while 8,500 persons are under the close monitoring of the department. Cases with no travel history have been reported from Kudavattur, Velinallur, Parippally and Anchal. While Talachira reported over 20 contact cases, more than 10 persons from Chadayamangalam and Alappad contracted the infection by contact. For the last three days Kollam has been reporting over 100 cases and the number is expected to go down after a week according to Health officials. The gynaecology section at Kottarakara Taluk hospital was temporarily closed after a woman who underwent C-section there tested positive on Friday. Since a doctor from the same hospital also tested positive, patients have been asked to visit government facilities at Kundara and Kollam till the casualty is disinfected as per hospital containment procedure. Alappad Primary Health Centre underwent the procedure on Friday after a health worker from there tested positive. The hospital will be functional from July 25 with the staff from Mynagappally PHC. The district administration has started opening COVID-19 first-line treatment centres on a warfooting and at present 4,850 beds have been arranged. Apart from the currently-functional hockey stadium, more places including Law College, Fatima Mata National College and Shine Complex within Corporation limit will be converted into treatment centres providing nearly 1,000 beds. All the vulnerable areas including Anchal, Kadakkal, Punalur and Kottarakara will also have more centres next to present clusters. Around 370 Ayush and homoeo practitioners will be deployed at firstline treatment centres and all the staff will be given a 10-day training. Currently Kollam has 399 patients admitted to various firstline treatment centres and measures have been taken to ensure the service of medical staff at all centres, said Fisheries Minister J.Mercikutty Amma after a review meeting held at Kollam Collectorate. Extra vigil Since vendors from other States are responsible for several contact cases, clusters of headload workers and merchants have been formed as part of extra vigil. Vehicles will be disinfected and monitoring will be strengthened with the help of various departments, she added.
25 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||CB submits chargesheet against Vellappally Natesan||The Crime Branch (CB) on Friday submitted a chargesheet against Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan in connection with the Kollam Sree Narayana College golden jubilee fund mismanagement case. According to the chargesheet filed at the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Kollam, the accused committed offences of criminal misappropriation, criminal breach of trust and cheating of the funds by deceiving the members of golden jubilee celebration committee and the public. On June 22, the High Court had directed the Crime Branch to submit the chargesheet in a criminal case filed by P. Surendrababu within two weeks. It took the Crime Branch 16 years to submit the chargesheet in the case filed in 2004. In 1997, a 51-member committee was formed for conducting the golden jubilee celebrations of S.N. College and the accused was selected as general convener and convener of the finance committee. The funds for the celebration were mainly donations from the public and a bank account was opened in the name of the accused as convener of finance committee.  Library complex An all-India exhibition was conducted for raising funds and the committee decided to construct a library complex on the campus with the balance amount after the celebrations and the responsibility was entrusted to the accused. In the chargesheet it was stated that the accused diverted a considerable amount from the funds with mala fide intention to misappropriate and utilise the same for some other purposes. The accused made several transactions without the consent or knowledge of the members of the committee. The library complex never materialised and the accused also caused to disappear all records related to the funds and expenditure in his possession, thereby destroying the evidence. The charge sheet revealed that Mr. Natesan caused a wrongful loss of Rs. 55.17 lakh to the celebration committee and a corresponding wrongful gain to the accused.
25 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Defer admissions, says NSS||Taking note of the sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across the State, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the State government not to rush into conducting admissions to higher secondary schools and colleges. In a statement here on Friday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair demanded that the government consider making changes in the duration of the academic year and the syllabus by taking into account the unprecedented situation. “While the guidelines stipulate people to stay at home, the government is going ahead with examinations, interviews and the admission process. This will force the students and their parents to step out and assemble, as was seen during the recent KEAM exams,” the NSS general secretary said. According to him, the State government has the moral responsibility to postpone such interviews and admission proceedings to a later date so as to avoid further escalation of the disease. Mr. Nair also sought to remind the government that it had already taken over several institutions for opening quarantine units and COVID first-line treatment centres.
25 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||50 more patients in Kottayam||As many as 50 people, including a health worker and five persons from abroad, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday. At the same time, 74 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals. Of the new cases, 42 contracted the infection through local transmission. Officials said the contact sources of five patients were yet to be ascertained. However, there was no let up in case burden in the COVID clusters at Changanassery, Chingavanom, Parathodu, and Vaikom, with more people contracting the infection. Three more persons linked to the Changanassery market, five from Vaikom, nine in Chingavanom, and 12 in Parathodu clusters tested positive on Friday. Apart from the widening of the clusters, a new threat has emerged with doctors, health staff, public servants, and KSRTC employees contracting the infection. Two resident doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, a doctor at a government hospital at Vaikom, a driver at the KSRTC’s Kottayam depot, a police personnel, an employee at the district Collectorate, as many as 10 health workers, and a few employees at village and grama panchayat offices were among those tested positive in the past few days. , A 27 year-old staff nurse at the District Hospital, Kottayam, was confirmed with the infection, taking the total number of health workers testing positive for the infection to 18.
25 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||82 fresh cases in Kozhikode||The Health Department on Friday confirmed 82 new COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment in the district has reached 510. Besides, 563 more were added to the list of people under observation. The total number of people under observation now stands at 12,130. Meanwhile, 66 persons recovered from the disease on Friday. As part of improved vigil, all wards of 13 grama panchayats in the district were declared as containment zones. Thuneri was identified as a large community cluster for intensified vigil. As many as 50 First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) with capacity to accommodate 5,646 patients have been readied in the district. Efforts are also on to increase the number of beds to 8,000 at the facilities. According to officials, the plan is to set up FLTCs in all panchayats with a minimum of 50 beds. In municipal areas, the minimum number of beds at the facilities will be 100. COVID-related deaths Two more COVID-19-related deaths were confirmed by the Health Department in Kozhikode district on Friday. The test results of two persons, a 67-year old woman from Civil Station area and a 58-year old man from Panniyankara who died on Thursday, were released on Friday.
25 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Families in landslip-prone areas being relocated||Efforts led by the Revenue Department are on to relocate more families living close to the landslip-prone area of Kariyathumpara, one of the prominent ecotourism spots in Kozhikode’s Koorachundu grama panchayat. In the wake of two landslides that took place recently in the interior areas of Meenmutty forest area, four families have already been shifted to safer locations. Following the request of people’s representatives, a preliminary field inspection by officials has been completed in vulnerable areas. The study report to be submitted to the District Collector is expected to propose feasible action plans to mitigate the impact of natural calamities. People’s representatives said the residents feared a possible increase in rock fall from the nearby hilly terrain during the monsoon. It was on July 14 that the first minor landslip took place at Meenmutty. The second and third incidents took place on Thursday. The waterbodies in the foothills had been filled with mud and rock pieces following the incidents. A local body member from the area said the unexpected rise in the water level of local rivers following landslips continued to threaten families living in the foothills of Kakkayam.
25 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Murali asked to take test||District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao has directed K. Muraleedharan, Vadakara MP, to be present for a COVID-19 test after the bridegroom in a pre-wedding event he attended earlier this month tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Congress leader has also been asked to go into quarantine for a few days. Sources said the wedding took place on July 9 and the MP had greeted the bridegroom, a doctor and son of a local Congress leader near Nadapuram in the district, at an event the previous day. However, the MP said in a Facebook post that the doctor had got the infection from a person who attended the wedding. “Actually, I had gone there the previous day,” Mr. Muraleedharan said.
25 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mental asylum escapee detained||The Medical College police on Friday took into custody one of the four persons who escaped from the Government Mental Health Centre at Kuthiravattom on Wednesday night. He was taken into custody from Tirur with the support of the Malappuram police. The police said the man was not involved in criminal cases. He was admitted to the mental health centre recently as he had no family members to take care of his treatment. However, the other three persons who were still at large were involved in serious crimes including murder and theft, they said. As part of the efforts to trace them, the police issued lookout notices on Thursday. The special squad formed to track them has sought the support of other district-level cells.
25 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Tomes capture essence of State’s ancient temples||The Census Organisation of India has brought out two monographs that unravel the history, myths, and beliefs concerning ancient temples in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta. The works, authored by S. Jayashanker, a former Deputy Director of Census Operations, are in tune with the organisation’s custom of undertaking studies and bringing out volumes on a variety of topics in the intercensal period. They are the latest in a series commissioned on the temples of each district in the State by the organisation. The Kerala Census Directorate was directed to undertaken the monograph project in 1991. Mr. Jayashanker, then the Deputy Director, was entrusted with the task of writing the first monograph ‘Temples of Kerala’. It took seven years’ research and extensive tours across the State for Mr. Jayashanker to complete the book. The volume was released by the then President of India K.R. Narayanan in 1999. The organisation then decided to bring out separate monographs on temples of all 14 districts in Kerala. Mr. Jayashanker agreed to undertake the project even after his retirement, that too without any remuneration. He considered it his contribution to preserving Kerala’s rich cultural heritage. Capital, the final one Now, he has to his credit 13 volumes on temples in Kerala, all published by the Union government. So far, the Census Organisation has released 12 monographs on the temples of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, apart from the initial ‘Temples of Kerala.’ Printing of ‘Temples in Kollam’ is progressing in Delhi and Mr. Jayashanker is busy with the last of the series, ‘Temples in Thiruvananthapuram’. The works contain a wealth of data and are useful reference points for researchers, historians, academics and students.
25 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||23 positive cases in Pathanamthitta||Twenty-three people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday, taking the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district to 313, a release said. Of the new cases, 13 are contacts of patients, six expatriates, while four had come from other States. Overall tally The overall tally of cases in the district rose to 981 on Friday. Of this, 667 have recovered from the disease. One person has died. As per the bulletin, 153 people recovered from the disease on Friday alone. Of the 313 patients, 306 are in isolation wards in hospitals in the district while the rest are in hospitals outside the district. As per the bulletin, 19 persons with symptoms were also in isolation wards in hospitals. It also said that 6,042 people were in quarantine at Corona Care Centres as well as houses in the district as on Friday. Meanwhile, Metropolitan Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church in Thiruvalla Thomas Mar Koorilos said the archdiocese had permitted the district administration to utilise the Santhi Nilayam complex in Thiruvalla town, boy’s hostel of Mar Athanaseus College for Advanced Studies, Thiruvalla, at Thukalasserry, Bodhana Buildings on Pushpagiri Road, and the Medicity Campus at Perunthuruthy for setting up COVID Care Centres. The Church also permitted the administration to convert the St. Mary’s Catholic Church auditorium at Thirumoolapuram into a first-line COVID treatment centre as and when needed, the Archbishop said.
25 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||KCBC call to support prevention drive||The Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) has called for constructive contribution on the part of Church members and the faithful to the ongoing governmental efforts to combat COVID-19. In a statement issued here on Friday, KCBC president Cardinal Mar George Alencherry said extra care should be extended to elderly people staying alone and those in quarantine.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 167, capital’s count slumps||The death toll due to COVID-19 in the district continued to rise after a 44-year-old Chirayinkeezhu native, who died on July 18, was confirmed to have been infected on Friday. Eleven deaths have so far been officially attributed to the disease in the capital district. The deceased, who hailed from Mudapuram, was admitted to the Governmedant Medical College Hospital for kidney ailments. The daily COVID-19 case count fell significantly by 55 from Thursday’s count with 167 people, including five health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. A hundred and one persons recovered from the illness. However, the government assessed that the existing restrictions cannot be withdrawn. During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan pointed out that the rate of infection remained high in the five large clusters formed in Poonthura, Pulluvila, Puthukurichy, Anjuthengu and Beemapally. Worryingly, the pandemic showed signs of spreading beyond the supposed boundaries of the Pulluvila, Puthukurichy and Anjuthengu clusters. The test positivity rate in Pulluvila stood at 42.92% after 288 people tested positive among 671 people who were subjected to testing. Among the fresh cases, 156 people contracted the infection through local transmission. The number of active cases stood at 2,650 in the district. The number of infected police officials continued to rise as three more were diagnosed with COVID-19. They included a civil police officer attached to the State Police Intelligence headquarters, a personnel of the Armed Reserve camp who was deployed for duty at Poonthura, and an official of the telecommunication wing in the office of the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural). More among the security staff of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple tested positive. Three commandos attached to the Indian Reserve Battalion and a temple employee were found to be on infected. Their swab samples were collected on July 18. In all, 12 security staff members were diagnosed with the disease in the temple. A city-based journalist and employee of a vernacular daily tested positive during random testing conducted among mediapersons. Around 10 of his colleagues were quarantined. Two doctors of the Government Taluk Hospitals in Nemom and Parassala, were found infected. FLTCs The Chief Minister said a total of 2,103 beds were readied in 17 COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) in various parts of the district. Another 1,817 beds would be made available in another 18 FLTCs that were identified for the purpose.  Rate of infection is high in five large clusters formed in Poonthura, Pulluvila, Puthukurichy, Anjuthengu and Beemapally.   Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No Statewide lockdown for now: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday ruled out a Statewide lockdown for “at least a week from now”. However, it did not entail that the government had tossed out the option for good, he added. Mr. Vijayan said disease experts were divided on whether a Statewide lockdown would help retard the momentum of the COVID-19 outbreak at the current stage of the contagion. “Some experts say ‘yes’. Others say ‘no’. The government is weighing all opinions,” he said.  Misgivings expressed  Mr. Vijayan, who chaired an all-party meeting on the COVID-19 crisis via videoconferencing, said political leaders, cutting across party lines, had expressed their misgivings about reimposing a Statewide lockdown. The leaders had proposed cutting off COVID-19 hotspots from the rest of the State instead of shutting down life, production, and retail trade wholly. The meeting evaluated that triple lockdowns had helped prevent the virus from radiating out of newly formed disease clusters to relatively disease-free neighbourhoods. Party leaders had also asked the government to further tighten controls in critical containment areas. They expressed their willingness to support pandemic measures at the panchayat and municipality ward level. The government had factored in the opinion of party leaders and decided to keep the proposal to lock down the State entirely in abeyance for now, he said. Large clusters Mr. Vijayan said that the lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram could prolong. Large clusters had developed in coastal localities and the epidemic situation in the State capital was potentially dire. “However, the government would allow some loosening of restrictions in the coming days to mitigate the difficulty of residents living outside critical containment zones,” he said. Moreover, the improving rate of recovery and lessening number of infections had buoyed the administration. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who attended the meeting, argued against imposing a total shutdown. Instead, he said the government should cut off epidemic hotspots from the rest of the State, economically aid the affected population, and increase testing. He also asked the government to allow life and commerce to continue unimpeded outside the epicentre of critical containment zones. A total lockdown would be a ham-fisted move, he said.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor goes into quarantine||The city Corporation is mulling a virtual council meeting next week to fulfil its statutory requirement of holding at least one meeting a month, as well as to ratify the spendings of the civic body as part of the pandemic. Mayor K. Sreekumar went into self-quarantine at his home on Friday, as seven councillors including two standing committee chairpersons tested positive on Thursday. According to Corporation officials, the civic body could not hold a council meeting this month due to the lockdown in the city. As per the procedure of council meeting in the Kerala Municipal Act, the Corporation’s council has to meet at least once a month. Need to meet “The council has to ratify all of the spendings during the month. This is especially important during this pandemic period, as the Corporation is spending on running COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs), institutional quarantine centres, disinfection and many other services. We have still not decided whether it should be a fully virtual meeting, or whether a handful can attend from the council hall and the rest can join in virtually,” said a Corporation official. The seven councillors who tested positive have been lodged at the FLTC at IMG. A junior health inspector working at Greenfield stadium CFLTC has also tested positive and was admitted there.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State told to stick to norms for I-Day fete||The State has been asked to conduct events commemorating Independence Day on August 15 following all COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Union Ministries of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare. In a communication to the Chief Secretary, the Union Home Ministry has said large congregations should be avoided and it is imperative to maintain physical distancing, wear masks, ensure proper sanitisation, and protect vulnerable persons. Those cured too The State has been asked to invite COVID-19 warriors like doctors, health and sanitation workers to the State, district, sub-divisional and panchayat-level functions as a ‘recognition of their noble service’. The invitations should be extended to some persons who have recovered from the infection. The events could be webcast for those unable to participate. In the State capital, the function will be limited to unfurling of the national flag by the Chief Minister, playing of the national anthem, and presentation of the guard of honour by the police, paramilitary forces, Home Guards, and the NCC. There will be an address by the Chief Minister. Similar functions should be organised at the district, block and panchayat levels. Planting of trees, inter-school and inter-college debates on digital platforms, online quiz contests/patriotic essay writing and poetry competitions, thematic webinars are among the suggestions put forth. The State has also been asked to spread and publicise the theme of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’.
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF seeks CM’s resignation, to organise protest on August 1||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition will organise a State-wide protest on August 1 to demand the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said the probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the UAE consulate-related gold smuggling case had knocked at the door of the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). His continuation at the helm of the government had become untenable. UDF MLAs and MPs would stage day-long sit-in at their houses or office. The protests will be broadcast on social media in real time. The demonstrations are titled "Speak Up Kerala". The agency had questioned Mr. Vijayan's "discredited" former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar for several hours on Thursday. The NIA had sought surveillance camera recordings of the comings and goings in the CMO. The NIA had asked Mr. Sivasankar, who was Mr. Vijayan's closest “courtier and confidant” since 2016, to report for further questioning at its office in Kochi. The move did not portend well for Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Chennithala claimed that Mr. Sivasankar was the power behind Mr. Vijayan's throne. BJP charge BJP State president K. Surendran has accused the LDF government of secretly trying to sabotage the gold smuggling case. At a news conference in Kozhikode on Friday, Mr. Surendran said the government had initially promised to cooperate with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe in which 30 kg of gold was smuggled using diplomatic channels. But now it was playing hide and seek when the NIA had sought the CCTV footage of the Secretariat.
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online videos for homebound special children||Like other students in the State, mentally challenged children in BUDS institutions run by Kudumbashree and local self-government institutions can now look forward to online videos for their personal and social development amid the crises caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Closure of schools has affected differently abled students the most. Frustrated by being homebound for months, they are also severely impacted by the disruptions in their academic and skill training activities. Now, to keep the more than 9,000 mentally challenged children who attend 138 BUDS schools and 151 BUDS rehabilitation centres engaged, online videos are being prepared for them by their teachers. The videos will cover the children’s curriculum, skill training, and social and health awareness, besides counselling for their parents. Activities of daily life, knowledge of nature, mathematical skills, and domestic skills will be covered. Arun P. Rajan, State Programme Manager, Social Development, Kudumbashree says that during the lockdown, the 430 teachers of BUDS institutions and 351 helpers kept in touch with the children through phone calls and WhatsApp. Now, as a follow-up, all the teachers have been asked to prepare videos on activities that the children can undertake with their parents’ support. Teachers in each district will prepare the videos and put them up on the YouTube channels for their districts and Facebook too. The first video at the State-level by Jilsha Raj of Thrikkadeeri BUDS in Palakkad on shapes was posted on Wednesday. The plan is to upload 10 videos this week. The district-level initiatives will get going from next week. These will be monitored by district programme managers for ensuring quality, and then sent to the State mission for vetting, before being uploaded. Mr. Arun Rajan says the objective of asking all the teachers to put up videos is to ensure that the rapport the children had with teachers with continues uninterrupted. It will also help identify teachers best suited to the online teaching mode so that videos by them can be put up in the next phases of the initiative. Kudumbashree will prepare videos of livelihood activities such as manufacture of paper bags. Also on the cards are videos of health exercises for children that will be prepared with the help of therapists, Kudumbashree executive director Harikishore S. says in a Facebook post.
25 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More labs in public and private sectors for tests||The State is currently utilising 39% of its total bed strength, 47% of its ICU facilities and 26% of its ventilator capacity for COVID-19 care, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. At his daily briefing on Friday, he said testing facilities had been augmented, with 25 centres in both public and private sector doing PCR tests. In all categories, 84 labs were currently doing various COVID-19 tests and nine more labs were being readied in the public sector. Steps were being taken to augment human resource so that more tests did not cause delayed results. Surveillance had been strengthened in the field, check-posts, airports, and State borders. Testing was being done intensively in clusters, apart from case mapping on a geographic basis, Mr. Vijayan said.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) not against consultancies: Kodiyeri||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] is not totally opposed to engaging consultancies for executing projects that demand a specialised support, but the selection should comply with the prescribed norms, State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said. Briefing reporters about the deliberations at the State secretariat here on Friday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the party had not given any directive to the government to repeal the service of consultancies. The NIA probe in the gold smuggling case would clear the air and there was no harm in the agency probing the Chief Minister’s Office, he said. He accused the UDF of working with the BJP to target the government. Mr. Chennithala was implementing the RSS agenda.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Defunct private hospitals to be utilised||District Collector Navjot Khosa has said private hospitals that are not functioning now in the district will be taken over to be utilised as COVID-19 treatment centres. The decision was taken at a meeting held with representatives of private hospitals on Friday. Ms. Khosa said patients diagnosed with the infection would be categorised on the basis of their ailments to decide their treatment centre. Categories While cancer and heart patients, who would come under Category A, would be treated in government hospitals, those in Categories B and C would be admitted in private hospitals. Separate facilities would be put in place to treat pregnant COVID-19 patients. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi and V. Joy, MLA, convened a meeting to review arrangements in place in Zone 1 of the critical containment zone from Edava to Perumathura.
25 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online adalat||The District Collector has announced an online adalat on August 1 to consider various complaints from the public in Nedumangad taluk. The Collector will consider the applications through a videoconferenc..
25 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Triple lockdown in Irinjalakuda, Muriyad||Triple lockdown will be imposed in Irinjalakuda Municipality and Muriyad panchayat from 5 p.m. on Saturday. Addressing the media here on Friday, Minister for Local Self Governments A.C. Moideen said the decision was taken against the backdrop of the spurt in COVID-19 cases due to local transmission from Kerala Solvent Extraction (KSE) cattle feed company at Irinjalakuda. Strict action Strict action will be taken against those violating triple lockdown norms, District Collector S. Shanavas said. People should not step out unless there is an emergency. Medical shops and milk booths will function from 7 a.m. to 12 noon. Two shops selling essential items can be opened in each ward from 7 a.m. to 12 noon. People can also avail the services of volunteers. Ration shops will function by maintaining COVID protocol.  Pre-decided weddings can be conducted with maximum of 20 persons. Not more than 10 persons should attend attend funerals. Emergency services like police, fire and rescue services, water supply, and treasuries will function. 33 test positive Meanwhile, 33 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Friday. Of them, 25 contracted the infection through contact. The source of infection in nine persons, who tested positive on Friday, is yet to be traced. Fifty health workers at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital have been asked to go into quarantine, as two persons tested positive for the disease at the hospital. Their source of infection has not been identified. New containment zones The District Collector on Friday declared 30 more wards/divisions as containment zones. The zones are: Edavilangu (Ward No. 7), Puthenchira (Ward No. 7), Vallachira (Ward No. 14); Sreenarayanapuram (Wards 9, 12, and 13), Cherpu (Wards 17 and 18), Venkidangu (Wards 3, 10, and 11), Parappookkara (Wards 2, 17, and 18), Varandarappally (Wards 4, and 13), Alagappa Nagar (Ward No. 11), Aloor (Ward No. 17), Nenmanikkara (Ward No. 7), Perinjanam (Ward No. 12), Avinissery (Ward No. 13), Eriyad (Wards 1, 8, 22, and 23), and Chalakudy (Divisions 1, 4, 19, 20, and 21).
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sheets of rain||
25 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Labourer dies at Anantapur GGH, family alleges negligence||A construction labourer, identified as Raju hailing from Dharmavaram town in Anantapur district, died on Friday due to shortness of breath after battling for life for six hours on the Government General Hospital (GGH) premises here, with no one attending to him. The labourer, who was working on the village secretariat building, developed COVID-19 symptoms on Thursday night after returning from work. His daughter and wife took him two private hospitals in Anantapur. As they were turned down, the family members admitted Raju to the GGH, which has been declared a dedicated COVID-19 facility, at around 3 a.m. Raju’s daughter, who is pregnant, alleged that despite her running around in the hospital pleading with the staff to have a look at the patient, none bothered even as he was gasping for breath. Raju was lying on the road leading to the main entrance of the hospital within its premises till 9 a.m., her daughter alleged. She further said that the hospital staff repeatedly told her that doctors would come at 9 a.m. and they needed to wait till then. This is not the first instance of alleged negligence to be reported from the GGH. That was why there was a clamour to convert it into a designated COVID-19 hospital to which the government conceded. However, the promise of the best healthcare services to the COVID-19 patients appears to be remain on paper. Lokesh flays govt. Meanwhile, TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh, in a statement, said: “I am shocked at the manner COVID-19 patients are dying on the streets for lack of the required healthcare support. It is time the YSRCP government stopped publicity and got down to work to ensure adequate healthcare services to the patients.” Meanwhile, GGH Superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik said that the patient reported at the Triage facility, after approaching various nursing homes in the town. “The patient was brought to the Triage area at around 5 a.m. as he was gasping for breath. By the time our staff tried to shift him to the ICU, he died. As he was brought in a serious condition, he could not be revived,” Dr. Ramaswamy said.
25 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quiet return of migrant workers||When the lockdown following outbreak of COVID-19 was clamped in March, there was a rush of migrant workers from Kuppam trying to “flee” to their respective States in the north. After four months, it is now the reverse, as the workers are making a quiet return to cottage industries in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, finding no work in their home States. Groups of workers could be seen alighting at the Kuppam railway station by Sanghamitra Express, and reaching their destinations in the neighbouring States despite the presence of 10 inter-State border check-posts. While the railway police at Kuppam are allowing passengers boarding the trains to enter the railway station after thermal screening and checking the online tickets, no such inspection is in place for the incoming passengers. The workers are headed to Krishnagiri, Tirupattur, Hosur and Vellore districts of Tamil Nadu and the eastern districts of Karnataka. With no inter-State transport available, the groups find their way through private vehicles arranged by their employers across the borders. Several of them cross into Tamil Nadu and Karnataka taking advantage of the porous routes through the villages, and board vehicles on the other side of the border. The movement of migrant workers has left the citizens of Kuppam worried. On the arrival of migrant workers at Kuppam railway station, Kuppam Mandal Tahsildar Suresh Babu said that recently the authorities arranged transport of about 50 workers to be dropped at the Tamil Nadu border. “Whenever we get information about arrival of passengers who had undergone quarantine, we are collecting their details. However, we have no information about general commuters,” he said. Kuppam Station Master Premanand told The Hindu that a representation was made to local officials regarding the arrival of migrant workers.
25 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Come clear on Kapu quota’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should announce his stand on the issue of providing reservation to the Kapu community. “Before elections, Mr. Jagan had said that he cannot provide reservation to the Kapus. Yet, people voted him to power. We are asking him to come clear on the issue. We also demand that the government release a White Paper on the funds released for the Kapu corporation and the amount spent,” said Mr. Pawan in a release. Public health On COVID-19, Mr. Pawan faulted the Chief Minister for taking the pandemic lightly. While urging the State government to focus on the public health, Mr. Pawan said that people in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana still preferred private hospitals rather than that of the government. The Jana Sena chief also urged the State government to focus on schools and colleges in the government sector. As the private schools were equipped better, they were able to handle online classes, he added. Referring to the massive debt incurred by the State, he said the credit, GDP ratio was 36.4% and the cumulative debt reached Rs. 3,41,271 crore.
25 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jashuva Kala Pranganam to come up in Guntur||Minister for Human Resources Development Adimulapu Suresh has said that the State government accorded administrative sanction to establish ‘Jashuva Kala Pranganam’ in Guntur and allocated Rs. 3 crore for the project. Making the announcement at a programme held here on Friday to mark the 49th death anniversary of Gurram Jashuva, the Minister said that though the previous TDP government had issued orders sanctioning Rs. 3 crore in 2019, the project was not grounded. Addressing a meeting held at the statue of Gurram Jashuva at Nagarampalem, Mr. Suresh said the verse poetry of Jashuva reflected the primordial prejudices in his generation.  The programme, organised by Mr. Manikya Vara Prasad, was attended by Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad, MLC, MPs, MLAs and officials.
25 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sucharita warns private hospitals||Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharita has warned that the State government will take stringent action against the private hospitals that are turning away patients. The Home Minister said at a media conference here on Friday that it came to the notice of the State government that some hospitals are not admitting patients citing medical expenses.
25 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make ‘work from home’ hassle-free, says Mekapati||Minister for IT and Industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy has asked the IT Department to initiate technological interventions to ensure that ‘work from home’ is made easy for the employees.  For administrative convenience, the government will bring the A.P. Information Technology Academy, the A.P. Space Application Centre, the Society for A.P. Network (SAPNET). Work out the possibility of ISB partnership in the IT sector to facilitate investments,” he said.
25 July 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganesh idol makers stare at losses||The COVID-19 pandemic has financially impacted the Ganesh idol makers in the city. While most of the idol makers have already left the business and returned to their native places during the lockdown, the remaining makers say that they would make only small idols which are suitable for puja in homes. The festival, scheduled to be celebrated on August 22, is most likely to be a low-key affair. Migrants from West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and a few other places have been working in the city for many years making idols and other things for their living. After the COVID-19 crisis, a large number of people have left for their native places. “My close ones have left after facing struggles during the lockdown. They have not returned yet and are also not in a position to do so. Some of them started working at car garages,” said Chetan Kumar, an idol maker from Allipuram area. He said that even for preparation of the idols, he does not not have money. “If some of my close ones lend me some money, I can make idols for the Ganesh puja,” he added. In general most of the idol makers start preparing the Ganesh idols five to six weeks before and they increase production based on the orders taking advance money. It is very likely that permission would not be given to set up Ganesh pandals. This is going to further impact the idol makers. “In the State, the number of idols sold during Ganesh puja is very high compared to Dasara. An idol maker would make Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh depending on the sales. Definitely the COVID-19 has hit us very badly. We would try to come up with only small idols for home. Meanwhile, we would make diyas and other decorative items for Dasara and Deepavali to come out of losses,” said A. Raju, a clay artiste from Akkayyapalem.
25 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI reconstructs murder scene at Viveka’s house||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team, which is staying put in Pulivendula to probe into murder of former MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, reconstructed the scene of crime at his house on Friday. The procedure lasted for six hours at the ancestral house of the former MP as the CBI team tried the determine the possible sequence of events during the crime. The technical experts examined various aspects of forensics. Watchman Rangaiah, who was grilled by the CBI on Thursday, was brought to the house to corroborate the details mentioned in the case file. The other accused— Yerra Gangi Reddy, Vivekananda Reddy’s personal assistant Krishna Reddy and driver Prasad— were summoned to the scene of crime and the team recorded their versions.
25 July 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinarajappa urges govt. to close liquor shops||Former Home Minister and Member of the Legislative Assembly from Peddapuram, Nimmakayala China Rajappa, on Friday demanded that the State Government close liquor shops to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the State. “Liquor shops are a main source for the spread of COVID-19 as consumers are thronging them in large numbers without observing social distancing across the State. Closing the liquor shops will be an effective containment strategy,” Mr. Rajappa told reporters at Peddapuram town. Mr. Rajappa also sought that the State Government announce a relief package of Rs. 5,000 to each family in the unorganised sector to help them tide over the financial crisis that has been brought about by the pandemic.
25 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death toll mounts to 46 in Prakasam||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 46 in Prakasam district, with a revenue official in Kandukur revenue division succumbing to the pandemic in the last 24 hours. With this, the district has recorded 12 deaths in a week, according to a health bulletin released by the district administration. The Mandal Revenue Officer contracted the virus while overseeing the implementation of a cluster containment strategy in the COVID-19 hotspot of Pamur, which reported 274 positive cases after some persons who returned from Chennai got infected . Poignant scenes were witnessed when the body of the officer was brought to his residence in the outskirts of the city for the last rites. There was no reprieve for people from the viral disease as it spread to more areas in the district. As many as 269 more persons tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of cumulative confirmed cases to 3,215 in the district. Two new containment clusters were created in the district, taking the number of very active clusters to 29 and active clusters to 136. As many as 2006 persons tested negative for the disease. Health officials were on their toes, tracing 884 primary and 1,068 secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons and isolating them to prevent the spread of the virus. The number of infected persons stood at 328 per million and the deaths at 11.50 persons per million, health officials said. Ongole topped in the incidence of infection in the district. With 74 fresh cases, the number of cumulative confirmed cases rose to 664. Kandukur accounted for 22 new cases, followed by Chirala with 15 new cases and Vetapalem with nine cases. Pedda Dornala, a fringe village close to Nalamalla forests, recorded nine fresh cases, taking the total number of postive cases to 36. Fresh cases came from, among other villages, Martur (12), Singarayakonda (11), Tarlapadu (7), Podili (6), Machavaram (6), Thallur (2), Jargumalli (2), Inkollu (4), Lingasamudram (4), Korisapadu, Swarna (2), Bestavaripeta (2), Kumarole (2) and Ulavapadu (2). Expressing concern over frontline COVID-19 warriors contracting the disease, Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Welfare Association district president Vinukonda Raja Rao urged Collector P. Bhaskar to earmark 50 beds for them and set up a help-desk to attend to the needs of staff members and their families. A children’s home should be started to take care of children of the infected staff as there was no one to take care of them if their parents were hospitalised, he said. 147 new cases in Nellore Lockdown was strictly enforced in, among other places, Nellore, Atmakur, Gudur and Podalakur, as the total number of positive cases in Nellore district rose to 3,264 with 147 more persons testing postive. A stringent lockdown will be implemented also in Sangam from Saturday in the wake of a spurt in new cases, health officials said. Anticipating that fresh cases would go up in the next two months, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhara Babu, while interacting with nodal officers of COVID-19 care centres, said that the bed strength should be increased to 5,000 in the district. While treating asymptomatic cases in the care centres, only serious cases should be admitted to designated COVID-19 hospitals, he said.
25 July 2020||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 30 lakh seized in W. Godavari, 21 held||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police cracked the whip on liquor smugglers and seized stocks worth about Rs. 30 lakh in separate cases on Friday. They arrested 21 persons and registered cases against them under the AP Excise (Amendment) Act, 2020, according to Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. On a tip-off, a team, led by Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Nageswara Rao and Palakol Rural Circle Inspector D. Venkateswara Rao intercepted a car and ten motorbikes and seized 1,946 bottles, worth over Rs. 6 lakh. “As many as 11 persons, all natives of Malkipuram, Sakinetipalli and Elamanchili mandals, managed to cross the AP-Telangana borders. However, they were caught at Chinchinada check-post on the outskirts of Palakol town," the SP said. Police team praised Mr. Naik praised Elamanchili Sub-Inspector K. Gangadhar Rao, Poduru SI B. Surendra Kumar and Special Branch head constable K. Venu who tracked down the gang. In another case, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials seized 2,616 liquor bottles, three cars and a motorbike, all worth over Rs. 23 lakh on the State borders, and arrested 10 persons, said West Godavari district Special Enforcement Bureau Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Kareemulla Sheriff.
25 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases in North Andhra region cross the 11,000-mark||COVID-19 cases in North Andhra region crossed the 11,000-mark, as health officials scrambled to arrange beds for new patients across Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. At least 9,000 beds need to be added at hospitals in the coming month as the existing number of 7,500 beds is insufficient to meet the rising number of positive cases. On average, 800 to 1,000 cases are being reported daily in the three districts. The total number of cases, which stood below 1,000 till the third week of June, rose to 5,000 by the end of June. Now, the situation has deteriorated further with the identification of nearly 6,000 new cases within three weeks. According to government data, as of Friday morning, the total number of positive cases is 5,165 in Visakhapatnam district, while Srikakulam is in second place with 3,697 cases. Vizianagaram is relatively better placed with 2,177 cases. Although nearly 3,000 patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment, many deaths have also been reportedly from the region. Two hundred patients have died of coronavirus, and a majority of them are below 45 years of age. Officials anticipate bigger spikes in August and September as community-level transmission picks up in certain areas. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas, who reviewed the situation in Itchapuram, Palasa, Tekkali and other regions, directed the officials to complete a fever survey in all containment zones. He also directed them to get the health data of pensioners too, since all of them were above 65 years of age. He said that more doctors and medical staff were being appointed to handle new cases in the district. The Collector added that MBBS doctors were given a chance to attend walk-in interviews at GEMS Hospital, a designated COVID-19 hospital. According to representatives of various organisations, a voluntary lockdown in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam would not help control COVID-19 unless all liquor shops were closed. “Social distancing is almost non-existent at liquor shops as almost all the people are ignoring social distancing norms in queues. A majority of them don’t wear masks. Some of them might be carriers of COVID-19. Ultimately, innocent people will become victims due to their negligence,” said M. Srinivasa Rao, former president of Vizianagaram Rotary Club Central. Kesali Foundation president Kesali Apparao urged the government to crack down on belt shops in villages immediately. “Many people addicted to alcohol are least bothered about COVID-19 protocols. Their behaviour is the root cause for spread of the disease in North-Andhra region,” he said.
25 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple witnesses a steady drop in footfall||The hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala has been witnessing a steady drop in the devotee count after a total lockdown was imposed in Tirupati in the wake of a sharp rise in the coronavirus cases. The Chittoor district administration declared the Tirupati city as a containment zone on July 20. Even as the Tirumala bypass road has been kept open for the pilgrim traffic, the ghat roads and the trekking routes continue to wear a deserted look. Online darshan ticket The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) made available 9,000 drashan tickets online and 3,000 more at the counters in Tirupati. The selling of tickets at the counter was suspended in view of the lockdown, but the online tickets are available for booking. According to TTD, the Tirumala temple registered a footfall of 7,926 on July 18 and 6,896 the next day. After the lockdown was imposed on July 20, the footfall has been on the decline. The numbers of devotees who visited the temple are: 5,768 (July 20), 5,767 (July 21), 5,360 (July 22) and 4,834 (July 23). The steady dip in the footfall is hinting that those who had planned their darshan well in advance are not turning up. Sources attribute it to the intensified dissemination of information in the mainstream and social media platforms on the rise in COVID-19 cases in Tirupati and many TTD staff testing positive for the virus.
25 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested, 44 red sanders logs seized||The Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths seized 44 red sanders logs and arrested two persons on smuggling charges on Friday. One of the accused was wanted in a murder case, the officials said. Acting on a tip-off that round 40 woodcutters hailing from Javvadumalai forest region in Tamil Nadu had been putting up in Seshachalam forest beyond Srinivasa Mangapuram for a week, the sleuths led by sub-inspectors Lingadhar and Vasu started patrolling a few days ago. Constable injured In the early hours of Friday, the team found the woodcutters loading the precious logs onto an SUV. They attacked the sleuths and injured a constable. The police arrested two persons, while the others fled under the cover of darkness. The task force seized 44 red sanders logs and the vehicle. Task Force in-charge P. Ravishankar said the accused have been identified as Prabhu (30) and Suresh (32). Prabhu was named an accused in a case pertaining to the murder of forest officials at Tirumala in 2014 and Suresh already served in jail for smuggling red sanders from the Bhakarapet area.
25 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home quarantine option gains traction||Quarantine centres in the city are on the verge of saturation due to a sharp rise in coronavirus cases, forcing health officials to seriously consider the option of allowing patients with mild symptoms to opt for home quarantine. While critically-ill patients with co-morbidities are being admitted to the 300-bed State COVID-19 Hospital functioning out of the SVIMS campus, those who are not in the high-risk group but have tested positive are being admitted to the 356-bed Ruia GGH. For mild and asymptomatic cases, the district administration has readied 3,000 beds at Srinivasam, Vishnu Nivasam, and Padmavati Nilayam pilgrim accommodation complexes in Tirupati. The number will go up to 5,000 if beds in dormitories are also taken into account. A recent call by Collector Bharat Narayan Gupta to COVID-19-positive persons to adopt home quarantine assumes significance. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Mr. Gupta explained the logistical hassles being faced by frontline warriors in ensuring food, accommodation and sterilisation at these centres, and trying to work to the utmost satisfaction of inmates. The bed occupancy rate is also high in these centres, with 300 cases being detected every day. “If home quarantine is not encouraged at this time, even 10,000 beds may prove to be insufficient,” he said. Health officials said that people can get their samples tested at any of the six triage locations in the district, and if tested positive, can simply opt for home quarantine by taking a COVID-19 kit. Those wishing to opt for home quarantine must have an attached bathroom to their bedroom, and there should be no children aged under 10 or elders aged over 60 living with them. “In home quarantine, the personal care by family members will give much-needed confidence to the patients which will help them make a quick recovery,” an official said. Stigma prevails However, there has been stiff resistance from neighbours to home quarantine in some cases. “The situation is bad in apartments and gated communities, where neighbours stonewall any such proposals without a patient hearing,” said Joint Collector V. Chandramouli. He said that there was no need to stigmatise all those who merely test positive for COVID-19, as they cannot be equated at par with patients who are admitted to hospital with grave symptoms.
25 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers oppose burial of COVID-19 patient||A mild tension prevailed at Arepalli Rangampet village in Chandragiri mandal in Chittoor district on Friday when the residents opposed the funeral of a person who died of coronavirus in Tirupati. A posse of police personnel was mobilised to defuse the tension. The villagers did not allow the ambulance carrying the body to the spot chosen by the officials for the burial. They blocked the road with chopped tree logs, thorny shrubs and tractor trailers to prevent the entry of the ambulance. The villagers questioned the rationale behind burring the body of the patient who died in Tirupati town. They made a fervent pleas to the authorities to reconsider the decision, saying that the move would result in widespread COVID-19 infection in the locality. The site chosen for the burial is close to the Kalayani dam from where water is being supplied. The villagers said the burial could pollute the water sources nearby. Ambulance returned The officials tried to convince the villagers by saying that all the COVID-19 protocols would be followed during the funeral. As the villagers were not convinced, the officials dropped the plan and the ambulance carrying the body returned from the locality.
25 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Varalakshmi Vratham’ prasadam sent by post||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has roped in the India Post for sending the prasadam of ‘Varalakshmi Vratham’ to the devotees. The rituals will be performed at the Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur on July 31 in ‘ekantham’, in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Devotees who have booked tickets for participation in the rituals in virtual mode will be sent the prasadam by post. TTD Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar on Friday handed over the first consignment of prasadam to the postal officials at the Tiruchanur temple on Friday. The prasadam includes vermilion-turmeric sachets, a dozen of bangles, an uttariyam (upper cloth for men) and a blouse piece. “The online ticket booking began on July 22 and will continue till June 30. The ‘Gotra Nama’ of devotees will be kept at the feet of the deity,” he said.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 8,147 new cases, the tally crosses 80,000-mark in State||The State has reported 8,147 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike ever, during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 80,858. Forty-nine persons succumbed to the virus in the past day and the death toll mounted to 933. With the discharge of 2,380 patients, the number of recoveries went up to 39,935. The number of patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals has been put at 39,990. In the past day, 48,114 samples were tested and so far 15.3 lakh samples were tested in the State. The positivity rate has further increased to 5.25%. The new deaths were reported in 10 districts, including East Godavari which reported 11 deaths, the highest among districts. Krishna reported nine deaths and Kurnool reported eight deaths while Srikakulam reported seven and West Godavari reported five deaths. Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported three deaths each and Chittoor, Vizianagarm and Prakasam reported one death each. Plasma donation sought East Godavari also reported the highest number of new cases at 1,029. It is followed by Anantapur (984), Kurnool (914), Visakhapatnam (898), West Godavari (807), Guntur (703), Chittoor (630), Kadapa (494), Srikakulam (374), Krishna (359), Prakasam (355), Vizianagaram (322) and Nellore (278). The district tallies of local cases are as follows: East Godavari (11,067), Kurnool (9,615), Guntur (8,800), Anantapur (8,266), Chittoor (6,569),West Godavari (6,541), Visakhapatnam (5,061), Krishna (4,841), Kadapa (4,067), Srikakulam (3,949), Nellore (3,726), Prakasam (3,059) and Vizianagaram (2,402).  Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy has appealed to the COVID recovered patients to come forward and donate plasma. Dr. Reddy, in a release, said that plasma therapy could be used to save the lives of critical patients in the ICUs. It is the last resort to save the infected people from dying and administration of plasma therapy can improve the immunity in the patients and help them fight the virus, he said. He said that persons who donate plasma will not have any health issues or side effects and it is completely safe. He said permissions to take up plasma therapy had already been acquired for SVIMS,Tirupati, and GGH, Kurnool, and GGH, Vijayawada, and GGH, Guntur, are likely to get permission soon.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack Rs. 4-crore gold heist case in just two hours||In a swift operation, the Vijayawada police cracked a case of gold heist within two hours of it being reported on Friday, and arrested a worker in the shop, Vikram Kumar Lahor of Rajasthan, who allegedly resorted to the theft. The police recovered 7 kg of gold, 19 kg of silver ornaments and Rs. 42 lakh cash, all valued at about Rs. 4 crore, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The alleged daylight robbery created sensation in the locality when it was reported in the shop belonging to Sai Charan Jewellers, located in Katurivaari Veedhi, in the One Town area. The accused, reportedly tied his hands and legs, and created the scene as if a gang struck at the shop. The shop owner, who noticed the theft, lodged a complaint with the police on Friday. Vikram Kumar, a native of Sandari Taluk, Rajasthan, alleged stole the gold jewellery weighing about 7 kg, 19 kgs of silver ornaments and Rs. 42 lakh in cash. The booty was recovered intact, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikrant Patil. Mr. Srinivasulu, Mr. Patil, West Zone ACP K. Sudhakar, One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu, who addressed a press conference, said the accused allegedly hid the jewellery and cash in a house which was under repair in the same apartment, and tried to project it as a robbery by a gang. Shop owner, Raju Singh Charan, and his friend, Manohar Singh Rathore, who runs Guru Charan Jewellery, kept the jewellery in a flat in the apartment during the COVID time, and appointed Vikram Kumar and another person, Gopal Singh, as security. Accused injured himself “Around 9.30 p.m. on Friday, Vikram Kumar inflicted cut injuries on himself, strew the articles in the room, damaged the TV and computer, tied himself up with a tape and pretended that he was unconscious when the owner visited the shop,” said Mr. Srinivasulu. Following a complaint, One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu registered a case. Police formed five special teams and intensified patrolling and vehicle-checks. All the entrances leading to and from the city were also closed. Evidences The accused threw the digital video recorder (DVR) and the CCTV material in a drainage in the vicinity to erase any clues, which were recovered by the police, said Mr. Sudhakar. “We observed the CCTV footage in the vicinity and collected the fingerprints, but all the clues lead to Vikram only. Police took him into custody after providing first aid and during questioning, he spilled the beans,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Police will take the accused into custody and investigate the case further, the DCP said.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. spending Rs. 6.5 crore a day on patient care, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the government has been spending Rs. 6.5 crore per day towards COVID pandemic response and treatment in the State, and it would be spending Rs. 1,000 crore in the next six months for development of infrastructure, medication and high-end facilities in COVID hospitals. Mr. Jagan held a review meeting with the officials concerned here on Friday. He said that the number of dedicated COVID hospitals were being increased. “In the coming six months, medical staff — from doctors to paramedics — would be recruited in large numbers to provide quality treatment to COVID patients. The patients with serious symptoms would be administered the high-end Remdesivir and Tocilizumab anti-viral drugs which cost around Rs. 35, 000 per dose, but we will not go back on the expenditure,” he said. He said there are 138 hospitals for COVID treatment in the state and 39,051 beds were available for Covid treatment, he said. Regarding State-level COVID hospitals for critical care, he said five more would be coming up and three were ready for operation while two were being readied. At present there were 2,380 beds for critical care at five COVID state level hospitals, he said. Besides, there were 72, 711 beds in COVID Care Centres where asymptomatic patients would be treated. ‘Do not worry’ Regarding the high incidence of positive cases Mr. Reddy said that people need not worry as it was likely to reach a peak and is bound to slide. Mr. Reddy was told by the officials that the State had been screening about 58,000 persons for tests per day and they were carried out on the high-risk group which is the reason for more positive cases being detected. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Special CS (Medical and Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy were present.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water tax to be collected online from farmers||In a major change in the way water tax is collected from the farmers, the State government has decided to introduce online system from this Fasli year (a period of 12 months commencing on the first day of July every year). The tax can also be paid at the Village Secretariat / Mee Seva centre, for which user charges will be collected. The Revenue Department has so far been collecting the tax from the farmers directly and depositing the amount in the Irrigation account. Under the new system, the tax will be decided based on the crop cultivated. According to information, as part of the e-Governance initiative, a Water Tax Module has been developed and integrated into the e-Panta app. Interest on arrears Testing of the module on a pilot basis has been completed in Kaikalur mandal of Krishna district. The software for entering the Demand Collection Balance (DCB) is now ready for implementation across the State from this kharif season. In a circular recently, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) and Special Chief Secretary Neerabh Kumar Prasad asked the district Collectors to initiate steps to collect the water tax for the current Fasli year, including arrears if any with 6% interest. User charges The DCB of the individual farmer / farmers will get electronically generated and sent to their mobile phone numbers. The farmers can make payments at the nearest Grama Sachivlayam/ Mee Seva centre, and for each transaction they will get an SMS on their mobile phone numbers. A physical copy of the DCB will also be issued to the farmer / farmers concerned. “For every payment at the Village Secretariat / Mee Seva centre, a user charge of Rs. 15 will be applicable,” sources say. The new system will help in ensuring accuracy in arriving at the water tax demand, collection, and immediate remittance. It also helps in apportionment and transfer of funds to the Water Users’ Association (WUAs) and Grama Panchayats in a systematic, accountable and transparent manner, the sources say. The Village Revenue Officer (VRO) arrives at the tax demand payable by the farmer / farmers as per the provisions of the A.P. Water Tax Act, 1988, by making a field visit and duly comparing the Adangal with Form- IB. The data mapped by the WUAs, along with the Adangal, will be shared to the e-Crop team to decide the category of irrigation. At the end of the crop season, the category of irrigation, along with the e-Crop data, will be shared to the WebLand to generate the Current Fasli Demand in the Water Tax Module, the sources say.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TVS rolls out new EMI scheme||TVS Motor Company vice-president (utility products) S. Vaidyanathan has stated that the company rolled out ‘Buy now pay after six months’ EMI scheme for TVS XL100 across India to enable customers purchase vehicles for immediate requirement. TVS XL100 is available in variants like TVS XL100 Comfort i-TouchStart, XL100 Heavy Duty i-TouchStart, XL100 Heavy Duty i-TouchStart Special edition, according to him. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Vaidyanathan said that the lockdown saw many returning to their villages and hometowns and staying together. With additional members in a single home, many customers were witnessing the need to have a second multi-purpose two-wheeler for convenience. In some cases, children from other towns have returned to their hometown and now understand the travel struggles of aged parents thus fuelling the need to buy for them affordable and comfortable vehicles. “With the growing safety concerns in the face of the pandemic, there will be an increase in requirement for solo and sanitised mobility solutions for daily commute as well as business. This will create demand for multi-utility two-wheelers which can serve the dual purpose of commuting as well as supporting business," he said, adding 'Buy now pay after six months’ EMI scheme was launched with the customer-first approach.”
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu demands insurance cover for journalists too||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has expressed shock over the death of senior journalist Sunkara Rama Rao allegedly due to lack of oxygen supply and expert medical care in Rajamahendravaram. In a tweet on Friday, Mr. Naidu demanded that the journalists, who also work at the field level risking their lives, be also provided the Rs. 50 lakh insurance being offered to COVID-19 frontline warriors. “Journalists and media persons should be included in the list of frontline warriors along with doctors, nurses, medical staff, police, sanitation staff and others,” Mr. Naidu said. ‘Provide PPE kits’ Party national general secretary N. Lokesh, in a statement, demanded that the government provide PPE kits to the journalists too considering the dangers they face in the line of duty. He also sought the revival of health scheme and insurance plans for the working journalists. Though the local journalists took Rama Rao’s oxygen requirement to the notice of the authorities concerned, there was no timely action, he said. The government should step up the COVID-19 treatment facilities, Mr. Lokesh said, and added that the demands of the journalists be fulfilled.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Mahila chief moves NCSC, NCW on atrocities on women, Dalits||State president of Telugu Mahila, the women’s wing of the TDP, Vangalapudi Anitha has written letters to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) and the National Commission for Women (NCW) about the alleged atrocities and violent attacks on women and Dalits in Andhra Pradesh, and the alleged rape of a minor Dalit girl and ‘inaction’ of the police. Ms. Anitha, in the letters on Friday, urged the NCSC and the NCW to take cognisance of the atrocities and initiate the necessary action. Referring to the alleged rape of a minor in East Godavari district, Ms. Anitha alleged the 16-year-old was taken by her neighbour to Rajahmundry in an autorickshaw on the pretext of getting her a job. “The victim’s mother lodged a police complaint on July 13 alleging that her daughter was missing and raised suspicion on the neighbour. On July 16, an unknown person dropped the victim near Korukonda Police Station. The minor told the police that she left home out of anger as her mother beat her up. On July 17, the victim fell ill and was admitted to hospital. Her mother told the media about the atrocity committed on her daughter,” she stated in the letter. Fact-finding team Based upon the media reports, many Dalit associations in the State formed a fact-finding committee. During the visit of the committee, the minor informed the members that she was threatened by the police and forced to give a statement that she left the house on her own, Ms. Anitha said and alleged that a section of the police were in connivance with the perpetrators. “I appeal to the NCSC to intervene ,” she said in the letter.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP seeks cargo express between Bhimavaram and Guwahati||Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has urged Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal to introduce a cargo express between Bhimavaram and Guwahati on the lines of the first such train being operated between Hyderabad and New Delhi. In a letter, Mr. Raju told Mr. Goyal that the Bhimavaram region was the “aqua hub of India,” which accounted for a staggering Rs. 10,000 crore out of the State’s total annual turnover of Rs. 30,000 crore from the aquaculture and fisheries sectors. He said Andhra Pradesh was the leader in the production and export of fish and shrimp in the country. The MP said hundreds of trucks transport aqua products daily from the Bhimavaram region to Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Guwahati and other markets in the north-eastern States. A cargo express between Bhimavaram and Guwahati would help in faster delivery of aqua products and benefit the farmers by virtue of it being an economical means of transport, he said.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quick action taken in minor rape case: Minister||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop has asserted that the State government has taken quick action in the minor girl rape case reported from East Godavari district. Accusing former Amalapuram MP G.V. Harsha Kumar of speaking irresponsible manner over the incident, Mr. Viswaroop alleged that the Opposition parties, escpecially the TDP was trying to blow such issues out of proportion. “It is unbecoming of Mr. Harsha Kumar to pass such remarks. He is acting as a stooge of TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu,” the Minister told teh media here on Friday. Referring to the alleged tonsuring of a Dalit boy at a police station, Mr. Viswaroop said all the accused police personnel have been susupended and booked under the relevant sections.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC Corp. chief slams Naidu||SC Corporation chairperson P. Ammaji has come down heavily on TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for his remarks against the government on the Dalit issue. “The TDP leaders are raking up controversies over the alleged gang-rape in East Godavari district despite the State initiating action against the officials concerned within 24 hours,” she said. Speaking to the media on Friday, Ms. Ammaji said the present government was swift in taking action, while Mr. Naidu did not dare to initiate action in any case related to Dalits during his regime.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Emergency cases only via video link’||The High Court Registrar has asked the subordinate courts and tribunals under the court to take up emergency cases through the video-conference. In a statement on Friday, the Registrar said bail petitions, stay appeals, solvency cases, property cases under Sections 451 and 457 of the CrPC, recording of statements under Section 164 of the CrPC, search and seizure, injunction, eviction demolition, etc. and cases that the judges consider as emergency can be taken up through video-conference. The e- filing process has to be followed.
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan wishes KTR on his birthday||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy conveyed his birthday wishes to Telangana Minister for IT, Industries and Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao through the Twitter. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Wishing you a very happy birthday, my dear brother Tarak. May God bless you with good health and abundance of happiness.”
25 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure farmers get MSP for their produce, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that farmers growing crops such as banana, sugarcane, tomato, onion, lemon, turmeric, sweet lime and chilli get the minimum support price (MSP), and promote food processing industries that have tremendous potential. The post-harvest losses could be vastly curbed by strengthening the storage and supply chain network, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy observed while addressing a review on the food processing sector on Friday. The Chief Minister said concerted efforts should be made to ensure that farmers did not take to the streets in protest against lack of proper marketing facilities and MSP. The government had spent about Rs. 3,000 crore on market intervention measures this year, he said. Thrust area He also suggested that due priority be given to processing of millets. He further wanted the departments to tie up with reputed companies for establishment of food processing units.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All PHCs to be equipped to test people for coronavirus||All the 89 public health centres (PHCs) in the rural areas, including in Visakha Agency, will be provided rapid antigen kits to conduct tests for people having symptoms of COVID-19. This apart efforts are also on to equip the 585 sub-centres to give basic treatment and collect samples from suspect cases. This has been decided after the recent spike in cases in the district. In rural areas, the cases have been very few compared to the GVMC region and of the 5,165 recorded till Thursday, barely 20% are from rural and Agency areas. The area hospitals in Narsipatnam and Araku and the district hospitals at Anakapalle and Paderu have been notified as COVID hospitals and they will cater to patients from rural and Agency areas. If there is complication, then the patient can be shifted to a COVID hospital in the city, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. The 11 community health centres (CHC) have been turned to 15 or 20-bed hospitals and have been notified as suspect hospitals, where people with symptoms, especially high-risk group, can be admitted and after test can be shifted to a COVID hospital. According to the District Collector. efforts are on to have at least one 300-bedded CCC (COVID Care Centre) at every rural Assembly constituency and one quarantine facility in every mandal. In rural, there are 10 Assembly constituencies. Efforts are also on to ask the corporate sector to open up their hospitals for COVID patients. According to Mr. Vinay Chand, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant has already converted its hospital in Ukkunagaram township to a COVID hospital and they will be treating the patients from the VSP. “We have also asked Railways to convert its hospital also and will be approaching other PSUs such as VPT, SEZ and NTPC. If they agree we will notify them as COVID hospitals. At least they can treat the patients from their units, which will reduce burden on the district COVID hospitals,” he said.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 898 new cases, district tally crosses 6,000-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 6,000-mark with as many as 898 new COVID-19 positive cases being reported from the district. With the new cases, the tally stands at 6,063 on Friday. Two more persons succumbed to COVID-19 from the district, taking the death toll to 63. Meanwhile, as many as 83 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 3,717 and the number of persons discharged is 2,283. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, with the new cases, the total number of clusters in the district are 641. Among them, the total number of very active clusters are 119. The number of active and dormant clusters are 293 and 229 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SpiceJet brings back 178 students from Kyrgyzstan||A total of 178 Indian students, stranded in Kyrgyzstan, landed in Visakhapatnam Airport on Friday night, in special chartered flight, operated by SpiceJet in association with actor Sonu Sood. SpiceJet has joined hands with the actor to bring back 1,500 Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan. “SpiceJet will operate nine flights to evacuate over 1,500 Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan for over two months,” according to a press release. Happy reunion “In association with reel-life & real-life hero @SonuSood, we’re reuniting Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan for 4 months, with their loved ones! Glimpses of the happy, grateful faces on the 1st flight of this extraordinary mission,” the airlines posted on Twitter. Bollywood actor Sonu Sood tweeted, “Feeling so happy that the first flight from Kyrgyzstan to Varanasi took off today. All thanks to @flyspicejet for making my mission successful. The second flight from Kyrgyzstan to Vizag will fly Tom 24th July. Would request students to send your details asap. Jai hind.”“Another flight has also arrived from Riyadh carrying 170 passengers,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore said.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Provide tabs, Net connection to students’||The Central and State governments can cut short some of the expenditure being incurred on various schemes for promotion of school education, and utilise the funds to provide tabs to the students who have neither smart phones nor a television, the A.P. Private Schools’ Association (APPSA) has suggested. In a letter to Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Friday, APPSA State chairman K.S.N. Murthy noted that there was uncertainty on the reopening of schools in view of the COVID-19 situation, and this was causing anxiety among the parents on the future of their children. “A majority of parents are in favour of online classes, and are even ready to send their children to school, provided proper safety measures are in place,” he claimed. “There are many schemes being implemented for the benefit of the school-going children such as Sarva Siksha Abhiyan, mid-day meal, Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao,” he said. A bridge course conducted through the television in Andhra Pradesh evoked good response, but was not within the reach of children as there was no scope for proper follow-up due to lack of Internet connection, tabs, or smart phones, he observed. “The Central and State governments are spending crores of rupees on the schemes meant for students’ welfare right from the elementary level. Over 90% of the people own television. The students can watch the classes as per the State syllabus through the DD channel. But if tabs are provided and Internet facility is made available, students will follow the online classes even in the remote areas. In A.P., a certain amount from the Amma Vodi can be utilised for providing tabs,” Mr. Murthy suggested. ‘No risk’ “Parents are positive to the solution as it will not only eliminate the possibility of children contracting the virus but also help them keep pace with the lessons,” Mr. Murthy said. “This will also help the teachers and the school managements,” he added.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan reading script of Naidu on Executive capital issue: MLA||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath has alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his partners are indulging in a malicious campaign against Visakhapatnam in a bid to stop it from becoming the Executive capital of the State. Addressing a media conference virtually here on Friday, he said that the people of Visakhapatnam had given a rousing reception to Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan during his visit to the city. He alleged that the JSP did not seem to have come out of the shadow of Mr. Naidu, which became clear in the past. Now, it has become evident once again with Mr. Pawan reading out the script prepared by Mr. Naidu on the Executive capital. He warned that the people of north Andhra would not remain silent, if anyone tries to stop Visakhapatnam from becoming the Executive capital. Visakhapatnam was one among the cities, which were developing rapidly in the State. Opposition leaders were spitting venom on Visakhapatnam ever since the Chief Minister had announced to make it the Executive capital in view of its inherent advantages. Mr. Naidu and his partners were indulging in all sorts of conspiracies to mar the prospects of Visakhapatnam. He alleged that a section of the media, which was favouring Mr. Naidu, and his partner Mr. Pawan Kalyan, was all together in this regard. Mr. Pawan Kalyan has benefited a lot from the city but instead of showing his gratitude to the city which gave him many opportunities and showered its love on him, the JSP chief was out to create hurdles in its development, Mr. Amarnath alleged. His dancing to the tunes of Mr. Naidu even after being drubbed in the elections, shows that Mr. Pawan Kalyan was yet to come out of the shadow of the TDP chief, he said. While Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was concerned about the prosperity of the State, Mr. Naidu was worried about his real estate, Mr. Amarnath alleged and cautioned Mr. Pawan Kalyan not to rub shoulders with Mr. Naidu and earn the wrath of the people of north Andhra. Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri also took strong exception to the statements of Mr. Pawan Kalyan and his reading the script of Mr. Naidu on the executive capital issue.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway engineer in CBI net||Officials from the CBI, Visakhapatnam, arrested Senior Section Engineer, South Central Railway (SCR), Jammalamadugu, Guntakal division, M. Vijay Raju for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 14,000 from a person on Friday. CBI officials said that they received a complaint from a trackman alleging that he was absent from his duties during February-March 2020 due to ill- health. He alleged that Vijay Raju had demanded the bribe for showing his absent period of 21 days as ‘on duty’. After registering a case, the CBI officials laid a trap for the officer. Vijay Raju was caught red-handed at his office, they said.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks more testing facilities||The CPI(M) district committee has said that the COVID-19 cases in the district, which were largely confined to urban areas, are now spreading rapidly in the rural areas also. In a letter to the District Collector on Friday, district committee secretary K. Lokanadham underlined the need to conduct extensive testing and improve the amenities at COVID-19 hospitals and quarantine facilities. He alleged that while the government was advocating increased testing in containment zones, the ground reality was otherwise. Private hospitals were refusing treatment under Arogyasri. He sought increasing testing centres in the district as those coming for tests were being made to stand in queue for morning to evening and this could contribute to the spread of the virus further. He called for strict measures for crowd control and speedy testing. He suggested that Sanjeevani mobile testing buses can be sent to areas, where there were more cases. He sought establishment of a testing centre at Arakau Valley and improvement of facilities at quarantine centres.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GIT principal takes charge||Dharma Raj Cheruku took charge as Principal, GITAM Institute of Technology, GITAM Vizag Campus, here. He is an alumnus of GITAM first batch of B Tech (ECE) and is a gold medallist from Andhra University in 1985. After completing his Ph.D. from GITAM, he joined as assistant professor 30 years ago. He served GITAM in many capacities like Head of ECE department and Director of Academic Affairs.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jute mill management told to pay arrears to workers||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has directed the management of Chittivalasa Jute Mill (CJM) to pay the arrears to the workers. The Minister held a meeting with workers and the management on completion of one year, after the agreement was made, on Friday. He directed the CJM proprietor K.K. Bajoria to pay Rs. 27,500 each to special badili, badili, new badili and other workers and Rs. 10,000 to apprentice workers.
25 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman arrested in kidnap case||The city police on Friday arrested a woman who was allegedly involved in the kidnap case of two-year old boy S. Ganesh. The arrested has been identified as S. Gowri (40), a toy seller from Lankapatnam area, Vizianagaram. Earlier, the police nabbed P. Salman Khan (19), B. Roshan Raju (20), both auto-rickshaw drivers, and, Shaikh Subhani (19), a toy seller, all residents of Phool Bagh, Vizianagaram. Based on the complaint lodged by the parents, the police team checked the CCTV footages and arrested the four accused.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Partial lockdown in 11 areas of city announced to combat COVID-19||To tackle the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration has announced a geographical quarantine of several areas in the municipal corporation limits from Saturday. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, in a release on Friday, said that 11 areas where the incidence of COVID cases was high would be under geographical quarantine and movement between the said areas and rest of the city would be partially restricted. Also, movement of the public would be allowed only from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. every day for seven days during which period all the commercial establishments were allowed to open. There are no restrictions on grocery shops and medical shops, however, people have been asked not to venture out after 11 a.m. unless important. The 11 areas are: Patamata, Krishnalanka, Kothapeta, Moghalrajpuram, Vidyadharapuram, Ajith Singh Nagar, Bhavanipuram, Chuttugunta, Satyanarayana Puram, Wynchpeta and Chittinagar. There are 21 contianment zones, namely Patamatalanka, Ramachandra Nagar, Bramarambapuram, Naidupet, Ranigari Thota, Islampet, Kasturibaipet, Moghalrajpuram, Christurajapuram, Kummaripalem, RTC Colony, Machavaram, Bramanandha Reddy Nagar, Pezzonipet, Brahmaiah Pantulu Street, Nizamgate, KL Rao Nagar and other areas. According to an order by Mr. Imtiaz, the perimetres of the areas would be barricaded and a few exit and entry points would be set up. Details of the people moving in and out of the zones would be noted by the officials. He said 100% of registration of the population on Arogya Setu app should be done.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New beginning||
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trash hunt||
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wheels on wheels||
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGOs await govt. nod to run COVID care centres||The State government’s proposal to rope in voluntary organisations to offer support to the COVID-19 affected, and assist them in obtaining healthcare facilities has not taken off about a month after it was initially mooted. After holding three rounds of discussions, and seeking letters of interest from the NGOs, the Medical & Health authorities have kept mum on taking the proposal forward, sources say. While NGOs have been requesting the government since April to allow them to work with government in handling the crisis situation, it was not until last week of June that the government had shown any inclination of doing it. On June 25, Minister Eatala Rajender reportedly organised a meeting with representatives of several voluntary organisations, which had been already working on their own with regard to migrant crisis, and helpline services for COVID-19 patients. During the meeting, the representatives told the Minister that they could set up help desks, and run COVID-19 care centres for isolation of the poor and underprivileged and quarantine of their family members who lacked enough space at homes. Mr. Rajender had reportedly asked them to give a representation, which they duly forwarded. Another luncheon meet took place at the Minister’s home on July 2, when five groups came forward to run the isolation and quarantine centres. They included Access Foundation, which had already been running a helpline with scores of doctors and medical practitioners on its panel. Aman Vedika Network, which was experienced in running shelter homes, catholic groups Camillus and Premamarg, besides Yugantar were the other organisations that expressed willingness. “They asked us to send letters of interest, and then budgets. We obliged, though we had already told them we could garner funds on our own. All that we needed was consent from the government, and premises to run the centres,” said Suneetha Achyuta, a member of the COVID-19 Health Advocacy Collective, which includes several NGOs. The group was repeatedly told that it was very risky to run the centres and they should be well prepared. “We understand that. But all kinds of hotels are allowed to run quarantine/isolation facilities. We would certainly do a better job than them,” Ms. Suneetha said. One more meeting was organised, this time with Azeem Premji Foundation representatives chipping in to support. However, no outcome came out of it. A letter has been recently addressed to GHMC Commissioner, seeking conversion of the Hockey Stadium in Rasoolpura into a COVID-19 care centre for the residents of the locality. Rasoolpura is a slum with 1.29 lakh population — 50 COVID-19 patients among them in home isolation. The hockey stadium has 50 rooms, each with capacity of three beds. “We have the wherewithal — PPE kits, volunteers, medical doctors and paramedical staff — ready to supervise and care for patients if given permission to convert it into a COVID care centre,” the letter said, with signatories from Access Foundation and Aman Vedika, and Anveshi Research Centre.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Old age home takes the lead to keep virus away||The measures taken by city-based CR Foundation (CRF) could as well show a way about how to manage a home for the aged during the time of lockdown and COVID. CRF is a social service organisation established in 1994 in memory of one of the architects of the Communist Party of India (CPI), Chandra Rajeswara Rao. It runs a home for the aged whose inmates include social workers, freedom fighters, former legislators, retired professors, chartered accountants, engineers, doctors, teachers, renowned writers and journalists. Majority of them are aged over 75 years. While most of the hostels and old age homes were closed following the pandemic, the management of CRF decided to protect its 150-odd inmates and continue the facilities provided as before by undertaking various precautionary measures. As a first step, according to Paruchuru Jamuna, Dr. Saraswathi and T. Tanya of CRF, the Chief Medical Officer of the foundation, Dr. Rajani, called for a meeting and explained about COVID and its repercussions to inmates of the home. Anybody with respiratory problems should contact a doctor, they said. Dr. Rajani further asked the inmates to follow a particular behavioural pattern like wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, washing hands every hour, and using armpit to cover the mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing. Masks were distributed. Kitchen workers were instructed on how to sanitise the place and restrict the movement of outsiders into the kitchen and dining areas in addition to the regular hygiene maintenance. Residents were restricted to the home only, and visitors not allowed. It was informed that once the occupants go out, they would not be allowed into the house till the end of lockdown. When some of the workers expressed their inconvenience in staying back at the home, they were asked not to attend duty, though they were paid for the lockdown period. Cooking daily a challenge The most difficult task during lockdown was cooking for 150 people everyday. Chef Padmavathi and her husband Ramakrishna worked overtime, yet had to request help from inmates. Without hesitation, some women inmates, despite their advanced age, formed a team to help the cooks. The next task was washing clothes and cleaning floors. The CRF made it a point not to use the services of outsiders in this regard. All the chores were done by the inmates. While housekeepers regularly cleaned and mopped with disinfectants, some inmates cleaned their own rooms and toilets daily. A young worker also tried and succeeded in hair dressing of the elderly men, whenever needed. Health a priority While Dr. Rajani did regular check-ups for the inmates, nurse Nancy, who stays at the home, was available round-the-clock. An alarm system was maintained to call for help in emergencies. Besides, inmates were provided a regular supply of medicines. The nurse would collect all the prescriptions, take photos and place order with a medical store through What’sApp. The medical store would deliver the medicines along with bills at the main gate, where they would be sanitised and sent into the main building. A sick room was also set up at the home for inmates who needed special care. The services of the regular driver, who stays outside the home, was stopped due to COVID. Mr. N. Rajendra Rao, an engineer residing at the home, volunteered to do the driving. According to CPI Central Committee member Narayana, the old age home has not reported a single COVID case.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Most idol-makers return home||Under a month to go for the Ganesh festival in Hyderabad, the artisanal streets of Dhoolpet and its surrounding areas are deserted. Where there used to be clamour of workers giving the finishing touches to the towering Ganesh idols, the only sounds are the pealing bells from temples. “We have lost one whole year. All the workers have gone back to their native places. I have not stepped out of my home,” says Sundar Kalakar, who has one of the biggest workshops in the area. “We have been orally instructed by the police not to make idols due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A fortnight ago, nearly 500 artisans were called by the police in the area and were told not to go ahead with making of the idols,” said Mr. Sundar, who has been in the profession from childhood. His workshop employed 100 people, a majority of them from West Bengal, and a sprinkling of them from Bihar, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The cycle of work for creation of Ganesh idols begins with Dasara, Deepavali and continues through the year so that the artisans can cater to the demand by Ganesh festival committees that pop up throughout the city. “The loss runs into crores as everyone associated with the event is affected. There are painters, mould makers, welders and manual labourers who are now jobless as we had to shut down our work,” says Manoj Singh, another artisan. Another festival site where hundreds of artisans find work between May and Ganesh festival day is the Khairatabad junction. “We are waiting it out. We will decide in the first week of August about the size of the idol,” says S. Raj Kumar of the festival committee. Last year, the committee had installed a 61-foot-tall idol that took about 200 workers four months to complete. The shutdown of these artisan workshops has created financial distress among the workers as well as owners. “We have a line of credit from money lenders and now they are asking us to pay,” said the owner of a workshop. This year, Ganesh Chaturthi is on August 22.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni takes up plantation drive||As part of the ‘Vriksharopan Abhiyan’ (plantation drive) call given by the Coal Ministry to public sector coal companies in the country, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) launched the programme on Thursday by taking up plantation of 2 lakh saplings across 11 mining areas in the day. Singareni has plans to plant 35.47 lakh saplings/seedlings this rainy season as part of the State government’s Haritha Haram programme and the Coal Ministry’s Vrikasharopan Abhiyan. Chairman and Managing Director of the company N. Sridhar launched the programme by planting a sapling on the premises of the company’s corporate office here. According to company officials, they planned plantation of 35.47 lakh saplings on 804 hectares this rainy season, mainly in overburden dumps, closed mines dumped with over burden and other vacant areas. People of nearby villages were also being supplied 2.5 lakh fruit-bearing plant varieties this season. The coal company had planted about 5.4 crore saplings, including about 4 crore, as part of Haritha Haram during the last five years on 12,172 hectares and the survival rate was about 75%, the officials said. As part of Haritha Haram, the company planted 40 lakh sapling in 2015, one crore each in 2016 and 2017, 90 lakh in 2018 and 65 lakh in 2019.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS ranks celebrate KTR’s birthday||The leaders as well as rank and file of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) organised the birthday celebrations of party’s working president and Minister for Municipal Administration, Industries and IT K.T. Rama Rao on a large scale across the State, in spite of the call given to keep it a low-key affair. Party’s legislators, Members of Parliament, Ministers and other leaders participated in the events organised on the occasion of Mr. Rao’s birthday in districts by planting saplings, distributing fruits and bread to patients in hospitals, organising blood donation camps, cutting cake in Bala Bhavans, Sishu Vihars, juvenile homes and orphanages. They distributed clothes and fruits to children in orphanages as part of ‘Gift a Smile’ programme and distribution of essential commodity kits among the poor. In view of COVID-19 spread, very few leaders met Mr. Rao personally. Among those who wished him personally were Ministers G. Jagadish Reddy, V. Prashanth Reddy, E. Dayakar Rao and Satyavathi Rathod, Rythu Bandhu Samithi Chairman P. Rajeshwar Reddy, GHMC Mayor B. Rammohan, MP M. Kavitha, legislators A. Jeevan Reddy, Shakeel Ahmed, B. Venkateshwarlu, S. Saidi Reddy and others. They presented plants to Mr. Rao on the occasion. People from different walks of life including political, corporate, film, sports, diplomats and others greeted Mr. KTR on Twitter and other media platforms. Legislative Council Chairman G. Sukender Reddy, Assembly Speaker P. Srinivas Reddy, Deputy Speaker T. Padma Rao Goud, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Minister T. Harish Rao, State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar, former MP K. Kavitha, several other Ministers, legislators and MPs, including those from neighbouring AP, greeted Mr. Rao on social media. From the corporate world, CEO of Tech Mahindra C.P. Gurnani, president of NASSCOM Debjani Ghosh, film personalities K. Chiranjeevi, D. Venkatesh, Pawan Kalyan, G. Mahesh Babu, D. Rana, Ram Charan, Ravi Teja, Prakash Raj, Rakul Preet Singh, Lakshmi Manchu and several others, sports personalities - Saina Nehwal, V.V.S. Laxman and many other greeted him on social media.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahindra University eyes 4,000 students in five years||Mahindra Group has launched Mahindra University (MU), an institution with focus on offering a world-class, futuristic education and integrating the study of science and technology with humanities, ethics and philosophy and design. Undergraduate, post graduate and Ph.D. courses are to be offered at the sprawling 130-acre campus of the university in Hyderabad. MU will also include the Ecole Centrale School of Engineering that was set up in 2014. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao launched the university on Friday, a virtual event in which Mahindra Group chairman and the university’s Chancellor Anand Mahindra read out a congratulatory message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. MU plans to launch the School of Management (2021-22), School of Law (2021-22), Indira Mahindra School of Education (2021-22), School of Media & Liberal Arts (2022-23) and School of Design (2023-24). It estimates 4,000 students and over 300 faculty members will be in place across the various schools over the next five years. A release said the university would bring corporate and industrial ecosystems together through its centres of excellence (COEs). Students would have access to the group’s expertise through a CoE and other strategic engagements. The Telangana government had in May notified the university. Mr. Rao urged MU to encourage innovation and explore combining education and apprenticeship. The group, which had a tractor manufacturing unit at Zaheerabad, should consider setting up an advanced institute of manufacturing for students, he said.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sajjanar flags off 2 ambulances||With COVID-19 control room receiving a large number of requests for ambulance services from various parts of the city, the Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar on Friday flagged off two ambulances. The ambulances were procured by the Cyberabad police in association with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) to help citizens in Cyberabad, Hyderabad and Rachakonda commissionerates. “This time around, availability of ambulance services and donation of plasma by COVID recovered persons are very essential,” Mr. Sajjanar said. The ambulances services can be availed by contacting COVID-19 control room at 9490617440 or 9490617431.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No bar on people entering pvt. buildings near Secretariat: HC||Telangana High Court on Friday passed interim direction directing the State government not to stop any individual from entering private buildings around Secretariat if the building owners provide access to them. Justice Challa Kodandaram gave the interim order while hearing a PIL plea filed by a Telugu TV news channel journalist seeking a direction to government permitting media to cover demolition of Secretariat buildings. The direction was given after the petitioner’s counsel Vasireddy Naveen reiterated that police had not only barred journalists from the vicinity of Secretariat but also threatened owners of neighbourhood buildings not to allow media personnel to enter their respective premises. Advocate General B.S. Prasad, however, refuted Mr. Naveen’s contentions. “There is no law or circular preventing individuals from entering neighbourhood buildings of Secretariat,” the lawyer said. He contended that the government has no right to prevent journalists to cover the demolition from private buildings in the vicinity of Secretariat. In Friday’s interim order, the judge said: Affairs between two private individuals cannot be regulated by the State without there being a law  Hence, the State or the police authorities cannot exert force on private individuals asking them not to give access to a particular person. Presenting his contentions in the petition’s hearing being held consecutively for the past two days, the petitioner’s lawyer said the possibility of a treasure trove beneath the old Secretariat buildings cannot be ruled out like in the case of Anantapadmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala. The government should not impose any restrictions on the media from covering the Secretariat demolition to prove transparency in its actions, the lawyer said. The AG said the PIL plea was not maintainable as the petitioner belonged to an organisation. Mr. Naveen contended that the Supreme Court earlier pronounced a verdict that there was no bar on an organisation filing a petition. The judge posted the matter to today (Saturday) for hearing.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus helped Indian pharma prove its worth: Dr. Reddy’s||COVID-19 has provided Indian pharma industry an opportunity to fortify its position as a global force in the world of pharmaceuticals, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Chairman K. Satish Reddy said here on Friday. Mr. Reddy, also Chairman, Board of Governors of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Hyderabad, said this pointing to how Indian pharma industry is the third largest globally by volume and known as pharmacy to the world. It catered to 20% of global generics exports and accounted for 60% of the world’s vaccine production. Indian companies straddle the entire value chain from API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) to drug discovery. “Rather than deter, COVID has given us an opportunity to fortify our position…,” he said, addressing the 8th convocation of NIPER Hyderabad, for which Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao was the chief guest. “We saw an increased collaboration among companies on product development, for licensing arrangements, to make sure we bring drugs to the market faster,” Mr. Reddy said, acknowledging the support of the Central and the State governments. COVID has put the industry on a transformational journey. New jobs are being created every day and the pace of change is unlike anything that seen in the last 30-40 years. Over the past 4-5 months, the industry has seen some paradigm shifts, he said, counting among them a significant decline in face-to-face interactions. Digital Health is the way to go. There also has been a strong push by governments towards localisation in the backdrop of supply chain risks, something bound to benefit existing pharma clusters such as Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. Handing over certificates and medals to students, Mr. Rao said the pharmaceutical industry based out of Telangana has made significant contributions during the pandemic such as manufacture of life saving drugs, including Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine and Favipiravir. The State has a vision to grow the industry from $50 billion to $100 billion and creating 400,000 new jobs this decade, the Minister said, listing projects under development and proposed, including Hyderabad Pharma City. The government has also earmarked 50 acres for establishment of new NIPER campus. NIPER Hyderabad Director Shashi Bala Singh said the plan is to expand PG and Ph.D programmes to more new subjects like natural products, biotechnology, bio informatics. Certificate course in IPR and Regulatory Affairs is to be launched. A total of 270 students were awarded degrees.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A birthday gift to KTR, says GHMC||Terming it a “birthday gift” to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, the GHMC took up plantation under Haritha Haaam programme on the 10-acre land belonging to the Victoria Memorial Home Residential School in Kothapet on Friday. The VM Home had “voluntarily” given up the land behind the Kothapet fruit market, for plantation on Yadadri model, or what was known internationally as the Miyawaki model, the statement said, touting it as the biggest Yadadri model park in Telangana. A statement by GHMC said the 10 acres would be planted with a total of 2 lakh saplings by July 31. As per the Miyawaki model, saplings with higher growth, medium growth and smaller growth would be planted in rows. This apart, medicinal plants and flowering species would be planted to fill in the gaps. The trees would attain full growth within two years and resemble thick forests, the statement said. Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, together with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, launched the work by planting saplings. They also checked the plants of 51 species brought for plantation drive here. Ms.Sabitha Indra Reddy said the plantation works were launched as birthday gift to Mr. K. T. Rama Rao. The land would be developed as biggest Yadadri model park, she said, and called for people’s participation in enhancement of greenery and protection of plants. Plantation would protect the trust lands from encroachment too, she said. Mr. Bonthu Ram Mohan reiterated that it was a birthday gift to Mr. Rama Rao, and directed the Urban Biodiversity officials to deploy special staff to develop the park and monitor the facility regularly.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health cover extended||The Talasani Foundation on Friday gave away Health Insurance Scheme certificates to the employees of the Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) and Disaster Response Force, purportedly as a gift to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. Taraka Rama Rao on the occasion of his birthday. The health insurance scheme provides the employees cover up to Rs. 2 lakh for a period of one year, for 1,000 persons under corporate health insurance scheme. A total of Rs. 35 lakh was paid towards premium for providing Rs. 20 crore worth medical services, Talasani Sai Kiran said on behalf of the Talasani Foundation.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sonia and Rahul Gandhi recall PV’s contributions||Congress president Sonia Gandhi described former Prime Minister late P.V. Narasimha Rao as a dedicated Congress leader and said the party took pride in his accomplishments and contribution. In her message on the launch of Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebration, read out by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Ms. Gandhi said the birth centenary of PV is an occasion to recall and pay tribute to a most scholarly and erudite personality who after a long career in the State and national politics became Prime Minister at a time of grave economic crisis. She said the Union Budget presented on July 24, 1991 paved the way for economic transformation of the country. Narasimha Rao’s tenure was also marked by a number of political, social and foreign policy achievements that had endured, she said. Senior leader Rahul Gandhi too sent his message recalling the contribution of Mr. Rao to the growth of the country. He said July 24 marked the day on which Rao, known for his land reforms in united AP, embarked upon the bold path of economic reforms.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prajavani goes online in Mahabubanagar||In yet another attempt to take the administration closer to people, particularly during the times of coronavirus pandemic, the district authorities of Mahabubnagar have decided to carry on the “Prajavani” programme, a weekly window for general public to represent their problems to the authorities concerned, online every Monday. The decision was taken following the constant increase in the COVID-19 positive cases in recent weeks. As on Wedensday, the total positive cases reported in the district were 354 including 16 fatalities and 256 being the active cases. ‘Visit unsafe’ “Visit of petitioners (people) to offices at mandal, municipal, divisional and district levels would pose a threat of coronavirus spread and it would be unsafe both to the visitors and the officials and other employees in the offices,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao said, explaining the reason for introducing online Prajavani. The Collector said that for people in the district there was no necessity to visit the offices to represent their problems by meeting the officials concerned since all important officials at mandal, divisional, municipal and district levels would accept online applications from now. “Besides, the officials would be available to people online on dedicated WhatsApp numbers from 10.30 am to 1 pm every Monday to explain their problems through video calls too,” the District Collector stated. The district administration has already supplied new SIM cards to all key officials at different levels for receiving the WhatsApp calls from people as part of Prajavani. A separate online register would also be maintained for online representations from people so that the follow-up is easy and traceable as it would also have a column as to when the problem is addressed and if not possible the reasons for it. In the first online Prajavani held on July 21 (Tuesday) since July 20 (Monday) was a government holiday on account of ‘Bonalu’ festival, 8 whatsapp video calls were received by district offices and another 13 at mandal level. The whatsapp calls were less since the system is new, officials reasoned. The District Collector has asked all the officials to be available to receive whatsapp calls and online representations to people every Monday and cautioned of action on their failure to participate in Prajavani and he would be available on whatsapp number 9154463001. People could also submit supporting documents along with their representations for better understanding of their grievances by the officials concerned, Mr. Venkata Rao said adding that the dedicated WhatsApp numbers for Prajavani were also being publicised.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS leaders to donate ambulances||The ruling TRS leaders along with its working president K.T. Rama Rao, whose birthday was celebrated on Friday, have announced to arrange 100 ambulances with COVID-19 testing facility to the Health Department for their use in rural areas. Initially Mr. Rama Rao made the announcement to donate six ambulances to the government with his personal funds so that they could be used for coronavirus testing and other health needs in rural areas. The ambulances would be handed over the government soon. Following the party president’s announcement, leaders from several districts who came to wish Mr. Rama Rao personally on his birthday also announced donating ambulances to the government. Mr. Rajender himself announced to donate five ambulances on behalf of his constituency and erstwhile Karimnagar district. Although the government is providing ambulances, their need is much larger, particularly with the facility of COVID testing facility, the Minister said. Mr. Rajender further stated that the ambulances would be used as mini mobile hospitals in rural areas as they would have emergency medicines, oxygen and ventilator facility and the staff to conduct Covid tests. Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, who was there on the occasion, announced to arrange six ambulances for Suryapet, Bhongir-Yadadri and Nalgonda districts. Minister V. Srinivas Goud announced that on his behalf and on behalf of party legislators from erstwhile Mahabubnagar district, they would arrange 11 ambulances. Similarly, Ministers E. Dayakar Rao and Satyavathi Rathod announced arranging 8 ambulances on behalf of party leaders from erstwhile Warangal district. Further, Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy announced arranging four ambulances, Government Whip B. Suman - three ambulances, Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, Speaker P. Srinivas Reddy and other legislators from erstwhile Nizambad district - five ambulances, Armoor MLA A. Jeevan Reddy announced arranging three ambulances personally. MPs G. Ranjith Reddy -7, N. Nageswara Rao - 6, Ministers G. Kamalakar - 6, S. Niranjan Reddy - 3, C. Malla Reddy - 6, and P. Sabitha Indra Reddy - 2 - and some party sympathisers present there also offered to arrange the ambulances.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS seeks proposals from depts.||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asked the secretaries of different departments to furnish draft proposal regarding organisation of local cadres in the posts under their respective departments without delay. The Chief Secretary said proposals were received from 57 of the 109 HoDs in the State. ‘No delaying’ The remaining 52 heads of departments should furnish their proposals without giving scope for further delays, he said.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No contact at fertility centre||Oasis Fertility announced “contact-less patient engagement” on the occasion of World IVF Day on Friday. The contact-less patient engagement begins even before the patient comes to the centre for the first time. The patient is given access to a self-register, check in and a virtual tour of the clinic so that the next time they walk in, they are familiar with the place. While they wait to meet the fertility specialist, they get to see the bio-profile of the specialist on WhatsApp for complete awareness. The intelligent tool enables a patient receive highly personalised information and specific communication, through WhatsApp.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Govt. revs up infra to check virus spread’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar asserted on Friday that the State government has achieved significant improvement in testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine measures related to novel coronavirus cases. He said that the government has also increased human resources and ramped up infrastructure to check the spread of virus. He took part in a video conference conducted by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba with senior officials of nine states to take stock of the COVID situation in the respective states. Mr. Rajiv Gauba reiterated the need for increased testing, systematic enforcement of containment measures, clinical management and increased communication through awareness campaigns.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yashoda RMO succumbs to coronavirus||A senior doctor of Yashoda Hospitals, who was fighting coronavirus for the last 20 days, succumbed, hospital staff confirmed on Friday. Dr. Harikrishna was the Resident Medical Officer (RMO) at the Secunderabad branch of Yashoda Hospitals. He was 72. “He was in the ICU for nearly 20 days. Since he was working here, he might have got infected in the hospital itself. All support was given to him but unfortunately, he breathed his last at 7.28 p.m. on Thursday,” a source from the hospital said. Dr. Harikrishna was with the hospital for 20 years and was actively involved in its administration, hospital staff said. He was a resident of Gandhi Nagar and is survived by his wife and two children.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister launches FEST||In an attempt to reduce in-person applications and transactions at the Transport department offices, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Friday launched Friendly Electronic Services of Transport Department (FEST). Mr Kumar said that FEST app enables applicants to avail five services from the comfort of their homes. These are the issuing of duplicate LLR, duplicate license, badge, smart cards, and issue of history sheet for license. The move is in collaboration with the Information Technology wing of the Transport department. FEST will help to save travel time of applicants. The FEST services will employ facial recognition technology, and will greatly reduce the role of middlemen, Mr Kumar said. He assured that in the near future, there would be greater transparency in the department. He congratulated the IT wing for implementing emerging technologies.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for ‘selling’ COVID drugs in black||Five persons supplying Remdesivir and Actemra, the antiviral medicines for COVID-19, in black market, were apprehended by personnel of the Special Operation Team of Madhapur zone on Friday. They seized 15 Remdesivir 100MG/20 ML injections, one Actemra 400 mg and six mobile phones worth Rs. 5.5 lakh from their possession, apart from Rs. 49,120. The accused persons are Chamanthi Sagar Sandeep (32) from Saidabad, Kandukuri Danunjai (34) of Kukatpally, Sara Sairam Mudiraj (32) from Serilingampally, Nakka Venkateshwar Rao (30) from Yousufguda and Gadey Pramod (33) from Jeedimetla, the police said.
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IFS promotions||The State government on Thursday issued orders promoting two forest officials as Principal Chief Conservators of Forests. The IFS officers, Rakesh Mohan Dobriyal and Lokesh Jayaswal, were promoted as PCCF from Additional Principal Chief Conservators of Forests. Mr. Dobriyal will look after Social Forestry while Mr. Jayaswal will be in-charge of CAMPA, a note said.
25 July 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crime brief: 40 quintal of PDS rice seized, five held||Sleuths of the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (Central Zone) and Tukaramgate police intercepted a commercial vehicle on Tukaramgate main road, and apprehended five persons on the charge of transporting PDS rice illegally. They seized 40 quintal of PDS rice and a DCM vehicle from their possession. The accused are Syed Aziz, Syed Feroz, Md. Moiz from Tukaramgate, Giri Raju Narsimulu of Malakjigiri and Syed Qasim Ali from Zaheerabad.
25 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Negative COVID result saves hospital’s face||That the District General Hospital has not been up to the mark in COVID-19 treatment is something several observers on the outside, the patients and medical staff within, agree. According to officials, the COVID intensive care unit — a 15-bed facility with 30 beds in isolation ward, equipped with ventilators and central oxygen supply, with nutritious diet for patients and round-the-clock attention of medical personnel — has witnessed over 250 coronavirus patients since March. “Forty positive patients were successfully treated in the ICU. There have been only three deaths till now,” hospital superintendent M. Narsimha said, after a recent controversy raised questions on its management. On July 18, a day after his admission, a 40-year-old COVID suspect breathed his last, allegedly after he remained unattended by medical staff. Videos of the man’s last moments, as he watched his mother make efforts to revive him, went viral. The next day, it was stated that the man was admitted with cough and fever, and was suffering with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. District Collector Prashant J. Patil, subsequently when the diagnosis was revealed as negative on Monday, stated, “B. Yadaiah did not die due to COVID-19, but he was suffering with COPD and alcoholic liver disease. There is no negligence on part of the doctors or medical personnel.” But COVID suspects echo, “No medical staff attended us in the past five days. There are only two toilets, the trash bins were not emptied and daily sanitisation was not done.” Representatives of Congress, Telangana Inti Party, CPI (Marxist) and voluntary organisations registered their protest alleging hospital negligence. “Why was the mother present in the isolation ward? Where was the security, and all the medical personnel that whole day till he died,” P. Nagarjuna of CPI (M) asked. Pandula Saidulu of Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika, who himself was a suspect in the isolation ward until last week and tested negative later, said, “Like politicians, the Collector too is lying that the doctors here are doing a great job. No doctor visited them in the past one week; that is a fact.” A senior doctor, who spoke to The Hindu , confirmed that issues of daily attendance and supervision of medical personnel was defeating all the good work being done by the hospital. “The superintendent is young and less experienced than all the RMOs. It is only a failure of coordination.”
25 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||32 Naib Tahsildars for undivided Nalgonda||Additional Collector V. Chandra Shekar inaugurated residual training module for 32 Naib Tahsildars-on-probation, here on Friday. Of the 257 candidates recruited in the State, 32 were assigned to undivided Nalgonda. Of them, 12 officers will be retained for Nalgonda, and 10 officers each will be allotted to Suryapet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri dists. after completion of the training programme. The probationers were part of the initial training programme at Telangana Academy of Land Information and Management (TALIM), Hyderabad. Their training here, till August 31, will include introduction to various sections of the Collectorate, district offices, legal section, elections and disaster management, inter-departmental training on government’s flagship programmes and field assignments.
25 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Varsity part-time teacher suspended||Registrar of Mahatma Gandhi University M. Yadagiri suspended the services of a part-time teacher in the Department of Telugu following a complaint by woman student. “N. Praveen Reddy cheated a student and she felt this unethical behaviour is disturbing the moralities and moral code of the institution,” the letter dated July 21, available to the press on Friday, read. The principal of the University College of Arts & Social Sciences also requested an intervention regarding the same, it added. The Registrar’s letter stated that it was decided to stop the renewal of Mr. Praveen Reddy’s contract for the 2020-21 academic year.
25 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Extend Rythu Bandhu to ryots of Raikod: HC||In a relief after two years, the government was directed to extend Rythu Bandhu to farmers of Raikod mandal headquarters. The High Court issued orders in this regard on July 6. There was a dispute over 460 acres of land in Raikod mandal headquarters. These lands are under the occupation of by about 300 farmers. The issue came to the light when Rythu Bandhu was not extended to these farmers. The authorities informed them that they are not eligible for the scheme as the land belongs to Wakf Board, and that the new pattadar passbooks will not be issued. Challenging the government decision, some farmers, in two groups, approached the High Court seeking justice. Shaik Ghousia Begum and 51 others have approached the High Court seeking justice along with another group of 68 farmers with the same demand of justice. They urged the High Court to direct the authorities to immediately issue new pattadar passbooks cum title deeds for the subject land of petitioners in Raikod village so that they can avail Rythu Bandhu scheme for the year 2020-21 along with arrears for the years 2018-20. They also urged the court to direct officials not to interfere in the enjoyment of their lands. “The respondent authorities are directed to issue new pattadar passbooks cum title deeds to the petitioners in respect of subject lands situated at Raikod village and mandal, Sangareddy district, to enable the petitioners to claim Rythu Bandhu scheme benefits for the year 2020-21 along with arrears for the years of 2018-20 and other benefits like bank/ crop loans for the said lands,” read the order issued by Justice K. Lakshman. At the same time, petitioners directed not to create any third party interest and shall not change the nature of property. “We have approached the High Court seeking justice in 2009 and finally the court directed the authorities to extend Rythu Bandhu to us. We hope that the authorities will respond positively,” P. Kedarnath Patel, one of the petitioners told The Hindu .
25 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Notification issued for new revenue division||A notification was issued declaring formation of Andole-Jogipet revenue division and Chowtakur mandal headquarter. The notification was dated July 13, and a release was made on Friday. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao formally inaugurated the new revenue division office and new mandal headquarter office at Chowtakur on Thursday. Andol, Pulkal, Watpally and Chowtakur mandals will be part of the new revenue division. Similarly, 13 villages were brought under the jurisdiction of newly formed Chowtakur mandal.
25 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Three people taking a break on roadside killed||Three persons of a family, including a 10-year-old girl, were killed when an SUV hit them near Munagala on NH-65 (Vijayawada-Hyderabad) in Suryapet on Friday. The three, identified as Naga Malleswara Rao, Mogilamma and daughter Durga died on the spot. According to the police, an SUV hit them from behind at around 4.30 p.m., when they were out of their car taking a break on the highway-side. Their five-year-old son Kondababu who was nearby, and the car’s driver standing away, escaped unhurt. The family hailed from Interu village of Kruthivennu in Andhra Pradesh.
25 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||15 tons of fish die in Suryapet tank||About 15 tons of fish, worth around Rs. 12 lakh, were found dead and floating in Pulla Reddy Cheruvu in the town on Friday. Local residents and members of the fishermen cooperative societies suspect foul play and demanded a police investigation. Officials of the Fisheries Department, who inspected the site. Samples of water and fish were sent for investigation.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Detail steps taken to help DU students take open book exams, HC tells CSC||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Common Service Centre (CSC) to give details about its preparedness for facilitating students with no access to Internet or computer to take the Open Book Exam (OBE) for final-year Delhi University students. No fee charged The university has engaged the CSC academy under the aegis of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to facilitate the students with either limited or no network and hardware facility to appear for the OBE without payment of any fee. The students — who wish to avail the CSC’s infrastructure — have to locate the nearest CSC through their site. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also asked CSC’s secretary, Dinesh Kumar Tyagi, to give a list of centres which have been taken on board by the DU for the final exams. During the hearing, the High Court was also apprised about various petitions challenging the UGC guidelines relating to the conduction of final-year exams by Central universities, which were listed before the Supreme Court. The UGC’s counsel urged that the petitions before the court be taken up after the apex court hearing. Justice Singh also noted that report submitted by the UGC’s committee headed by professor R C Kuhad on final guidelines had pointed to a certain issue that could be faced by the students. Next hearing Senior Advocate Dutta, appearing for DU, said the first mock was only for the limited purpose of helping the students understand how the OBE would be conducted. He said all the guidelines relating to OBE will be fully complied with when the second mock test takes place. The High Court has posted the hearing on a plea challenging Delhi University’s decision to hold OBE, as per the UGC guidelines, for final year undergraduate courses for further hearing on July 30. Earlier, it had on July 22 asked the UGC to clarify that can final year examinations by the universities be conducted based on Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ), open choices, assignments and presentations, instead of long-form exams. The Delhi University will hold the final-year undergraduate OBE from August 10 and conclude it on August 31.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Six days on, slum dwellers living in pitiable conditions||Anna Nagar JJ cluster residents, whose houses were swept away in the rain on Sunday, have been living under pitiable conditions in open tents where they were shifted after the incident. Power outage Sunil (45), who works as a sweeper in Nehru Place, on Thursday said there was no power. “Suddenly around 12.30 p.m., there was a power outage. All-day, we made continuous requests to officials — who were around — and also made a few calls to authorities concerned but nothing happened,” he said. Finally, late in the night, the residents allegedly threatened to protest if the issue was not resolved. “We told a policeman that we need electricity because the tents are adjacent to a drain. Mosquitos and other insects are a concern. Around 12.30 a.m., the power was restored,” he added. The downpour throughout the week, especially Thursday’s showers, increased troubles for the residents. “There are carpets here and water seeps through the tents. Every time it rains, we run to the metro station or a temple nearby. When the rain stops, we come back and sleep on wet carpets. Some of us have our own mattresses,” said Sunil’s daughter Neha. She said the situation only increases the chance of them falling sick. Talking about basic amenities and essential items, the residents said the toilets “are too dirty for use”. Referring to the public toilets installed next to the site, a resident, Baljeet, said: “No one comes to clean the toilets. We have to clean them ourselves. There is no water inside the facility,” he said, adding that most of the residents use the toilets in the colony where they were living, asking favours from neighbours or the public toilets installed there. Many residents complained of not being able to change clothes as all their belongings were washed away. Several NGOs and individuals have donated clothes to them. “We owned a house till last week and now, I am dependent on other for clothes,” said Santosh. ‘Nothing has happened’ The residents said officials concerned visit them only to take down their names and give them assurances. “Nothing has happened so far,” they said, adding that they have been promised to be shifted to a nearby shelter. Another resident — Satish — whose house has developed cracks, said: “Some officials said they might move us to a government school. But, after schools re-open, we would not have that shelter too. We need something more permanent.” CHD writes to DM On Thursday, Centre for Holistic Development wrote to the District Magistrate (Central) stating that all households of the said JJ Cluster are eligible for EWS Housing. “According to the city-wide slum survey conducted by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board [DUSIB] starting June 2019, close to 800 families from this slum provided documentary evidence confirming their eligibility for relocation/rehabilitation at EWS Housing complex,” wrote Sunil Kumar Aledia, requesting that these families be relocated to “stable and dignified EWS housing at the earliest” in the wake of increased vulnerability of the residents in wake of the pandemic.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ex-employee held for hacking, meddling with data of pvt. firm||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly hacking the system of his former employers and meddling with the data to get back at them for sacking him during the lockdown, hoping that they will call him back. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North West), Vijayanta Arya, said that the accused has been identified as Vikesh Sharma, a resident of Maujpur, who holds a Masters degree in Science. He was working at a private firm. Police said that the CEO of the company, Kunal Aggarwal, alleged that the database of his company has been hacked and some information has been deleted, which includes information of some COVID-19 and non-COVID hospitals. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered under Sections of IT Act. During investigation, the unique IP address of the alleged hacker was traced and it was found that the IP address was assigned to one Vikesh Sharma, following which he was arrested.. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he was working as senior software engineer in the company but was fired during the lockdown due to disagreement over salary. As he knew the system, he decided to cause financial loss to the company so that they hire him back, the police said. “He also said that he made four cyber attacks and deleted 18,000 data items regarding patients, billing information of approximately 3 lakh patients and made false entries of around 22,000 patients,” Ms. Arya said. Police said that the company maintains data of smaller hospitals.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Uncle held for raping teen||A minor girl was allegedly raped by her maternal uncle in south Delhi's Kotla Mubarakpur, the police said on Friday. The 15-year-old victim works as domestic help, they said. An officer said the accused, from Kotla’s Pillanji area, has been arrested. The incident happened when the victim went to his house on Thursday night as she was unwell. Told her parents She immediately told her parents about the incident after which they informed the police. A case under section 376 and POCSO Act has been registered and further probe is under way, the police added.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Recovering compensation from violators: govt. to NGT||Following a plea alleging violation of environmental norms by restaurants, banquets and hotels operating in Mahipalpur and Rajokri, the Delhi government informed the National Green Tribunal that guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board were adopted and necessary actions were being taken. Taking note of a report furnished by the State government, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Jsutice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed, “The report mentions that the Delhi government has adopted the CPCB guidelines and started its implementation by way of recovering environmental compensation and stopping the non-compliant activities.” The observations came when the green panel was hearing a plea pertaining to environmental violations by restaurants, banquets, hotels and motels pertaining to illegal groundwater extraction, discharge of effluents, solid waste management and emission by illegally operating diesel generators. The Tribunal also directed all States and Union Territories (UT) to take necessary steps and adopt relevant guidelines issued by the CPCB after the apex pollution control body informed that despite circulating the guideline data had been received from only eight States.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Mayors blame government for flooding||The municipal corporation Mayors have held the Delhi government responsible for the waterlogging situation in Delhi. Desilting not done They alleged that the government had failed to desilt drains under its jurisdiction in time North body Mayor Jai Prakash said prior to the monsoon, at meetings with the PWD, DSIIDC and officials from flood control and irrigation departments, they told that the desilting work in the city was complete. This was “proved to be false in the torrential rains on Sunday” he alleged, claiming that the North body had lifted about 11,000 metric tons of silt from drains running 166 kms.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two held for drugs supply||Two persons were arrested for alleged supplying heroin in the national capital, the police said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Ikbal Khan (28) and Mohammad Ishak (27), both residents of Manipur, they said. A total of 10 kilogram of heroin worth more than Rs. 40 crore in the international market was recovered, the police said. The police received information that one Ali, who belongs to Manipur, supplies drugs to Delhi, U.P. and other States, a senior police officer said. “On Thursday, police got a tip-off that on the direction of Ali, Khan and Ishak would come near GT Road to supply heroin to one Najim of Delhi. A trap was laid and the accused were arrested,” DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.
25 July 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Maharashtra sets up committee to frame solar power policy||The State Energy Department on Friday constituted a high power committee headed by the Principal Secretary to frame a solar power policy for Maharashtra. Energy Minister Dr. Nitin Raut directed that the panel be set up to frame a comprehensive policy for the implementation of solar power projects to reduce the State’s dependency on thermal power and clear the projects through a single window system for their timely completion. “The object of this policy will be to get more clean energy for the State with an aim to protect nature and earth from global warming,” said Dr. Raut. A separate company would be established for providing land for the solar power projects. It will also create a land bank for the same. The structure and functions of the said company would be soon chalked out, he said. The committee will also study solar power projects in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat for better implementation of the projects. The chairmen and managing directors of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MAHADISCOM), Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (MAHATRANSCO) and Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (MAHAGENCO), and the Director General of Maharashtra Energy Development Agency will be the members. The deputy secretary/joint secretary in the Energy Department will be member secretary of the committee. Mr. Raut had, during a video conference with Indo French Chamber of Commerce, said on Thursday that Maharashtra would seek more clean energy and clear renewable power projects. He said the State would implement solar power projects with an aim to reduce its dependency on thermal power. ‘Will provide land’ “Infertile land would be made available for solar power projects. Uncultivated government land would be made available under green energy programmes. Land which belongs to State-owned power companies and private firms would be also made available for the solar power projects. The proposals thus submitted would be cleared through single window system,” Dr. Raut had said.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||Stand to put off final year exams at odds with UGC guidelines, State told||The Maharashtra government’s decision to postpone final-year examinations or graduate students and confer degrees without appearing for exams is at odds with the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, the Bombay High Court was informed on Friday. Dr. Nikhil Kumar, education officer, UGC, filed an affidavit before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Madhav Jamdar. The affidavit read, “The decision of the State of Maharashtra through government resolution June 19 to hold terminal semester/final year examinations for UG/PG students of traditional and professional courses (subject to the decision of the apex regulatory body concerned), at a later date (which may be even beyond September, 2020), or to graduate such students and confer on them degrees without appearing for the final year/terminal semester examinations is contrary to UGC’s guidelines.” The 71-page affidavit said, “Such a decision will also be an encroachment on the legislative field of co-ordinating and determining the standards of higher education, which is exclusively reserved for Parliament. The State’s decision to defer the final year/terminal semester examinations or to graduate students without holding exams is a matter directly affecting the standards of higher education in the country.” It also added, “UGC has issued the revised guidelines on examination and academic calendar for the universities in view of COVID-19 pandemic’ on July 6, whereby the Commission has stipulated the mode of terminal semester/final year examinations (2019-2020) as well as the provision of examination through special chance.” The court was hearing a petition filed by six final year law students — residing at Kolkata, Delhi, Latur, Ahmednagar, Pune and Tamil Nadu — through advocate Yashodeep Deshmukh. They are challenging the guidelines passed by the UGC and the circulars by the Bar Council of India (BCI) regarding conduct of final year/semester exams in law universities and colleges and seeks necessary directions for the extension of benefits of the government resolution dated June 19 for professional courses students of final year in Maharashtra. The petitioners urged the court to quash and set aside the UGC’s revised guidelines regarding the compulsory conduct of examinations of final year students. They also sought quashing of the BCI’s circular regarding the conduct of examinations of final year law students. The Bombay High Court has posted the matter for hearing on July 31.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||NIA court rejects Anand Teltumbde’s bail plea||A Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected the default bail plea filed by Anand Teltumbde, accused in the Bhima Koregoan case. On July 13, the 91st day of his arrest, Mr. Teltumbde filed for default bail under Section 167 (2) (ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years) of the Cr.PC through advocate R. Sathyanarayanan. He sought release on statutory bail as the chargesheet has not been filed within 90 days as per Section 43 (D) (modified application of certain provisions of the Code) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Mr. Teltumbde challenged the order passed by the special NIA court on July 12 granting extension of time to file chargesheet by another 90 days. Special Judge D.E. Kothalikar rejected the application and said, “As on today the fact remains that the period of detention of the accused has already been authorised by invoking Section 43 (D) of the UAPA. In view of this it cannot be said that the right is accrued in favour of the accused for release of bail under Section 167 (2) of Cr.PC.” Mr. Teltumbde was arrested on April 14 and initially taken into NIA custody. He is now lodged in the Taloja Central jail. He has been the managing director and CEO of Petronet India Ltd.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||Exchange of fire between Naxals, police in Gadchiroli||There was an exchange of fire between Naxals and police at Korchi in Gadchiroli district, an official said on Friday. No casualties were reported in the incident, which took place on Wednesday evening. Naxals who were camping in the dense forest opened fire at a police party patrolling the area, the official said. The exchange of fire continued for a while before the Naxals escaped into the forest, the official said. Meanwhile, Naxals have put up posters along Maseli- Navargaon Road, urging people to observe “martyrs’ week” between July 28 and August 3 in memory of late Charu Majumdar, the founder of the outlawed Naxal movement.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Focus on zero mortality rate’||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the Maharashtra government is aiming to achieve zero mortality from COVID-19 in the State, which currently leads the country in the total number of cases and deaths. Addressing doctors from the task force set up in districts, Mr. Thackeray said health infrastructure in rural areas should be strengthened. The Chief Minister also asked the administration not to be complacent when it came to testing people for the virus. “The focus should be on reducing the mortality rate and bringing it to zero,” he said. Mr. Thackeray called for a uniform line of treatment across the State.
25 July 2020||Nagpur,||Two-day janta curfew in Nagpur||Civic authorities on Friday announced a janta curfew in Nagpur city on Saturday and Sunday to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The decision was taken at a meeting of elected representatives and officials of the civic administration. Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said for the last eight to 10 days, the civic administration had been trying to push for “COVID-19 compliant behavioural change in citizens”. Mr. Mundhe said, “We have decided to implement the two-day janta curfew to bring public awareness of behavioural change towards COVID-19 rules. But if these rules are not followed, then a strict curfew could be imposed in the city.” The IAS officer appealed to citizens to participate and support the janta curfew. He said, “Citizens should remain indoors and change their behaviour to comply with COVID-19 guidelines to help break the transmission chain of the virus.” Essential services will be functional on the weekend, but all other establishments will remain closed, the civic commissioner said. “Only medical shops, healthcare centres and milk outlets will remain open. All non-essential markets will remain shut,” Mr. Mundhe said. The number of COVID-19 patients in Nagpur district has shot up after the easing of lockdown measures under the State government’s Mission Begin Again initiative. Nagpur district on Thursday reported 172 new cases, taking its tally to 3,465. While the death toll stands at 64, the tally of recoveries is 2,213.
25 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Woman held for selling injection at inflated price||A 56-year-old retired teacher has been arrested for allegedly selling at inflated prices an injection used for treating COVID-19 patients, Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials said on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of Kalyan Crime Branch and FDA officers raided the house of the accused, Neeta Panjawani, at Manish Nagar on Thursday evening. The police said a decoy approached the accused and she demanded Rs. 60,000 for one vial of Actemra 400mg (tocilizumab injection) by Cipla, though its MRP is Rs. 40,545. Senior police inspector Sanjeev John, Kalyan Crime Branch, said, “She did not verify if the customer wanted the injection for any patient. She was also selling the injection without a prescription. We caught her red-handed.” The police are trying to find out how Ms. Panjawani obtained the injections. The FDA has so far made 15 arrests in four different raids on black marketeers selling life-saving injections used in the treatment of COVID-19, said an officer. “The FDA received the tip-off and we provided assistance in the raid. We will be handling further investigations,” Mr. John said. A case has been filed at Ulhasnagar police station and the accused has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.
25 July 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||‘Why keep 65+ artistes away from sets?’||The Bombay High Court on Friday questioned the Maharashtra government’s decision to not allow artistes above 65 years of age from working, acting or going on film and television sets. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by actor Pramod Pandey, along with Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association (IMMPA) and Practising Valuers Association (India) (PVA), and others. The pleas challenge the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on May 30, 2020, prohibiting any cast or crew member below the age of 10 and above the age of 65 on the sets. In his petition, Mr. Pandey said he had been performing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades and did not have any other source of livelihood. IMMPA, which represents film producers and artistes and technicians, along with PVA, urged the court to quash and set aside the State’s decision on the age limit. The court said the State’s decision to prohibit senior citizens, despite they being physically fit, from going out for shooting and other related work, seemed like a case of discrimination. State counsel Poornima Kantharia argued that the guidelines were not discriminatory as all senior citizens had been prohibited from stepping out, except for getting essentials. She said the guidelines were based on several Central government guidelines issued over the last few months of the lockdown. The court asked if all senior citizens had been prohibited from resuming all types of professional work, to which she said “no”. Justice Kathawalla asked, “If I am a 70-year-old man who owns a shop, will you stop me from opening my shop and sitting there all day?” Ms. Kantharia replied no. Justice Kathawalla then asked, “On what basis are you stopping artistes? Where else have you applied this rule? This is discrimination.” The High Court directed Ms. Kantharia to file an affidavit citing the reasons for such a prohibition and also clarify if it had taken into account any data, statistics, or reports before issuing such prohibitory orders.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking no chances||
25 July 2020||Chengdu,||China asks U.S. to shut Chengdu consulate||China on Friday ordered the U.S. consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu to close in retaliation for one of its missions in the United States being shuttered, capping a furious week of Cold War-style diplomacy. The announcement of the closure followed a torrent of warnings from top American officials about the “tyranny” of China, and Chinese nationals being indicted in the U.S. on various charges. Ordering the Chengdu consulate to cease operation was a “legitimate and necessary response to the unreasonable measures by the United States”, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “The current situation in China-U.S. relations is not what China desires to see, and the U.S. is responsible for all this,” it said without saying when it would have to shut down. The Ministry emphasised the closure was directly in response to the U.S. ordering the Chinese consulate in Houston to shut down by Friday. ‘Endangering security’ Some consulate staff “were engaged in activities outside of their capacity, interfered in China’s internal affairs, and endangered China’s security and interests,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told reporters. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said this week the Houston mission was a “hub of spying and intellectual property theft”. China described the allegations as “malicious slander”. The order on Houston came a day after the U.S. Justice Department unveiled the indictment of two Chinese nationals for allegedly hacking hundreds of companies and attempting to steal coronavirus vaccine research. The Justice Department then announced on Thursday indictments of four Chinese researchers it said lied about their ties to the People’s Liberation Army, with one escaping arrest by taking refuge in China’s San Francisco consulate.  In a video call with his German counterpart, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said China still hopes to have mutually respectful cooperation with the U.S. but stands ready to firmly safeguard its national sovereignty and dignity. “China will not follow the U.S.’s dance, but will also never tolerate the U.S.’s reckless behaviour,” he said.   The U.S. has an Embassy in Beijing as well as five consulates in mainland China, plus one in Hong Kong. The Chengdu consulate, established in 1985, covers the troublesome region of Tibet and has been at the centre of past controversy. In 2013, China demanded the U.S. provide an explanation for a spying programme after news reports said a top-secret map leaked by fugitive intelligence analyst Edward Snowden showed surveillance facilities at Americans embassies and consulates worldwide — with the Chengdu consulate among them.
25 July 2020||Istanbul,||Erdogan joins thousands to pray at Hagia Sophia||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday led the first Muslim prayers attended by thousands in Hagia Sophia since the controversial reconversion of the iconic Istanbul cathedral into a mosque. The UNESCO World Heritage Site was first built as a cathedral in the Christian Byzantine Empire but was converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453. The Council of State, the highest administrative court, on July 10 unanimously cancelled a 1934 decision by modern Turkey’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to turn it into a museum, saying it was registered as a mosque in its property deeds. Mr. Erdogan then swiftly ordered the building to reopen for Muslim worship, deeply angering the Christian community and further straining relations with NATO ally Greece. He recited a verse from the Koran on Friday after earlier recitations from the holy book in the morning inside Hagia Sophia. The sounds of the call to prayer from its four minarets reverberated around the area and on Turkish television screens. The head of the state religious affairs agency, Ali Erbas, later delivered the Friday sermon holding a sword as a symbol of conquest. “The reopening of Hagia Sophia... is the return of a sacred place, which had embraced believers for five centuries, to its original function,” he told the congregation. Despite the coronavirus pandemic, tight crowds formed around the landmark. One of those attending the prayer came especially from the Aegean region of Izmir. “We see this as the second conquest of Istanbul,” said Selahattin Pamukcu, 33.  Experts say Mr. Erdogan’s move to reconvert Hagia Sophia is an attempt to galvanise his conservative and nationalist base amid economic uncertainty exacerbated by the virus outbreak and some polls suggesting his ruling party is losing votes. The decision has also undone part of the secular legacy of Ataturk, who wanted Hagia Sophia as a museum so as to “offer it to humanity”. The timing of the first prayer is significant. Friday is the 97th anniversary of the Treaty of Lausanne, which set modern Turkey’s borders after years of conflict with Greece and Western powers. Mr. Erdogan, who professes nostalgia for the Ottoman empire, has called for the treaty’s revision in recent years.   ‘A provocation’ Greece has denounced the reconversion of Hagia Sophia to a mosque, seeing it as a provocation to the “entire civilised world”. “What is happening in (Istanbul) this day is not a show of force, but proof of weakness,” Greek premier Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in a statement. “Especially to us Orthodox Christians, Hagia Sophia today is in our hearts more than ever. It is where our heart beats.”
25 July 2020||COLOMBO,||India, Sri Lanka seek to reset ties in the time of polls and pandemic||As news of the India-China stand-off at Galwan Valley broke last month, Sri Lanka, like much of the rest of the world, watched closely. Not only because it was the most dramatic escalation between the adversaries in nearly half a century, but also because two of Sri Lanka’s closest partners were on either side of the tension. Sri Lanka did not comment on the development. However, India soon made headlines in the island for other reasons. Early July, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa told a media conference that there was no final decision on the East Container Terminal (ECT) project at the Colombo Port, which Sri Lanka, India and Japan in 2019 agreed to jointly develop. His remark came while unions and some opposition parties were protesting “giving away national assets” to India, though Sri Lanka’s Port Authority was to retain 100% ownership of the facility, as per the 2019 tripartite Memorandum of Cooperation. They also came a month ahead of the general election, in which the Rajapaksa government is eyeing a two-thirds majority. Around the same time, India was holding “close and constructive” discussions with Sri Lanka, on Colombo’s pending request for a debt — totalling $960 million — freeze, and for swapping currency under bilateral and SAARC arrangements. With fast-approaching polls [on August 5], a persisting global pandemic posing enormous economic challenges, and a stand-off between two regional powers, where do Indo-Lanka relations stand at this moment, as seen by experts in Sri Lanka? Pointing to India’s “difficult relations” with some neighbours over “different aspects”, retired bureaucrat-diplomat Austin Fernando, who was Sri Lanka’s High Commissioner to India, told The Hindu : “Comparatively speaking, ours has been great as friends, neighbours, and relations.” Characterising the current phase in ties as one where New Delhi is “patching up with the Rajapaksas”, Mr. Fernando said usually it was Sri Lanka’s newly elected President or Prime Minister who visited India first, to “offer pooja as we call it”. In contrast, Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar’s Colombo visit in November 2019, to meet the newly-elected President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, was a “reversal of the pooja ritual”, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing a $450 million line of credit to Sri Lanka during President Rajapaksa’s visit to New Delhi soon after — his maiden state visit after his big election win — “showed a proactive, relations-building” approach. However, a comparison of Indian assistance extended in the neighbourhood shows “discriminatory tendencies”, he said, pointing to India’s varying amounts of developmental assistance in the region. “After 2015, India would have expected more cooperation from Sri Lanka, but it has not happened, sometimes for good reason. I think the Indian bureaucracy understands these and should cooperate with Sri Lanka seriously.” On the other hand, “India’s attitude and relationship with her immediate neighbours depend on their appreciation of India’s regional security concerns; they would serve as buffer states in the event of an extra regional threat and not proxies of the outside powers. Colombo should never forget this guidance in dealing with India,” Mr. Fernando cautioned. India-China prism South Asia watchers often resort to the India-China geopolitical lens, while analysing Sri Lanka’s international relations in the neighbourhood and beyond. Although the trend is understandable, the perspective such a lens offers is limited, according to Dinusha Panditaratne, former executive director of the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute of International Relations and Strategic Studies. “Conceptually, it tends to view Sri Lanka as a subject rather than agent of policy decisions. While Sri Lankan policymakers are constrained by economic and geopolitical realities, they nevertheless have choices and decisions to make within the margins of these realities,” she said, adding that those resorting to the India-China prism often tend to overlook or misinterpret key details. Further, Ms. Panditaratne noted that the bilateral relationship between India and Sri Lanka “will always be an important cornerstone of a peaceful and prosperous South Asia”. “The examples of Singapore-Malaysia and New Zealand-Australia indicate that a smaller country's economic success is tied to having a strong or at least stable relationship with its larger neighbour.” Both India and Sri Lanka should focus on increasing the volume and quality of people-to-people links, without assuming they will naturally result from geographical proximity, she said, underscoring the need for continued high-level engagement on building economic and people-to-people links. Citing the successful India-assisted ‘Suwa Seriya’ ambulance service, and the pressing needs following COVID-19, she prescribed that India and Sri Lanka enhance links in the health sector, including in telemedicine. “The fact that several Indian companies are involved in the race to develop a vaccine presents India with a potentially huge, a once-in-a-generation opportunity to cement its goodwill with the neighbourhood by securing regional access to these vaccines,” Ms. Panditaratne notes. The close but complex bilateral ties between the countries have both history and baggage. Even today, popular Tamil leaders in the island are invoking India on their election campaign trail, particularly while speaking of the pending political solution to the Tamil question that lingers after the years of war and the decade of relative peace. That is because the 13th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution, an outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987, is the only piece of legislation that speaks of a measure of devolution, said V. Thanabalasingham, senior journalist and foreign policy analyst.
25 July 2020||Washington,||U.S. accuses Russia of testing weapon in space||The U.S. and the U.K. on Thursday accused Russia of test-firing an anti-satellite weapon in space. The U.S. warned that the threat against Washington's systems was “real, serious and increasing.” U.S. Space Command said it “has evidence” that Moscow “conducted a non-destructive test of a space-based anti-satellite weapon” on July 15. “Last week’s test is another example that the threats to U.S. and Allied space systems are real, serious and increasing,” the Thursday statement continued. “Clearly this is unacceptable,” tweeted U.S. nuclear disarmament negotiator Marshall Billingslea, adding that it would be a “major issue” discussed next week in Vienna, where he is in talks on a successor to the New START treaty. The treaty caps the nuclear warheads of the U.S. and Russia — the two Cold War-era superpowers. The head of Britain’s Space Directorate, Air Vice-Marshal Harvey Smyth, also reacted, tweeting that “actions of this kind threaten the peaceful use of space.” Commenting on Friday on the accusations, the Russian Foreign Ministry insisted on Moscow's “commitment to obligations on the non-discriminatory use and study of space with peaceful aims”. “We call on our U.S. and British colleagues to show professionalism and instead of some propagandistic information attacks, sit down for talks,” the Ministry said. The U.S. Space Command said the test consisted of Russia’s satellite called Cosmos 2543 injecting an object into orbit. Russian state media has said that Cosmos-2543 had been deployed by another satellite, Cosmos-2542, which was launched on 25 of November 2019 by the Russian military. The Defence Ministry said the satellite is meant to “monitor the condition of Russian satellites,” but state daily Rossiyskaya Gazeta said it has the ability to “get information from somebody else’s satellites”. The system is the same one that Space Command raised concerns about earlier this year, when it maneuvered near a U.S. government satellite, said General Jay Raymond, head of U.S. Space Command. “This is further evidence of Russia’s continuing efforts to develop and test space-based systems, and consistent with the Kremlin's published military doctrine to employ weapons that hold US and allied space assets at risk,” he said in a statement.
25 July 2020||Islamabad,||Taliban says it is ready for talks with Kabul after Id holiday||The Taliban says it is ready for talks with Afghanistan’s political leadership after the Muslim holiday of Id-ul-Adha at the end of July, offering to hand over the last of the government prisoners in a week’s time, provided the government frees the last of its Taliban prisoners. The offer made by Taliban’s political spokesman Suhail Shaheen in a tweet late on Thursday follows one of the most significant shakeups in the Taliban in years. The group appointed the son of the movement’s fearsome founder to head its military wing and powerful leadership council members to its negotiation team. In Kabul on Friday, the High Council for National Reconciliation, which was created in May to manage peace efforts with the Taliban, said it was still working through the Taliban’s prisoner list. Javed Faisal, spokesman for the Afghan National Security Adviser’s office, previously said nearly 600 Taliban prisoners whose release is being sought have been convicted of serious crimes. The government is reluctant to set them free, he said. It seemed unlikely the government would free the remaining prisoners before the Muslim holiday. The release of 5,000 Taliban prisoners held by the government and 1,000 government personnel and security officials in Taliban custody is laid out in a U.S. deal with the Taliban aimed at ending Afghanistan’s relentless wars. The prisoner exchange is to take place ahead of talks between Kabul and the Taliban, seen as perhaps the most critical part of the deal.
25 July 2020||Washington,||Georgia Governor, Mayor fight over mask rules||A U.S. judge has ordered Georgia’s Governor and the Mayor of Atlanta to sit for mediation in their legal spat over the mandatory wearing of face masks to combat COVID-19. Republican Governor Brian Kemp sued officials in the U.S. State’s largest city on Thursday, seeking to block a mandate that would require Atlanta residents to wear face masks in public. Mr. Kemp claims Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms does not have the authority to require stricter public health measures than the State, which has encouraged mask-wearing but not required it. In an order issued on Thursday, Georgia’s Fulton Superior Court judge Jane Barwick ordered Mr. Kemp and Ms. Bottoms to attend a mediation before Tuesday 28 July where they should “make a good faith effort to resolve the issues involved in this case.”  Georgia is one of the worst-hit States in the U.S.
25 July 2020||Tehran,||Panic as U.S. jets fly near Iran plane over Syria||Two U.S. jets flew dangerously close to an Iranian passenger plane over war-torn Syria, forcing the pilot to take emergency action and sparking panic on board, Iranian authorities said on Friday. The U.S. military said of Thursday’s incident that an “F-15 on a routine air mission... conducted a standard visual inspection of a Mahan Air passenger airliner at a safe distance of approximately 1,000 metres”. U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) issued a statement after Iranian state television aired amateur footage of passengers on board screaming as the Mahan Air jetliner appeared to change course suddenly. Another video apparently shot on a phone appeared to show at least two fighter jets flying beside the plane. In an initial report accompanying the footage, the state broadcaster said the military aircraft were believed to be Israeli. “After this dangerous action by the Israeli fighter, the pilot of the commercial plane quickly reduced the altitude of the flight to avoid colliding with the Israeli fighter, injuring several passengers on board,” it said. Iran’s official IRNA news agency said the Mahan Air pilot made contact on the radio with two U.S. fighter planes, and that the aircraft later landed safely in the Lebanese capital.
25 July 2020||Washington,||Washington, July 24, 2020 (AFP) -||A 23-year-old American man was sentenced to 15 years in prison for planning an attack on the White House with an anti-tank missile and other explosives, U.S. authorities said Thursday. Hasher Taheb of Cumming, Georgia also made plans for attacks on the Statue of Liberty, Washington Monument, Lincoln Memorial and a Washington-area synagogue, the Department of Justice said in a statement. He was arrested on January 16, 2019 after a FBI probe sparked by a tip from the local community that the then-21-year-old had become “radicalised.” Authorities said none of the targets were ever truly threatened by the plot.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||In Kerala, a tangled web of gold||Wearing a flowing black gown and a bewildered expression on her face, Swapna Prabha Suresh stood in the wooden dock at the special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi on July 12. The accusations against her were grave. The special public prosecutor spelt out the primary inferences drawn by the agency in the case. Gold in cylindrical form and concealed in plumbing material had travelled in diplomatic cargo to Thiruvananthapuram. The consignment was addressed to the Charge d’Affairs of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Consulate. It had been kept unopened for five days pending Customs clearance at the international airport. The UAE Consulate had denied any knowledge of the smuggling operation. The lawyer suggested that the proceeds from the smuggled gold may have been used to fund acts of terror. Swapna shook her head, mumbled something incoherent, and broke down. P. Krishnakumar, the special judge who presided over the trial, assured her that her version of the story would be heard too. Swapna was inconsolable when the judge remanded her to custody of the NIA. It was an unusual Sunday in Kerala, a State that is no stranger to gold smuggling — more so as these events were unfolding in an election year. The sudden disappearance and dramatic arrest of Swapna, a former executive secretary at the UAE Consulate-General’s office, and her proximity to M. Sivasankar, Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, who has since been removed from his post and then suspended, was enough to kick up a political storm. The seizure of 30 kg of gold, worth Rs. 14.82 crore, at the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport on July 5 would have ended up as another routine seizure made by the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) if not for the fact that the contraband had arrived in a diplomatic consignment meant for the Charge d’Affaires of the UAE. As news channels chased the NIA vehicle carrying Swapna, and the co-accused in the case, Sandeep Nair, all the way from the State border at Walayar to Kochi, four hours away, youth activists of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) defied COVID-19 restrictions to stage marches to the NIA office. The police had to use batons to disperse the swelling crowds. People were quick to draw comparisons between the solar panel scam that broke out towards the end of the previous Congress-led government’s term and this case. The Centre, on its part, quickly ordered parallel investigations by the NIA and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The NIA invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) of 1967, while the ED initiated a money laundering probe. For the Left government, which was riding high on its relative success in handling the COVID-19 pandemic, the embarrassing episode couldn’t have come at a more inopportune time: the local body elections are just a few months away. On the gold trail When Customs officials in Kerala got wind of a plot to smuggle in gold in bulk from the UAE, in June, they set up a core team to keep a tab on consignments, according to Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner, Kochi. But apart from routine seizures, nothing big was discovered. Once international travel resumed following the easing of lockdown restrictions, rumours about a syndicate pushing gold into Kerala from Dubai via air freight, in consignments addressed to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, reached the ears of officials. “We used data analytics to pore over air freight imports from Dubai to identify patterns, if any. We used technical intelligence and we also got inputs from other agencies and paid informants,” said an official, refusing to be named. In June, intelligence about an impending shipment to the UAE Consulate likely containing the contraband sent the officials into a tizzy. They decided to risk precipitating an awkward diplomatic situation by seeking the permission of the Ministry of External Affairs to inspect the suspected shipment in the presence of UAE Consulate officials. Officials said consular staff made desperate attempts to return the consignment to its port of origin when Customs officials insisted on examining its content. When the gold was discovered, Customs officials arrested P.S. Sarith, a former employee of the UAE Consulate who had attempted to clear the air freight, on the charge of abetment to smuggling. Sarith pointed a finger at Swapna, his former colleague, and Sandeep, according to a petition filed by Customs at an economic offences court in Ernakulam. Sandeep, who had worked with Sarith at a supermarket in Thiruvananthapuram years ago, had appeared on the Customs radar in 2016 when he was named as an accused in a case of smuggling 1.5 kg of gold through the airport. However, the case went into a limbo after officials failed to recover anything from him. Investigators said a dry run of the operation was held in June last year to see how Customs inspectors at the Thiruvananthapuram airport dealt with cargo meant for the UAE mission. The Dubai end of the cartel was headed by Fazil Fareed, a businessman from Thrissur. Fareed allegedly used to ship smaller amounts of gold concealed in canisters containing car wash; bigger quantities were hidden in microwave ovens and white goods. Over time, the cartel perfected hiding gold in cylindrical form in bathroom fittings and piping, they said. In her bail plea before the NIA court, Swapna claimed that she had dialled Customs officials to inquire about the delay in release of the consignment at the instance of the Charge d’Affairs, Rashid Khamis Al Shemelli, for whom she worked on “request basis”. She also said she was not aware of the freight content and was being made “a scapegoat for political gain”. Meanwhile, Al Shemelli quietly left for Dubai. Customs officials suspect that a “Consulate insider”, an Emirates citizen, might have facilitated the operation from Dubai. “The person might have offered the papers to generate the shipment from there,” they said. The cartel, they maintained, succeeded in smuggling gold into India using the diplomatic channel over a dozen times. They allege that Sarith and Swapna provided the Consulate paperwork for Customs exemption and also “lobbied” with officials for expeditious release of the diplomatic cargo. Sandeep, they said, would transfer the contraband to K.T. Ramees, who sold the metal to jewellers and ornament makers, and handled bookkeeping. “He was also responsible for raising funds for the purchase of gold. A part of the profit was shared with his handlers in Dubai, which would again be ploughed back into the hawala trade,” officials said. The agencies investigating the case have arrested Ramees from Malappuram and a few others. Kerala’s gold rush Afsal (name changed) owns a small jewellery shop in Ruby Nagar in Thiruvananthapuram’s Chalai market. Before the pandemic hit, he would regularly travel to Koduvally in Kozhikode district along National Highway-766, to buy machine-crafted jewellery at the cheapest rates available in the State. The tiny neighbourhood boasts of more than a hundred jewellery-making units. There are people loath to putting money in the bank, but invest in this line of business, said Afsal’s partner. The intelligence wing of the Kerala Police has drawn the NIA’s attention to Koduvally’s jewellery trade. A senior bureaucrat with over a decade’s experience in leading the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and Customs ascribes Kerala’s rush for Arabic gold to a host of factors that have been deeply entrenched in the State for decades. “Kerala used to send the highest number of expatriates to countries in the Persian Gulf till the late 1990s. Most of them had little access to formal banking. As a result, networks moving money through hawala routes mushroomed across the State,” he said. They traditionally used gold to move money from abroad, he said. The country has witnessed a surge in smuggling since 2013 after the Centre raised the import tax on the metal to 10% in a bid to tide over India’s yawning current account deficit, he pointed out. The sheer number of direct flights from the Gulf to Kerala, the well-entrenched networks, and the absence of turf wars with fellow racketeers have all fuelled the flow of gold into the State. In Kerala, gold gets recycled with old jewellery, and the newly made ornaments are shipped to stores in Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and even Mumbai. “Even if a particular racket is busted, retrieving the booty becomes an impossible task as the metal is melted the moment it reaches the market. A sizeable chunk of this smuggled gold is believed to land in the jewellery-making units of Koduvally,” said the officer. On occasion, raw gold gets transported directly across the State border as is evident from the inflow of unaccounted money through border checkposts. But jewellery makers choose not to invest in smuggling syndicates for the simple reason that it is not worth the risk. “Why would anyone do that when you have the option of buying cheap gold without actually getting involved in the racket,” the officer said. In June last year, Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac flagged the issue of widespread tax evasion on gold. He promised to initiate an enforcement exercise to audit the manufacture and sale of gold ornaments and check stock to detect the presence of unaccounted gold. The move was made after court affidavits of the DRI suggested that there was large-scale smuggling of gold into the State and after the arrest of two Customs officials in the Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi airports by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for their purported role in smuggling. Kerala has the highest monthly per capita expenditure on gold ornaments, but the State’s GST revenue from gold has only tanked, said Paravur MLA and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee vice president V.D. Satheesan. “As against the Value Added Tax of Rs. 750 crore in 2017, GST income has plummeted to Rs. 300 crore in 2020. This comes against a rise in the effective tax rate from 1.25% to 3% while the retail price of the metal shot up from Rs. 2,600 to Rs. 4,000 per gram,” he said. Data sourced from the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kerala, show that between 2017 and the first week of July, 2020, 932 kg of gold valued at over Rs. 304 crore were seized in the State. An affidavit filed by the DRI in the Bombay High Court last November, in response to a habeas corpus filed by Mayank Dhakad seeking the release of his father, Arvind Kumar Dhakad, showed that the agency had unearthed gold hidden in brass scraps at Gujarat’s Mundra Port, which had come from Dubai. Between January 2017 and March 2019, gold weighing about 4,522 kg and worth Rs. 1,473 crore was smuggled by a gang. The kingpin of that gang was Nissar P. Aliyar, a UAE-based businessman from Perumbavoor in Kerala. The agency succeeded in arresting Nissar and a few of his alleged accomplices. “The cartels are spread across the country. But most cases in the past would hit a dead-end. Rarely were influential, overseas kingpins of the rackets netted,” said a senior IRS officer. The UAPA question The NIA has approached the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case as one with ramifications for national security. The use of a diplomatic bag as a cover could mar India’s diplomatic ties with the UAE besides upsetting the country’s economic security, it has argued. The vaguely worded sections of the anti-terror law are expected to come in handy for the agency. The case fits the NIA’s bill, said T. Asaf Ali, former Director General of Prosecution, Kerala. “One can find the offences alleged to have been committed by the accused in the list of unlawful activities mentioned in the Act,” he said. At present, the NIA has invoked Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA. The real challenge before the NIA would be to prove Section 17 (punishment for raising funds for terrorist act), Ali said. Whoever raises, provides or collects funds, or attempts to raise, provide, or collect funds with the knowledge that such funds are likely to be used by persons or organisations to commit a terrorist act can be held accountable under the Section. If found guilty, a jail term of not less than five years, which could be extended to life imprisonment, awaits them. While Section 16 deals with punishment for making demands for substances for committing or abetting a terrorist act, Section 18 deals with punishment for conspiring to commit a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, explained Ali. However, said Ali, the NIA seems to have missed out a crucial legal aspect. The case, which revolves round the allegation of using diplomatic baggage meant for the UAE Consulate as a cover for gold smuggling, has already dented the image of the country in the eyes of the world. Therefore, the act qualifies to be punishable under Section 13 of the Act, he said. In order to attract UAPA, all acts alleged against the accused need not be necessarily violent ones, he said; any act causing disaffection against India is also a terrorist act punishable under the 1967 law. Section 15 (1) (3a) speaks about terrorist acts and covers the damage to the monetary stability of India by way of production, smuggling or circulation of high-quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or of any other material, which can be gold as well. An embarrassment for the Left The seizure has opened a political Pandora’s box in Kerala. The Congress and the BJP lost no time in demanding the Chief Minister’s resignation citing the suspension of his “all-powerful” Secretary, who, according to a preliminary inquiry conducted by a committee headed by the Chief Secretary found, had recommended Swapna’s appointment in the Space Park project, an undertaking of the Kerala IT Department. Meanwhile, the State Police has registered a complaint against her and the consultancy firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which is dealing with the project and which endorsed her credentials, over questions about the veracity of her qualification documents. “The episode has no doubt embarrassed the government. The impunity with which fraudsters are able to forge top-level connections is sure to be used by the ultra-nationalist party at the Centre to allege that the State government has harboured smugglers who were trying to imperil national security. They were quick to put the NIA on the job,” said A. Jayasankar, lawyer and political observer. Although the Congress has moved a no-confidence motion against the State government alleging misuse of the Chief Minister’s Office in the case, V.D. Satheesan rubbished the attempts being made to cite the case to suggest that the engine of Kerala’s political economy is hawala-driven. “That is just to malign the non-resident Keralites who’ve been a great pillar of support for the political parties in the State,” he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has welcomed a probe by any Central agency and has offered full cooperation. He has also reiterated that there is zero tolerance towards anyone found guilty, regardless of their stature. But protests, often in violation of COVID-19 protocols, have been widespread. “That is expected,” said Jayasankar. “After all, with its previous attempts having misfired, it’s a now or never chance for the Congress to use this as a stick to beat the government with. Doesn’t it have all the ingredients of a political thriller?” K.S. Sudhi and Hiran Unnikrishnan contributed to reporting
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying away from political thickets||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, has crashlanded in the Rajasthan High Court and the Supreme Court of India. Upon Mr. Pilot’s invitation in Rajasthan and Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi’s appeal to the Supreme Court, today’s judges seem to have rushed in, where their predecessors have feared to tread. There is Constitutional history behind judicial reticence, which is normally expected, in matters involving the working of Parliament and legislatures. This history bears some retelling. A retelling of the past Charles Bradlaugh was elected to England’s Parliament in 1880. He was an atheist and refused to take oath as a Member of Parliament in the name of god. The format of the parliamentary oath, only provided for swearing in in god’s name. The Serjeant of Parliament, one Mr. Gossett, refused to seat Bradlaugh in Parliament without the oath in that form. Bradlaugh appealed to the courts. The courts said they could do nothing. In Bradlaugh vs Gossett (1884), a court held the ‘decision of the House of Commons in resolving not to allow an elected Member, Bradlaugh, to take the oath, and the actions of the Serjeant at Arms in preventing Bradlaugh from entering the House, were subject to the sole jurisdiction of the House’. In India, one Keshav Singh was sentenced to a week’s imprisonment in 1964 for breach of privilege of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. Subsequently, a petition filed by him was listed before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court. When the case was called out, the government advocate was not present. The petition was admitted, and as the sentence was only one week, Singh was directed to be released on bail during the pendency of the case. The Assembly took umbrage to this. The order of stay passed by the Bench of two judges was regarded as a breach of their privilege. Soon thereafter, the assembly made an order directing the Marshal of the Assembly to arrest the two judges and produce them before the Bar of the House. These judges approached the full Bench of the Allahabad High Court, which protected them from arrest. According to Shanti Bhushan’s recollections, Justice Nasirullah Beg, who had been ordered to be arrested and confined by the marshals of the U.P. Legislative Assembly, was waiting with a loaded gun, ready to shoot down the marshals and protect the honour of the Allahabad High Court. Hands-off approach At this stage, the President of India made a presidential reference to the Supreme Court on the relative powers of legislative assemblies and constitutional courts. The Supreme Court, answering the reference, held that there is a broad separation of essential powers of each organ of the State. However, the Court went on to hold that a judge who entertains a petition challenging any order of the legislature imposing any penalty on the petitioner for its contempt “…does not commit contempt of the said legislature and the legislature is not competent to initiate proceedings against that judge”. Ever since, it has generally been a “hands-off” position as far as the courts interfering in the workings of legislative assemblies or Parliament is concerned. The sole exception is under the anti-defection law — after a final order of disqualification has been passed. This is because, a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court in Kihoto Hollohan’s case in 1992 held that the Speaker acting in a disqualification matter acts as a tribunal and is subject to judicial review. However, the same judgment makes it clear that the Court will not intervene at an interim stage. The majority very clearly held: “Having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/Chairmen; and no quia timet actions are permissible.” The same judgment further holds: “The Speakers/Chairmen hold a pivotal position in the scheme of Parliamentary democracy and are guardians of the rights and privileges of the House. They are expected to and do take far reaching decisions in a Parliamentary democracy.” When the Sachin Pilot episode is considered against this constitutional backdrop, it is clear that a mere issuance of a possible disqualification notice by the Speaker, has been contested in constitutional courts, which have not rejected the challenge at the threshold. Even in routine petitions against notices of proposed administrative actions, courts are reluctant to review at an interim stage. Almost invariably, the petitioner is told to answer the show cause notice and to challenge the final action only. The Rajasthan High Court however entertained a petition on behalf of 19 MLAs who having ensconced themselves in a resort in a neighbouring State, proceeded to challenge the Speaker’s authority to decide, if they had committed an act of defection. Arguments at length were addressed, almost as though the limitations of the Constitution Bench judgment in Kihoto Hollohan , had ceased to apply to this case. The Speaker chose to appear before the High Court and argued the merits of the matter, though he could have at a preliminary stage, challenged the court’s jurisdiction to intervene at an interim stage. The Rajasthan High Court reserved its judgment, requested the Speaker to defer further proceedings and proceeded to direct him to await judgment. A co-equal The High Court’s direction to the Speaker, led to him moving the Supreme Court, questioning the court’s power to direct a Constitutional authority. The principle of law being urged is that Constitutional authorities cannot issue directions to each other. They can, at best, make a polite request. In 1982, a Bench of the Supreme Court, directed a single judge of the Calcutta High Court to urgently hear a matter and proceed to judgment ( A.K.M. Hassamanuzaman & Ors. v. Union Of India & Ors ). The single judge in Calcutta, Justice Sabyasachi Mukherjee (later, Chief Justice of India) proceeded to hear and decide the matter. He however recorded in his judgment that the Supreme Court was only co-equal with the High Court, as a Constitutional Court. Appellate powers of the Supreme Court did not make it a superior authority to which the High Court was subordinate. Ever since, the Supreme Court has been careful to couch its orders as requests to any High Court, or Constitutional authority. Constitutional courts have followed the same principle, in addressing other Constitutional authorities. The Speaker of a House of legislature or Parliament, represents that august body and is the guardian of its privileges. The House cannot be ordered around in its internal working, by any court, no matter how high or supremely infallible it perceives itself to be. Unnecessary conflict between organs of state may well invite some Speaker, backed by a solid majority at State and Centre, to defy the courts, when it comes to the internal working of the House of Parliament or legislature. The last word Courts are apolitical but keep getting pulled into political thickets, especially in matters of mass defections resulting in regime change. They must therefore be very chary of being turned into a third house of Parliament or legislature. The walls of separation between constitutional organs, once breached, cannot be then repaired against future intrusions. Even under a sovereign Constitution, parliamentary and legislative supremacy in their spheres of functioning should be respected. The Supreme Court permitted the Rajasthan High Court to proceed to judgment on July 24, but directed that its orders would not be implemented, as the Supreme Court itself proposed to rule on the larger question of the jurisdiction of courts to entertain such pleas. The Rajasthan High Court has thereafter decided to await the Supreme Court judgment and in the meanwhile injuncted the Speaker from proceeding further. The legal back and forth has in effect granted the insurgent faction, precious time to consolidate their plans of regime change. Mr Gehlot has now, correctly called for an immediate summoning of the Rajasthan Assembly, to prove his majority on the floor of the house. Political questions must be answered in political forums and not be confined to quibbling in courts. The Court must be mindful of Portia’s warning in The Merchant of Venice : “Twill be recorded for a precedent. And many an error by the same example/Will rush into the state. It cannot be.” Sanjay Hegde is Senior Advocate, Supreme Court of India
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The spectre of crowds in the COVID city||Distancing, isolation and the thinning out of public spaces in Indian cities have offered up new pastoral landscapes of delight for urban dwellers, with clean air, summer blooms, and assorted wildlife crossing streets. The quiet that overtook our cities during the lockdown was celebrated as a gift of the pandemic. Fuel-saving work-from-home arrangements, cost-saving virtual meetings, and spare social gatherings are seen as offering new, mellower possibilities of urban inhabitation that may save us from both COVID-19 and the ongoing climate crisis. Key attributes Before we celebrate this oncoming new normal, it is important to recognise what it puts at stake. Agglomeration, density and crowds have long been definitional attributes of the urban. Urbanisation is premised on the scale economies that urban agglomeration affords. But the transformative social effects of urban density have also been long acknowledged. Cities, as close-knit, dynamic constellations of human and non-human bodies, offer ideal grounds for the spread of a virus, but also facilitate other diffusions. Urban mixings have helped dissolve or remake categories of caste and gender. They have enabled socio-economic mobility, widened horizons of possibility, and allowed historically discriminated groups to forge new identities, claim public resources, take risks and assert rights. The unpredictability and possibility contained in motley urban communions make for the “cityness” of crowds. The pandemic has stigmatised social density, recalling Dickensian spectres of overcrowding, contagion and disorder. Social distancing has been readily embraced by India’s caste society, which was always uncomfortable with the mingling fostered by cities. Crowding in markets, mosques or transport hubs were repeatedly highlighted as irresponsible and threatening to the health of the national body. As infection numbers rose steeply in Mumbai, Chennai, and Delhi by late April, COVID-19 hotspots mapped onto thickly populated zones of these cities, and congestion was singled out as a major culprit in disease spread. Slums, the problem zones of pandemic management, had drones hovering overhead to monitor compliance with stay-at-home orders. But in their congested lanes, with 150-square-feet houses, everyday activities of cooking, washing, and sleeping occur in spillover spaces outside the home. In these liminal spaces, exchanges of information, food, labour, contacts, build a scaffolding of survival for marginalised urban residents. Daily arbitrations with unfriendly and friendly bodies — strangers, migrants, stray dogs, and landlords — create a matrix of relationships that transform a housing colony into a neighbourhood. The months-long nationwide lockdown of Indian cities has seen spontaneous and repeated outbreaks of crowds, large and small, sparked by panic, hunger, anger, and by orchestrated celebrations of national unity. These suggest an irrepressibility to the crowd in the city. Explaining crowding in India Three conditions stand out as common catalysts of crowding in the Indian city. First, scarcity. Chronic scarcity, often induced by lopsided resource distributions, induces a repertoire of techniques such as the jostle, the push, the rush to reach the counter before rations or tickets run out. Inhabiting the Indian city means learning to anticipate and participate in the crush of bodies pressing into trains and buses, clinging to their doorways as they speed along. Second, protest. The city is the staging ground for protesting crowds bringing diverse discontents from far afield, as in the jallikattu protests of January 2017 when throngs of agrarian protesters congregated on Chennai’s Marina Beach. Third, ritual or celebratory gatherings such as funerals and temple festivals regularly take over city streets, sidelining traffic for a public assertion of communal emotions. If scarcity, protest and celebration are catalysing conditions for crowds, India’s pandemic governance powerfully triggered each through its long and stringent lockdown. Scarcity-induced panic-buying crowds sprang up everywhere. In Tamil Nadu, Chennai’s wholesale market complex, Koyambedu, emerged as the new COVID-19 flashpoint in May, sending trails of infection across the State through truckers, loaders and vendors that converged there daily. City authorities had failed to anticipate and provide for the inevitable congregations at a large metropolitan market that generates livelihoods for a far-flung catchment of cultivators, traders and manual workers. Propensities for public celebration also surfaced repeatedly, from the clanging of utensils on streets during the Prime Minister’s Janata curfew in March to the masses of devotees gathering around Odisha’s Jagannath temple in June. Migrant distress Protesting crowds repeatedly broke through city curfews. The most pronounced legacy of India’s lockdown is the explosion into public visibility of lakhs of inter-State migrant workers, hitherto hidden inside the urban machinery. To members of their host societies — officials, employers, landlords or the public — these workers form a barely acknowledged alien underclass, linguistically and ethnically “other”. Within days of the unplanned lockdown which had entirely ignored their existence, these workers were spilling into the streets of every city — hungry, jobless, abandoned by employers and contractors, desperate to return to their families. By late May, as their appeals for transport to their homes went unheeded, the fierce yearning of urban workers for their rural homes sparked crowds everywhere. They protested at industrial campuses, converged at train stations, and walked in hundreds and thousands on highways in the searing summer heat. Peaceful walkers were turned into agitated crowds by the stunning ineptitude, mal-coordination and opacity of police, district authorities, shelter administrators and railway officials, who rounded them up on their journey and returned them to the city with no clear idea of what to do with them. The Indian urban story is indelibly marked by the tragic conditions of these workers’ mass exodus, stranded at State borders, dying of hunger and exhaustion, run over by trains and trucks on the highway. These crowds index a fundamental breakdown, not only of the lockdown solution but of the urban promise of material and social mobility toward a better future. The pandemic has sharply exposed the faultlines of urban labour value chains, which valorise individualised work-from-home arrangements at the apex of the system, while treating the mass of physical labouring bodies as problems to be contained and controlled. As cities slowly open up, a perverted normal is unfolding, wherein private vehicles and taxis with limited occupancy are permitted, but safe mass transport arrangements, the economic and social lifeline of cities, are still a far cry. Our focus on urban agglomeration urges an imagination of post-pandemic cities that resists retiring into a closeted isolation that only the privileged can afford. Karen Coelho is an urban anthropologist based in Chennai. Mathangi Krishnamurthy is a socio-cultural anthropologist interested in questions of work, labour and identity
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Arms and the women||A glass ceiling was shattered on Thursday when the Ministry of Defence issued a formal letter granting permanent commission to women officers in the Indian Army. The uphill battle to break a gender stereotype and provide equal opportunities for women in the Army had to be fought right up to the highest level, in the Supreme Court. Even so, the MoD’s Government Sanction Letter specifying the grant of permanent commission to Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers in all the 10 streams in which they presently serve is a cause for celebration. It will go a long way in ending a prejudice associated with the Army. True, the fight was far from easy. It was long and protracted, as the government initially glossed over a Delhi High Court ruling in the litigants’ favour 10 years ago. Then in the Supreme Court, just what the litigants were up against became clear from the views of the government. A written note to the Court pointed at “physiological limitations” of women officers, saying that these were great challenges for women officers to meet the exigencies of service. In February, the Supreme Court read the government the riot act, asking it to abide by its own policy on granting permanent commission to women in the SSC and giving them command postings in all services other than combat. The misogyny was called out in a 54-page judgment. The Supreme Court noted that women officers of the Indian Army had brought laurels to the force. “The time has come for a realisation that women officers in the Army are not adjuncts to a male dominated establishment whose presence must be ‘tolerated’ within narrow confines,” it said. The Army is often seen as the preserve of men, but enough women have fought heroic battles to bust that myth, from Rani of Jhansi in the past to Squadron Leader Minty Agarwal of the Indian Air Force, who last year “was part of the team that guided Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman during the Balakot airstrike carried out by the IAF”. The irony is that of the 40,825 officers serving in the Army, a mere 1,653 are women, as the top court noted. The overall percentage of women at all levels of the armed forces needs to be increased. To usher in a change in a regressive mindset, which mirrors society, a lot more must be done on gender sensitisation. Elsewhere in the world, in countries such as the United States and Israel, women are allowed in active combat. Here, the Supreme Court had to forcefully nudge the government to make women’s role in the Army more inclusive. A gender barrier may have fallen, but the war against inequity is far from over.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Judicial indiscipline||The Rajasthan High Court’s order, directing that status quo be maintained in the disqualification proceedings against 19 legislators and holding a legal challenge to the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker’s notice under the anti-defection law to be maintainable, borders on judicial indiscipline. The order does not give any reason for admitting the petition and overruling objections to its admissibility, except for saying legal questions have arisen, including one on the validity of a sub-clause in the Tenth Schedule. It is as if the mere fact that some questions have arisen is enough to disregard the doctrine of precedent. There is a specific prohibition in a Constitution Bench verdict of the Supreme Court on courts intervening in disqualification matters at a stage prior to a presiding officer giving a ruling. Of the 13 questions the Division Bench has framed, purporting to arise from the Speaker C.P. Joshi’s notices to 19 Congress members in the Sachin Pilot camp, the last one itself shows it cannot entertain the petition. The question is whether the Supreme Court’s judgment in Kihoto Hollohan (1992) is a bar on the High Court examining the issues. It is illogical that the Bench holds that the petition is maintainable even while proposing to examine whether a Constitution Bench judgment binds it or not. In other words, a petition has been declared maintainable on the ground that the court proposes to examine its maintainability. And the 1992 judgment, while upholding the validity of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution, the anti-defection law, also declared that Para 2 — a part of which is now under challenge and is the ostensible reason for the High Court to entertain the petition — does not violate the freedom of speech, vote or conscience of elected members. Yet, the High Court is now venturing to find out whether Para 2(1)(a), which deals with disqualifying lawmakers who “voluntarily give up membership” of their party, has been examined by the apex court from the point of view of “intra-party democracy”. If at all the provision’s validity is to be tested, it can only be done in a case arising out of it. When no decision has been rendered by the Speaker, it is beyond comprehension how the court entertained arguments on the issuance of the notice and on whether dissidents can be disqualified for questioning the party line. Para 2(1)(a) has been used by Speakers for years, and many such disqualification orders have been upheld by the Supreme Court, including as recently as November 2019 in a Karnataka case. Admitting a matter without explaining how the law laid down by the Supreme Court does not bind a High Court raises grave questions of judicial propriety. However, even as the political crisis plays out on the lawns of Raj Bhavan, the top court itself appears to be raising the question whether dissent within a party can attract disqualification proceedings. Whatever the circumstances, the SC should not condone improper and premature judicial intervention.
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Banks’ gross NPAs may climb to as much as 14.7% by March: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said stress tests indicated that gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) could worsen to as high as 14.7% by the end of the current financial year, from 8.5% in March 2020, if the adverse economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic was ‘very severe’. “The macro stress tests for credit risk indicate that the GNPA ratio of all SCBs may increase... to 12.5% by March 2021 under the baseline scenario,” the RBI said in its Financial Stability Report, July 2020. “The ratio may escalate to 14.7% under a very severely stressed scenario,” which assumes hypothetically that GDP would suffer a contraction of 8.9% in 2020-21, the central bank added. In the baseline case, the GDP is assumed to contract 4.4%. Observing that the capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of SCBs edged down to 14.8% in March, from 15% in September 2019, the RBI projected that this ratio could slide to “13.3% in March 2021 under the baseline scenario and to 11.8% under the very severe stress scenario”. Bank credit which had considerably weakened during the first half of 2019-20, slid down further to 5.9% by March 2020 and remained muted up to early June 2020. This moderation was broad-based across all bank groups, the central bank said. In terms of inter-sectoral exposures, asset management companies/mutual funds, followed by insurance companies, were the biggest fund providers in the system, while non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) were the biggest receivers, followed by housing finance companies (HFCs). Financial system ‘stable’ On the assessment of systemic risk, the RBI said in its report that the Indian financial system remained stable, notwithstanding the significant downside risks to economic prospects. The central bank said the near-term economic prospects appear severely impacted by lockdown induced disruptions to both supply and demand side factors, diminished consumer confidence and risk aversion. “Full restoration in economic activity would be contingent upon the support for robust health infrastructure, recovery in demand conditions and fixing of supply dislocations,” the central bank observed.
25 July 2020||COLOMBO,||RBI signs $400 mn currency swap facility for Sri Lanka||The Reserve Bank of India has agreed to a $400 million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka till November 2022, the Indian High Commission tweeted on Friday. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka had sought the swap facility to help bolster the pandemic hit island nation’s foreign exchange reserves. The RBI’s action comes in the wake of a recent bilateral ‘technical discussion’ on rescheduling Colombo’s outstanding debt to India. The meeting, in which officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Finance, and the EXIM Bank interacted with representatives of the Sri Lankan government, came five months after Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa had sought a loan moratorium, during his visit to New Delhi in February. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in the region, India had proposed a virtual meeting to discuss the request. Sri Lanka owes $960 million to India. Meanwhile, government and industry representatives from both countries participated in a webinar on ‘Deepening Economic Collaboration between India and Sri Lanka’, organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) in association with the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute of International Relations and Strategic Studies recently. Addressing the webinar, Sri Lanka’s Foreign Secretary Ravinatha Aryasinha said the neighbours could explore possible collaborations in textiles, IT and agribusiness, sectors that India was ‘strong in’. Assuring that Sri Lanka would “facilitate, protect and promote a liberal ecosystem for Indian investors”, he welcomed Indian businesses in developing industrial zones, automotive components, pharma, textiles and engineering. Speaking on Sri Lanka’s exports, he said difficulties in market access, often created due to non-tariff barriers in receiving countries, was an impediment, and urged FICCI to collaborate with the Sri Lankan Mission in New Delhi to help boost the export of Sri Lankan spices and concentrates to the Indian market.  The two nations could explore collaborations in textiles, IT and agribusiness Ravinatha Aryasinha Foreign Secretary, Sri Lanka
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||JSW Steel slips into red with Rs. 582-crore Q1 loss||JSW Steel Ltd. on Friday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 582 crore for the first quarter of FY21. The firm had clocked a net profit of Rs. 1,008 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue from operations declined 40% to Rs. 11,782 crore. On a standalone basis, the company reported net loss of Rs. 146 crore compared with the net profit of Rs. 1,439 crore. Total revenue declined to Rs. 10,293 crore from Rs. 17,698 crore. Crude steel production at 2.96 million tonnes was lower than 4.24 million tonnes a year ago. Saleable steel sales dropped to 2.8 million tonnes from 3.75 million tonnes. Supply chain disrupted The company said the first quarter was marked by formidable challenges of disrupted supply chains, unparalleled drop in demand and activity levels in the domestic markets, uncertainty in seamless inbound and outbound logistics movement and liquidity constraints. The firm said the average realisation during the quarter was impacted by lower steel prices and adverse product and market mix. Lower costs of iron ore and other operating expenses partially offset the drag on margins caused by weaker operating leverage and lower realisations.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hero MotoCorp to invest Rs. 84 crore more in Ather||Hero MotoCorp on Friday announced an additional investment of Rs. 84 crore in electric scooter maker Ather Energy. “Continuing to build on its series of new initiatives, Hero MotoCorp… [has] announced a further investment of Rs. 84 crore ($11 million) in Ather Energy, taking up its shareholding in the company” to 34.6%, Hero MotoCorp said in a statement. Prior to the investment, its shareholding in Ather was 31.3%. In a separate statement, Ather said that the funds raised from Hero MotoCorp were an extension of its Series C round that was led by Sachin Bansal. “To meet the projected demand in the coming years, Ather is opening a new manufacturing facility in Hosur, which is designed to produce 1,00,000 units annually,” the firm said.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airtel Africa net profit falls 57% in June quarter||Airtel Africa on Friday said its net profit for the three months ended June 30, 2020, declined nearly 57% to $57 million due to one-off gain in the comparable period last year and increased finance costs and taxes. The outlook remained uncertain amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the company said. Airtel Africa had posted a net profit of $132 million in the April-June 2019 quarter. Revenues for the quarter under review, however, increased by 6.9% to $851 million from $796 million in the year-earlier period. The company added that profit after tax for the April-June 2020 quarter was lower due to benefits in the same period of the prior year of non-operating exceptional items of $63 million, a higher derivative and exchange loss of $19.4 million in other finance cost in the quarter ended June 2020 and higher tax in quarter ended June 2020. CEO Raghunath Mandava said during the last quarter, business was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, as restrictions on movements of people were introduced to contain the spread of infection. The company added its customer base grew by 11.8% to 111.5 million.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Apple starts sales of India-made iPhone 11||Apple’s contract manufacturer Foxconn has started assembling the iPhone 11 in India. The U.S. company’s flagship device is being assembled at Foxconn’s Chennai plant, an industry source said. A small batch of ‘assembled-in-India’ iPhone 11 smartphones had been dispatched to the retail market, and were now on sale, the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, added. Currently, iPhone XR and iPhone 11 are being assembled by Foxconn in Chennai, while iPhone 7 is being made by another partner, Wistron, in Bengaluru. Terming the move as a significant boost to ‘Make in India’, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, “Apple has started manufacturing iPhone 11 in India, bringing a top-of-the-line model for the first time in the country.” Union Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted that Apple’s iPhone SE was manufactured in India in 2017, iPhone 6S in 2018, iPhone 7 and XR in 2019 and iPhone 11 in 2020. “This chronology is a statement in itself as to how the@narendramodigovt. has developed the mobile phone manufacturing ecosystem in India. It’s only a humble beginning.” The move comes as India looks to woo manufacturers, especially those mulling a move out of China, to set up shop in India.
25 July 2020||Bengaluru,||CCD founder’s firm owed Rs. 2,693 cr. more to arms||A private firm of V. G. Siddhartha, entrepreneur and founder of Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd. (CDEL), owed Rs. 2,693 crore more to CDEL’s subsidiaries as on July 31, 2019, according to a report commissioned by the Cafe Coffee Day chain operator. According to consolidated audited financial statements, Mysore Amalgamated Coffee Estates owed Rs. 842 crore to the subsidiaries as on March 31, 2019. The probe began a month after the entrepreneur disappeared in July last year. “We understand that a significant portion of the money may have been probably spent to ‘buy back’ equity from PE investors, repay loans and pay interest apart from funding certain other private investments which are outside the scope of this investigation,” it was mentioned in the report. The investigation was conducted by ex-DIG of CBI, Ashok Kumar Malhotra.
25 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Biocon Q1 net slips 28% on R&D spend||Biopharma firm Biocon’sJune quarter net profit dropped 28% to Rs. 149 crore. Profitability for the quarter was impacted following a higher R&D spend, lower profit share in the biosimilars business, and lower profitability in the research services segment, said the company on Friday. Cconsolidated revenue grew 14% to Rs. 1,690 crore. EBITDA stood at Rs. 432 crore and EBITDA margin at 26%.
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Avoid extreme risk aversion: Das to lenders||The country’s financial system is sound but lenders should desist from extreme risk aversion during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday. In his foreword to the bi-annual Financial Stability Report (FSR), Mr. Das said the top priority right now for banks and financial intermediaries should be for augmenting capital levels and improve resilience. “In the evolving milieu, while risk management has to be prudent, extreme risk aversion would have adverse outcomes for all,” Mr. Das said. The financial system in India remains sound; nonetheless, in the current environment, the need for financial intermediaries to proactively augment capital and improve their resilience has acquired top priority, the RBI Governor added.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Voda-Idea, Bharti defend priority plans||Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel have vehemently defended their priority plans, which came under regulator TRAI’s glare, and argued that the offers have not deteriorated the experience of other network users or violated any norms. In a letter to TRAI, Vodafone Idea said the benefit featuring network priority “is fully compliant to all applicable tariff orders and regulations” and that “TRAI has prejudged and prematurely concluded poor network service”.  Bharti Airtel too has sent out a detailed response to TRAI’s questions on its priority plan. “The impact of applying priority to an insignificant base of 1-1.5% users and that too for short duration of congestion, does not have any significant impact on the experience of non-platinum data,” it said.
25 July 2020||New delhi,||ITC’s Q1 profit drops 25% to Rs. 2,567 crore||Diversified group ITC Ltd. on Friday reported a 25% decline in consolidated profit after tax (PAT) at Rs. 2,567 crore for the first quarter ended June 30 amid COVID-19 challenges. ITC had posted a consolidated PAT of Rs. 3,437 crore in the year-earlier period. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs. 10,478 crore in April-June 2020, down 17% from a year earlier, the company said in a filing.
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Emirates to cover flyers’ COVID-19 costs||Emirates Airlines said it will cover medical expenses of up to €1.50 lakh (Rs. 1.3 crore) and quarantine costs of €100 (Rs. 8,691) per day for 14 days, should any passenger be diagnosed with COVID-19 during their travel, while they are away from home. This cover is being provided by the airline free of cost.  “This cover is immediately effective for customers flying on Emirates until October 31, 2020 (first flight to be completed on or before October 31, 2020). It is valid for 31 days from the moment they fly the first sector of their journey,” the airline said in a statement. Any impacted customer who has been diagnosed with COVID-19 during their travel simply has to contact a dedicated hotline to avail of assistance and cover, the airline added.
25 July 2020||Hyderabad,||IRDAI nod for Arogya Sanjeevani group variant||Insurance regulator IRDAI on Friday said it was permitting insurers to offer standard health insurance cover Arogya Sanjeevani as a group policy. This version will be introduced under the same name — Arogya Sanjeevani — and terms and conditions of the standard policy retained. Insurers, however, get the freedom to fix the premium. Also, be it in individual or group form, the Arogya Sanjeevani policy covers COVID-19, the regulator said. Under the group policy, insurers will be allowed to set their own minimum and maximum sum limits
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||VISTARA INDUCTS A321 NEO IN ITS FLEET||Tata-Singapore Airlines joint venture Vistara on Friday inducted the Airbus A321neo into its fleet. The aircraft that flew from Airbus' assembly line in Hamburg, Germany, boasts of lie-flat beds and wireless connectivity that will allow travellers access to wi-fi onboard and 3G mobile data for SMSes and MMSes. The aircraft feature's Vistara's three-class cabin configuration. The airline unveiled international operations last year with destinations such as Singapore, Dubai, Colombo, Nepal and Vietnam.
25 July 2020||Mumbai,||GoAir unveils multi row booking offering||GoAir has introduced GoFlyPrivate wherein customers can book multiple rows and create their own private zone. This offering allows the customer to have the confidence to travel and decide how many rows or seats he / she wants to block, the Mumbai-based airline said. Jeh Wadia, MD, GoAir, said “GoAir is the first airline in India to bring the confines of a charter flight to someone who can’t afford it at the moment.” “GoFlyPrivate costs a fraction of a full-fledged private charter flight,” he added.
25 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Broadcaster prompts an earlier start to the IPL||The Indian Premier League (IPL) has advanced its schedule by a week to accommodate the broadcaster’s demand for reducing the number of double-headers — afternoon matches do not attract the same advertising rates that night games do. But the proposed start on September 19, instead of September 26 as originally intended, may result in some international cricketers racing against time to get the requisite COVID-19-related clearance from the health authorities in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). On Friday, IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed that the tournament will be played in the UAE from September 19 to November 8, pending government clearance. It effectively means that some of the cricketers likely to feature in England’s limited-overs series against Australia will miss the start of the IPL. The archrivals are set to face off in three T20Is and as many ODIs in England from September 4 to 15. Some franchises are hoping that England and Australia cricketers are allowed to skip the ODI series to arrive in time to be ready for the league’s start. A traveller from the United Kingdom will have to be quarantined in the UAE only until his COVID-19 test results are confirmed negative upon arrival in Dubai. The test will be conducted immediately on landing and the result takes around 48 hours. “If the key players are released after the T20 series [which ends on September 10], it would give them enough time to settle down and get into the IPL zone before the first game,” said a franchise official on condition of anonymity. The eight teams are set to reach UAE in the second half of August for a prolonged preparatory camp. Women’s T20 Challenge Meanwhile, the Women’s T20 Challenge — exhibition games organised during the last two IPL editions — may be scrapped this year. While the BCCI is yet to make a final decision, considering the fact that top women cricketers will be busy with the Women’s Big Bash League in Australia from October 17 to November 29, the T20 Challenge matches could be deferred to next year.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harsimran Kaur aiming high||Harsimran Kaur has the height to call the shots on a basketball court. All of 6 feet and 3 inches, the Kapurthala girls has the right attitude and a sporting family to help her achieve her dreams. Daughter of international volleyball player Sumanpreet Kaur and national level basketball player Sukhdev Singh, the 17-year-old Harsimran has been making rapid progress at the NBA Academy in Greater Noida. Stints at the NBA Global Academy in Canberra, Australia, and in two camps in Chicago and Tampa has been of a great help. She was part of the Basketball Without Borders program in Tokyo last year. She has been part of the national team and was adjudged the Most Valuable Player in the third NBA women’s camp in Mumbai. To reach her ultimate goal of becoming a WNBA player one day, Harsimran will be continuing her schooling in the US, at the University of San Diego. “I will be studying business and economics in the US. I have been training individually during lockdown. Now we have started playing on the court, dribbling, shooting individually’’, she said. “The coaches from the University have been in touch for the last three months. They have been sharing their experience’’.
25 July 2020||UDINE,||Udinese shock for Juventus||Juventus must wait to claim a ninth successive Serie A title after it slumped to a shock 2-1 defeat at Udinese on Thursday with Seko Fofana scoring a stoppage-time winner. Lazio claimed a Champions League place as the league’s leading scorer Ciro Immobile scored the winner in a come-from-behind 2-1 win over Cagliari. With three games left to play, Lazio still has a mathematical chance overhauling Juventus. It has 72 points while the defending champion is on 80. PL season from Sept. 12 The 2020-21 Premier League (PL) season will begin on Sept. 12 and the final round of matches will be held on May 23, the league announced on Friday. The current season ends on Sunday, July 26.  Serie A results:   Udinese 2 (Nestorovski 52, Fofana 90+2) bt Juventus 1 (De Ligt 42); Lazio 2 (Milinkovic-Savic 47, Immobile 60) bt Cagliari 1 (Simeone 45).
25 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||West Indies bowlers chip away||The West Indian bowlers removed the England top order with both Joe Root and Ben Stokes going cheaply as the host reached 131 for four at tea on the opening day of the third and final Test at Old Trafford here on Friday. England’s talisman Stokes looked uncomfortable as he struggled with a quadriceps strain, picked up during his second Test heroics, and made only 20. He was cleverly set up by Kemar Roach, who, after two bouncers, produced a perfect in-swinging delivery to hit the stumps and leave England at 92 for three. Opener Rory Burns (57) and Root (17) had put on 46 for the second wicket before Burns set off for a quick run after steering spinner Rakheem Cornwall towards third man. An alert Roston Chase hit the stumps with a direct throw to catch Root short of the crease. Burns proved the steady presence after England, put in to bat, lost Dom Sibley to just the sixth ball of the day, trapped leg before without scoring. Burns brought up his half century in 126 balls, with just three boundaries, but then cut a spinning delivery from Chase to Cornwall at first slip, who took a reflex one-handed catch to an aghast reaction from his teammates.  Playing XIs:   England: Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Joe Root (Capt.), Ben Stokes, Ollie Pope, Jos Buttler, Chris Woakes, Dom Bess, Jofra Archer, Stuart Broad, and James Anderson.   West Indies: Kraigg Brathwaite, John Campbell, Shai Hope, Shamarh Brooks, Roston Chase, Jermaine Blackwood, Jason Holder (Capt.), Shane Dowrich, Rahkeem Cornwall, Kemar Roach, and Shannon Gabriel .   England 246 for four England was 246 for four in 82 overs with Pope on 84 and Buttler on 51
25 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sreenidhi FC bids for an I-League entry||Sreenidhi Football Club, established in 2015, has made a bid for an entry into the next season of the I-League. SFC is one of the three teams in the running and since Hyderabad has Hyderabad FC in the ISL, it has opted for Visakhapatnam. “A decision (on admittance ot the I-League) is likely by this month-end,” SFC executive director K. Abhijit Rao told The Hindu.  “SFC’s primary aim is to build a sustainable model which will take the sport to a new high in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” he said. “We want to create infrastructure and promote the sport in a big way. We have a full-fledged football ground on our Sreenidhi International School premises here, alongside the VVS Cricket Academy. “And, we have plans for three more football grounds in and around Hyderabad,” he said. “The long-term plans are for both Telugu-speaking States and in Vizag we intend to reach out to schools and have a tie-up with them.” “What we lack now is competitive football. For instance an average European under-15 footballer has at least 45 games in a season while here it is 10-15 games. This we intend to change,” Abhijit said. If the team gets the I-League nod, the first preference would be Indian players, especially from the State, he concluded.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand and Giri play out a sedate draw||Viswanathan Anand, after a hat-trick of defeats, resumed his search for a win with a sedate 82-move draw against Anish Giri in the opening game of the fourth round of chess24 Legends of Chess on Friday. Since both had lost in three games in the third round, a cautious approach was expected. This equal game was the last to finish after overnight leaders Magnus Carlsen and Peter Svidler defeated Boris Gelfand and Ding Liren to inch towards their fourth successive wins. The other games were drawn. The Giri-Anand game was a positional warfare with neither player getting an edge in the 50-minute contest. Peace prevailed when both were left with a rook each in the company of their kings. On Thursday, the impact of the loss in the opening game led to Anand’s 0.5-2.5 defeat to Vladimir Kramnik. In the second game, Anand started aggressively with black and launched a desperate attack on Kramnik’s king by exposing his own castled king! Kramnik withstood the pressure and slowly seized the initiative to force a resignation. The third game, where Anand played white in a must-win situation, was fought on an even keel. Since Kramnik needed only a draw, the match was over with a game to spare.  The results:   Fourth round: Game One: Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Viswanathan Anand; Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Boris Gelfand (Isr); Peter Svidler (Rus) bt Ding Liren (Chn); Vladimir Kramnik (Rus) drew with Peter Leko (Hun); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) drew with Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr).   Third round: Kramnik bt Anand 2.5-0.5; Carlsen bt Leko 2.5-1.5; Svidler bt Gelfand 2.5-1.5; Nepomniachtchi bt Giri 2.5-0.5; Ivanchuk bt Ding 2.5-1.5 .
25 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy comfortable playing online||When FIDE invited Koneru Humpy for the Women’s Speed Chess Championship last month, she didn’t immediately say yes. Blitz and bullet chess isn’t exactly her cup of tea. Neither is playing online. She eventually did say yes and a month later, is happy with her decision. The World No. 2 entered the final of the fourth and final Grand Prix leg and finished seventh overall. Even more importantly, the whole month-long tournament made her a lot more comfortable in playing both online and bullet chess. “Yes, I became more confident as the event progressed and I was glad that I could reach the final in the last leg,” Humpy told The Hindu. “It was disappointing to lose a close final to Alexandra Kosteniuk, who is so experienced in this format.” Best show She reached the final after stunning the World No. 1 and her nemesis, Hou Yifan, in the semifinal. “That was probably my best ever performance in online chess,” she said. “I have an inferior score against her in classical chess and she had been in great form when I beat her.” The speed chess not only helped Humpy be a better player, but made her richer by $3000. “I think FIDE is doing a great thing by conducting all these online tournaments during the lockdown and getting top players to compete,” she said. “It is good to see so many events are being held online and chess getting the media attention.”  Even the Chess Olympiad is going online. “That will be my next event (in August),” she said. “I am looking forward to it really. And we have quite a strong team too, with players like Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi and P. Harikrishna.”
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anjum, Shriyanka team up for a cause||World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil along with fellow rifle shooter Shriyanka Sadangi have sprung up to support the daily wage temporary workers at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range here. With the help of the coaches, the two have identified 15 workers who set up targets, fill cylinders and do many other work. They have planned to raise a minimum of Rs. 4.5 lakh, so that each worker could get Rs. 10,000 for the next three months.  “They have been severely affected during the pandemic. They have been unable to find work after the World Cup was cancelled and there was no camp at the range during the lockdown,” said Anjum, who has already sold four of her eight art works that she had pledged to support the cause. The proceeds go to Play for India, managed by GoSports Foundation, which will collect the funds and give it to the needy. “They have contributed to India’s tremendous growth in shooting. It is time for us to support them,” Anjum said. Donations can be made at https://playfor.in/initiatives/shooting .
25 July 2020||COIMBATORE,||TNBA plans online session to boost morale||The COVID-19 pandemic has made life tough for the badminton fraternity, with stakeholders clueless on what lies ahead. Hence, the Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA) has decided to organise an interactive online session with players, parents, coaches, officials and academy owners on July 26 to provide a semblance of clarity. It will be jointly organised by the Coimbatore Badminton Association (CBA) and the Tirupur District Badminton Association (TDBA). “Due to the pandemic and the lockdown, we find many players clueless, frustrated and anxious about the future of competitive badminton,” said Swetha Krishnamurthy, the CBA Secretary. “So, with TNBA guidance we decided to address all those involved in the game. We will focus on all aspects – from fitness to player welfare.” The CBA and the TDBA plan to have similar sessions over the next four weeks and the programme will culminate with a TNBA webinar involving top coaches and representation from the National (BAI) and world federations (BWF).
25 July 2020||Manchester,||It will be the Richards-Botham Trophy next time||England and the West Indies will contest the new Richards-Botham Trophy when they next meet in a Test series, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Thursday. The trophy has been named in honour of West Indies batting great Vivian Richards and celebrated England all-rounder Ian Botham, who were teammates at English county Somerset before becoming opponents on the world stage. The Wisden Trophy will be ‘retired’. “This is a huge honour for my good friend Ian and myself,” said Richards, who scored 8,540 runs during a 121-Test career. “We were competitors on the field, but we showed we were brothers off the field.” Botham, who scored more than 5,200 runs and took 383 wickets in 102 Tests, said: “Viv was the finest batsman I ever played against. He’s a great friend, but we’ve always been competitive, and there was no one else's wicket I would treasure more.”
25 July 2020||PARIS,||Paris, July 24, 2020 (AFP) -||The Grand Prix in the United States, Mexico and Canada will not take place this year but three races in Europe have been added to the coronavirus-affected season, Formula One said on Friday. There will be an F1 debut for Portugal's Portimao track, a return for Germany’s Nurburgring and Imola in Italy.AFP
25 July 2020||Pune,||Meet Pune’s ‘warrior grandmother’||At a time when street artistes across India are having their livelihoods wiped out by the COVID-19 pandemic, the feisty spirit of octogenarian Shantabai Pawar, 80, a Pune street performer skilled in lathi kathi (stick-wielding), shines like a bright torch. A string of family tragedies, aggravated by the raging pandemic, has compelled this matriarch, who lives with her large family of more than 15 members, to perform once more on the streets to earn her daily bread. “My parents had taught me to wield sticks since the age of eight. But today, my son in unwell. My second son has epileptic fits while another son has passed away. One of my daughters-in-law has died too, while another has deserted us. So, today, despite corona, I must fight and practice my art to earn bread for my grandchildren,” she says. After a scintillating lap, this ‘warrior grandmother’ humbly bows and points to her belly in hopes for a small gratuity doled out by a kind passer-by. “People warned me not to go out saying that the virus will get me. But if I don’t go out, how will we eat?” she says. Steely resolve However, her plaintive tone belies a steely determination to educate her grandchildren with whom she lives in a matchbox-sized home which is part of a slum cluster in Pune’s Hadapsar area. A video of Ms. Pawar performing with her sticks, made by a young woman, went viral on social media on Thursday, and elicited adulation from Pune’s Police Commissioner Dr. K. Venkatesham. “Talent has no boundaries,” tweeted Dr. Venkatesham. Bollywood actors Riteish Deshmukh and Sonu Sood, too, have expressed an interest in helping her. Ms. Pawar, who had bit parts performing stunts in Bollywood blockbusters, worked in the 1972 Bollywood blockbuster Seeta aur Geeta (1972) starring Hema Malini, and also had parts in Sherni with Sridevi in 1988, and in Tridev (1989). “I have always made my living honestly, never asking for anything, unlike many others. And if I must die, I’ll do so fighting on the streets, with my sticks” she says.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Jnana, not a rule or law||The major section of the Vedas deals with karmas one performs with thought, word and deed. In them, many types of karmas for different goals that are attainable with human effort are explained in detail. This is because man’s desires are infinite. In contrast, the jnana kanda section of the Vedas known as the Upanishads or Vedanta is smaller in size as it deals with the attainment of moksha, which cannot vary for individuals and promises the same end to all. The volume and size of the karma kanda section does not confer any special merit or importance to it even as the value of jnana is not to be downplayed owing to the lesser number of sutras offered as explanation. This is the argument raised in Naishkarmya Siddhi by Sureshvaracharya, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. The goals of karma are finite and temporary while the goal of jnana is infinite. Even one statement such as ‘Tatvam Asi’ suffices to explain this infinite goal, moksha. If the votaries of karma fail to perceive the truth taught in the sastras regarding the supreme goal of man as the realisation of atma jnana, the fault is not in the text but in their perception. What is important is to realise that samsara is caused by ignorance and ignorance is removed by knowing the true nature of atma. Unlike karmas such as yagas and yagnas that are performed with human effort, jnana is not under human control. Jnana cannot be explained as a rule or law. It is not to be gained even by atma upasana. Perhaps recalling the fact that atma is always existing, swayam prakasa and of the essence of consciousness, helps one to distance oneself from all that is not atma. From mere intellectual awareness one learns to dismiss all that is non self. Then atma alone automatically shines.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 08:06 IST,||Sudoku - July 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Pork for the heart and soul||The pandemic has spread some cheer, too. People all around me are honing their skills and reaching out to others. This is especially true of the food business. Now that restaurants are mostly shut, I find chefs and others looking at ways to bring something special to the table — and then sending it across to those who’d like a share of it. One such person is chef Sambaran Mitra. I met him, five years ago, at his tiny restaurant in Malviya Nagar. It was called Bong Appétit, and I recall that he had rustled up the most delicious of Bengali dishes for us. He moved to other locations, and I lost touch with him. Then, some days ago, I found out that he had started delivering smoked pork from an outlet called Meathead in Gurugram (Phone no: 8588074566). Say pork, and my eyes light up like balconies on Diwali. I called him up and heard that he would soon be selling other kinds of smoked meat, but right now is focusing on smoked pork. Every week, he prepares it in a different way. The week that I ordered from Meathead, he had readied three kinds of wood smoked pork: chops, pork belly, and pulled ham. The chef assures us that the meat (from locally bred Yorkshire pigs) is cooked in a sanitised kitchen. It comes packed in airtight packages and is ready to eat, but you can dip the package in simmering hot water for 10 minutes or microwave it in the same packaging for a couple of minutes. But immersing it in hot water yields the best results. We did so, and then put the pork chops for a few minutes in the air fryer, too (though there was really no need for that). The belly and chops were delicious — tender and juicy — and the smoky flavour was absolutely tantalising. The belly was lined with a thick layer of succulent fat, which actually melted in the mouth. The flavours were mild, yet nicely zesty. A happy meal and a conversation later, I learnt that Chef Baron (as he is known) first rubbed the pork in some paprika, pepper, garlic, and sea salt. He marinated the meat overnight in pineapple juice. And then he smoked it on hickory and mesquite (khejri) wood — the chops for four hours, and the pork belly for 10 hours. The pulled ham had been mixed with onion, garlic, paprika, pepper, ketchup, and honey, and came with a sweet-and-tangy barbecue sauce. I ate it with a slice of toasted bread, some homemade sauerkraut and a green salad — and enjoyed it thoroughly. Next week, he is offering char siu pork belly and Thai sweet chilli spare ribs (Rs. 1,000Rs. to 1,400 for 500 g), depending on the preparation. He is still planning the menu for the week after that, but has some idea of using Argentinian spices. Chef Baron used to be in the merchant navy before he quit his job to follow a dream. The merchant navy’s loss was our stomach and soul’s gain. The writer is a seasoned food critic
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Opening a virtual jewel box||Digital fashion weeks have become a reality, be it in London, Paris or Shanghai. But it is the upcoming showcase in Helsinki, starting July 27, that many are tracking. Considered a fringe fashion week with its focus on sustainability over the last three years, it seems to be in for much more recognition this month. There are partnerships between 3D architects and designers, and Helsinki Fashion Week (HFW) founder, Evelyn Mora, has explained in interviews that ‘designers in residence’ content and cyber networking possibilities are a part of the mix. To better understand this journey from tangible to digital, we asked participant Roma Narsinghani to step in. Popular for her vintage hair buns, gold-plated bindis and ear caps, Mumbai-based Narsinghani, 35, creates wearable art out of reclaimed brass. Artistes like Madame Gandhi and Sonam Kapoor are often seen in them. At Lakmé Fashion Week in February, an Amit Aggarwal model sported a kinetic flower between her lips. It opened and closed as she walked the runway. That piece of jewellery was courtesy Narsinghani. “I had to work with my mechanical engineer cousin for it,” she says. So clearly, when HFW reached out in April about participation, and about switching from handmade to digital, she wasn’t going to say no. Not even if her current base, Goa, meant she had no cellular connectivity. “I haven’t received a normal call in the four months since we got here and it gets a bit embarrassing as I cannot control the electricity or network issues in Goa,” she explains. That said, multiple dongles, hotspots and a team that has perfected WFH, have helped make Gaia, her eight-piece collection, possible. That and her tie-up with Adhiraj Singh, the Delhi-based 3D artist behind the digi-fashion brand, LOTA.  Of avatars and revenue  “When HFW contacted us and we began conceptualising, we realised their 3D team was only equipped to do apparel. I then decided to work with Adhiraj as I had already featured LOTA at Future Collective [a not-for-profit outfit that celebrates conscious living through events and communication]. She explains how her in-house team created the renders and 3D models, then sent them to Singh who digitised them, “made the gold life-like” and placed them on the model. The HFW team had converted eight human models to digital avatars, so it helped that Singh had also launched India’s first CGI influencer last year. “He changed the way I look at things. When I think of jewellery, I think of metal, heaviness, size and practicality. We broke that barrier because of the fact that digital is limitless,” she says. While seven of the pieces are functional, and a few designs are being sent to Jaipur to be handmade in brass (for retail in November), there is a “surreal, conceptual piece” made in collaboration with Singh. She hopes to pitch it to virtual gaming and fashion e-tailers. “So it’s not like there is no revenue model at all,” she says, adding, “HFW is also helping us put up our pieces on blockchain where people will be able to have ownership of our files.”  Tech support  Being a part of HFW has meant turning the file storage service, Google Drive, into her virtual studio, and converting all ‘offline experiments’ into Zoom calls. “It has been a full relearning. For our 3D renders, we use Solid Works, and Trello to update our assignments for everyone,” she tries to explain. And there have been a host of webinars from HFW as “we are 15 designers who have really never done anything like this before”. This includes other Indians — Neha Celly of Bluehemia, a denim research and design firm in Bengaluru, and Helena Bajaj Larsen, an Indian-Norwegian textile designer — so don’t forget to catch the show.      Gaia is priced from Rs. 1,500   and will début at HFW   on July 29, 8.45 pm.   At helsinkifashionweeklive.com
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Sicily Chechi’s ‘super’ act||If you’ve been watching the #CookingwithTZac series on chef Thomas Zacharias’ Instagram channel, then Sicily Chechi is not a stranger. If you haven’t, here’s your weekend binge. But what do we know of her? The masked superhero — yes, that’s the only image she is willing to share — loves her anonymity and has a funny bone a mile long. She has also known The Bombay Canteen chef for more than two decades (“we used to make home videos of him performing magic tricks”). And if you go by the comments section, many claim they are “bigger fans” of her than Zacharias. Statements such as “Got pretty drunk by the end of the video thanks to @SicilyChechi’s shot game” and “I should be able to sue you for making me snort at 2.43 am” are pretty good indicators of her popularity. So we tracked her down for a quick Q&A on her editing rules and skills in the kitchen (none, sadly).  What cooking videos did you cut your teeth on?  I’m totally new to the world of cooking videos. In fact, I made my debut with chef TZac’s recipes and I’m so good at it already. Hard to believe, no? But I was introduced to visual media from an early age. I used to take computer animation classes during my summer holidays and a lot of my editing skills are a result of that.   A tired move in cooking videos that must be retired.    Starting every cooking video with “Welcome to yet another episode of Cooking with TZac.” I’ve been telling this guy to retire this move since his second video and add a nicely-packaged opening sequence with background score by Prateek Kuhad or When Chai Met Toast. He claims he can’t afford it. Pfft! I’m sick of recipe videos on the Internet looking so manicured and flawless. They give this false impression to noviceslike me that only highly-skilled cooks can take on these recipes. What cooking videos need desperately is a little bit more depth, beyond just what is being put on the plate. Chefs need to find their own unique voice. Like TZac found mine. LOL!  What is the secret behind popular cooking videos (by chefs) on social media?   People don’t like working too hard for their supper, but they still want the recipes to be unique. Word on the street is that videos also need to be short format and be contained in 5-7 minutes. With the #CookingwithTZac series, chef [Thomas Zacharias] and I are trying to challenge these baseless rules. Most of the videos have been 10-15 minutes long and they have a willing audience. Yes, the recipes are fairly simple but there’s also a lot of thought and love going into them... when TZac’s not getting distracted by flying objects.  The correlation between recycling kitchen waste and ‘cooking video’ out-takes?   Oh, both are precious and highly underrated. Some day I will start my own comedy channel filled with videos of out-takes, sell it to Netflix, make millions and retire. Until then, you can find some good repurposed ‘waste’ on my Twitter or Instagram handle @SicilyChechi [not a subtle plug at all].   There’s n o room for embarrassment on social media. Why?    These days, it seems there’s no tolerance or room for anything that doesn’t conform to societal norms. There seems to be this need for everyone to be perfect. It’s time we broke the chain. It’s okay to slip up, be vulnerable or laugh at yourself.   Your checklist for post production and a software/app you cannot do without.    We take turns with the editing using an app called Splice. I’m the lazier one so, more often than not, TZac does the boring work. I just make sure the interesting parts — like those slo-mo shots of his awkward facial expressions — are in there.  How much prep goes into the videos?   Influencers these days want to be frequent with putting out content, just churning them out like rabbit babies. Quality gets compromised and there’s a lot of trashy stuff coming out. But genius takes time. I typically take anywhere from three days to a week to work on one of the videos. It’s a lot, I know. But I also have a life and a day job.  Tell us about yourself. Why ‘Sicily Chechi’?  That’s the million-dollar question, isn’t it? I’m not sure why people want to know more about me. It’s the old ‘separate the art from the artist’ argument, you know. I’ll still give you a few fun facts. I was a child actor back in the ’90s and made my way into a few Malayalam ads. I like to dance to Bollywood tracks and my favourite colour is magenta [mostly because I like how it sounds]. The ‘ chechi ’ comes from the Malayalam word for elder sister. But if there’s a potential cute Mallu boy who has taken my fancy, just Sicily will do.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On exams, marks and piranha||Dear child o’ mine, When I was your age, I walked three miles to school, over a bridge that collapsed in the monsoon, ironed my uniform to a crisp, and spit-shone my own shoes. I had no computer and relied on my brains to… Reboot! Let’s start with that brainpower. When I passed out of school, I was terribly proud of my marks. So were my parents. Ladoo -sharing proud. Now when I see the exam marks you lot are getting, I almost pass out. The cold sweat is from realising that the marks I’d got, which catapulted me into all sorts of prestigious colleges then, would now have me scrambling at the lowest rungs of the ladder, just out of reach of the snapping jaws of piranha. The truth is, we had it easier. There, I said it! Kids today are so brilliant that parents today would never survive being kids today. Two years before your board exams, you go underground, stop playing and become Vitamin-D deficient (all for a good cause), shun distractions, work out sample papers till midnight, wake up before the crowing rooster to drink your energy drinks and go at it again. You deserve your stratospheric marks. School was a place of learning for us too, lest we let our beloved alma maters down. We learnt geometry through the best angle to fall asleep at, to stay hidden behind the classmate sitting in front. We learnt to improve our writing by writing ‘I will improve my writing’ a thousand times. We learnt history. True, we forgot the exact dates of battles, but we learnt why wars were fought. After a knee-scraping, hair-pulling fight, we learnt that no one cared later why we’d fought, and celebrating victory wasn’t as sweet with a bust lip. We learnt that wars are about egos and no one really wins. The marks we were proud of were the scars on our elbows when we fell off the tree but got the kite or the mango or the kitten down safely. Marks are important. Your marks today are testimony to your hard work, proof that you will stick with the toughest tasks to get to the finishing line. We’d have wandered off midway to read a comic in the shade of a tree. We were an easy-to-please bunch, but you’ve set your bar much higher. Celebrate your marks. Let no one belittle or scorn them. If any adults mutter that exams are easier nowadays, dare them to sit for one. And remember, mark sheets, like elbows, cannot be compared. You’ve learnt to walk the three miles, to cross the water-logged bridge and swim with piranha in one of the toughest stints of your lives. Wear your exams like war wounds, your signs of a fight well fought. You’ve learnt way more than what these exams measured. With incalculable (ahem, remember, we grew up without computers) love and pride, Your ‘my-kid-will-kill-me-if-I-post-this’ parent. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||No strangers in the wild||Chimpanzees mourn the death of a loved one, rodents practise monogamy — all traits that are similar to us, humans. As I talk to Janaki Lenin about her latest book, Every Creature Has a Story , I learn more fascinating parallels. I am catching up with the author two years after the release of her second book, My Husband & Other Animals 2 , and she tells me the new one is a spin-off, “though my husband [Rom Whitaker, wildlife conservationist and founder of the Madras Snake Park] doesn’t feature in it”. The style is different too: “There is a certain formality to the language as I draw from scientific journals.” The compilation of 50 essays (selected from over a 100 written for The Wire in 2015) delve into the many unique behavioural patterns found in the wild. Talking science The essays started taking shape when she finished My Husband & Other Animals 2 and began looking for something new to write on. A piece she did on creatures who leave their natal homes got her exploring the science of animal behaviour. “As a child I was traumatised by the idea of leaving my parental home when I got married. I found it unfair, and it had a huge impact on me,” says Lenin, 50, who embarked on a “great big research safari, looking at many different animal species, primarily those closely related to humans”. The discoveries were plenty: from elephants being immune to cancer and plants that secrete juices to ward off predators and disease immunity in bees. “[The human] civilisation is not as unique as we think. The more urbanised we get, the more alienated we feel from our fauna relatives, which leads to all sorts of dysfunctions, such as thinking that humans are superior and animals have a right to life only if they are of some use to us.” She is quick to clarify, however, that while she engages with scientific studies, she is critical and perceives them as an outsider. “It is like a two-way conversation I am having with scientists and there is an indirect pressure from the reader that drives me to ask questions,” says Lenin, who does not have a science background and had to “push the boundaries of my own limitations”. Meet the firestarters As someone who “hated science in school”, Lenin believes that if someone had taken the trouble to explain the subject like a story, she would have been in science today, or even research. Who wouldn’t want to explore findings such as birds that ignite fires? “This is an amazing story that emerged from Australia. Aboriginal communities have reported of birds [they call them firehawks] that pick up embers and carry them to an area to start a fire [so that they can feed on the insects and small animals fleeing the blaze].” Other learnings, from the various scientific journals she sifted through, include how giraffes adapt to their long necks, which could provide insights into the treatment of cardiovascular issues and hypertension in humans. Lessons from your balcony Based on her observations during the lockdown, Lenin says people on social media talked a lot about watching nature from their balconies. “The crisis has paused their lives and they are now observing birds visiting, new flowers and even spiders.” She believes this could be a beginning; of forging a new bond with nature. “People say paying attention to nature is like meditating. I don’t meditate but I get my inner peace from nature. I hope people carry forward this connection with nature in the new normal,” she concludes.  Published by HarperCollins India,Every Creature Has a Storyreleases on July 27 and is priced at Rs. 599.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||DIY your music career||When playback singer Nikhita Gandhi wanted to release her music back in high school, she did not have a record label deal. “As an independent artiste, it is important to understand the business and be self-empowered,” she says. Using TuneCore — which allows musicians to distribute their work on platforms like Spotify, Apple Music and 150 other audio download and streaming sites — she was able to get her work noticed. The independent digital music distribution, publishing and licensing service (founded in 2005) launched operations in India earlier this month. “When an artiste decides to put their music out, it is important for them to think like an entrepreneur. It needs to be marketed and delivered to listeners. Because of the way the industry has evolved, they have support to independently optimise visibility and distribution, and TuneCore is part of that process,” says country manager Heena Kriplani. This is the eighth international expansion for the Brooklyn-based company, which also has operations in the UK, Australia, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and Canada. “TuneCore has been serving local talent since 2006. When the need for a more localised tool was apparent, we began an in-depth study into the Indian music landscape,” says Kriplani. This included accounting for regional language music and bringing in an industry veteran like Kriplani herself, who has worked with Gibson Industries for over a decade. There are also guides written by music publisher Achille Forler and podcaster Mae Thomas, sharing practical steps and tailored advice. One success story is rapper 100 RBH, from Amravati in Maharashtra. By distributing his music, he was able to get a record deal plus playback singing opportunities. A dashboard allows users to track their digital music sales and sign up for Facebook, Instagram and YouTube monetisation services. For the first year, they offer 50% off the regular distribution costs, with singles available for Rs. 499 and albums for Rs. 1,499. The artiste retains 100% of sales revenue and rights to their work. “We’re constantly evolving. The plan is to productise trends and make them available to artistes as they happen,” concludes Kriplani.  Details: tunecore.in
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Who’s been infected?||Covid-19 is more permanent now than marital vows, but perhaps a shade darker. Just like post-prandial public belching, it is time we learnt to make it a part of our existence. But it shouldn’t be tough living with a virus on our arm; we have so many other pandemics that not only do we constantly live with but even entirely fail to notice:  American accent: I never get why Jamaicans and Australians never lose their accent, no matter where they migrate to, but I fail to get even more why Indians who stay in the US and then come back never lose that accent! It’s like those four years of college and five years of H1B1 change their speech DNA for good. Must be a virus, I suspect. The only cure: export them back to America where our Caucasian counterparts will waste no time in setting things straight. I mean, not even SRK was spared.     Homophobia: I used the ending ‘-phobia’ because I don’t know the Latin suffix for stupidity. The term is coined wrong. It’s not a fear, and certainly not a logical or rational one. So it must be a disease, possibly viral, one that goes largely undetected but crops up in conversations and other social settings. Luckily, it’s not contagious, but like a stink in an elevator, it marks the room with a party-pooping pallor.     Selfies: As common as the cold and shares traits with degenerative problems — most pertinently, the degenerative part. Except, instead of your system, it degrades all (or any remaining) sense of self-respect and dignity. In that sense, it’s like alopecia: incurable for the moment but a lot more self-effacing. It won’t kill you, but in advanced sufferers one will notice an instant puckering up of the mouth whenever faced with a lens.     Insta Reels: Everybody indulging in this is infected, but only the over-30 are symptomatic, the commonest and most obvious one being a sad, silent cry of despair for acceptability and social validation. I’d have said act your age, but the failure of that part of the brain to function properly is what initially landed you on TikTok and then Insta Reels in the first place. Other symptoms include a heightened sense of trust in one’s dancing and acting skills. Severe patients even fancy themselves singers and film editors. The real suffering here, however, is reserved for those who have to live with these talentless self-professed experts of nothing specific. The only treatment is the one called ‘Get a life’. Immediately.     Moral police: Once again the word ‘policing’ is stretched to cover usage that is way beyond its intended application. Strange because ‘extortion’ and ‘abuse’ already existed as perfectly good words to describe the activities of this ilk. From supervising how others dress to how they behave, I think the virus latches on to their insecurities and builds up deep-rooted paranoia with illusions of grandeur and a vague sense of control. Cure: isolation ward, preferably on a faraway island, ideally infested with hitherto undiscovered carnivorous species of posterior-eating ants.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Bands for brothers||Over the past few months, celebrations have been muted in the wake of the pandemic. However, lockdown has seen a strengthening of family ties — either after being holed up at home or isolated from loved ones because of travel restrictions. No wonder then that Raksha Bandhan is being greeted with renewed excitement. With prevailing anti-China sentiments, the Confederation of All India Traders expects the imported rakhi business to take a Rs. 4,000 crore hit. So this season, the increased demand for locally-made products is being met by Indian designers, who are stepping up with pieces that reflect their aesthetic. Like Anavila’s signature florals, which make their presence felt on a range of artisanal rakhis made from linen, organza and silk (each at Rs. 2,100). The Mumbai-based designer also has a curation of handwoven saris. Clueless brothers can take a short survey about their sister’s style and personality (how she spends her free time, her preferred style of dressing) and browse through a selected list of products. On anavila.com. Sanjay Garg’s Raw Mango also has an edit of saris, stoles,odhanisandkurta-salwarsets to gift. From Rs. 2,500 onwards on shop.rawmango.com. Suhani Pittie’s largely traditional collection features Om symbols, Ganesha motifs and rudrakshas , with the occasional flower or pearl making an appearance. The Hyderabad-based jewellery designer has a selection of lumba rakhis (in Marwari families, this is tied for sisters-in-law, usually on their bangles) too, that have been gaining popularity over the last couple of years. Pick from matching sets or ones decorated with cowrie shells, coins and sandalwood beads. From Rs. 300 onwards. Local customers can also upgrade certain designs to a 22K gold piece. Details: suhaniepittie.com. Delhi-based designer Karan Torani also has a collection of bhabhi (sister-in-law) rakhis , with mirrors, wooden birds and thread tassels, made of vibrant chanderi fabric (Rs. 2,000 each). For the brothers, there are hand-embroidered pieces with paisley motifs in rose, ecru and olive hues. From Rs. 2,000. Add a special gift box at Rs. 1,000, and the team will ship it to your sibling anywhere in the world, with a hand-written note. Details: torani.in. Nicobar’s love of spice motifs continues with a cardamom rakhi in this year’s edit. The charm is cast in brass and plated in gold or silver, with a vibrant saffron or blue thread respectively. They also have Hindi letter motifs on offer. At Rs. 750 each on nicobar.com. And Tribe Amrapali has a collection of handcrafted silver and gold-plated rakhis featuring intricate designs, floral motifs and jadau work. To celebrate, they are offering 10% off on all collections online and in store till July 26. Prices range from Rs. 650 to Rs. 4,100. Details: tribeamrapali.com.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Vidya Balan: flying solo again||Vidya Balan has a knack to make you feel heard. She grins, nods, ponders and responds animatedly, even in the most chaotic environments — like the backstage of an event, as she’s being ushered around by demanding managers. Almost always dressed in elaborate Indian attire, she has a certain feral alertness while interacting with the media. She may be regurgitating her answers in an unending conveyor belt of pre-release interviews, but she makes you believe that you are the first to hear them. With her latest film, the biopic Shakuntala Devi , marking her inadvertent foray into the streaming space due to the Covid-19 pandemic (the film was shot for the big screen), the 41-year-old is compelled to meet the press over video and audio calls from her Mumbai home. That does not deter Balan from dressing up when she speaks with us. She is indulging her Malayali roots in a loosely-fitted mustard silk pant suit with clamp-dyed shibori dots, designed by Kochi-based brand Rouka by Sreejith Jeevan and made by differently-abled artisans. She shares this deep love for dressing up with Devi, which made her instantly drawn to the late mathematical genius, writer and politician from Bengaluru, famously known as the ‘human computer’. Devi’s talent earned her a place in The Guinness Book of World Records and took her around the world, where she ‘performed’ her skill of calculating at an astonishing speed. Her mind was the subject of several studies, including one at the University of California, Berkley. “She defies the image of a boring mathematician,” observes Balan. “Till the very end [of her life] she coloured her hair, wore bright saris and lipstick, and was the life of a party whenever she went to one; she lived it up. She also had a wicked sense of humour. She is the only computer [I know] with a sense of humour!” Filmmakers who’ve worked with Balan notice the same high-octane presence in the actor. “Vidya, for me, is a lot of fun to work with,” says Sujoy Ghosh, who directed her in Kahaani , a landmark project in her career. Playing a pregnant woman in the critically-acclaimed crime-thriller, she was lauded for delicately traversing the line between strength and vulnerability. “She brings a serious amount of happy energy on the set, which is priceless,” he adds.  Living on her terms  An outsider to Bollywood, Balan made her foray into cinema from television through her breakout role in Parineeta (2005), in her late 20s. It was, what many would call, a late start for a lead actress in Bollywood. But thereon, she carved a unique space for herself, where she not only acted in films led by solo female characters, but also demonstrated that they can be profitable. It is the reason she is attracted to women like Devi, Silk Smitha ( Dirty Picture , 2011), Krishna Verma ( Ishqiya , 2010), Sulochana Dubey ( Tumhari Sulu , 2017), and Tara Shinde ( Mission Mangal , 2019) — they lived on their own terms. “I feel if Shakuntala Devi could live her life the way she did way back then, we women who have it much easier today have no reason not to stand our ground and fight for our dreams,” she declares. What Balan found most inspiring about Devi is her unapologetic desire to have it all, irrespective of her age. Beyond her mathematical prowess, Devi wrote numerous books on a variety of subjects, from caste, rural development, parenting to homosexuality. Her tumultuous marriage with her first husband, who was gay, inspired her to write The World of Homosexuals (1977), containing personal interviews with queer men. Itwas believed to be the first educational tome on the subject in post-Independent India. “It was almost like she was living so many lives at the same time, and for a woman at that time I think that was amazing,” says Balan.  Impudent yet grounded  In 2016, when Devi’s daughter, Anupama Banerji, asked filmmaker Anu Menon who she had in mind to play her mother, Menon instantly named Balan (without even approaching her). “Both Shakuntala Devi and Vidya have the ability to listen to their inner voice, go after it unapologetically, own their successes and failures [equally], are witty and have the biggest laughs,” says Menon. Balan’s previous experience with biopics like Dirty Picture made the creative process easier, as they both agreed the film ought to capture the essence of a personality rather than be an-all encompassing life account or an imitation. The tone of the film reflects Devi’s whimsical, impudent personality, making Balan — a gregarious and ebullient actor — a perfect fit. “Vidya also has the best set etiquette for an actor that I have ever worked with,” says Menon. “She has this innate ability to have the right balance between being collaborative yet carving that space for herself so she can rejuvenate.” Balan has adeptly been juggling personal and professional life by doing a film a year since more than a decade. “Someone just told me that Akshay [Kumar] has announced a whole lot of films over the next two years and I was like, ‘Wow that’s so inspiring; more power to him’. Here I’m trying to hibernate between two films,” she chortles.  Digital retake  While shooting for Amit Masurkar’s Sherni in March, the actor had to return to Mumbai because of the pandemic and the concomitant lockdown. “We had to wrap up, but we hope to resume post rains,” she says. With the looming uncertainties, she is apprehensive of taking on any new projects and prefers to wait and see how the post-pandemic world will look like for Bollywood. But she is hopeful that cinema halls will stay, even if big-ticket films like Shakuntala Devi and Gulabo Sitabo are finding a direct OTT release. “It is [being] a bit alarmist when people say, ‘Oh, it is going to be the end of people going to the theatres’,” she says. “If anything, digital is only going to widen the horizon.” (Alongside Shakuntala Devi , Amazon Prime Video is also releasing Radioactive , a biopic of Polish-French physicist and chemist Maria Skłodowska-Curie, another celebrated woman in science, played by Rosamund Pike.) Like many of her contemporaries, the actor hasn’t shied away from dabbling in various digital mediums. While the plans of her playing Indira Gandhi in a web series look rather uncertain, she was recently seen in a short film, Natkhat — playing a mother struggling to raise a child in the thick of toxic masculinity — for which she also turned producer. The film premiered at the ‘We Are One’ online film festival, further consolidating her interest in vocalising the ugliness of deep-rooted patriarchy and machismo, and showcasing a spectrum of women who made efforts to liberate themselves in cinema. Shakuntala Devi premières on Amazon Prime Video on July 31.  I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured inThe Guinness Book of World Records. But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’  Continued on page 3   I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured in the Guinness Book of World Records . But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||100 Days of Cooking: Ever heard of clove beans, veldt grape or sponge gourd? Chennai-based food designer Akash Muralidharan started a challenge to cook 100 recipes from an iconic Tamil cookbook calledSamaithu Paar(Cook and See) using vegetables that are disappearing from the South Indian kitchen. While he completed his goal recently, he continues to share the research that went into the project. Follow @akash_muralidharan.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Of past and present||Add to your lockdown reading list with author Ruskin Bond’s much-awaitedA Song of India. In the charmingly illustrated book, the writer takes the reader back to his last year in Dehradun, before he set sail for England. Published by Puffin Books and on amazon.in for Rs. 263. Meanwhile, author Shobhaa De’sLockdown Liaisons, a compilation of 24 short stories, will be out as a paperback on July 28. It aims to explore ‘the lockdown state of mind’. Published by Simon & Schuster India, and priced at Rs. 350.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Gourmet at home||Kocoatrait’s L Nitin Chordia organises a virtual tasting session of Indian bean-to-bar chocolates. The treats will be delivered to your doorstep prior to the session. On July 26 from 8 pm to 10 pm on Gmeet. At Rs. 2,530. To register, visit cocoatrait.com. If you are looking to order in, Park Hyatt offers Italian, Indian and Pan Asian cuisines along with their signatures from The Flying Elephant restaurant, with digital payments for contactless takeaway and delivery. Details: 8939871128 on WhatsApp
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||T-shirts for a cause||Entrepreneurs Hemali Jain and Priyanka Khanna have launched Duniya 2020, an initiative to create awareness about sustainable fashion. It sees 30 designers, including Anamika Khanna, Kresha Bajaj, Péro, Payal Singhal, Ridhi Mehra, Anushka Khanna, Saaksha & Kinni, and Dhruv Kapoor contributing a bespoke T-shirt design to the cause. Each T-shirt (for men and women) is custom-made using recycled fabrics, earthy prints and embroideries. The pieces go on sale at curato.in starting July 29, from Rs. 2,500-Rs. 7,000.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Kanye West: The rapper is the latest candidate to join the US Presidential Race. He kicked off his campaign with an unconventional rally in Charleston, South Carolina, earlier this week. His rants covered topics like abortion and Harriet Tubman. His social media mogul wife, Kim Kardashian, went online to address his struggle with mental health issues, concluding that compassion and empathy is needed.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On air with Michelle||Spotify’sThe Michelle Obama Podcastis the first release from their ongoing partnership with Higher Ground Productions (founded by the Obamas). Listen as the former US First Lady shares candid and personal conversations, on siblings and close friends to partners, parents and mentors. By exploring the audio territory, she hopes to inspire empathy. Joining her will be an array of special guests, including Marian and Craig Robinson, Conan O’Brien, Valerie Jarett, Michele Norris and Dr Sharon Malone. Starting July 29.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Art x Fashion from KNMA||Art and fashion meet on Kiran Nadar Museum of Art's social media platforms. Designers Gauri and Nainika, Amit Aggarwal, Sanjay Garg, and most recently, Kalyani Chawla of Christian Dior Couture have featured in conversations. Looking to create your own art? Bound, an e-learning platform, offers online creative classes, including one on making your own comic book. Work with Abhijeet Kini ofTinkleComics on July 30 and 31, from 6 pm to 8 pm. For ages 16 and up at Rs. 1,500. Details: boundindia.com
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Eye on mental health||Discuss the power and potential of performing arts in a webinar with Bhavana Issar, CEO and founder of Caregiver Saathi, organised by Prakriti Foundation. She will address how caregivers are usually invisible in our society and their voices are not heard. Today at 4 pm. Register for free on bit.ly/CSWS01. Join Kommune and InnerHour’s mental health hour, along with a panel of creative minds, including entrepreneur Pooja Jauhari, spoken word poet Megha Rao and writer Nikhil Taneja. Details: insider.in
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, Mythili Prakash will talk about a dancer’s relationship with the body and mind. With Akhila Krishnamurthy at 9 pm. On Sunday at 5 pm, join columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai in conversation with nutritionist Shonali Sabherwal, discussing the qualifications needed to be a health practitioner and the difference between a dietician, nutritionist and health coach. From earlier this week, watch author Janaki Lenin discussing her latest book with Aparna Karthikeyan. All sessions @thehinduweekend.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Vidya Balan: flying solo again||Vidya Balan has a knack to make you feel heard. She grins, nods, ponders and responds animatedly, even in the most chaotic environments — like the backstage of an event, as she’s being ushered around by demanding managers. Almost always dressed in elaborate Indian attire, she has a certain feral alertness while interacting with the media. She may be regurgitating her answers in an unending conveyor belt of pre-release interviews, but she makes you believe that you are the first to hear them. With her latest film, the biopic Shakuntala Devi , marking her inadvertent foray into the streaming space due to the Covid-19 pandemic (the film was shot for the big screen), the 41-year-old is compelled to meet the press over video and audio calls from her Mumbai home. That does not deter Balan from dressing up when she speaks with us. She is indulging her Malayali roots in a loosely-fitted mustard silk pant suit with clamp-dyed shibori dots, designed by Kochi-based brand Rouka by Sreejith Jeevan and made by differently-abled artisans. She shares this deep love for dressing up with Devi, which made her instantly drawn to the late mathematical genius, writer and politician from Bengaluru, famously known as the ‘human computer’. Devi’s talent earned her a place in The Guinness Book of World Records and took her around the world, where she ‘performed’ her skill of calculating at an astonishing speed. Her mind was the subject of several studies, including one at the University of California, Berkley. “She defies the image of a boring mathematician,” observes Balan. “Till the very end [of her life] she coloured her hair, wore bright saris and lipstick, and was the life of a party whenever she went to one; she lived it up. She also had a wicked sense of humour. She is the only computer [I know] with a sense of humour!” Filmmakers who’ve worked with Balan notice the same high-octane presence in the actor. “Vidya, for me, is a lot of fun to work with,” says Sujoy Ghosh, who directed her in Kahaani , a landmark project in her career. Playing a pregnant woman in the critically-acclaimed crime-thriller, she was lauded for delicately traversing the line between strength and vulnerability. “She brings a serious amount of happy energy on the set, which is priceless,” he adds.  Living on her terms  An outsider to Bollywood, Balan made her foray into cinema from television through her breakout role in Parineeta (2005), in her late 20s. It was, what many would call, a late start for a lead actress in Bollywood. But thereon, she carved a unique space for herself, where she not only acted in films led by solo female characters, but also demonstrated that they can be profitable. It is the reason she is attracted to women like Devi, Silk Smitha ( Dirty Picture , 2011), Krishna Verma ( Ishqiya , 2010), Sulochana Dubey ( Tumhari Sulu , 2017), and Tara Shinde ( Mission Mangal , 2019) — they lived on their own terms. “I feel if Shakuntala Devi could live her life the way she did way back then, we women who have it much easier today have no reason not to stand our ground and fight for our dreams,” she declares. What Balan found most inspiring about Devi is her unapologetic desire to have it all, irrespective of her age. Beyond her mathematical prowess, Devi wrote numerous books on a variety of subjects, from caste, rural development, parenting to homosexuality. Her tumultuous marriage with her first husband, who was gay, inspired her to write The World of Homosexuals (1977), containing personal interviews with queer men. Itwas believed to be the first educational tome on the subject in post-Independent India. “It was almost like she was living so many lives at the same time, and for a woman at that time I think that was amazing,” says Balan.  Impudent yet grounded  In 2016, when Devi’s daughter, Anupama Banerji, asked filmmaker Anu Menon who she had in mind to play her mother, Menon instantly named Balan (without even approaching her). “Both Shakuntala Devi and Vidya have the ability to listen to their inner voice, go after it unapologetically, own their successes and failures [equally], are witty and have the biggest laughs,” says Menon. Balan’s previous experience with biopics like Dirty Picture made the creative process easier, as they both agreed the film ought to capture the essence of a personality rather than be an-all encompassing life account or an imitation. The tone of the film reflects Devi’s whimsical, impudent personality, making Balan — a gregarious and ebullient actor — a perfect fit. “Vidya also has the best set etiquette for an actor that I have ever worked with,” says Menon. “She has this innate ability to have the right balance between being collaborative yet carving that space for herself so she can rejuvenate.” Balan has adeptly been juggling personal and professional life by doing a film a year since more than a decade. “Someone just told me that Akshay [Kumar] has announced a whole lot of films over the next two years and I was like, ‘Wow that’s so inspiring; more power to him’. Here I’m trying to hibernate between two films,” she chortles.  Digital retake  While shooting for Amit Masurkar’s Sherni in March, the actor had to return to Mumbai because of the pandemic and the concomitant lockdown. “We had to wrap up, but we hope to resume post rains,” she says. With the looming uncertainties, she is apprehensive of taking on any new projects and prefers to wait and see how the post-pandemic world will look like for Bollywood. But she is hopeful that cinema halls will stay, even if big-ticket films like Shakuntala Devi and Gulabo Sitabo are finding a direct OTT release. “It is [being] a bit alarmist when people say, ‘Oh, it is going to be the end of people going to the theatres’,” she says. “If anything, digital is only going to widen the horizon.” (Alongside Shakuntala Devi , Amazon Prime Video is also releasing Radioactive , a biopic of Polish-French physicist and chemist Maria Skłodowska-Curie, another celebrated woman in science, played by Rosamund Pike.) Like many of her contemporaries, the actor hasn’t shied away from dabbling in various digital mediums. While the plans of her playing Indira Gandhi in a web series look rather uncertain, she was recently seen in a short film, Natkhat — playing a mother struggling to raise a child in the thick of toxic masculinity — for which she also turned producer. The film premiered at the ‘We Are One’ online film festival, further consolidating her interest in vocalising the ugliness of deep-rooted patriarchy and machismo, and showcasing a spectrum of women who made efforts to liberate themselves in cinema. Shakuntala Devi premières on Amazon Prime Video on July 31.  I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured inThe Guinness Book of World Records. But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’  Continued on page 3   I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured in the Guinness Book of World Records . But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On exams, marks and piranha||Dear child o’ mine, When I was your age, I walked three miles to school, over a bridge that collapsed in the monsoon, ironed my uniform to a crisp, and spit-shone my own shoes. I had no computer and relied on my brains to… Reboot! Let’s start with that brainpower. When I passed out of school, I was terribly proud of my marks. So were my parents. Ladoo -sharing proud. Now when I see the exam marks you lot are getting, I almost pass out. The cold sweat is from realising that the marks I’d got, which catapulted me into all sorts of prestigious colleges then, would now have me scrambling at the lowest rungs of the ladder, just out of reach of the snapping jaws of piranha. The truth is, we had it easier. There, I said it! Kids today are so brilliant that parents today would never survive being kids today. Two years before your board exams, you go underground, stop playing and become Vitamin-D deficient (all for a good cause), shun distractions, work out sample papers till midnight, wake up before the crowing rooster to drink your energy drinks and go at it again. You deserve your stratospheric marks. School was a place of learning for us too, lest we let our beloved alma maters down. We learnt geometry through the best angle to fall asleep at, to stay hidden behind the classmate sitting in front. We learnt to improve our writing by writing ‘I will improve my writing’ a thousand times. We learnt history. True, we forgot the exact dates of battles, but we learnt why wars were fought. After a knee-scraping, hair-pulling fight, we learnt that no one cared later why we’d fought, and celebrating victory wasn’t as sweet with a bust lip. We learnt that wars are about egos and no one really wins. The marks we were proud of were the scars on our elbows when we fell off the tree but got the kite or the mango or the kitten down safely. Marks are important. Your marks today are testimony to your hard work, proof that you will stick with the toughest tasks to get to the finishing line. We’d have wandered off midway to read a comic in the shade of a tree. We were an easy-to-please bunch, but you’ve set your bar much higher. Celebrate your marks. Let no one belittle or scorn them. If any adults mutter that exams are easier nowadays, dare them to sit for one. And remember, mark sheets, like elbows, cannot be compared. You’ve learnt to walk the three miles, to cross the water-logged bridge and swim with piranha in one of the toughest stints of your lives. Wear your exams like war wounds, your signs of a fight well fought. You’ve learnt way more than what these exams measured. With incalculable (ahem, remember, we grew up without computers) love and pride, Your ‘my-kid-will-kill-me-if-I-post-this’ parent. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Who’s been infected?||Covid-19 is more permanent now than marital vows, but perhaps a shade darker. Just like post-prandial public belching, it is time we learnt to make it a part of our existence. But it shouldn’t be tough living with a virus on our arm; we have so many other pandemics that not only do we constantly live with but even entirely fail to notice:  American accent: I never get why Jamaicans and Australians never lose their accent, no matter where they migrate to, but I fail to get even more why Indians who stay in the US and then come back never lose that accent! It’s like those four years of college and five years of H1B1 change their speech DNA for good. Must be a virus, I suspect. The only cure: export them back to America where our Caucasian counterparts will waste no time in setting things straight. I mean, not even SRK was spared.     Homophobia: I used the ending ‘-phobia’ because I don’t know the Latin suffix for stupidity. The term is coined wrong. It’s not a fear, and certainly not a logical or rational one. So it must be a disease, possibly viral, one that goes largely undetected but crops up in conversations and other social settings. Luckily, it’s not contagious, but like a stink in an elevator, it marks the room with a party-pooping pallor.     Selfies: As common as the cold and shares traits with degenerative problems — most pertinently, the degenerative part. Except, instead of your system, it degrades all (or any remaining) sense of self-respect and dignity. In that sense, it’s like alopecia: incurable for the moment but a lot more self-effacing. It won’t kill you, but in advanced sufferers one will notice an instant puckering up of the mouth whenever faced with a lens.     Insta Reels: Everybody indulging in this is infected, but only the over-30 are symptomatic, the commonest and most obvious one being a sad, silent cry of despair for acceptability and social validation. I’d have said act your age, but the failure of that part of the brain to function properly is what initially landed you on TikTok and then Insta Reels in the first place. Other symptoms include a heightened sense of trust in one’s dancing and acting skills. Severe patients even fancy themselves singers and film editors. The real suffering here, however, is reserved for those who have to live with these talentless self-professed experts of nothing specific. The only treatment is the one called ‘Get a life’. Immediately.     Moral police: Once again the word ‘policing’ is stretched to cover usage that is way beyond its intended application. Strange because ‘extortion’ and ‘abuse’ already existed as perfectly good words to describe the activities of this ilk. From supervising how others dress to how they behave, I think the virus latches on to their insecurities and builds up deep-rooted paranoia with illusions of grandeur and a vague sense of control. Cure: isolation ward, preferably on a faraway island, ideally infested with hitherto undiscovered carnivorous species of posterior-eating ants.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Hardcore kink as therapy||Finnish filmmaker J-P Valkeapää makes hardcore kink appear tender. In Dogs Don’t Wear Pants , he showcases BDSM unflinchingly and at its extreme, yet balances it out with melancholia and almost dream-like images in the same sequence, creating a hard-to-watch yet captivating experience. It would be quite rudimentary to describe Valkeapää’s latest as provocative. There is rational and substance to his visualisation. In addition to the film’s graphic nature, it throws open some fascinating inquiries about the extremes of sexual pleasure and pain; the link between trauma and sexual awakening; and how the human mind can find catharsis in physical agony. A respected surgeon, Juha (Pekka Strang), grapples with the death of his wife, who drowned in a lake. This memory haunts him perpetually. So much so, that he sprays his wife’s cologne on her clothes and throws them over his face, as he masturbates. This motif is the start of a sexual fetish that eventually transforms into sadomasochism, as he accidentally meets a dominatrix in the darkroom of a dingy tattoo parlour. Mona (Krista Kosonen), the dominatrix, seldom shows emotions, as her job entails, but there’s more to her hardened self, which the film unfortunately never truly delves into. The film instead chooses to focus firmly on Juha, who transforms from an unsuspecting client — new to chains and whips — to a man addicted to strangulation for pleasure. Juha undergoes emotional metamorphosis by using pain to rejuvenate his damaged and numb mind. What works in the film’s favour is that it not only abstains from being judgemental (or worse, prudish) but also endorses a sex-positive attitude. The hardcore fetish is laced with universally familiar themes of trauma and haunting memories, thereby ‘normalising’ it. Through the eyes of a ‘regular’ man like Juha, the audience is incrementally ushered into an underground scene of extreme sexual acts, and eventually flips the gaze, using a typical coming-of-age arc. It’s quite interesting to see the film using a conventional narrative trajectory to deal with a subject that to most would be rather shocking. On one hand, we see melting candles on a naked body, golden showers, leather costumes, bondage gear, neon red dungeon, flaccid penis; and on the other, erotically-shot bodies underwater in soft embraces, creating an intriguing juxtaposition of human intimacy and pleasure. The sex scenes are tactfully executed to amplify the inherent power play in the act. The film also has a twisted and dark sense of humour, like the usage of The Crystal’s famously romantic song ‘Then He Kissed Me’ during a BDSM sequence. But it’s often hard to spot — let alone enjoy — these moments of black comedy, as the film constantly presents overwhelming and strong images. The initial awkwardness in Juha’s body language as he stumbles upon BDSM is easier to find comical rather than the successive scenes when he is fully incorporated into bondage. Strang perfectly executes the evolution of the character, which is certainly a tough job. He dexterously depicts the five stages of grief — denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance — through his body language. Kosonen, as Mona, is shrouded in mystery and reticence, staying true to her position of the dominatrix. Even though Juha and Mona assume clear roles in this dominant and submissive relationship, the power play between them remains fluid. They want to make an emotional breakthrough through pain and pleasure. Through them, Valkeapää highlights latent, almost primal, desires that exist right under the surface of ordinary suburbia, waiting to be unleashed by accident. Dogs Don’t Wear Pants is streaming on Mubi India.
25 July 2020||Bhopal,||1 held for ex-newspaper agency owner’s murder||The police in Niwari, Madhya Pradesh, on Friday arrested one of the seven accused in the killing of a former newspaper agency owner on Wednesday. “So far, one person has been arrested,” Superintendent of Police Vahni Singh told The Hindu . “We have given security to the family of the victim. Five personnel have been deployed outside their house. We are proceeding with the investigation but yet to nab the rest.” Death threats The police have claimed Sunil Tiwari was killed over an old rivalry on his way back home to Putri Khera village. Later, he died at the Jhansi Hospital in Uttar Pradesh. Months before the incident, claimed the police, Sunil had released a video purportedly saying he had informed the SP about death threats. “I am a simple journalist who revealed some of their irregularities,” he said in the video. “I got two of their licences cancelled which they got in a fake manner.” When asked if the police acted then, Ms. Singh said, “The video was reportedly released in May. I was not in the district then.” She added that when the video was brought to her knowledge, she took preventive action. “One of the accused, Awadesh Tiwari, was included in the goonda list as he has several pending cases against him,” she said. Meanwhile, Virendra Tiwari, Gwalior city editor of Naidunia , the Hindi newspaper whose agency Sunil reportedly owned, said the last he owned it was four months ago. “However, he was not our correspondent there.” Yet, Sunil’s brother told reporters earlier he was a correspondent with the daily. “There was a years-old dispute between the two sides,” he said. As for whether the gunshot wounds killed Sunil, Ms. Singh said the post-mortem revealed he died due to contusions and excessive bleeding caused by beating.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Bands for brothers||Over the past few months, celebrations have been muted in the wake of the pandemic. However, lockdown has seen a strengthening of family ties — either after being holed up at home or isolated from loved ones because of travel restrictions. No wonder then that Raksha Bandhan is being greeted with renewed excitement. With prevailing anti-China sentiments, the Confederation of All India Traders expects the imported rakhi business to take a Rs. 4,000 crore hit. So this season, the increased demand for locally-made products is being met by Indian designers, who are stepping up with pieces that reflect their aesthetic. Like Anavila’s signature florals, which make their presence felt on a range of artisanal rakhis made from linen, organza and silk (each at Rs. 2,100). The Mumbai-based designer also has a curation of handwoven saris. Clueless brothers can take a short survey about their sister’s style and personality (how she spends her free time, her preferred style of dressing) and browse through a selected list of products. On anavila.com. Sanjay Garg’s Raw Mango also has an edit of saris, stoles,odhanisandkurta-salwarsets to gift. From Rs. 2,500 onwards on shop.rawmango.com. Suhani Pittie’s largely traditional collection features Om symbols, Ganesha motifs and rudrakshas , with the occasional flower or pearl making an appearance. The Hyderabad-based jewellery designer has a selection of lumba rakhis (in Marwari families, this is tied for sisters-in-law, usually on their bangles) too, that have been gaining popularity over the last couple of years. Pick from matching sets or ones decorated with cowrie shells, coins and sandalwood beads. From Rs. 300 onwards. Local customers can also upgrade certain designs to a 22K gold piece. Details: suhaniepittie.com. Delhi-based designer Karan Torani also has a collection of bhabhi (sister-in-law) rakhis , with mirrors, wooden birds and thread tassels, made of vibrant chanderi fabric (Rs. 2,000 each). For the brothers, there are hand-embroidered pieces with paisley motifs in rose, ecru and olive hues. From Rs. 2,000. Add a special gift box at Rs. 1,000, and the team will ship it to your sibling anywhere in the world, with a hand-written note. Details: torani.in. Nicobar’s love of spice motifs continues with a cardamom rakhi in this year’s edit. The charm is cast in brass and plated in gold or silver, with a vibrant saffron or blue thread respectively. They also have Hindi letter motifs on offer. At Rs. 750 each on nicobar.com. And Tribe Amrapali has a collection of handcrafted silver and gold-plated rakhis featuring intricate designs, floral motifs and jadau work. To celebrate, they are offering 10% off on all collections online and in store till July 26. Prices range from Rs. 650 to Rs. 4,100. Details: tribeamrapali.com.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases fall by 49% this month||As many as 1,025 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,28,389, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 32 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 3,777. Of the total cases, 1,10,931 people have recovered and there are 13,681 active cases. On June 23, the new cases had almost touched 4,000 – highest so far – and since then the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 1,500 for the last eight days. Though the number of cases is less on Friday, of the total 19,138 tests done in the past 24 hours, 72.1% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity compared to RT PCR tests. The active cases have been decreasing since July 1 and it has slumped from 27,007 on July 1 by 49.34% to reach 13,681 on Friday. Moreover, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has been decreasing. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it has decreased to 3,210 on Friday. In the same period, the number of COVID-19 positive people on home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 to 7,778 . Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 5.3% on Friday. The number of containment zones has increased to 702 compared to 461 on June 22.
25 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Challans issued to 13,000 for not wearing masks in Gurugram||Around 13,000 people have been issued challans by the Gurugram police for not wearing masks and 20 FIRs registered for various violations under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Besides, 110 police personnel have recovered from the infection and 30 are still under treatment. This information was given by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Headquarter, Nitika, in a weekly joint press conference with Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri and Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav on Friday. Ms. Nitika informed that more than Rs. 64 lakh were recovered as fine from violators for not wearing masks at public places. Also, the police personnel have persuaded more than 4,000 people to download the Aarogaya Setu App and provided them information on preventing novel coronavirus. More than 2,500 people, who had switched off their mobile phones, were also traced. Doubling time Meanwhile, the doubling time and the recovery rate continue to improve in the Millennium City. Mr. Khatri said that from as low as four days, the number of cases were now doubled in 40-odd days. Also, the recovery rate was around 85%. Mr. Yadav said, the positivity rate, which is the number of people testing positive per hundred samples, had dwindled to 8.43 %. The positivity rate in Sohna block had fallen steeply from around 14% to 8.46%. He said 39,212 samples were being taken per million in the district and more than 55,000 tests were conducted this month. Mr. Yadav also informed that the formalities to set up a plasma bank would be completed in a couple of days. Mr. Khatri said a database of recovered patients was prepared for the donation of plasma. 1,163 active cases As per the latest district health bulletin, Gurugram has 1,163 active cases and 120 people have died so far due to the infection. Of the total deaths, 82 were related to co-morbidities. As many as 960 people are in home isolation.
25 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha rapidly climbing COVID-19 graph||After recording a slow growth in COVID-19 cases during the first four months of the pandemic, Odisha is now riding the virus graph briskly with reporting of three consecutive 1,000 cases-a-day. The State on Friday reported 1,594 COVID-19 cases — highest single day spike so far — taking the total to 22,693. The death-toll is also shooting up rapidly to reach 120. The first COVID-19 case was detected in Odisha on March 15. By June 30, total positive cases were counted to be 7,065 while 25 persons had died of the COVID-19. The State had then found itself better placed compared to other States. However, the month of July made the matter worse. The State’s COVID-19 tally just tripled in July while death-toll increased by almost five times. In the past 72 hours, as many as 3,936 positive cases were detected accounting for 17% of State’s tally.  Ganjam, the epicentre Ganjam, home district of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and the epicentre of the pandemic, has been leading contributor to the exponential growth in the cases. One third of total cases in Odisha were detected from Ganjam (7,634 cases) while in death cases the district’s contribution was above 58%. Ganjam alone reported 732 positive cases on Friday. Exhorting people not to panic, Ganjam District Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said, “the sudden increase in COVID-19 cases was due to administration’s efforts to identify symptomatic patients through door-to-door survey. Moreover, the district had alone received 4 lakh migrant workers since the outbreak of pandemic. The situation is still under control with majority of rural areas identified to be non-affected zones. In next few weeks, the COVID-19 cases are expected to come down.” Ganjam is followed by Khordha district under jurisdiction of which capital city of Bhubaneswar comes. Khordha so far reported 2,676 COVID-19 cases. Of 2,676 — 1717 were reported in Bhubaneswar alone. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) found itself in a spot as more than 100 slums had reported COVID-19 cases. With plasma therapy showing encouraging results, Chief Minister Patnaik asked his Cabinet colleagues to visit different districts and coordinate collection of plasma from people who had recovered from the disease.
25 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||COVID-19: Punjab govt. relaxes norms to encourage investment||Punjab government has announced a slew of relaxations for industry, including extension of validity of statutory clearances without inspection in a bit to encourage investment in the State amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Detailed guidelines to this effect have been issued by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), which finalised the relaxations at a recently held meeting. According to PPCB chairman S.S. Marwaha, the Board has extended the validity of consent to establish, operate, authorization, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances upto June 30, 2020, in view of the COVID-19 crisis. “The validity of the said clearances has also been further extended upto March 31, 2021, with certain stipulations on submission of application without conduct of any inspection by the Board,” he said in a statement. “In order to ensure the participatory regulatory compliance of the environmental regulations, the industries which were operating without the consent of the Board have been given time upto December 31, 2020 to apply for obtaining clearances under the voluntary disclosure scheme (VDS),” said Mr. Marwah, adding that “they can do so with exemption to deposit the consent fee prior to November 1, 2018 and payment of one-time notional fee of Rs. 5,000.” Meanwhile, Principal Secretary (Science, Technology and Environment) Alok Shekhar said these initiatives would immensely assist the industry in completing their regulatory compliances and will enhance the regulatory regime by the small-scale industries during these trying circumstances.  (With PTI inputs)
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC to hear police’s application on bail for Faisal Farooq on Aug. 11||The Delhi High Court will hear Delhi police’s fresh application seeking to place additional facts in relation to its plea seeking cancellation of bail granted to Faisal Farooq on August 11. He was arrested in connection with the communal violence in north-east Delhi during anti-CAA protests. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait noted that the application filed by newly-appointed Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad, seeking modification of July 2 order, was not on record. “Accordingly, re-notify on August 17,” the judge said. During the hearing, Centre’s counsel informed the High Court that President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed 11 SPPs, including Mr. Prasad, under Section 24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to 752 cases pertaining to the north-east Delhi riots. While there has been a continuing tussle between the Delhi government and the Lieutenant-Governor over who will appoint law officer to represent Delhi Police in relation to the north-east Delhi riots cases, the Centre’s counsel claimed that the matter has been put to rest with the fresh appointments being made by the President. In the fresh application, Mr. Prasad sought modification of July 2 order of the High Court in which it had called for written submission from both the Centre and the Delhi government over who will represent the Delhi police in the case. In light of the new development, the cause for July 2 order to the extent of filing written submission on right of representation does not survive, the application said. The application also sought to place certain additional facts in support of its plea seeking cancellation of bail granted to Mr. Farooq, including a life-threatening call made to the complainant’s son from an unknown number allegedly on behalf of Mr. Farooq. Delhi government Standing Counsel (Criminal) Rahul Mehra had on previous hearings objected to the filing of the plea for bail cancellation of Mr. Farooq, owner of Rajdhani Public School, by the Centre’s counsel. Mr. Mehra had earlier argued that the previous judgments of the Supreme Court and the High Court had clarified that the L-G cannot appoint special prosecutors without aid and advise of the Council of Ministers. On July 22, the High Court rejected a fresh plea by Delhi Police seeking cancellation of bail granted to Mr. Farooq, noting that another petition filed on behalf of State challenging the bail granted to him was already pending before the court. The police have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Mr. Farooq on the ground that it was prima facie, not established that he was present at the spot at the time of the incident.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Issue clarification on COVID-19 test of homeless mentally ill people’||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to come out with a clarification that mobile number, government-issued identity card, photographs or even a residential proof is not insisted upon for COVID-19 test of mentally ill and homeless persons. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that the ICMR should issue a clarification by way of a circular or an office order, saying it is not mandatory to have mobile number or valid photo ID proof when mentally ill, homeless persons are concerned. The High Court observed that “homeless mentally ill persons have no identity proof... they don’t even have a passport size photo. How can one expect photo ID of such persons”. “Use your powers for the public at large. Once you do so [issue the clarification], all States will comply,” the Bench added. The court’s direction came after it noted that the ICMR’s June 19 advisory states every person who was to be tested for COVID-19 has to provide a government-issued identity proof and should have a valid phone number for tracing and tracking the individual and his/her contacts. The Bench also suggested that camps can be organised for testing such persons as is being done across Delhi for others.   The ICMR’s counsel sought time to take instructions from the government regarding the observations made by the High Court. The court then listed the case for hearing on August 7. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who filed the petition, submitted the response of the ICMR that clearly shows that they are “clueless as far as issue with the homeless mentally ill persons are concerned”. The Delhi government had earlier stated that one of the problems faced while testing the homeless and destitute persons with mental illness or suspected mental illness was the unavailability or absence of photo identity card and a valid mobile number. It had additionally stated that such persons are usually more exposed to the risks of the pandemic in comparison to ones having a privilege of house or a roof over their head.
25 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU hospital to start plasma therapy soon||The Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) will soon start convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients with moderate disease. In this connection, AMU Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor has approved the purchase of a plasma machine at the cost of Rs. 29 lakhs. Agra’s S.N. Medical College and Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, are already using the therapy to treat infected patients in the region. Declared as a dedicated COVID facility by the State government to treat severe virus patients, so far, over 40, 000 samples have been tested with the two RT-PCR Thermo Fisher machines installed at JNMC. More than 800 samples from Aligarh, Mathura, Noida, Kasganj, Hathras, Bulandshahar, Agra, Rampur, and Etah are tested every day.Various departments of JNMC are also running tele-medical facilities for non-COVID-19 patients, said an official release.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia writes to Shah over transfer of official||Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah stating that the Director of Education should remain posted in Delhi till the current education session (March 2021) as removing him from his post will harm the State government’s efforts to continue education of children during the COVID-19 crisis. On Thursday, Union Home Ministry had ordered the transfer of Delhi’s Director of Education Binay Bhushan to Andman and Nicobar Islands. “The Delhi government is trying to continue the education of children in some way even in this era of crisis through step-by-step planning. The sudden removal of the Delhi Education Director amid the crisis would greatly harm the efforts of the Delhi government of supporting the education of children during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis,” Mr. Sisodia wrote. Mr. Sisodia asked Mr. Shah the reason behind Mr. Bhushan’s transfer, saying, “Were you not happy that government schools in Delhi have yielded good results? Did you not feel that the officials and their teams who have made this possible should be commended and have their work put forth in front of the entire country?” Mr. Sisodia requested the Home Minister to reconsider his decision and change the order of transfer. ‘Consult States’ “Please ensure that before ordering the inter-State transfers of any officer, the Chief Ministers of those States are consulted. I hope you will not disappoint me and make a positive decision on the above at the earliest,” Mr. Sisodia added.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||CM visits Shastri Park flyover site to review progress||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited Shastri Park flyover construction site on Friday to review the progress of the project, which will reduce travel time between Kashmere Gate Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) and Shahdara by five to seven minutes. It is scheduled to be completed by October this year and is nearing completion. The straight portion of the flyover will be inaugurated in August, the Delhi government said in a statement. Mr. Kejriwal said that the construction of both the Shastri Park and Seelampur flyovers will ease the difficulties of commuters in the area. “The construction of both the Shastri flyover and the Seelampur flyover is nearly completed. The straight portion will be inaugurated in August and the loops will take around 1.5 months more to be completed. The sanctioned cost of the projects was Rs. 303 crore, but we are hoping that this project will be completed in Rs. 250 crore,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters. “The project got a little delayed because of the ongoing COVID-19 situation or it would have been completed by now. It was supposed to be completed by August, but it will get delayed by 1.5 months. I hope that the construction of flyovers will ease out the difficulties of the commuters in the area,” he also said. The Shastri Park junction flyover will be 700-metre-long and will be a two-way flyover. Each of the carriageways would be around 10.5 metre wide. The flyover will have two loops – one for commuters coming from Khajuri Chowk towards Kashmiri Gate and the second for commuters coming from Gandhi Nagar and turning towards Shahdara.
25 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Inquiry ordered into policeman beating special needs child in Assam||The Assam police have ordered an inquiry into the caning of a special child by a policeman in Guwahati on July 23. City resident Palash Chaliha said he had to take his 16-year-old son, who has cerebral palsy, on his two-wheeler for medical attention after 6 pm. A constable swung his baton on the back of his special child when they were riding past some uniformed men of the city’s Bharalumukh police station. Total lockdown in Guwahati was relaxed to only twice a week (Saturdays and Sundays) from July 20, but the city and the rest of the State continue to be under curfew from 6 pm to 6 am. “The policeman hit my son without asking any question. When I asked the officer-in-charge why one of his men beat my special child, he threatened to throw us both into the lock-up,” Mr. Chaliha said in a Facebook video that showed his son writhing in pain from the baton imprint on his back. The video went viral and criticisms started to pour in for the State police.  Action assured Reacting to the video, Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) G.P. Singh assured action against the erring policeman. “I visited the home of Palash Chaliha and conveyed regrets on behalf of the Assam police and my personal apology to the family, especially the child,” he said. Guwahati Commissioner of Police Munna Prasad Gupta has ordered an inquiry to “ascertain the causative factors and the incident itself to take further action”. Arman Ali of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People appreciated the police’s prompt response. “I hope the police will use Section 92 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, against the policemen. Also the police have to be sensitised on the provision of this Act,” he said. ‘Motorcycle kids’ Director-General of Police Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta said the special child could have been caught in a “mix-up” caused by “kids who come out on their motorcycles” after curfew hours. He also underlined the police force’s initiatives for children across the State.
25 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||482 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 482 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and reported five more deaths taking the toll to 282, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 12,216. The major chunk of new cases, 76 and 70, were reported from Jalandhar and Patiala districts respectively. The Health Department said the active cases are 3,838 and 8,096 patients have so far been cured. In Haryana, 780 fresh cases surfaced on Friday, taking the total tally of cases to 29,755.
25 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT begins research to develop home-based testing kit||Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi said on Friday that it was starting research to develop a home-based COVID-19 testing kit that will identify if there are antibodies in the blood sample. The institute said that it has signed an MoU with Wells Fargo, which would financially support its initiative to develop a home-based COVID-19 testing kit Explaining the research, the institute said it was for the development of a “peptide-based ELISA test for the detection of COVID-19 antibodies”. ELISA is short for serological enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that determines whether a person possesses antibodies for COVID-19 in the blood. It said that such a test can help the medical fraternity fight the disease in many ways through identification of individuals with antibodies who can donate their blood as part of an experimental treatment of infected patients. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director of IIT-Delhi, said that the research team will be working on this project from its idea incubation to implementation stage and that the concept’s proof is expected by the end of 2020, and the kits could be in market by March 2021. Anurag S. Rathore, professor, Chemical Engineering Department of IIT-Delhi said that testing for COVID-19 continues to be a bottleneck at present as options that are available in the market offer limited accessibility and affordability. “This project, a collaboration between IIT-Delhi and National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) in Pune, has the potential of making a meaningful difference to this situation by enabling affordable, home-based testing.”
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Interim bails extended to stop virus spread: court||The Delhi High Court on Friday said that its decision to extend interim bails repeatedly was to prevent the possible spread of COVID-19 among inmates from those returning to jail after the expiry of their bail or parole period. “We did not determine the gravity of offences in each case. The solitary purpose was that those who have been released on interim bail or bail either before or March 16 should not be permitted to return to the jails since they could spread the pandemic amongst the inmates,” a full Bench headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel said. The court made the clarification after an application was moved by a convict whose interim bail was not extended by another Bench of the High Court. On July 13, the High Court has ordered extending all interim bail or parole as per the criteria laid down by the High Powered Committee (HPC) which was set up on the Supreme Court’s direction to decongest prisons for preventing spread of COVID-19.  During the hearing on Friday, Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra sought clarity on the issue as different Benches of the High Court have since interpreted the full Bench’s direction differently over different cases.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||IIMC defends appointment of new DG||The Indian Institute of Mass Communication on Friday defended in the Delhi High Court the appointment of its new Director General (DG) saying he has the requisite work experience for the post. IIMC made the submission before Justice Jyoti Singh who was hearing a plea challenging the appointment of the DG -- Sanjay Dwivedi – on the ground that he did not have the minimum required experience of 25 years when he was selected for the post. Mr. Dwivedi’s appointment to the post was announced on July 1 and he took charge of the office on July 13. The counsel for the petitioner told the court that Mr. Dwivedi got a bachelors degree only in 1995 and his years of work experience has to be counted from then. Therefore, he will have 25 years of work experience only by December of this year. IIMC, represented by ASG Vikramjit Banerjee, told the court that a bachelor’s degree was not a must to work in the field of media or films and the advertisement for the post and said that work experience has to be in the fields of journalism/media/films and Mr. Dwivedi satisfies the criteria.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pay salary to doctors or AAP will protest’||AAP leaders Raghav Chadha and Atishi on Friday attacked the BJP-ruled civic bodies for allegedly not paying the salaries of their doctors and said that if the salaries are not paid within three days, then AAP will launch a protest against it. Mr. Chadha said that the civic bodies are the biggest corruption machinery of the country and ‘MCD’ stands for “most corrupt department”. “It is unfortunate that in Delhi medical staffers at two hospitals under the BJP-ruled civic bodies have not received their salary since March. We all talk about respecting the doctors and other COVID-19 warriors, but the BJP cannot pay their salaries,” he said. Ms. Atishi said that the AAP government has already disbursed the required amount to the civic bodies for the salary of the resident doctors.
25 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Govt. doctor arrested for rape attempt||A government doctor was arrested in Aligarh on Thursday on charges of molesting and attempting to rape a 25-year-old girl who was recuperating in the isolation ward of a COVID 19 hospital after being tested positive for the virus. Dr. Tufail Ahmed, 30, was arrested from a local hotel where he had quarantined himself after completing his duty. The girl, who works in Ghaziabad, had gone home in Aligarh during the lockdown where she developed COVID 19 symptoms and was admitted to the Deen Dayal Hospital. Shel alleged in her complaint that the doctor tried to sexually assault her on Tuesday night on the pretext of examining her, He repeated the act on Wednesday morning, as well.
25 July 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Virus test result comes after funeral||In a shocking incident, result of COVID-19 test of a man was intimated to his family members after his death in Ganjam district – epicentre of pandemic in Odisha. Family members alleged the district administration took 11 days to disclose the test results for which the deceased could not be provided the treatment required for a virus patient. “We were told that if no call comes within three days, it should be presumed that my father tests negative. As we did not get any call, we brought him back to home. On July 19, my father again showed signs of deterioration in health. In night of July 21, he died,” said Diganta Mohanty, son of the victim, on Friday.
25 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. journalist murder: SHO suspended||The Ghaziabad police have suspended the police station in-charge of Vijay Nagar area where journalist Vikram Joshi was shot at four days ago by assailants, a senior officer said on Friday. The probe in the case has been transferred from the Vijay Nagar police station to the Kotwali police station, Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said. The action has been taken in view of the report submitted by Circle Officer (Ghaziabad Zone 1) Rakesh Mishra, who was probing the matter, Mr. Naithani said. Joshi, 35, was shot in the head by goons near his home at Mata Colony in Vijay Nagar on Monday night while he was on a two-wheeler with his two daughters. He succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Vidya Balan: flying solo again||Vidya Balan has a knack of making you feel heard. She grins, nods, ponders and responds animatedly, even in the most chaotic environments — like the backstage of an event, as she’s being ushered around by demanding managers. Almost always dressed in elaborate Indian attire, she has a certain feral alertness while interacting with the media. She may be regurgitating her answers in an unending conveyor belt of pre-release interviews, but she makes you believe that you are the first to hear them. With her latest film, the biopic Shakuntala Devi , marking her inadvertent foray into the streaming space due to the COVID-19 pandemic (the film was shot for the big screen), the 41-year-old is compelled to meet the press over video and audio calls from her Mumbai home. That does not deter Balan from dressing up when she speaks with us. She is indulging her Malayali roots in a loosely-fitted mustard silk pant suit with clamp-dyed shibori dots, designed by Kochi-based brand Rouka by Sreejith Jeevan and made by differently-abled artisans. She shares this deep love for dressing up with Devi, which made her instantly drawn to the late mathematical genius, writer and politician from Bengaluru, famously known as the ‘human computer’. Devi’s talent earned her a place in The Guinness Book of World Records and took her around the world, where she ‘performed’ her skill of calculating at an astonishing speed. Her mind was the subject of several studies, including one at the University of California, Berkley. “She defies the image of a boring mathematician,” observes Balan. “Till the very end [of her life] she coloured her hair, wore bright saris and lipstick, and was the life of a party whenever she went to one; she lived it up. She also had a wicked sense of humour. She is the only computer [I know] with a sense of humour!” Filmmakers who’ve worked with Balan notice the same high-octane presence in the actor. “Vidya, for me, is a lot of fun to work with,” says Sujoy Ghosh, who directed her in Kahaani , a landmark project in her career. Playing a pregnant woman in the critically-acclaimed crime-thriller, she was lauded for delicately traversing the line between strength and vulnerability. “She brings a serious amount of happy energy on the set, which is priceless,” he adds.  Living on her terms  An outsider to Bollywood, Balan made her foray into cinema from television through her breakout role in Parineeta (2005), in her late 20s. It was, what many would call, a late start for a lead actress in Bollywood. But thereon, she carved a unique space for herself, where she not only acted in films led by solo female characters, but also demonstrated that they can be profitable. It is the reason she is attracted to women like Devi, Silk Smitha ( Dirty Picture , 2011), Krishna Verma ( Ishqiya , 2010), Sulochana Dubey ( Tumhari Sulu , 2017), and Tara Shinde ( Mission Mangal , 2019) — they lived on their own terms. “I feel if Shakuntala Devi could live her life the way she did way back then, we women who have it much easier today have no reason not to stand our ground and fight for our dreams,” she declares. What Balan found most inspiring about Devi is her unapologetic desire to have it all, irrespective of her age. Beyond her mathematical prowess, Devi wrote numerous books on a variety of subjects, from caste, rural development, parenting to homosexuality. Her tumultuous marriage with her first husband, who was gay, inspired her to write The World of Homosexuals (1977), containing personal interviews with queer men. It was believed to have been the first educational tome on the subject in post-Independent India. “It was almost like she was living so many lives at the same time, and for a woman at that time I think that was amazing,” says Balan.  Impudent yet grounded  In 2016, when Devi’s daughter, Anupama Banerji, asked filmmaker Anu Menon who she had in mind to play her mother, Menon instantly named Balan (without even approaching her). “Both Shakuntala Devi and Vidya have the ability to listen to their inner voice, go after it unapologetically, own their successes and failures [equally], are witty and have the biggest laughs,” says Menon. Balan’s previous experience with biopics like Dirty Picture made the creative process easier, as they both agreed the film ought to capture the essence of a personality rather than be an-all encompassing life account or an imitation. The tone of the film reflects Devi’s whimsical, impudent personality, making Balan — a gregarious and ebullient actor — a perfect fit. “Vidya also has the best set etiquette for an actor that I have ever worked with,” says Menon. “She has this innate ability to have the right balance between being collaborative yet carving that space for herself so she can rejuvenate.” Balan has adeptly been juggling personal and professional life by doing a film a year for more than a decade. “Someone just told me that Akshay [Kumar] has announced a whole lot of films over the next two years and I was like, ‘Wow that’s so inspiring; more power to him’. Here I’m trying to hibernate between two films,” she chortles.  Digital retake  While shooting for Amit Masurkar’s Sherni in March, the actor had to return to Mumbai because of the pandemic and the concomitant lockdown. “We had to wrap up, but we hope to resume post rains,” she says. With the looming uncertainties, she is apprehensive of taking on any new projects and prefers to wait and see how the post-pandemic world will look like for Bollywood. But she is hopeful that cinema halls will stay, even if big-ticket films like Shakuntala Devi and Gulabo Sitabo are finding a direct OTT release. “It is [being] a bit alarmist when people say, ‘Oh, it is going to be the end of people going to the theatres’,” she says. “If anything, digital is only going to widen the horizon.” (Alongside Shakuntala Devi , Amazon Prime Video is also releasing Radioactive , a biopic of Polish-French physicist and chemist Maria Skłodowska-Curie, another celebrated woman in science, played by Rosamund Pike.) Like many of her contemporaries, the actor hasn’t shied away from dabbling in various digital mediums. While the plans of her playing Indira Gandhi in a web series look rather uncertain, she was recently seen in a short film, Natkhat — playing a mother struggling to raise a child in the thick of toxic masculinity — for which she also turned producer. The film premiered at the ‘We Are One’ online film festival, further consolidating her interest in vocalising the ugliness of deep-rooted patriarchy and machismo, and showcasing a spectrum of women who made efforts to liberate themselves in cinema. Shakuntala Devi premières on Amazon Prime Video on July 31  I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured inThe Guinness Book of World Records. But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’  Continued on page 3   I only knew that she was called the human computer and she was featured in the Guinness Book of World Records . But ever since the film was announced, every second person I met shared a Shakuntala Devi story with me. It was like the world knew her except me. So I said ‘I better do something about that’
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP Delhi demands Delhi govt. pay pension of June-July||BJP Delhi president Adesh Gupta on Friday demanded that the Delhi government pay the pension of June-July to all social security pension beneficiaries of Delhi as per increased rates. According to the Social Welfare Department, he said, the Delhi government had given one month’s pension in advance in April-May, but now it would be adjusted by not disbursing the June-July pension, he alleged.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh protest at DTC HQ||The Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh on Friday staged a protest at the DTC headquarters here against what they alleged was “privatisation” of the public transporter. Its general secretary, Kailash Chand Malik, said similar protests were scheduled to be held at prominent DTC depots across the city on Saturday.
25 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Delhi Legislative Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Friday planted saplings at Garhi Mandu to mark Van Mahotsav-2020. Mr. Goel exhorted all residents of Delhi to actively support and participate in the Van Mahotsav so that Delhi achieves this year’s ambitious plantation target of over 30 lakh tree and shrub saplings.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||100 Days of Cooking: Ever heard of clove beans, veldt grape or sponge gourd? Chennai-based food designer Akash Muralidharan started a challenge to cook 100 recipes from an iconic Tamil cookbook calledSamaithu Paar(Cook and See) using vegetables that are disappearing from the South Indian kitchen. While he completed his goal recently, he continues to share the research that went into the project. Follow @akash_muralidharan.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Of past and present||Add to your lockdown reading list with author Ruskin Bond’s much-awaitedA Song of India. In the charmingly illustrated book, the writer takes the reader back to his last year in Dehradun, before he set sail for England. Published by Puffin Books and on amazon.in for Rs. 263. Meanwhile, author Shobhaa De’sLockdown Liaisons, a compilation of 24 short stories, will be out as a paperback on July 28. It aims to explore ‘the lockdown state of mind’. Published by Simon & Schuster India, and priced at Rs. 350.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Gourmet at home||Kocoatrait’s L Nitin Chordia organises a virtual tasting session of Indian bean-to-bar chocolates. The treats will be delivered to your doorstep prior to the session. On July 26 from 8 pm to 10 pm on Gmeet. At Rs. 2,530. To register, visit cocoatrait.com. If you are looking to order in, Park Hyatt offers Italian, Indian and Pan Asian cuisines along with their signatures from The Flying Elephant restaurant, with digital payments for contactless takeaway and delivery. Details: 8939871128 on WhatsApp
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||T-shirts for a cause||Entrepreneurs Hemali Jain and Priyanka Khanna have launched Duniya 2020, an initiative to create awareness about sustainable fashion. It sees 30 designers, including Anamika Khanna, Kresha Bajaj, Péro, Payal Singhal, Ridhi Mehra, Anushka Khanna, Saaksha & Kinni, and Dhruv Kapoor contributing a bespoke T-shirt design to the cause. Each T-shirt (for men and women) is custom-made using recycled fabrics, earthy prints and embroideries. The pieces go on sale at curato.in starting July 29, from Rs. 2,500-Rs. 7,000.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Kanye West: The rapper is the latest candidate to join the US Presidential Race. He kicked off his campaign with an unconventional rally in Charleston, South Carolina, earlier this week. His rants covered topics like abortion and Harriet Tubman. His social media mogul wife, Kim Kardashian, went online to address his struggle with mental health issues, concluding that compassion and empathy is needed.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Art x Fashion from KNMA||Art and fashion meet on Kiran Nadar Museum of Art's social media platforms. Designers Gauri and Nainika, Amit Aggarwal, Sanjay Garg, and most recently, Kalyani Chawla of Christian Dior Couture have featured in conversations. Looking to create your own art? Bound, an e-learning platform, offers online creative classes, including one on making your own comic book. Work with Abhijeet Kini ofTinkleComics on July 30 and 31, from 6 pm to 8 pm. For ages 16 and up at Rs. 1,500. Details: boundindia.com
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Eye on mental health||Discuss the power and potential of performing arts in a webinar with Bhavana Issar, CEO and founder of Caregiver Saathi, organised by Prakriti Foundation. She will address how caregivers are usually invisible in our society and their voices are not heard. Today at 4 pm. Register for free on bit.ly/CSWS01. Join Kommune and InnerHour’s mental health hour, along with a panel of creative minds, including entrepreneur Pooja Jauhari, spoken word poet Megha Rao and writer Nikhil Taneja. Details: insider.in
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, Mythili Prakash will talk about a dancer’s relationship with the body and mind. With Akhila Krishnamurthy at 9 pm. On Sunday at 5 pm, join columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai in conversation with nutritionist Shonali Sabherwal, discussing the qualifications needed to be a health practitioner and the difference between a dietician, nutritionist and health coach. From earlier this week, watch author Janaki Lenin discussing her latest book with Aparna Karthikeyan. All sessions @thehinduweekend.
25 July 2020||July 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On air with Michelle||Spotify’sThe Michelle Obama Podcastis the first release from their ongoing partnership with Higher Ground Productions (founded by the Obamas). Listen as the former US First Lady shares candid and personal conversations, on siblings and close friends to partners, parents and mentors. By exploring the audio territory, she hopes to inspire empathy. Joining her will be an array of special guests, including Marian and Craig Robinson, Conan O’Brien, Valerie Jarett, Michele Norris and Dr Sharon Malone. Starting July 29.
