26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air travel resumes but many seats on 532 flights go empty||Airlines ferried more than 39,000 passengers on 532 flights on Monday as domestic air travel was resumed after two months. But a large number of passengers were left stranded as airlines were forced to cancel half the flights just hours before take-off due to poor co-ordination between the Centre and the States. Late on Sunday, airlines were told to curtail their operations after Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, with some of the busiest airports in the country — Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai — restricted the number of flights that could be operated. Others like West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh postponed the re-opening of their airports until May 28 and May 26, respectively. “From no domestic passenger flights yesterday to 532 flights & 39,231 passengers today, action has returned to Indian skies. With Andhra Pradesh set to resume operations from tomorrow & West Bengal from 28 May, these numbers are all set to increase further,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri tweeted on Monday. Wary passengers However, in a possible sign of reluctance among passengers to travel in the times of COVID-19, occupancy was sparse with just 25%-50% seats filled. This has come as a surprise to the airlines as it was felt that there might be pent-up demand for travel, especially from people stranded in different States. But many of those who did decide to fly despite the tough protocols and health guidelines were hard hit by last-minute changes and cancellations. Airlines had their hands full reworking flight schedules and facing passenger ire over cancellations.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Testing up in States seeing massive return of migrants||The Union Health Ministry has admitted that Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha, currently witnessing a largescale return of migrant workers, and remote areas need aggressive COVID-19 testing capacity scale-up to clear any backlogs. The admission comes at a time when the country is among the top 10 hotspots of COVID-19 worldwide, adding approximately over 6,000 cases every 24 hours in the fourth phase of the national lockdown. On Monday, the State health departments reported 6,125 cases and 151 deaths. This takes the total COVID-19 tally to 1,44,659 cases, including 79,959 active ones. The total death toll stands at 4,170. “The heavy influx of migrant workers into States like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha has forced the Indian Council of Medical Research to scale up its testing laboratories. So far, we have scaled up with 15 testing laboratories in Bihar, 17 in Odisha, 28 in Uttar Pradesh and 36 in West Bengal. This has been paired with supplies of testing materials to all the States and the UTs. We are using indigenous vendors and manufacturers to produce swabs for sample collection, RNA extractions kits and RT-PCR diagnostic material,” said a senior official.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. directs TTD to put sale of properties on hold||As Opposition parties and Hindu religious organisations launched a scathing attack on the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board for resolving to dispose of some of its properties, the government undertook damage control by directing that the TTD resolution to that effect be kept in abeyance until further orders. It was stated in a G.O. issued by Principal Secretary (General Administration) Praveen Prakash on Monday night that the Board of Trustees of TTD, which was constituted by the previous government, had approved the sale of 50 properties through a resolution passed on January 30, 2016. ‘Elicit views of all’ However, in view of the sentiments of devotees, the government was directing the TTD to re-examine the issue in consultation with religious elders, opinion-makers and sections of devotees to ascertain whether those properties could be used by TTD for construction of temples and other religious activities. Till the matter is not finalised, TTD should keep the propose sale of properties on hold, the GAD order (RT No. 888) read The government instructed the TTD Executive Officer to take action and submit compliance report immediately. It may be noted that the TTD’s proposal to sell its properties, including 23 assets which are situated in Tamil Nadu, kicked up a political storm as the BJP, the TDP and the Jana Sena denounced the move and the BJP called for Statewide protests on May 26 (Tuesday). Some Hindu religious entities warned the TTD of the consequences of liquidating the assets belonging to the world-famous temple.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||90% of promises fulfilled in first year itself: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the fulfilment of 90% of election promises in the first year of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) coming to power and the establishment of ward and village secretariats gave him immense satisfaction. Another significant initiative was judicial preview and reverse tendering which enabled the government to save Rs. 2,082 crore in various infrastructure projects. “No government had ever given a calendar for implementing welfare schemes and adhered to it as strictly as we have done,” Mr. Jagan observed and expressed the commitment to do much more for the development and welfare of the masses. Delivering his inaugural address at the YSRCP’s brain-storming session with the theme ‘Our governance — Your suggestions,’ at his camp office on the occasion of completion of one year of his government on Monday, the Chief Minister said the idea of village secretariats struck him during his interactions through his 14-month ‘Praja Sankalpa Yatra’ and they helped a great deal in taking governance to the doorstep of people. He had then conceived a transparent system and wasted no time in giving it a tangible shape. Mr. Jagan said his government provided four lakh jobs in village and ward secretariats and over 82% of the employees were from vulnerable sections such as the SCs, the STs, the BCs and minorities. The secretariats played a commendable role in controlling COVID-19 by conducting household survey thrice. The government has closed down 43,000 belt shops and took over the liquor trade from private parties as a step towards total prohibition. The government extended a helping hand to the lockdown-hit industries, especially the MSMEs, said Mr. Jagan and went on to give a snapshot of the slew of welfare schemes such as YSR Pension Kanuka, Amma Vodi, YSR Nethanna Nestham, and YSR Cheyutha, “implemented in a short span.”
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deliberations on to end LAC tensions||Deliberations are continuing on a daily basis between military commanders of India and China on the ground, in addition to other channels of communication, to resolve the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), official sources said on Monday. Discussions were on daily at different levels on the ground, including at the Brigade Commander and Division Commander levels, the sources said. However, tensions continue at various places along the LAC with both sides digging in with reinforcements, and a wait and watch situation was unfolding, the sources stated. The green top hill above the finger area of Pangong Tso (lake) seems to be the latest friction point, with reports stating that 18 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel from a larger patrol party were detained by Chinese soldiers. However, Indian Army on Sunday denied any such “detention”. The other area that continues to see major tensions is the Galwan Nalah area with tensions at two to three points. A road branching from the 255 km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road towards the Galwan Nalah seems to be the reason for Chinese objections. “This stand of China is not tenable as the Galwan area has never been a point of contention earlier,” multiple sources said. This amounted to a change in the status quo and would not be acceptable to India, they said. It violated all existing agreements between India and China, the sources noted. In October last, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a strategically important bridge in this general area on the Shyok river to boost connectivity from Drabuk to the strategically important Daulat-Beg-Oldie (DBO) in eastern Ladakh. Sandwiched between the strategicKarakoram and Chang Chenmo ranges, the ‘Col Chewang Rinchen Setu’ is a 430-metre bridge built at an altitude of 14,650 feet built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) within 15 months.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Despite glut, cut in fuel prices unlikely||Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan described the situation prevailing in the oil market as “extraordinary” even as he ruled out any fuel price cuts in India despite the supply glut, stating that the Union government had taken a “cautious and conscious” decision to use the savings for welfare. Speaking to The Hindu in an exclusive interview on Monday, Mr. Pradhan was also optimistic that price stabilisation was likely as more and more countries were trying to restart economic activity after lengthy lockdowns due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The oil industry is faced with an extraordinary situation... Slippage of crude prices is coupled with disappearance of demand worldwide. The situation arose first because of the price wars between oil exporting nations... Due to the lockdowns in major economies, the demand dried up. There were no takers for the crude being produced,” the Minister said. ‘Unusual circumstances’ “The reduction of demand has led to a peculiar situation where the product prices are less than the price of crude. These negative margins and low crude prices do not reflect the real economics of oil refining and pricing of end products. Our government’s view is to take a cautious and conscious approach of a balance in price, save it and use it for welfare,” he said.
26 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Priyanka questions Yogi’s claim on infection among migrant workers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to explain on what basis he had claimed that 75% of the migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and 50% from Delhi were infected with the novel coronavirus. While interacting with presspersons on Sunday through videoconferencing, Mr. Adityanath had given these figures and said that the high number of migrant workers having COVID-19 was posing a challenge to Uttar Pradesh.  “This is a challenge for us. But our teams are working strongly,” he said. Mr. Adityanath, however, did not provide any data to back up his numbers. Maharashtra and Delhi are ruled by non-BJP governments. ‘Unverified figures’ Taking to Twitter, Ms. Vadra asked Mr. Adityanath from where did he derive the figures about his claim, dubbing it “unverified and irresponsible”. “If so [true], then why is the testing so low,” she asked. Given that over 23 lakh migrant workers have officially returned to Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown, Ms. Vadra asked whether over 10 lakh people were really infected. The Congress leader demanded that the government reveal to the public the testing data and other preparations against COVID-19. As per the State government data on Monday, the total COVID-19-positive cases in Uttar Pradesh are 6,497, while the active cases stand at 2,668. So far, 1,663 migrant workers who returned from other States have tested positive.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Change in flight schedule catches passengers off guard at RGIA||Day one of the domestic flight operations after two months of lockdown caught many passengers off guard on Monday morning following sudden change in scheduling late on Sunday night. At the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, passengers started arriving from 3 a.m. onwards to catch the morning flights at 5 a.m. as they were asked to report three hours early due to new COVID-19 guidelines. However, to their rude shock they were informed about the cancellation. One early flight was supposed to leave for Lucknow. Even as passengers booked for other flights to different destinations started arriving, came the news that Air India had ‘cancelled’ all its morning flights. For a couple of hours there was confusion and passengers got into arguments with the security and airport staff. “We were not informed about the cancellation and are now stuck here,” bemoaned a Delhi-bound woman. Authorities here too could not explain much as they had no clue if the airlines cancelled due to some reason or if it was a government order. “ We got stuck here during lockdown and booked tickets couple of days ago. We were told about flight cancellation only after reaching the airport. Different quarantine rules are adding to problem,” said another passenger. Order was restored once the flights started taking off and landing after a while even as Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar accompanied by Airport CEO SGK Kishore, arrived all of a sudden to check the arrangements at the airport. The airport was originally scheduled to handle up to 120 incoming and outgoing flights and the authorities were all geared up with the brand new ‘contact-less, social distancing, complete sanitised” terminals. However, it turned out that the number of arrivals and departures were restricted to just 40 - 20 incoming and 20 outgoing in a decision taken late in the night following apprehensions raised by the State Governments about sudden influx of people from other places. “Today as per the estimated flight schedule, the airport is going to handle 20 departures and 19 arrivals the entire day with an approximate passenger load of around 3,000 for both arrivals and departures. This is likely to be the schedule for the next few days,” informed an official spokesman. The first flight to depart was TruJet’s 2T 623 at 8.06 a.m. with 12 passengers on board to Vidyanagar in Karnataka while the AirAsia India I5 1576 was the first arrival flight of the day, which landed at 8.20 a.m. from Bangalore with 106 passengers. Other destinations were the flights to Mumbai, Bangaluru, Delhi, Jaipur ; Raipur (Chhattisgarh); Kolhapur (Maharashtra); Jharsuguda (Odisha); Kochi (Kerala); Surat (Gujarat); Ranchi (Jharkhand); Varanasi (UP); Belgaum (Karnataka); Ahmedabad; Chennai and Pune. Apart from TruJet, AirAsia India, IndiGo, Alliance Air, SpiceJet, Vistara and Air India operated flghts. All passengers were thermal scanned as per the safety procedures.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,||In highest single-day spike, T.N. reports 805 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu reported 805 cases of COVID-19 on Monday, its highest single-day increase. With this, the tally reached 17,082* cases. The new cases included 314 women. Chennai alone accounted for 549 cases. The city’s total stood at 11,131 cases. It accounted for 84 of the 118 deaths in the State, with seven more persons dying in government and private hospitals. Though the State’s mortality rate continues to be below 0.7%, the number of deaths has been rising steadily. A further 407 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State. With this, a total of 8,731 persons have been discharged so far after treatment. The number of active cases stands at 8,230, while another 5,608 persons with suspected symptoms are admitted to isolation wards. Of the fresh cases, 93 persons had returned from other States — 87 from Maharashtra, three from Gujarat, two from Kerala and one from Andhra Pradesh, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “All these persons had returned to the State by road and were screened at the checkposts. In the last one week, 942 persons, who returned from other States, have tested positive for COVID-19 in T.N. This includes 726 persons who returned from Maharashtra, 21 from Gujarat, 15 from Delhi and 19 from West Bengal,” he said. A 75-year-old man died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure at Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, while an 86-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who was admitted with fever, died at a private hospital due to Type II respiratory failure. He had diabetes, bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A 69-year-old woman died at a private hospital due to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, the bulletin said. A further 407 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State. With this, a total of 8,731 persons have been discharged so far after treatment. The number of active cases stands at 8,230, while another 5,608 persons with suspected symptoms are admitted to isolation wards. Of the fresh cases, 93 persons had returned from other States — 87 from Maharashtra, three from Gujarat, two from Kerala and one from Andhra Pradesh, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “All these persons had returned to the State by road and were screened at the checkposts. In the last one week, 942 persons, who returned from other States, have tested positive for COVID-19 in T.N. This includes 726 persons who returned from Maharashtra, 21 from Gujarat, 15 from Delhi and 19 from West Bengal,” he said. With Chennai continuing to witness a surge in cases, health officials said public cooperation for containment measures and physical distancing was low in the city. “In Chennai, the problematic areas are Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar and Teynampet. The main problem is overcrowding. When one person tests positive, their family members are also affected as houses are small in many of these areas. Moreover, people do not cooperate with containment measures. If a street is closed for containment measures, people continue to enter and roam around. No physical distancing is maintained,” a health official said. Apart from Chennai, there were 54 new cases in Chengalpattu, 36 in Tiruvallur, 19 in Kancheepuram, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, five in Ramanathapuram, four each in Ranipet and Virudhunagar, two each in Kanniyakumari and Theni, and one each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. In addition, five persons who were under airport quarantine and 15 persons who were under railway quarantine have tested positive for the infection. With this, 81 passengers who returned from other countries have tested positive, while 40 who initially tested negative for the infection turned positive during the exit screening after seven days. A total of 35 persons, who returned from other States and were kept under railway quarantine, have tested positive till date. The Minister added that the operation of domestic flights posed a new challenge. “The Chief Minister had urged that the number of arrivals to the State be restricted to 25 flights, while there is no limit on the number of departures. Today, our medical team along with the Airports Authority of India screened 486 persons who arrived in 11 flights, while 1,211 persons, who left in 14 flights, were also screened,” he said. Those arriving by flights will be checked for temperature and symptoms of Influenza Like Illness. If they have any symptoms, they will be taken to a hospital and tested. In case of no symptoms, they would receive an indelible ink stamp on their hand and should be under home quarantine for 14 days, he added. “They should adhere to the home quarantine norms, and we will monitor them,” he said. So far, the State has tested a total of 4,21,450 samples that include the day’s 11,835 samples. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||A marriage midway on the Assam-West Bengal border||Assam’s Kajol and West Bengal’s Om Prakash expected a routine union when their marriage was fixed six months ago. But the lockdown literally turned it into an event on the edge. They tied the knot late on Saturday (May 23) night beside a check-gate at Sagolia on the Assam-West Bengal border. It was a minimalist ceremony. About 20 persons, including priests from both sides, were present along with local MLA Ashwini Ray Sarkar. The couple’s parents had thought of deferring the marriage. But the horoscope came in the way; priests said it would be now or never. “Besides, there was no certainty when normal life would return to organise the marriage at home as we would have liked,” said Ms. Kajol’s father Mahesh Sha, a resident of Dhubri town, about 280 km west of Guwahati. Assam bars entry A marriage devoid of the usual gloss could have been organised at the bride’s home. But the Assam government on May 8 barred the entry of people from West Bengal, except for patients, after two persons from that State tested positive. “The family sought a way out. The administration of Dhubri district and Jalpaiguri district [West Bengal] coordinated for the marriage to happen while the local police helped out,” Mr. Sarkar, who represents the BJP from the Golakganj Assembly adjoining West Bengal, told The Hindu on Monday. On Saturday, the groom and half-a-dozen people travelled about 175 km from Nagrakata Station Para, while the bride and her family members travelled 55 km to meet at Sagolia. MLA witness The police cleared a spot beside the Sagolia check-gate for the marriage. “The parents of the bride and groom requested me to witness the wedding. I returned from the border on Sunday after blessing the couple,” Mr. Sarkar said. Dhubri district officials said the couple were driven to a quarantine centre in Jalpaiguri district where they are expected to spend 14 days before going to the house of the groom’s father, Lal Dev Sha. “They will probably never forget their marriage anniversary and lockdown honeymoon,” said an official of the Golakganj Block in Dhubri district.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kannur native’s death takes toll to 6||Kerala recorded yet another COVID-19 death after a 61-year-old woman succumbed to the disease at Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, (MCH) on Monday night. This is the sixth COVID-19-related death in the State. The woman, a native of Dharmadom in Kannur, had several co-morbidities, including hypertension, and was being treated at a private hospital in Kozhikode, when she tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Following this, she was shifted to the MCH last week. The source of her infection is still unknown. She had been to other private hospitals in Thalassery also for treatment since April, it is learnt. The case had resulted in a family cluster with several members of her family also subsequently testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Surge in cases COVID-19 cases continue to surge in Kerala, with 49 more testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. While 43 of these are imported cases of infection, brought in by expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites from other parts of the country, six persons are believed to have acquired infection from the community, through contact with unknown sources of infection. The latter include two remand prisoners in Kannur and a health worker in Thiruvananthapuram district. Kasaragod accounted for 14 of the new cases; Kannur 10; Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad five each; Kozhikode four; Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha three each; Kollam and Kottayam two each; and Idukki one. Of the 43 imported cases, 18 were expatriates, while 25 had come from other parts of the State, particularly Maharashtra. A total of 12 recoveries were also reported on Monday. At present, 358 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the State, while 532 have recovered from the disease so far.  Four more regions in Palakkad and Kannur got into the list of hotspots on Monday. The State has a total of 59 hotspots at present.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Flights resume in State after two months||After a gap of almost two months, domestic flight operations resumed at major airports in the State, including Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru, on Monday. Till evening, KIA saw 43 departures and 31 arrivals. Services at KIA resumed with the departure of an Air Asia flight (I51621) to Ranchi at 5.15 a.m. with 176 persons on board. The first arrival was an Indigo flight from Chennai at 7.35 a.m. However, the cancellation of 75 flights (till evening) disappointed passengers who had booked tickets. As per the health protocol of the State government, passengers landing at the airport were screened and their e-passes downloaded from ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal verified. Those coming from “high-risk” States were sent to institutional quarantine. Repeated announcements were made for passengers to choose the hotels of their choice for institutional quarantine. Asymptomatic passengers from other States were sent to home quarantine after stamping. Sources said two passengers — one from Delhi and another from Chennai — refused to undergo institutional quarantine and preferred to return. To maintain social distancing, the airport authorities introduced a slew of measures, including allowing passengers to cross the departure gate only after a thermal scan. The passengers had to carry e-printed boarding passes and showing the “you are safe” message was a must.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Three more succumb to COVID in TS||Three COVID-19 patients died in Telangana on Monday taking the toll to 56. This is the seventh consecutive day starting May 19 that Telangana is reporting COVID deaths. There was spike in number of COVID cases as 66 more tested positive for the virus on Monday and 72 were discharged. This is second highest number of positive cases reported in a day this month. A total of 79 cases was reported on May 11. Of the 66 cases, 31 are from GHMC area, one from Rangareddy, 15 migrants, and 18 foreign evacuees. For the first time, a column titled ‘Maharashtra’ was added to the bulletin and one case was mentioned under the column. Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital M Raja Rao reiterated that most of the patients who died had co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, along with organ failure. However, there is hope as some 10 patients with health complications have recovered. The number of people who were discharged on Monday was 72, which is one of the highest, Hospital authorities said most of them were among the 79 people admitted on May 11. Till May 25, a total of 1920 cases were detected in the State.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Working away the blues||
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||89 persons contract COVID-19||The State has reported 89 fresh COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours and 45 of them are foreign returnees from Gulf countries. With this, the State tally has gone up to 2,886 and there are 946 active cases, according to a bulletin released by the Health Department on Monday. Fifty-six people died due to COVID so far and 1,884 have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Among the foreign returnees infected, 41 persons returned from Kuwait, three from Qatar and one from Saudi Arabia recently. So far, 62 foreign returnees have tested positive upon returning to the State. Seven of the fresh cases, including five in Chittoor and two in Nellore are linked to Koyembedu.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Two more deaths, 93 new cases in State||The deaths of two patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 were reported on Monday. One was a 55-year-old from Bengaluru Rural. The other death was reported in Dakshina Kannada.
26 May 2020||Shivamogga,||Research on birthplace of Purandara Dasa||To put an end to speculation regarding the birthplace of Purandara Dasa, the Department of Archaeology, Heritage and Museums will soon commence field work atKeshavapura in Araga Gram Panchayat of Tirthahalli taluk.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,||New guidelines for State policemen||The Karnataka police force has seen a recent spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases — 13 till date, of which six are cured and seven are active cases. More than 400 policemen are in institutional quarantine across the State.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||635 new COVID-19 cases; Minister’s staff infected||Delhi reported 635 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,053, said a government health bulletin. A person working at Health Minister Satyendar Jain’s camp office has tested positive.
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Heavy rain hits five Assam districts||Heavy rain has affected more than 30,000 people in five districts of Assam. Goalpara is the worst affected with 89 villages inundated. Other flood-hit districts are Darrang, Dhemaji, Dibrugarh and Lakhimpur.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||North India reels under intense heatwave||Several parts of north India reeled under an intense heatwave with many districts in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh posting temperatures over 45 degrees Celsius.
26 May 2020||UDUPI,||Free city bus services||Private city bus operators began operating their buses free on seven routes here on Monday. This free service for passengers is available till May 30. Private buses had stopped their operations as soon as the lockdown was announced in March and were off the road since then. It was a limited service and 11 buses were operated on seven routes on Monday. The six-day free service is sponsored by the Kadiyali Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava Samiti and the Asare Charitable Trust. Private Bus Operators Association president Kuilady Suresh Nayak told The Hindu that 2,115 passengers had availed of the free bus services on Monday, though it was a holiday. Earlier, Nalin Kumar Kateel, president of the State unit of the BJP, flagged off the free bus service.
26 May 2020||Chennai,||More healthcare staff test positive in Chennai||More front line workers are testing positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. Health officials said front line workers, especially doctors, staff nurses and paramedical staff, accounted for 10-15% of the COVID-19 cases in the State.
26 May 2020||Chennai,||Fishing ban on east coast to end on May 31||The Centre on Monday decided to allow fishing by all vessels from June 1 on the east coast. Thus the fishing ban has been reduced by two weeks, taking into view the curbs on fishing imposed during the lockdown.
26 May 2020||Chennai,||Govt. to distribute brochures in houses||The State government has prepared an eight-page advisory brochure with instructions on self-management to contain COVID-19, to be distributed to households.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Toll goes up in Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala||Three COVID-19 patients died in Telangana on Monday taking the toll to 56. In Tamil Nadu, seven more persons died in government and private hospitals in Chennai. Kerala, which established early success in reducing COVID-19 incidence had one more death and 49 new positive cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 89 more cases in 24 hours, 45 of them returnees from Gulf countries. Tamil Nadu reported its highest single-day rise with 805 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Monday. With this, the tally was 17,082 in the State. Of the 805 new cases including 314 women, Chennai alone accounted for 549 cases. This took the city’s tally across the 11,000 mark. The city now accounted for 11,131 cases, and 84 of the total 118 deaths in the State. Though the State’s mortality rate was below 0.7%, the number of deaths were rising. Among the seven who died was a 33-year-old man from Chennai. He died within 3.5 hours of admission to the Government Royapettah Hospital on May 23 due to septic shock and respiratory failure. His sample returned positive for COVID-19 a day later. A 72 year-old man, who was referred from a private hospital to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 23, died the next day due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID pneumonia. He was a diabetic and had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. While 43 of Kerala’s cases were imported, represented by expatriates and non-resident Keralites from other States, six persons are believed to have acquired infection from the community, through contact with unknown sources of infection. The latter include two remand prisoners in Kannur and a health worker in Thiruvananthapuram district. Kasaragod district accounted for 14 new cases, Kannur, ten; Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad five each, Kozhikode four; Pathanamthitta and Alapuzha three each; Kollam and Kottayam two cases each and Idukki one case. Of 43 imported cases, 18 persons came from abroad, and 25 from other States, particularly Maharashtra. Twelve more recoveries were reported. At present, 359 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals, while 532 recovered from the disease. So far, 97,247 persons had come into Kerala after the easing of the lockdown. The State had 99,278 persons under surveillance, of whom 98,486 were on home or institutional quarantine while 792 were in hospitals in isolation wards. Andhra Pradesh, with 89 fresh cases had 2,886 cases, 946 of them active, an official bulletin said. Fifty-six people had died due to COVID-19 and 1,884 had recovered. Among those who tested positive from abroad, 41 were from Kuwait, three from Qatar and one from Saudi Arabia. So far, 62 foreign returnees had tested positive. Koyambedu continued to have an impact with seven of the fresh cases, including five in Chittoor and two in Nellore linked to the hotspot. The State had tested 10,240 samples in a day and 3,14,566 samples till date. With three patients dying in Telangana, it was the seventh consecutive day of fatalities. There was a spike as 66 more tested positive, while 72 were discharged. Among new cases, 31 were from Greater Hyderabad, one from Rangareddy, 15 were migrants, and 18 foreign evacuees.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition mulls strategy to corner govt.||As the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 has stretched to more than two months, a section of Opposition leaders are now advocating a more aggressive approach towards the Union government over its handling of the pandemic. Congress leaders are supposed to form a small group/committee of Opposition leaders to chalk out an common action plan against the Modi government and effectively hit the streets over “centralisation of powers by usurping powers of the States, dilution of the labour laws, handling the movement of migrant workers and Centre’s refusal to go for direct cash transfers” among other issues. The idea to form a coordination group was suggested by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last Friday when Communist Party of India general secretary D. Raja talked of an action plan, moving beyond videoconferences. Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Sharad Yadav too supported such a demand. “I will follow up with the Congress leaders on the committee and an action plan since we discussed in the meeting,” Mr. Raja said. At the start of the lockdown, faced with an unprecedented health crisis, Opposition parties, including Opposition-run State governments, backed the Narendra Modi government completely. But now, Trinamool Congress-ruled West Bengal, Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government and those in other Congress-ruled States have been severely critical of the Centre. “Union Government has unabashedly usurped powers vested in the States undermining the constitutionally guaranteed federal democracy,” a joint statement issued by 22 Opposition parties last Friday had stated. On May 22, leaders of the Central trade unions had also held a symbolic protest against the unilateral changes to labour laws. But Opposition leaders do face a tricky situation: how do they organise protests without risking the spread of the virus. “Leaders can go in a delegation or they can resort to symbolic protests . We are all responsible parties and must raise people's issues,” Mr. Raja said.  Leaders can go in a delegation or they can resort to symbolic protests. We are all responsible parties and must raise people's issues D. Raja CPI general secretary
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||Migrants must get MNS nod, says Raj Thackeray||A day after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that States will have to take permission from his government before hiring workers, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has said that any migrant entering Maharashtra would, in that case, need to take permission from his party, police and the State government. Mr. Thackeray said on Monday that the Maharashtra government must look into the matter seriously. “In future, migrants desiring to enter our State will need to be registered and their personal details and identification proof will have to be submitted to the police station,” he said. Only if these requirements were met diligently would they be allowed to enter Maharashtra. “A strict adherence to the above needs to be followed by Maharashtra,” he said. Mr. Adityanath came up with his permission requirement on Sunday, claiming that migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh were not treated well by the States they went to work in. The MNS retort is seen as an aggressive push by the party of its sons of the soil agenda. Political leaders, including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, have said that the exodus of workers from Maharashtra had opened up vacancies in factories and businesses and appealed to the local youth to come forward and take them.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||Bengal, Odisha get promised Rs. 1,500 cr.||The relief of Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 500 crore released to West Bengal and Odisha, respectively, in the wake of the damage and destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan, has been disbursed from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to the two States on May 22, had announced an “advance assistance” of Rs. 1,500 crore on May 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will be sending an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) soon to assess the damage. On May 23, on the recommendation of the MHA, the Finance Ministry asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to credit the amount to the accounts of West Bengal and Odisha on grounds of “relief necessitated by natural calamity”. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that the State had suffered 10 times the damage envisaged in the Rs. 1,000 crore package announced by the PM as 70% of the population was affected. More than 80 deaths have been reported so far. NCMC meets The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Monday to discuss the relief and restoration measures in West Bengal. The Chief Secretary of West Bengal Rajiva Sinha apprised the NCMC of the ground situation. A statement by the MHA said that “while Telecom connectivity has been restored in most areas, damages to the local Power distribution network has affected the restoration of complete supply in some areas”. It said that Central agencies are deployed in these efforts with teams from neighbouring States. The Army has been deployed in Kolkata, to help in carry out road clearances with teams of NDRF and the State government. “Cabinet Secretary also suggested that West Bengal Government may indicate their additional requirements if any and directed officers of Central Ministries/ Agencies to work in close coordination with State Government to provide all required assistance expeditiously,” the MHA statement said.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Domestic flights resume||Poor patronage from domestic flyers and flight cancellations affected four international airports of Kerala on Monday during the first day of the ‘calibrated reopening of air travel’ within the country after two months. The domestic flights were from the list of the 2,288 approved by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for the May 25 to June 30 period. For the flyers, the resumption of domestic flight operations have been a big relief. Headache Empty seats reportedly due to the COVID-19 threat and the last minute flight cancellations owing to the changes in the flight schedules to Delhi, West Bengal, Tripura, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and Cyclone Amphan’s impact were a headache for the airline staff. The usually full domestic flight from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram, which was the first to land in the capital at 2.30 p.m., had just 66 passengers. The flight from Chennai had 93 passengers while the flight from Bengalaru had 162 passengers. Poor patronage Airport Director C.V. Ravindran said only five passengers were in the flight from Kannur to Thiruvananthapuram, two in the flight that came from Delhi via Madurai and there was no passenger in the flight that operated from Kozhikode. The patronage for the return flights was also poor. Three Indigo flights were also cancelled. Cochin international airport handled 1,050 passengers on Monday, which was also the 21st anniversary of entering the aviation map. The first flight was an Air Asia flight from Bengaluru at 7.10 a.m. Cancellations CIAL authorities confirmed eight arrivals and nine departures while three departures and four arrivals were cancelled. One flight each from Mysuru, Bengaluru and Mumbai were cancelled. In Calicut international airport, an Indigo flight operated in the Bengaluru-Kozhikode sector. The ATR72 aircraft arrived with 59 passengers and departed with 57 passengers in the evening.  Flight from Delhi, the first to land in the capital at 2.30 p.m., had just 66 passengers
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India has become more resilient to disruptions in crude supplies’||Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan speaks on the lockdown due to COVID-19, oil prices and global oil politics set to heat up the world over.  Do you think a harsh lockdown, the kind we have had in India, is justified? A decision was needed in the interest of saving lives. It was made. That gave us precious time to prepare as a society to fight the virus, prevented our systems from being overwhelmed and allowed us the space and opportunity to calibrate our response. We are still in the fight and there might be more benefits that we are not immediately appreciative of. With lakhs of inter-State workers hitting the highways to go to their native places, do you think they could have been given time to do so before the lockdown was announced? The decisions were and are in the interest of all Indians as a whole necessitated by a pandemic staring us in our face. These are tough calls we need to take as one nation and we are fortunate to have a leadership who could take those calls. The inter-State workers wanting to go back to their homes was very natural. We did calibrate our steps at the earliest moment of necessity, allowing buses to operate and introducing Shramik trains to ensure much-needed relief. Having said that, we as a society and nation must introspect deeply on the issue of migrant labourers. There is an urgent need for more geographically uniform growth in the country. Honourable Prime Minister has always maintained that the next wave of growth must come from the eastern part of the country and has worked towards that. Our government has also worked towards greater formalisation of the economy and providing social security to workers which will, in the long term, benefit our workers and empower them. Globally the price of petroleum has tanked, but India is charging its citizens more than three times the price. Even accounting for the fact that revenue needs to be generated, are you considering lowering the rate as that in itself would be considered a stimulus to the economy? The oil industry is faced with an extraordinary situation. These are not normal times. Slippage of crude prices is coupled with disappearance of demand worldwide. The situation arose first because of the price wars between oil exporting nations. Earlier, the oil producing countries could resolve their differences and reduce production, then COVID-19 struck. Due to the lockdowns in major economies, the demand dried up. There were no takers for the crude being produced, the world literally ran out of storage space for the crude and petroleum products. The reduction of demand has led to a peculiar situation where the product prices are less than the price of the crude. These negative margins and low crude prices do not reflect the real economics of oil refining and pricing of end products. Our government’s view is to take a cautious and conscious approach of a balance in price, save it and use it for welfare. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s economic stimulus package has been termed stingy by the Opposition. What is your view on the direct income support they have been asking for instead? The Prime Minister’s faith is on empowering people. In order to prove the resolve of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, the four parameters — land, labour, liquidity and laws — have all been emphasised in the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package of Rs. 20 lakh crore — equivalent to 10% of the GDP. Learnings from the experiences of 2009-13 have prompted the government to be responsible and not splurge. The economic package announced is a mix of supply-side and demand-side measures, including putting money directly into people’s hands by increasing the allocation towards the rural employment guarantee scheme. Strictly supply-side measures also have a demand-side component. If the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) get greater liquidity, a significant part of it will go in paying wages. It is a sound philosophy because ultimately the dignity of a human is more when he thinks he is contributing, earning honest money and taking care of his family. Oil politics is heating up in West Asia and Russia. How do you see India placed in this scenario especially looking at our import basket? India has over the years significantly diversified its sources of crude oil to improve its resilience to disruptions in crude supplies due to geopolitical factors. During the last year, we managed to secure steady supplies of crude oil despite challenges to security in West Asia, particularly attacks on Saudi oil facilities and also due to flare-up in U.S.-Iran tensions. The problem we are facing now is a combination of serious effects on the demand side due to the pandemic and the efforts of OPEC and OPEC-Plus countries to moderate the supply-side factors to address the demand contraction. So far, the Indian oil marketing companies have not had any problems in securing their supplies as the market is well-supplied despite the production cuts beginning this month (May). In my discussions with the Energy Ministers of top producing countries and in the G20 Extraordinary Energy Ministers’ meeting in April, I have stressed the need for addressing the crude oil price volatility while allowing consuming countries such as India to source crude at affordable prices. I think, in the coming months, we are going to see more efforts to balance the supply-demand factors as a majority of countries are trying to resume economic activities with gradual lifting of lockdowns. I am confident that the revival of our domestic demand will surely help improve the global supply-demand equilibrium, thus bringing greater energy market stability.  The economic package announced is a mix of supply-side and demand-side measures
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allow online meetings of House panels’||Resumption of domestic flights is not enough to hold meetings of the parliamentary standing committees till Parliament, as an alternative, also arranges for members to join these meetings virtually, Congress leader and Chairman of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs Anand Sharma said. His comments came even as Parliament is preparing to resume parliamentary panel meetings, which abruptly halted during the extended COVID-19 lockdown. Two presiding officers of Parliament, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, met on Saturday to review the facilities available at the Parliament House to hold meetings while adhering to strict social distancing norms. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi, too, was present. Nine rooms in the Parliament House and Annexe building have been identified for the purpose. Varied rules Mr. Sharma said you can’t shut the democracy because of the lockdown. “Since the flights have started, we will convene the meeting at the earliest. The point is that there is lack of clarity on the quarantine and other measures for flyers. Therefore I see no reason that we have both the provisions, that those who are able to physically attend and those members who will be unable to travel because of restrictions should be allowed to join virtually,” he told The Hindu . States have announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers. Asymptomatic passengers arriving in Delhi will not require quarantine or isolation. 23 countries Overall, Mr. Sharma said, there was still a lot of confusion about air travel due to which a virtual mode is essential. If Parliament of 34 nations can use the virtual method to connect, then why not the Indian Parliament, he asked. He has, meanwhile, written a fresh letter to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat to convene the meeting of the panel on home affairs at the earliest since the Ministry of Home Affairs is at the nub of regulating the lockdown, movement of migrant workers and other associated issues. Chairman of the IT committee, Shashi Tharoor, who was one of the earliest to demand a virtual meeting, told The Hindu that he is still awaiting the Speaker’s consent. Chairman of the labour committee B. Mahtab, who has written twice to the Speaker on the issue, said he would be writing again on Tuesday seeking to convene the meeting of the panel at the earliest. Informed sources said, the effort to explore a safe medium to hold meetings virtually was being explored simultaneously. Secretary Generals of the two Houses have been directed to submit a report at the earliest.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra issues guidelines for air travel||Hours after domestic flight operations resumed in the State, the Maharashtra government on Monday evening issued standard operating procedure (SOP) guidelines for passengers arriving and departing from the State. According to the guidelines, each arriving passenger will be subject to a temperature check and stamped on the left hand for home isolation of 14 days and self-monitoring of health. Officials on the ground will be allowed to decide exemptions for those coming to Mumbai for less than seven days or those who have to leave (their place of stay) for office-related or other urgent work. Those passengers whose stay in the city of arrival is less than seven days and have planned for onward or return journey will have to share the details of the same to be exempted from isolation. They will not be allowed in containment zones of hotspot areas. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, in the order, said the guidelines for airports and travel issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) on May 24 would be applicable to all inbound and outbound air travel. As per the guidelines, nodal officers will be appointed. Detailed passenger list The officer will have to be provided with a detailed passenger list at least six hours in advance of a flight. Passengers will be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app and have to fill a self-declaration form. Passengers will be subject to thermal screening upon arrival by health officers of the Brihanamumbai Municipal Corporation or other civic bodies or district administration, as applicable. A 24/7 reception-cum-helpline desk will be activated. This desk will, in coordination with the police and transport commissioners, have all details of flight information, movement plans and details of arriving passengers. Those passengers moving outside the red zone will only be on specific reason and if requisite permission has been taken in advance.
26 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Priyanka questions Yogi’s claim||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to explain on what basis he had claimed that 75% of the migrant workers who returned to the State from Maharashtra and 50% from Delhi were infected with the novel coronavirus. While interacting with presspersons on Sunday through video-conferencing, Mr. Adityanath had given these figures, and said the high number of migrant workers having COVID-19 was posing a challenge to Uttar Pradesh. As many as 75% of migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra, 50% who returned from Delhi and 25-30% of migrants who came from other States were “infected,” the Chief Minister said. “This is a challenge for us. But our teams are working strongly,” he said. Mr. Adityanath, however, did not provide any data to back up his numbers. Maharashtra and Delhi are ruled by non-BJP governments. Taking to Twitter, Ms. Vadra asked Mr. Adityanath from where did he derive the figures about his claim, dubbing it unverified and irresponsible. “If so [true], then why is the testing so low,” she asked. Given that over 23 lakh migrant workers have officially returned to Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown, Ms. Vadra asked whether over 10 lakh people were really infected. However, the government claimed that only 6,228 positive cases had been recorded, she observed. The Congress leader demanded that the government reveal to the public the testing data and other preparations against COVID-19. 6,497 cases As per the State government on Monday, the total positive cases are now 6,497, while the active cases stand at 2,668. So far, 1,663 migrant workers who returned from other States have tested positive.  Where did he derive the figures about his claim... If so [true], then why is the testing so low? Priyanka Gandhi Congress general secretary
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Reverse migration to villages has set the economy back by 15 years’||Santosh K. Mehrotra , Professor of Economics at the Centre for Informal Sector & Labour Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University and author of the recently launched book Reviving Jobs: An Agenda For Growth says the current reverse migration has set the country back by 15 years, and stresses that the economic stimulus package announced by the government is minuscule compared with the package rolled out by the Manmohan Singh government during the 2008 crisis.  How prolonged will be the economic impact of this extended lockdown? Do you see the workers who left the cities returning anytime soon? I see a long economic and migrant worker impact. I don’t see them streaming back in a hurry. The trauma has been far too great. There are many reasons why they left — poor living conditions here, overnight loss of livelihood, no social security and so on. They will not return in a hurry and relates to your larger question on the revival of the economy; for the first time in decades, India’s economy will contract in FY21, and revive in the latter half of FY22 (as RBI has admitted). Also, we were in an economic crisis even before the pandemic started. But before we get there, you need to appreciate the contrasting economic situation prevailing in the last quarter of 2019 before the pandemic, and the pre-2008 crisis situation. Before 2008, all engines of growth were firing. Our investment-to-GDP ratio was at an all time high. GDP growth was 8-9% per annum and because of that the job growth was very rapid. We had five million unskilled workers leaving agriculture for the first time in Indian history because non-agri jobs were growing. Is the stimulus announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman strong enough to bring the economy back on track? A straightforward answer is no. But before I answer this we need to see what happened between 2012 and 2018. Until 2012, nearly 7.5 million non-agriculture jobs were being created per year, but thereafter there was a slight economic slowdown, but still the average GDP growth over 2004-14 was 8% per annum. There were two years of droughts in 2014-2015. The slowdown also accelerated after 2014 because of misplaced economic policies. The rate of non-agricultural jobs was reduced to 2.9 million per annum. Now, this was happening at a time when young entrants into the labour force were increasing. Until 2012 the number of new entrants in the job market was only 2 million per annum (as youth were entering school in much larger numbers than before). Thereafter, the number looking for work increased to roughly 5 million per annum. These young people were getting better educated and no longer wanted to be tied down to agricultural jobs. The result was open unemployment. And that is how we came to our 45-year high in open unemployment rate in 2018. The state of the economy and joblessness continued to worsen through 2019 because the growth rate slowed. We entered 2020 with seven quarters of systematic decline in growth rate, investment rate and exports. So, every engine of growth had stopped firing; government revenue growth slowed, the real fiscal deficit in 2018-19 was 5.68% of GDP for the central government (as revealed by CAG) when the government was claiming it was 3.4%. By early 2019, the government did not have the fiscal space left any longer to actually jump start the economy if a shock was to happen. Given that COVID-19 is an unprecedented exogenous shock delivered to a slowing economy, we were hoping that the government would take a slightly different view than it has taken, and significantly increase public expenditure. Now going back to the 2008 crisis, the fiscal space existed then because the economy had been growing until then. In the post 2008 global economic crisis, the fiscal stimulus size by the government and mind you, fiscal stimulus alone, was 4% of the GDP (supplemented by monetary policy actions). And the fiscal package announced post-COVID-19 is less than 1% of the GDP, although the economic and jobs crisis is much deeper than in 2008. Can this stimulus package provide jobs, say in the next six months or a year from now? No because this stimulus is heavily dependent on banks extending loans. Why do I, as an entrepreneur, borrow from the bank when I know demand is already extremely low in the economy, both domestically and internationally? This is a global economic crisis much worse than the 2008 one. So why am I going to borrow to invest? Some borrowing for working capital will take place. The government has taken supply side action without taking demand side action. If you don’t put money into the hands of people, then you are not going to see a revival of demand. The total unemployed went from about 30 million in 2018 to 122 million in April 2020. This is unprecedented in Indian history. Some jobs would come back post-lockdown. But how many of them will come back depends on the quality of the stimulus... In your book, you have observed that the demographic dividend kicked in during the 1980s and it will end by 2040. We just have 20 years left to cash it. How does this pandemic and the economic fall out impact on this dividend? Yes, we are running a very, very serious risk of frittering away this dividend. Realising the demographic dividend requires job growth at a rate faster than the number of entrants into the labour force. If new entrants into the labour force, who are better educated, are entering at a rate of more than 5 million per annum, you have to create at least 5 million non-agricultural jobs. Secondly, you need to create enough jobs to employ the currently unemployed, which has risen sharply. Thirdly, in 2018 we had 205 million people working in agriculture. From 2004-05 until 2018, the absolute number of workers in agriculture was falling because non-agricultural jobs were growing fast. This means the process of structural transformation of redirecting the workforce from agriculture to construction/industry/services was underway. But after 2012, we have been witnessing a decline in jobs in manufacturing for the first time in India’s history. If we are to realise the demographic dividend, we need a shift of jobs from the agriculture sector to manufacturing. Reverse migration, that we are seeing today, has increased workers in agriculture by 5.2 million in a few weeks. It means that we have gone back by 15 years.  We were in an economic crisis even before the pandemic started
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Heavy rain hits five Assam districts||Heavy rainfall has affected more than 30,000 people in five districts of Assam, battling flood along with the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said people began trooping into two relief centres in Goalpara district on Monday even as the State recorded 514 COVID-19 positive cases, up by 122 from the figure on Sunday night. This is the highest single-day spike in Assam. The number expected to rise with the State having ramped up its testing facilities. “By 5 p.m. today [Monday], 30,701 people across 127 villages in five districts have been affected. The district officials are trying their best to make the people adhere to the pandemic protocols, but it is tough to do so in crisis situations,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. Apart from Goalpara, other flood-hit districts are Darrang, Dhemaji, Dibrugarh and Lakhimpur. Goalpara is the worst affected with 89 villages inundated.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. to hold online drive to push for direct cash transfer||The Congress will hold on Thursday an online campaign to put pressure on the government to make direct cash transfer of Rs. 10,000 to all the families outside the income tax bracket to tide over the financial crisis that the extended lockdown has brought upon them. The party is expecting at least 50 lakh of its workers, office-bearers and sympathisers to participate. They will come live on various social media platforms simultaneously between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Party president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and all Congress Chief Ministers are expected to participate in the campaign. The event, general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said, is an effort to make the government listen and consider the demands made by the party. “Lakhs of migrant workers, farmers, workers in un-organised sectors, MSMEs and other daily wage earners are in grave distress...The government remains insensitive and aloof,” he told The Hindu . While the party had been taking relief measures at its end, an institutional intervention was essential to ameliorate the pain of all those suffering because of the extended lockdown. “Instead of providing support, the Central government continues to ignore the plight of these people and has failed to take any meaningful measures,” he said.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||AI can assign middle seats on rescue flights for now: SC||The Supreme Court convened urgently on a public holiday to allow Air India to assign middle seats to passengers on non-scheduled flights to rescue citizens stranded abroad amid the COVID-19 pandemic. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, on Monday, said the public carrier can fill up its middle seats up to June 6. After that, Air India (AI) would operate in compliance with any interim orders passed by the High Court, which has already scheduled a hearing on June 2. “In these circumstances, we propose to remand the matter to the Bombay High Court with a request to the High Court to pass an effective interim order after hearing all concerned on the date fixed, June 2,” the Supreme Court directed in its six-page order. The court also made it clear that the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) was free to alter any norms considered necessary during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than commercial considerations. AI and the government had appealed to the apex court against an interim order on May 22 of the Bombay High Court, which asked the national carrier to operate the flights keeping the middle seats vacant. The High Court order was based on a petition filed by an AI pilot, Deven Yogesh Kanani, who showed photographs of a full capacity flight between San Francisco and Mumbai. Mr. Kanani said AI was flouting a condition imposed in a government circular to keep the middle seats vacant. The High Court had sought a response from AI and the DGCA on this petition by June 2. In a virtual court hearing through videoconferencing, the Supreme Court Bench made its displeasure clear about AI’s full capacity flights without following social distancing norms. “You should be worried about the health of citizens, not about the health of the airline,” Chief Justice Bobde addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,||China to repatriate stranded nationals||China has announced plans to repatriate its nationals in India who have been unable to return because of the COVID-19 pandemic, with flights scheduled for the first week of June. A notice issued by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi on Monday said students, businessmen and tourists “in urgent need of returning home” would be allowed to travel back, and would need to register by May 27. Those who had been diagnosed with COVID-19 or had fever and cough symptoms within the past 14 days would not be permitted to fly. The costs for the tickets and for quarantine expenses for 14 days on arrival in China would be borne by the passengers. According to a tentative flight schedule as of May 25, the first flight would depart from New Delhi to Shanghai on June 2. Other routes are Mumbai-Chongqing (June 3), Kolkata-Jinan (June 5), Delhi-Guangzhou (June 7) and Mumbai-Zhengzhou (June 8). On March 27, China announced international travel restrictions citing a rise in imported COVID-19 cases, even as the number of locally transmitted cases had fallen. The entry of all foreign nationals has been suspended. Starting March 29, Chinese airlines have been permitted to fly one route to any country per week, while foreign airlines can maintain one weekly route to China. All incoming travellers will have to take nucleic acid sampling and blood tests on arrival and most will have to undergo 14 days’ centralised quarantine at their expense. The Embassy’s notice said passengers will have to comply with nucleic acid sampling and blood testing procedures on arrival.
26 May 2020||Kolkata,||As orders dry up, Durga puja in Bengal may lose its shine||Somnath Rudra Pal, a young clay artisan, was sitting opposite his spacious workshop in Kumartuli, uncommonly listless: “Clearly, there is no work, you can see.” He receives orders for about 20 idols of goddess Durga each year, but in 2020, he is yet to receive any, he said. “Barring a few bookings for private household Pujas, no neighbourhood committees arrived,” said Mr. Pal, a third generation artist. Bookings are usually confirmed on the first day of the Bengali new year, Poila Baisakh in the middle of April, or Akshaya Tritiya, the Hindu spring festival in the end of April, but owing to lockdown, none of the Puja committees booked idols and paid the advance amount. “[Cyclone] Amphan has destroyed the idols that we made anticipating a few orders,” said Mr. Pal. Kumartuli, by the bank of river Hooghly, usually bustles at this time of year, but it was almost empty on Monday afternoon with the largest association of artisans — Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sanskriti Samiti (KMSS) — distributing a free lunch of rice and fish curry. The century-old potters’ colony, with about 500 artisans and their families producing over 6,000 Durga idols, is peppered with basic hay-and-wood frames of the goddess. Artisans said they usually manage to put plaster and clay on the frame by end of May. ‘Nearly nil’ The artisans’ association’s secretary said that booking is “nearly nil” this year following the COVID-19 outbreak and Amphan. “Both money flow and production ability was disturbed,” said Babu Pal, secretary, KMSS. “Bookings did not come through, drying up the main annual income of potters. Secondly, the workers, who mainly reside in Nadia district, went home during lockdown, affecting production,” added Mr. Pal. He narrated one more critical problem. Between April and August, the artists prepare the structure of many small gods — Ganesh, Biswakarma, Lakshmi, Basanti, Annapurna — which are worshipped a month or so before and after the big puja. “Idols of small gods provide better volume on sales, thus relatively better income. Owing to lack of funds and absence of workers, those idols could not be prepared,” he said. Durga Puja generates considerable revenues in Bengal. A 2013 report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry estimated the size of the Durga Puja “industry is about Rs. 25,000 crore.” “Funding at multiple levels will fall in terms of personal donations. I am not sure if corporates will come forward to support either. Puja will be organised but would not be the same,” said Subrata Mukherjee, the seniormost Trinamool Congress (TMC) Minister and chief patron of one of the big budget Bengal Pujas, the Ekdalia Evergreen.
26 May 2020||Bhopal,||Interns on COVID duty demand stipend||Around 120 interns at a private medical college in Ujjain, where most of the city’s COVID-19 patients are being treated, have refused to perform duties until they are paid a stipend on a par with government institutions and they are imparted training in handling PPE kits. The R.D. Gardi Medical College had directed its interns to take up COVID-19 duties from May 22, but they haven’t complied with the order so far. As a result, 22 interns have received letters from the Ujjain District Collector asking them to return to work within 12 hours or face legal action. “We are putting ourselves in such hazardous situations, in the face of the COVID-19 threat. Don’t we deserve respect and some kind of financial support at least?” asked an intern. “It is our right anyway as we are performing [regular] duties although we are students.” The intern also alleged the college had not formally taught them the procedure to safely wear and remove personal protective equipment (PPE). “We may end up getting infected and carrying the infection to others outside the ward,” he said. Ujjain is one of the worst-hit cities in Madhya Pradesh, with a death rate of 9.4% among its 575 COVID-19 patients. Given its proximity to Indore, which has recorded the most number of cases and fatalities in the State, health experts have suggested that a more virulent strain of the novel coronavirus is responsible for the higher number of deaths. Samples from Ujjain, Indore and the other two neighbouring districts of Dewas and Khargone have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to identify the virus strain. Another intern said they must be paid Rs. 10,500 per month, just like government colleges. “Since we are helping combat the pandemic equally if not more, why discriminate against us? Non-payment of stipend is discouraging for us,” she said. ‘Not part of policy’ Stating that stipend was anyway not part of the COVID-19 policy, Additional Collector Sujan Rawat said, “It can be decided only by the management based on existing rules. Besides, interns have been covered under mediclaim.” College Dean M.K. Rathore said as private colleges hadn’t been paying stipend to interns, there was no question of paying it now. “They just want to avoid duties. Many have been interning for three months, but did not raise the demand before. Only when they were put on COVID duties, they started raising questions,” he said. “If doctors are scared like this, how can we combat the pandemic? Others, including senior doctors are performing duties. They must also come forward,” he added. As for the training, Dr. Rathore said it was being imparted to everyone. “Interns are required to maintain only case sheets. They don’t directly handle patients.”
26 May 2020||MURKILONKA (KB ASIFABAD DISTRICT),||Hard-working Kolam tribe couple become land owners||An unthinkable phenomenon has happened in the deeper confines of the tribal land in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. Once poor landless agriculture labourers, a Kolam aboriginal tribe couple, Athram Ramu and Rajubai of Murkilonka hamlet of Parda gram panchayat in Kerameri mandal have come to own a four-acre plot of farm land in their own village, purchased out of the savings they made over a period of over 18 years. Ramu and Rajubai are perhaps the only Kolams — their tribe being categorised as Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) as it is among the most backward among aboriginal tribes in the country — who could afford to experiment by planting bananas on one acre of their plot of land. They will harvest the crop sometime in September. The story of sheer hard work and patience starts with the destitute Ramu getting married to an equally poor Rajubai some 23 years back. He belonged to Agarwada village in Khairi gram panchayat in the same mandal, but shifted to Murkilonka as iltem or the son-in-law living in the wife’s home. “The first four years I worked on the land of my father-in-law. Later, Balaji Kendre (an organic farmer from Dhanora who has grown apples) employed us for three years on leased out farm lands which he was cultivating,” the 50-plus-year-old Ramu began narrating his story. “As we had saved some money by working with Mr. Kendre, I myself leased out some land for cultivation. By 2016, we were able to purchase the four acres for Rs. 3 lakh which we had saved,” he added. The Kolam family also increased in number with the addition of three sons, two of whom have been sharing the work on the field. Thanks to the whole family working as one unit, the farmers could save precious extra money. While cultivation of cotton and red gram was profitable during the last three years, Ramu and Rajubai experimented with banana plantation on the advice of Mr. Kendre. “I knew their hard work will yield desired results,” observed the organic farmer who inspects the plantation periodically. Thanks to owning the land, the Kolam farmers were able to avail crop loan.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,||Church replica erected for film shoot vandalised in Kerala||The police on Monday arrested Kara Ratheesh, who reportedly has links with a right-wing group, in connection with Sunday’s demolition of a church-shaped set that was erected for shooting a Malayalam movie on the banks of the river Periyar at Kalady. “The arrested is an accused in over a dozen criminal cases, including murder,” a senior police officer said. Ratheesh has been charged under IPC Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion); 153 (wanton provocation with intent to cause riot); 143 (unlawful assembly); 147 (rioting); 454 (trespass to commit offence); 427 (causing damage) and 380 (theft). Members of right-wing Hindu outfits had claimed to have demolished the set built for shooting Minnal Murali , directed by Basil Joseph, with Tovino Thomas in the lead. The Facebook page of one ‘Hari Palode, general secretary of Antharashtra Hindu Parishad (AHP)’ said the structure was demolished by activists of Bajrang Dal, since “complaints against erecting the structure in front of Lord Mahadeva on Kalady Manappuram (sandbank) did not yield results. We decided to demolish it since we do not have the habit of pleading. ‘Swabhimaanam’ (self-respect) has to be protected.” He was not available for comment. Director’s response In his FB post, director Basil Joseph, said he was at a loss for words. “For some people, it could be a joke, troll, publicity or politics. For us it was a dream. The set was erected just before the lockdown. We had been working for two years to realise the movie. The art director and team struggled under the hot sun for many days to build the set, for which the hard-earned money of the producer was spent. It was built after getting all requisite permissions. The atrocity has happened at a time when everyone must stand united. I never expected this to happen in Kerala. I am shocked,” Mr. Joseph’s post goes. The set reportedly cost Rs. 50 lakh. CM promises action Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said stern action would be taken against the culprits. Chairman of Malayalam Cine Technicians Association (MACTA) Jayaraj said the association strongly protested against such attempts to damage Kerala’s secular culture. “Members of the public must thwart the designs of communal elements who want to pull society backwards,” he said. Subin Kumar V.S., president of Kalady Mahasivaratri Aghosha Samity that organises the Sivaratri festivities, said the makers of the film had sought the samity’s permission to shoot on the isle, where other movies too were shot. “We gave our approval, especially since it is revenue land. The attack is a blot on a place visited by thousands of people during Mahasivaratri,” he said.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF has fulfilled its manifesto, despite adversities: Kerala CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday appeared to make a pitch for continuity of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule. On the fourth anniversary of his government, Mr. Vijayan said the LDF had lived up to its manifesto despite unprecedented adversities having beset the State recurrently. A string of catastrophes had hit the State since the LDF came to power in 2016 — the Ockhi Cyclone in 2017, the Nipah outbreak and back-to-back floods in 2018 and 2019. Kerala braved the calamities, but it got no breathing space. The COVID-19 pandemic struck before Kerala could get back on its feet. It crippled the State’s tottering economy, upended life, hobbled manufacturing, destroyed retail trade and scorched the State’s conventional sources of revenue. Polls as scheduled Mr. Vijayan, at a televised news conference, said the people had approved the State’s handling of the crises. Now, the government had nudged the State in the direction of a rapid recovery. He said the LDF faced no unfavourable situation on the ground. It could easily hold its own at the hustings. The government would hold local body elections as per schedule in October. The LDF was under no compulsion to engineer the defection of any member of the UDF coalition. Several non-Congress leaders in the Opposition had praised the State’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. However, it did not necessarily entail that they would gravitate towards the LDF. Kerala Congress (Mani) leader P. J. Joseph, for one, often praised the government. Congress refused to accept the political reality and was on a lonely fault-finding mission. ‘Must live with threat’ Kerala could not remain shut down in perpetuity. It had to live with the threat of epidemic and rebuild itself. The pandemic has thrown open new opportunities. The State could become a magnet for global investment, given its high quality of life index. The inclination to decentralise manufacturing could prove to be an economic windfall for Kerala. The State had made considerable strides in infrastructure development, modernising health care and public education. Blames Centre The government had prioritised building houses for the homeless, expanding the welfare pension safety net and guaranteeing food security by universalising the public distribution system. Mr. Vijayan accused the Central government of having created fissures in the federal system. It often pointedly denied States their due, he said.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||ILO urges PM not to dilute labour laws||The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has informed trade unions of India that its Director-General has expressed concern and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “send a clear message” to the Central and State governments to uphold international labour laws after the recent dilution of laws by some States. A group of 10 Central trade unions wrote to the ILO in Geneva on May 14, seeking its intervention to protect workers’ rights and international labour standards. ‘Expressed concern’ In a response to the unions on May 22, the chief of the Freedom Of Association Branch of the ILO’s International Labour Standards Department, Karen Curtis, wrote: “Please allow me to assure you that the ILO Director-General has immediately intervened, expressing his deep concern at these recent events and appealing to the Prime Minister to send a clear message to Central and State governments to uphold the country’s international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue”. Wide representation The unions that sent the representation to the ILO were the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress. They sent the representation to the ILO after Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and some other States either suspended a large number of labour laws for two-three years or diluted them in an attempt to woo industry in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.
26 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||In Ganjam’s poorer households, home quarantine is difficult||After 21 days of institutional quarantine, Maheswar Swain and Bangali Swain of Bharasa village of Khallikote block in Odisha’s Ganjam district, a couple who have returned from Surat, are spending their mandatory home quarantine period in a makeshift hut to check the possible spread of COVID-19. Akhaya Pahana, another returnee from Surat to the Bharasa village, spends his home quarantine period on the verandah of his Phailin Cyclone-damaged house or under a nearby tree. Nine members of Jhadia Gouda’s family from the same village are spending their days of home quarantine in their single room house. Most traditional houses in Ganjam’s villages have one or two rooms arranged in a series — one room leads to another room. They have a single toilet. So, it is quite hard to adhere to social distancing during home quarantine. Several migrant workers have only small thatched houses that have been damaged by past cyclones. Inherent hardships But despite the hardships inherent in their home quarantine, most are only too happy to reunite with family members after a long period of anxiety. Such experiences are playing out in most villages of Ganjam district, which has already welcomed around 70,000 migrant workers returning from outside Odisha due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Those who had returned to the district in the last week of April or the beginning of May have completed their institutional quarantine to spend a mandatory seven days in home quarantine. But the lack of adequate rooms and infrastructure at homes has created problems in the mandatory home quarantine period. The Odisha government had in the past increased the institutional quarantine period to 21 days, followed by seven days of mandatory home quarantine for the returnees. This has now been reduced to seven days institutional quarantine followed by seven days home quarantine for persons not having any symptoms of COVID-19.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gen. Naravane has hurt Gurkha sentiments, says Nepal Minister||The Indian Army chief’s comments on the Kalapani dispute had hurt the sentiments of Nepali Gurkhas who have a long tradition of sacrifice for India, Nepal’s Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel said on Monday. In an interview to an online news outlet The Rising Nepal , he said General Manoj Naravane’s indirect reference to alleged Chinese hand behind the diplomatic spat was “condemnable” and the Nepal Army would fight if necessary. “With this, the Indian Chief of the Army Staff has also hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha Army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India. It must now be difficult for them to stand tall in front of the Gurkha forces,” he said. Mr. Pokhrel termed Gen. Naravane’s comments a “political stunt”. Such opinions were not expected from the head of the Army, he said.   Gen. Manoj Naravane had said the link road was built on the Indian territory and that there was no cause for Nepal to agitate. “There is reason to believe that they might have raised this issue at the behest of someone else and that is very much a possibility”, he stated during an online seminar on May 15.  ‘Political domain’ The Nepal Army has, however, maintained silence on this issue and declined to be drawn into the territorial dispute. Spokesperson of the Nepal army, Brig. General Bigyan Dev Pandey earlier refused to respond to General Naravane’s comments, saying the matter fell in the “political” domain. On Monday too, he maintained the same position, saying he was “not entitled” to comment on the the opinion of the Defence Minister.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Insist on institutional quarantine for expatriates, says IMA||Alarmed by the exponential increase in COVID-19 cases in the State since past two weeks when expatriates and non-resident Keralites began arriving to the State, and the increasing number of cases with no known sources popping up in the community, Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to the government that unless the arrival of expatriates is managed in a more rational and scientific manner, Kerala could very well lose the battle against the virus. IMA has also expressed concern over the fact that an increasing number of healthcare workers are getting infected while on duty and that in most cases the source of infection is unknown. It demanded that the infection control practices be revamped and that the quality of PPE kits should be ensured. IMA, in a recommendation to the government, said that expatriates should be brought back strictly on priority basis and rather than home quarantine, the government should insist on institutional quarantine for all of them before they could be allowed home quarantine. Violation It pointed out that home quarantine was not working well and that the innumerable cases of violation of home quarantine and the increasing number of cases in all districts due to “contact” should be read together. Private labs IMA also pointed out that the number of diagnostic tests conducted in the State was inadequate and that it was time private hospitals and labs were given permission to have testing facilities. While the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in the public sector were managing the situation now, it was pretty evident that soon the patient load would go up, demanding that the private sector also step in to manage the crisis.
26 May 2020||Shivamogga,||Karnataka govt. takes efforts to solve mystery over birthplace of Purandara Dasa||To explore definitive archaeological evidences that may put an end to speculations regarding the birthplace of Purandara Dasa, hailed as father figure of Carnatic music, the Department of Archaeology, Heritage and Museums will soon commence field research work at Keshavapura in Araga Gram Panchayat (GP) of Tirthahalli taluk. As ‘Purandara Vithala’ was the pen name of his compositions, it was widely believed that the mystic poet was born in Purandharagad, Maharashtra. However, many in Malnad claimed that he hailed from this region. According to historians, Araga in Malnad was a buzzing commercial centre during the Vijayanagar rule, the period to which the poet belonged to. Referring to the names of the places in the vicinity of Keshavapura — Varthepura, Vithalanagundi, Dasanagadde, it was argued that these places were inhibited by merchant community influenced by Vaishnava tradition to which Purandara Dasa belonged. The late Patamakki Rathnakar, former MLA of Tirthahalli who had requested the State government to conduct research over the issue, had said that many words that figured in Purandara Dasa’s compositions were used by people in Malnad then in their day-to-day life. Prior to his initiation to Haridasa tradition, Purandara Dasa was a rich merchant and was called as Srinivasa Nayaka. Referring to this, the proponents of the theory that Puranadara Dasa was born in Malnad point out at that ‘Nayaka’ title was attributed to locally influential people, including wealthy merchants in Malnad during the Vijayanagar rule. To solve the mystery regarding birthplace, the State government had directed Kannada University, Hampi, to form an expert committee. The committee formed by the university comprised R.K. Padmanabha, music expert; Leeladevi R. Prasad, former Minister of Kannada and Culture; A.V. Navada, Veeranna Rajoora, Aralumallige Parthasarathy and Shivanand Virakthamutt, experts in Kannada Bhakti Sahitya or devotional literature. After visiting Keshavapura and surrounding places, the committee members had said that there was enough evidence to come to the conclusion that the devotional poet was born here. In its report, the committee had recommended for further research over the issue. Following the submission of the report, people in Tirthahalli had demanded establishment of a study centre in Keshavapura on life and achievements of Purandara Dasa. S.G. Samakh, an archaeologist who was member of the team that took part in the excavation of the palace in Bada village of Haveri taluk where Kanaka Dasa, another saint poet was born, told The Hindu that, so far, based on literary evidence, it is being speculated that Purandara Dasa was born near Araga. However, definitive conclusions can be reached over the issue if we get tangible archaeological evidence like inscriptions, coins, remains of building related to the name Srinivasa Nayaka or Purandara Dasa. Shejeshwara R., Assistant Director of department, said a team of archaeology experts would visit Araga and surrounding villages that have dilapidated monuments for preliminary field-level archaeological research work shortly. If need arises, excavation would be taken up in coming days, he added.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Route congestion issue sorted out: Railways||Following concerns over several instances of diversion of Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the Railways on Monday said the issue of congestion on these routes had been sorted out. On Saturday, replying to queries on a Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh)-bound Shramik Special train from Maharashtra reaching Odisha, the Railways had said that with 80% of Shramik Special trains going to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, there was network congestion on the routes, hence, some trains were diverted to alternative routes. “The rail route congestion which was being witnessed on May 23-24, is over. The congestion had occurred due to the convergence of more than two-third rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of the terminals due to health protocols etc., that needed to be completed by State authorities,” the Railways said on Monday. It said the matter had been resolved through “active consultation” with the State governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey. It added that as on May 25, till 10 a.m., 3,060 Shramik Special trains had been operated from various States, carrying more than 40 lakh passengers. “Out of the 3,060 Shramik Special trains, 2,608 have been terminated, 453 trains are running,” it said. As per data shared, the top five States from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat (853), Maharashtra (550), Punjab (333), Uttar Pradesh (221) and Delhi (181). Maximum trains terminated at Uttar Pradesh (1,245), followed by Bihar (846), Jharkhand (123), Madhya Pradesh (112) and Odisha (73).
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Techie may have links with terror groups: police||The police have disclosed to the Karnataka High Court that there is a clue that software engineer Mohammed Mujeeb, who had put up provocative posts on social media asking people to spread COVID-19 by sneezing with open mouth in public place, has links with some unorganised terrorist groups and this has to be unearthed in further investigation. Justice K.S. Mudagal noted these aspects from the case diary maintained by the police and declined to grant bail to him while observing that the “sovereignty, fraternity and integrity of India takes precedence over the fundamental right to protection of personal liberty.” Also, the court noted from the case diary that the investigating officer had seized incriminating materials from Mujeeb (38) and even an officer of National Investigation Agency (NIA) participated in the investigation to examine his links in relation to the national security issues.  Pak. Whatsapp   “The investigation records show that the petitioner has the history of travel and stay in Bahrain and Kuwait for some years. As per the case diary records the petitioner was influenced by some elements preaching religious fanatism and anti-national ideas. Mujeeb even shared a Pakistan Whatsapp number for Islamic information,” the court observed. Noticing that the investigation is still under way and whether the offences confine to those mentioned in the FIR is not yet known, the Bench said that the plea for grant of bail cannot be considered solely on the basis that offences quoted in the FIR does not carry punishment beyond three years. Six bank accounts The court also noticed from the investigation records that the petitioner was having six bank accounts in various banks. The investigating officer’s report along with the case diary “prima-facie show that though the petitioner was well educated and well employed, and uploaded messages that are likely to cause disharmony, hatredness and hostile to humanity. They are likely to cause panic amongst the people when the entire world is undergoing a traumatic situation due to COVID-19 pandemic,” Justice Mudagal observed. Though bail was sought on the grounds of mental health condition of the petitioner based on the documents given by a private medical practitioner, the counsel for the petitioner withdrew this claim after the court proposed to send Mujeeb to National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences for evaluation of his mental condition. Mujeeb was arrested in March last week following his Facebook post and he was sacked from the job by software giant, Infosys.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Deliberations on to end tensions on the LAC||It violated all existing agreements between India and China, the sources noted. In October last, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a strategically important bridge in this general area on the Shyok river to boost connectivity from Drabuk to the strategically important Daulat-Beg-Oldie (DBO) in eastern Ladakh. Sandwiched between the strategic Karakoram and Chang Chenmo ranges, the ‘Col Chewang Rinchen Setu’ is a 430-metre bridge built at an altitude of 14,650 feet built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) within 15 months. The BRO is gearing up to resume work full-time post the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. It is also building 61 strategic Indo-China Border Roads (ICBRs), measuring 3323.57 km in length, under the direction of the China Study Group (CSG). The official sources said the work was completely effected in the aftermath of the lockdown briefly and partially resumed after getting special permissions. With restrictions being significantly reduced, the BRO was making efforts to move construction labour in large numbers to forward locations, including by special trains. The working season was very limited and there was need to catch up on the lockdown delays as well. In March last, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence expressed satisfaction that the BRO has completed work on 75% of the construction work on the 61 ICBRs.
26 May 2020||WARANGAL,||Bihar worker held for Warangal murders||Three days after nine bodies of guest workers from West Bengal, Bihar and Tripura were found in an abandoned well at Gorrekunta of Geesugonda mandal in Warangal Rural district, the Warangal Commissionerate of Police got to the end of the mystery and arrested 24-year-old guest worker from Bihar, Sanjay Kumar Yadav, who allegedly committed the crime. Sharing details of the incident with the media on Monday, Commissioner of Police V. Ravinder said these nine people were killed to cover up one murder which Sanjay Kumar committed three months ago. On the night of May 20, Sanjay, who was plotting to kill Maqsood’s family, went to the birthday party at their home at the gunny bags manufacturing unit in Gorrekunta. He had with him the sleeping pills he bought two days ago and mixed the tablets in the food being cooked in the kitchen. Nine people who ate the food went into deep sleep. Sanjay used gunny bags to drag all the nine people to the abandoned well on the premises of another factory next door. “While he had to lift them over the boundary wall, he even chose a location where the wall height was less. The whole process of throwing the sedated people took five hours from 12.30 a.m to 5.30 a.m. He also brought the two guest workers from Bihar, Shyam and Sriram who were sleeping on the terrace to the well by dragging them in the same way.” He later took away some of the belonging of the dead, including their mobile phones. He also removed the wallet of one of the victims, Shakeel, before throwing him into the well. “We collected all the scientific and technical evidence against the accused to prove that he committed this crime. Six teams were formed to crack the case and they were successful in doing so in 72 hours. We also have CCTV footage of Sanjay’s movement from his home in Janpaka to the crime scene at the time the crime was allegedly committed . All the evidence and the fact that the accused was close to the deceased family fit in correctly. We will gather more evidence in due course and file a charge-sheet against the accused at the earliest,” Mr. Ravinder said. Sanjay Kumar Yadav came to Warangal six years ago in search of a job and worked in the same gunny bag manufacturing unit along with Maqsood. He got close to the family and met Rafika (37), a guest worker from West Bengal who stayed alone with her three children. Rafika was the daughter of Maqsood’s sister-in-law. Sanjay and Rafika started living together after they decided to get married. However, he started misbehaving with her teenage daughter. When Rafika questioned him regarding his actions, he decided to kill her. He convinced her that he would speak to her family members back in West Bengal regarding their wedding and both of them left Warangal by Garib Rath on March 6. He sedated her by mixing sleeping pills with butter milk. In the middle of the night when all passengers were sleeping, he strangled Rafika with her dupatta and threw her body from the train. Tadepalligudem police who found her body registered a case of suspicious death. Later on, Sanjay got off at Rajahmundry railway station and returned to Warangal. He told Nisha that Rafika stayed back at her home in West Bengal and he returned alone. However, after some days Maqsood’s wife Nisha started questioning him regarding Rafika when she learnt that she did not reach her home in West Bengal. She also threatened him that she would approach the police. To escape arrest by police, Sanjay decided to eliminate the entire family and plotted the murder. Police Commissioner V. Ravinder lauded DCP Venkata Lakshmi, Mamnoor ACP G. Shyam Sunder, inspectors Shiva Ramaiah, Pulala Kishan and others who were part of the investigation.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Air travel resumes but many seats go empty||The travellers’ misery was compounded as airlines issued credit shells instead of refunding money for the flights cancelled. “I just received a message of cancellation of my flight which is from Mumbai to Dehradun (25-May-2020). Please process my full refund and don't offer credit shell to me,” tweeted Rajdeep Singh Negi to a private airline. “My e-ticket has been cancelled as flights from Kolkata are not starting on 26. Please reschedule the flight on 28 with the same charges,” a passenger identifying himself as Amit requested another airline. The number of flights on Day 1 were half of what the Ministry of Civil Aviation had sanctioned. While airlines were given the nod to restart upto 30% of regular flights, 532 flights are a mere 15% of pre-COVID-19 days of nearly 3,300 arrivals and departures.
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM seeks release of 2 JNU students||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Monday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking the immediate release of two Jahawarlal Nehru University (JNU) students who were rearrested on Sunday. Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita are members of Pinjra Tod, a women’s rights collective. They were arrested in February in connection with the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests at Jaffrabad in northeast Delhi. They were sent to police custody on Sunday in an alleged murder case linked to the riots. “Our Constitution allows every citizen to show dissent and stage democratic, non-violent protests. The two students had like many others across the country resorted to peaceful protests against the unconstitutional Citizenship Amendment Act,” Mr Gogoi said. “Their arrest is vindictive and underlines the Bharatiya Janata Party’s bid to curb the freedom of expression,” he said, appealing to the Mr. Shah to instruct the Delhi police for their release.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing up in States seeing massive return of migrants||The States have been working with the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP) to deploy TrueNAT machines for COVID-19 testing, he stated. Through this machine, testing is done in such areas/ districts where a modern virological laboratory in private or public doesn’t exist. The Ministry also admitted that India doesn’t have a medical college or private laboratory with capacity to test such a virus in every district. So far no State had been overwhelmed with significant backlog of samples to be tested, he noted. “The use of 375 TrueNat machine is under way for the States seeing a surge of migrants’ return and supplies of 608 additional TrueNat machines are being mobilised in remote areas. The new machines, though procured for supplementing the needs for TB testing, have been allocated to the States with the flexibility for their deployment based on possible need for enhanced testing”, he added. The daily testing capacity of a TrueNat machine is 10-12 tests. “Keeping in mind the burden of cases and existing RT-PCR testing capacities, allocation has been done to different States/ UTs. With supply of these machines, it would be possible to have COVID-19 testing capacities in districts with no RT-PCR testing capacity,’’ said the ICMR. TrueNat platform also came with an inbuilt sample collection in viral-lysis buffer, the virus was inactivated and the biosafety requirements were minimal while handling the sample. Alternate platforms working on GeneXpert and Abott machines engaged in testing TB and HIV viral load testing respectively have also been mapped and operationalised. The country now has 609 total labs (431 public and 178 private). It was now testing about 1.1 lakh samples a day and had the capacity to test 1.4 lakh samples, which is being raised to 2 lakh samples, noted the Health Ministry, adding that India developed an -- Intelligent Testing Strategy -- to remain ‘ahead of the virus’.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Change in schedule catches passengers off guard||Authorities here too could not explain much as they had no clue if the airlines cancelled due to some reason or if it was a government order. “ We got stuck here during lockdown and booked tickets couple of days ago. We were told about flight cancellation only after reaching the airport. Different quarantine rules are adding to problem,” said another passenger. Order was restored once the flights started taking off and landing after a while even as Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar accompanied by Airport CEO SGK Kishore, arrived all of a sudden to check the arrangements at the airport. The airport was originally scheduled to handle up to 120 incoming and outgoing flights and the authorities were all geared up with the brand new ‘contact-less, social distancing, complete sanitised” terminals. However, it turned out that the number of arrivals and departures were restricted to just 40 - 20 incoming and 20 outgoing in a decision taken late in the night following apprehensions raised by the State Governments about sudden influx of people from other places. “Today as per the estimated flight schedule, the airport is going to handle 20 departures and 19 arrivals the entire day with an approximate passenger load of around 3,000 for both arrivals and departures. This is likely to be the schedule for the next few days,” informed an official spokesman. The first flight to depart was TruJet’s 2T 623 at 8.06 a.m. with 12 passengers on board to Vidyanagar in Karnataka.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bondage of karma||Sastras explain that karma has no beginning or end and that all beings are bound to samsara by the ties of karma. All actions, good or bad, are called karma and produce the effects of joy or sorrow respectively. So, actions that are done when being prompted by inner desires and vasanas are the karma and to face the effects thereon, people are born repeatedly. This naturally hinders their chances of liberation. But Vedanta study offers the path of Jnana or Vidya by which one can circumvent the endless cycle of karma and strive to escape from this in a tangential manner, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Even the study of Vedanta, if it remains at the theoretical and intellectual level, becomes ineffective for realisation of Brahman. But it becomes a great boon when the spiritual aspirant utilises it to get rid of karma and to get liberated. The fundamental teaching reinforced in the Gita is that each one should be aware that he is a unique blend of the physical and the spiritual. The self within the body is the witnessing consciousness responsible for the functioning of the body and is the knower of all, the Kshetrajna. This self is the essence of permanent joy. The body is compared to a field, Kshetra, where events happen. There is birth, growth decline and death. The five gross elements, the ego sense, intellect including the unmanifest, the karmendriyas and the jnanendriyas, are the constituents of the field. But being ignorant of the exceptional and immortal indwelling self that is of the essence of bliss, many are deluded into believing that joy can be sought in the external world. He who understands the invaluable quality of one’s present birth as a chance to strive for salvation is really blessed, since no one has any clue about what is in store in each one’s prarabdha karma account.
26 May 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants gunned down in Kulgam||Two unidentified militants were gunned down in an operation in south Kashmir’s Kulgam, the police said on Monday. In the intervening night of May 24 and 25, the police, the Army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF’s 18 Battalion at Khud Hanjipora launched an operation on a specific input, a police spokesman said. “During the search operation, terrorists fired on the search party. In the ensuing encounter, two terrorists were killed. Their identification and affiliation are being ascertained,” the spokesperson said.
26 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. releases skill map of migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday released its first skill map of migrant workers who returned to the State during the lockdown. The government has said it will provide them employment in the State as per their skills and experience and will constitute a Migrant Commission for the purpose. So far, 23-24 lakh migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown, the government said. Construction sector The largest set of these migrant workers are related to the construction sector, with over 1.52 lakh engaged in work in real estate or construction agencies. The list also includes painters (26,041), carpenters (16,064), drivers (9,052), electricians and persons associated with electronics (4,980), security guards (3364), furniture and fitting workers (2,234) and auto-repair mechanics (1,557), said a senior official.  ‘List to expand’ Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, said the list was expected to expand. Pointing out that around 12,103 migrant workers were linked to the garment and tailoring sector, the  official said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath felt that “if garment hubs can be built in Bangladesh and Vietnam, then why not here in Uttar Pradesh.”
26 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Home delivery of liquor fails to click in Odisha||The Odisha government’s plan for home delivery of liquor failed to take off with tipplers queuing up before shops to buy alcohol on Monday after a gap of two months. People could not find any application platform to order liquor online. Shop owners also insisted on selling offline. On Monday morning, people queued up before shops.
26 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Elaborate arrangements at RGIA||The State government has made elaborate arrangements for screening the passengers moving in and out of the city through the international airport. Thermal scanners as well as the hand-held machines had been deployed to check temperature of the passengers while sensors had been installed at various places for scanning passengers for possible coronavirus (COVID-19) symptoms. The arrangements follow the Central government's decision to allow operation of domestic flights from Monday after a gap of two months. The number of flights that arrived/departed were not up to expected levels on the day one. Passengers complained about the unannounced cancellation of flights. But Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the number is expected to increase from Tuesday. All arrangements were made to avoid inconvenience to passengers moving in and out of the city. The Chief Secretary along with GAD Secretary Vikas Raj and other senior officials visited the airport and inspected the arrangements there. Accompanied by the GHIAL officers, he checked the arrival/departure terminals of domestic flights as well as the facilities that are put in place at the international terminal. Mr. Somesh Kumar said passengers were being screened for temperature at the entrance itself. While those without any symptoms were allowed to board the flights, standard protocols were being followed in case of those detected with symptoms.  Mobile App mandatory There was no stipulation of 14-day quarantine period for those without any symptoms. Having the Aarogya Setu mobile App had been made mandatory for all the passengers. The airport premises had been made contact-free as part of the precautions and sensors were installed at vantage points to minimise human interference on the premises.
26 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Techie found dead in KPHB Colony||A 55-year-old techie was found dead in his apartment complex in KPHB Colony here on Monday morning. Valavala Ganga Venkata Sathi Raju of Indu Fortune Fields Gardinia, who works for Vitusa Consulting, Gachibowli, committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of the building. “He was diabetic, and had sleeping disorder for a long time and was on constant medication,” KPHB Colony police said. The victim had anxiety issues and at around 4 a.m. on Monday, he left home, and by 7 p.m., his son V. Pramod saw the body photos of his father in the apartment’s Telegram group posted by their president. “Immediately he rushed to the spot and found his father’s body lying in a pool of blood with multiple injuries,” the police said. Based on Mr. Pramod’s complaint, a case was registered and a probe is on.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired and re-employed, they add to burden on exchequer||While the Tamil Nadu government has announced austerity measures, quite a few officers, re-employed post-superannuation, either on extension or contract, are holding key posts, adding to the financial burden on the exchequer. The officials retired as Additional Directors or Joint Secretaries or Joint Directors or Deputy Secretaries. But they have been re-employed as Officers on Special Duty (OSD), senior/special PA to Ministers, Law Officers, consultants and managers of Asian Development Bank projects, informed sources said. At least 50 of them are re-employed in the Secretariat alone. Questioning the financial prudence of the exercise, an official alleged that these officials were re-employed for extraneous reasons. “When the Government Order on austerity measures said that even shawls and bouquets were to be avoided, how come these officers continue to be re-employed for several years,” he asked. In some cases, being in the “good books of Secretaries” mattered. “Such re-employment blocks the supply of fresh blood into the service. In some cases, caste plays a major role in getting an extension. Many of the re-employed persons are from one community in the western region,” an official said. Almost every department in the Secretariat and even the Legislative Assembly Department, has someone who is re-employed. “There is no regulation on re-employment as none keeps a tab on it. Those, who retired in senior posts and are re-employed on a contract-basis are being paid about Rs. 2 lakh a month,” he said. The special PAs to Ministers are working either on the extension of service or on contract-basis after retirement. A Minister is entitled to four PAs — two junior PAs, a senior PA and a special PA, who are in the grade of Assistant Section Officer, Section Officer and Under Secretary or above, respectively. “In addition to these PAs, sometimes, political PAs are also appointed and sometimes they are paid by the government from some other account,” he claimed. A senior official dealing with State’s finances defended the re-employment. He told The Hindu : “Some officers are employed only when there is a need and in some cases, they have specific technical expertise, which is needed. In some cases of PAs to Ministers, they have some equations with the Ministers and the latter too are more comfortable with these.” The official added that the re-employed are not paid a consolidated pay in addition to their pension. “The formula adopted is their last drawn pay minus the pension. So, it would not be much,” he added.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After chaotic Day 1, only 41 flights planned today||Chennai airport will handle fewer flights on Tuesday, with only 41 aircraft movements — 20 departures and 21 arrivals. Passengers, however, feared that there would be additional cancellations. Monday saw the first day of resumption of domestic flights during the COVID-19 pandemic with 36 flights. The airport was estimated to handle only about 2,500 passengers (including those arriving by night flights). The first flight left for Delhi from Chennai at 6.35 a.m. Incidentally, the first arrival flight too was from Delhi at 8.15 a.m. Chennai airport used to have 500 aircraft movements and handled about 40,000 passengers per day during normal operations. Tamil Nadu e-pass counters were set up at the arrival hall of the airport for the benefit of passengers. However, these counters will be functional only for a couple of days. After that, passengers have to register through the e-pass portal to get a pass to travel by air to the State. Officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) said there may be more flight cancellations for a couple of days. Schedule rework The airlines had to rework the already planned schedules once the Tamil Nadu government restricted the number of flight arrivals to 25 per day, thus causing the sudden cancellations. “So when the entire schedule is altered, there was bound to be cancellations. Looking at the trend on Monday, we expect there may be some flight cancellations on Tuesday too. “We hope it will be normalised after that. But it is going to quite a long time for us to get back the same passenger traffic and aircraft movement,” an official said.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrial estates in wait-and-watch mode||Despite a green signal from the State government to industrial estates to resume operations, several entrepreneurs have decided to wait for a few more days, citing fear psychosis, labour shortage, non-availability of raw materials, lack of transportation and capital crunch, among other reasons. “Most units are under lock and key due to the non-availability of workers,” said N. Suresh, senior vice-president of the Chennai Metro Small and Micro Industries’ Association. Pointing to a restaurant that remains shut, he said, “Shops and restaurants whose businesses depend on the workers have also not opened since the lockdown.” On Monday, workers at an industrial unit in Guindy were making plastic moulds to be sent to a consumer durable firm. They were wearing masks, while also following physical distancing norms. Renny Jose, managing partner of Core Plasto Enterprises, who takes care of the unit, said, “The next three months will be tough. Our orders have fallen by 50%. With no public transport, many women are not able to make it to work.” Tackling fear The people’s perception of COVID-19 is another key challenge that most industrial estates face. “With the number of cases increasing and Chennai being the hotspot, parents of workers are scared. This needs to be tackled,” said A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. He added that many units were running with a handful of workers and some had not even resumed operations yet. The Association held a meeting with State government officials and officers from the Police Department on Monday. The members were told to provide additional protein to workers and ensure that they shave off their beards. At the SIDCO industrial estate in Coimbatore, all 275 industries have been open since May 6. But labour shortage, lack of clarity on market and non-availability of some raw materials have been hampering operations. A majority of migrant workers have returned to their home States and a number of women workers are unable to make it to work due to the lack of public transport. In Perundurai, most of the 150-odd industries located in the SIPCOT industrial estate started functioning from the third week of May, after obtaining permission from the district administration. Textile processing units, tannery units and old tyre retreading units exist here in large numbers, and over 6,500 workers are employed here. With about 10% migrant workers leaving for their home States in the past one week, industries are currently operating with 60%-70% workforce. Production in industrial units at SIDCO industrial estates at Ariyamangalam, Tiruverumbur, Thuvakudi and Vazhavanthankottai in Tiruchi district and Mathur in Pudukkottai district continues to be sluggish, despite them having restarted operations in mid-May, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. While lockdown restrictions have limited the scope for industries to deploy their full workforce, most production units, being ancillaries of BHEL, have work orders sufficient only for partial workforce, said proprietors. “With the present level of conversion orders, we can provide employment only for less than 50% of the workforce,” said R. Ilango, president of the Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries’ Association. Commute a concern Industrial estates in Madurai district that began operations on May 6 have been running at around 60% capacity, said presidents of K. Pudur and Kappalur industrial estates. Currently, food processing units, fabrication, textile and hardware industries are functioning out of the two SIDCO industrial estates. There are a total of 400 units in Kappalur and 80 units in Pudur, said a source from SIDCO. However, the lack of transport and low margins are stopping industries from running from full capacity, he said. Pudur industrial estate president M.S. Sampath said that commute was a concern without public transport.  Kappalur industrial estate president P.N. Raghunatha Raja said that there were several breaks in the supply chain. “We have problems procuring goods from north India. Sales are not high so we have to reduce production. Trying to mobilise labour in place of north Indian labourers is a major point of concern too,” he said. ( With inputs from Sangeetha Kandavel and Sanjay Vijayakumar in Chennai, Sanjana Ganesh in Madurai, M.Soundariya Preetha in Coimbatore, S.P.Saravanan in Erode, and R.Krishnamoorthy in Tiruchi)
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||84% of the deceased had co-morbidities: Minister||Of the 118 persons who died after testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, 84% had co-morbidities. Among all co-morbidities, mortality was high among those with diabetes and hypertension, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Expert teams of doctors from general medicine, microbiology and community medicine have been conducting an audit of deaths in every district for the last three months. They found that 84% had co-morbidities and the remaining 16% did not have co-morbid conditions. Fatality was high among persons who already had diabetes and hypertension and then contracted COVID-19. This raises the need to take medicines and keep blood sugar and blood pressure levels under control, he said. “The audit showed that 50% of them were aged above 60. So age is also a risk factor,” he added. The State has formed committees, each catering to a co-morbid condition such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac ailment, cancer and tuberculosis. “We have formed expert committees for 11 such co-morbidities to provide targeted care for persons. This is why the State has been maintaining a low mortality rate. The Centre has asked us to make a presentation on the low mortality rate and share the protocol with other States,” he said. An analysis of COVID-19 cases in the last three months showed that of the total number of patients, 88% were asymptomatic and 12% were symptomatic. “Among the 12% with symptoms, 40% had fever, 37% had cough, 10% had sore throat, 9% had breathlessness and 4% had a runny nose,” he said. He said that a committee had worked on projections of COVID-19 cases for the next three months to enable the State to equip itself. “The Chief Minister is meeting the panel of medical experts on Tuesday to get their views. Another committee has worked on a projection on the expected number of COVID-19 cases. This gives us the trend for the coming days so that we can prepare ourselves in terms of beds required, drugs and equipment needed, and measures to prevent mortality,” he said.  We have formed expert committees for 11 such co-morbidities to provide targeted care for persons C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief for fishermen as Centre lifts ban early||The Centre on Monday decided to allow fishing by all fishing vessels from June 1 on the east coast. Thus, the fishing ban has been reduced by two weeks, taking into consideration the curbs imposed on fishing since March 24 in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. The move will benefit Tamil Nadu more than any other southern State as it has the largest number of 5,800 mechanised boats in the region. Around four lakh people, directly or indirectly, depend on fishing by mechanised boats for their livelihood, according to a senior official in the State Fisheries Department. This year, the Central Department of Fisheries, through an order of March 20, stipulated that States on the eastern coast of the country would have the annual ban on fishing in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) beyond territorial waters from April 15 to June 14 and in respect of the western coast, June 1 to July 31. Representation to Centre Four days later, the countrywide COVID-19 lockdown was imposed and since then, fishing had been prohibited. From April 11, only traditional crafts were allowed. Tamil Nadu and other eastern-coast States had represented to the Centre that the ban period, which would have even otherwise been for two months, should be cut short. “We were in the forefront of urging the Central government to reduce the ban period. We had suggested that the ban period be brought to an end on May 23,” said the official here. In an order issued to Fisheries Secretaries of all maritime States on Monday, the Centre said that considering the restrictions on fishing since March 24 in the wake of lockdown and representations of the States to change the ban period, it had decided to change the ban period from April 15 to May 31 for the eastern coast and from June 15 to July 31 for the western coast. The change was “applicable only for the current year and would not set any precedent for future,” the order clarified. Rajeev Ranjan, Union Fisheries Secretary, told The Hindu that while considering the request of the States, the Centre had to take into account conservation and effective management of fishery resources, apart from the factor of safety of fishermen in the sea.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Front line staff testing positive in Chennai a cause for concern||More front line workers, especially healthcare providers, are testing positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. Health officials said that front line workers accounted for 10-15% of the total COVID-19 cases in the State. One of the worst-hit among front line workers were doctors, staff nurses and other paramedical staff such as laboratory technicians. If it was postgraduate students of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) earlier, it is now senior doctors of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital who are testing positive for COVID-19. In fact, a few staff of the affiliated institutions, including maternity hospitals, have also tested positive. It should be recalled that several workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation, including conservancy workers, had tested positive for COVID-19. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, 15 doctors, including chiefs of departments and a staff nurse, are currently under admission for COVID-19. Doctors of RGGGH confirmed that at least three doctors, four staff nurses and a lab technician of RGGGH and its affiliated institution — Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore — had tested positive and were undergoing treatment. “This included a senior staff nurse who was on supervision work at RGGGH. She has uncontrolled blood sugar and hypertension,” said a doctor. Doctors pointed out that senior doctors of Stanley Hospital were not directly dealing with COVID-19 patients, but were on administrative work and took part in meetings. Some of them had high-grade fever for two to three days. “The hospital is in a containment zone. It is surrounded by zones that are hotspots from where it receives patients and their attendants. Professors who were not on COVID-19 duty have tested positive. A few staff of the radiology department have also tested positive due to a patient. There is a need to restrict unnecessary movement of people into the hospital,” a doctor said. K. Senthil, State president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said that according to their figures, nearly 35 doctors involved in supervisory work and COVID-19 management had tested positive, so far, across the State. “This is a high-risk job. Still, several deans of government medical college hospitals hold unnecessary meetings. All non-essential meetings can be avoided,” he said. K. Valarmathi, general secretary, the Tamil Nadu Government Nurses’ Association, said that it was in Chennai that several staff nurses and nursing superintendents were affected. “The number of staff nurses who have tested positive is less in southern Tamil Nadu. We are not involving nurses aged above 50, with co-morbid conditions, pregnant or lactating nurses on COVID-19 duty. But as the case load increases, some of them are engaged in duty. Nurses come in close contact with patients. Though precautionary measures are taken, many are infected,” she said.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has time till May 31 to decide on granting IoE status to Anna University||The Ministry for Human Resource Development has not received any communication from Tamil Nadu on awarding the Institution of Eminence status to Anna University, according to Union Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare. “We are waiting for a reply from the Tamil Nadu government. In view of the COVID-19 situation, we had requested Tamil Nadu government to send its reply by May 31,” Mr. Khare told The Hindu . When asked whether the Ministry would consider extending the deadline as the State government was still coping with COVID-19, Mr. Khare said, “We are yet to hear from the State government. If they request, we may extend time.” Responding to the political apprehension that accepting the IoE status could disrupt the reservation in admissions to the premier university, he said the State government had never raised the issue with the Ministry. By not responding to the Ministry’s letters, the State government could lose an opportunity of helping Anna University reach greater heights, Mr. Khare said. The HRD Ministry had written several letters to the State government on the issue. In its latest communication, it had asked the State government to respond by May 31, failing which another State would be offered the chance. V-C met CM Last week, Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa had met the Chief Minister and the group of five Ministers, constituted to examine the issue and made a presentation. Prof. Surappa said the university was financially robust and would not depend on the State to fulfil one of the conditions that the State government should share half the burden of grant of Rs. 500 crore.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tondiarpet becomes fifth zone to cross the 1,000-case mark||With Tondiarpet becoming the fifth zone in Chennai Corporation to register over a thousand COVID-19 patients, officials have come up with localised plans targeting slums for testing. Already Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet zones have reported more than 1,000 cases. The number of COVID-19 positive cases is inching towards the 2,000-mark in Royapuram. “We have intensified zone-wise localised plans, targeting slums for house-to-house thermal screening and picking up symptomatic persons for focused testing,” said Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan. According to him, civic workers were carrying out decongestion by shifting residents to community halls and giving kabsura kudineer , herbal drinks, vitamin and zinc tablets. Work on disinfection of streets, public toilets and houses has been carried out in all parts of the city. The agency is resorting to cocooning of elders. “Cocooning is a term applicable within the house but we will initially try and target about a lakh elders who take tablets for BP and sugar from Corporation Urban Primary Health Centres and dispensaries. So far, about 850 residents in various zones have been taken out from the area around clusters in slums,” he explained. Using the services of NGOs, the civic agency was trying to convince more residents to come out of the neighborhood till the areas are disinfected. “For the rest, localised containment is the strategy and identifying, testing and shifting positive, if any, for treatment,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The civic agency is using the services of 97 NGOs and 2,700 volunteers for grassroots reach without losing focus on information, education and communication campaign (IEC), herd masking, social distancing and cocooning elders by tracking the enlisted elders. Stressing the need for focused testing, he said non-medical methods such as masking, hand washing frequently, social distancing and not venturing out unnecessarily was the sustainable way to break the chain. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said vehicles manned by civic workers disinfected 25,393 km of streets using 21.5 lakh litres of disinfectants, such as sodium hypochlorite solution. The vehicles frequent the streets where positive cases have been reported in eight badly affected zones, including Tondiarpet.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Taxis, autos allowed to ferry passengers to and from airports, train stations||With flight services resuming partially and train services set to restart soon, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to allow taxis, autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws for the benefit of passengers. A government order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday made the necessary amendment to the relevant G.O. issued on May 18, allowing the operation of taxis, autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws for specific purposes “including transit to and from airports and railway stations for ferrying passengers”. A senior official clarified that the order will be applicable to Chennai as well, but the vehicles cannot ply in containment zones. As per the G.O. issued on May 18, the operation of taxis, autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws was prohibited. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had relaxed the norms, allowing autorickshaws to ply with certain restrictions.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancellations add to flyers’ woes||Twenty-one-year-old Aditya Kunwar Singh, an engineering student, had booked a ticket for a flight from Chennai to Gorakhpur via Hyderabad for Rs. 12,500. The flight was scheduled to depart at 8 p.m. on Monday. However, at 6 a.m., he received a call from the airline, informing him that the flight had been cancelled. “Now, I don’t have any money left, and don’t know how I will be able to get back home,” he said. Around 100 incoming and outgoing flights were cancelled at the last minute on Monday, leaving scores of passengers fuming. Around 9.30 p.m. on Sunday, the State government had announced the resumption of domestic flights. However, arrivals were capped at 25 a day. D. Sudhakara Reddy of Air Passengers Association of India (APAI) said, there was utter confusion as many flights were cancelled across the country and passengers went through a stressful time. Lack of coordination “Many of them went to the airport in cities like Delhi paying a huge sum for transport and ended up at the airport not knowing in the end that the flights were cancelled. There should be better coordination between State and Centre. If it had happened, passengers would not have gone through this kind of problems.” Hari, a 30-year-old working professional, said that his flight to Mumbai was cancelled. “Yesterday, each State came out with one plan. Wouldn’t it have been better if the Centre and the States coordinated with each other and brought out this announcement a few days earlier, when the Ministry of Civil Aviation announced that flight services will resume? Now, thousands of passengers like me have been left to suffer,” he added. Passengers have been desperately trying to reach the airlines’ customer care representatives to ascertain the status of their flights.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Motorist taken for a rooftop ride after car hits him||A vegetable wholesale dealer on Sunday hit a two-wheeler near Maduravoyal with his car, and tried to speed away without realising that the rider he hit had fallen on the vehicle’s roof. The victim Ranjitkumar was rescued after the police chased down and intercepted the vehicle. The police said Ranjitkumar, 27, of Ayapakkam, was riding to his workplace at Vanagaram, when he was hit by the car driven by Ganeshamoorthy, who was on his way to Thirumazhisai Market, on Vanagaram-Ambattur Road. Without realising that Ranjitkumar was on the vehicle’s roof, Ganesamoorthy sped away. The traffic police chased the vehicle for a few kilometres before finally stopping it. Victim hospitalised Ranjitkumar was rushed to the hospital. The Koyambedu traffic police registered a case and the investigation is on.  Police chased the vehicle for a few kilometres before finally stopping it and rescuing the victim
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Masks, distancing norms and half-empty planes — passengers recount experiences||From having to use personal protective equipment and maintain physical distance to travelling on half-empty flights, flying domestic for the first time since the lockdown came into force was a very different experience for passengers. Nithyanandan Karuppusamy, a 26-year-old working professional, who took a flight from Chennai to Coimbatore, said, “The plane was half-empty, and there were just about 40 of us. It was surreal to see the crew donning PPE and passengers wearing face masks and gloves throughout the journey.” Departing from Chennai airport was a smooth experience, as there were no issues on the first day of resumption of flights, he said. “But I didn’t expect to be required to undergo institutional quarantine for a day after landing in Coimbatore. That disappointed me,” he added. Usha Srinivasan, a 58-year-old resident of Delhi, who took the first flight to Chennai, said she was surprised to see around half the seats vacant. “I have never seen anything like this. I was praying that my flight should not be cancelled,” she said. “Both in Delhi and Chennai, everything went well, and I walked out of the airport without any hassle,” Ms. Srinivasan said.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT appoints panel to probe Manali gas leak||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has appointed a committee to independently verify whether there was any deficiency on the part of a urea company in Manali from which ammonia gas leaked in mid-May and assess environment compensation, if violations were found. Taking up the matter suo moto , based on media reports, the bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta also directed the committee to ascertain whether the emissions standard of ammonia gas inside the plant from the respective machineries was within the permissible limit and whether all safety measures had been taken to protect the employees as well as those likely to be exposed to the gas during work inside the factory. “The fertilizer company being a hazardous industry, dealing with ammonia gas, is expected to take all necessary precautions to avoid leak as exposure will result in severe diseases like,” the bench said while appointing the committee. They directed the committee to inspect the area and submit a factual and action taken report, and find out whether there were violations regarding compliance of provisions of the Hazardous Waste (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 and ascertain whether the machineries were in order and pollution control mechanisms were working properly. The committee will comprise a senior officer of the regional office of MoEF&CC, a senior officer of CPCB, a senior officer of the TNPCB and Collector, Tiruvalllur
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Purchase of foot-operated dispensers raises doubts||An order to purchase more than 19,000 foot-operated dispensers for hand sanitisers seems to have all the makings of a controversy. The Health Department had placed a direct order for supply of the foot-operated dispensers for use in medical institutions at a cost of more than Rs. 3.60 crore. The foot-operated sanitiser dispensers cost a maximum of Rs. 700-Rs. 800, while the Health Department went ahead and placed a direct order with a vendor in Triplicane at a high cost, highly placed sources said. The sources said that the idea to purchase the dispensers was not accepted by everyone, but the Department went ahead nevertheless. The Directorate of Medical Education (DME), in a letter to the National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu, sought sanction and release of funds to the tune of Rs. 3,60,57,130 for 19,110 foot-operated dispensers for hand sanitisers. A vendor in Triplicane was identified and given a work order for supply of these dispensers to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Accordingly, the order for supply of the 19,110 dispensers was placed with the firm. Official sources said that the dispensers were not worth even a few hundred rupees and were just a few rods and a pedestal. The container for hand sanitiser is fixed. So, only one type of sanitiser can be used in it. An official of the DME refused to comment further and said that they were yet to purchase the dispensers.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Extend MGNREGS work to 200 days, says PMK||The PMK on Monday demanded that work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act be extended to 200 days instead of the present 100 days. In a statement, its founder S. Ramadoss said that the recent data about employment opportunities in Tamil Nadu makes it clear that Government should safeguard the livelihood of people. “Work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act has once again begun and it is expected that the number of people employed through it will increase in the coming days. The markets will take few more weeks to provide jobs for formal and informal sector workers. Millions of workers depend on MGNREGA for employment,” he said. An extra Rs. 40,000 crore has been added for the rural employment scheme to Rs. 61,000 crore already announced by the Centre, which would make it possible to increase the number of employable days through the scheme.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several districts may get light rain till Wednesday||Several districts in Tamil Nadu are likely to receive light to moderate rains till Wednesday. Some of the interior areas, however, may experience scorching heat for two days, according to the Meteorological Department. Chennai, however, has had respite from searing heat on Monday. The weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded 35.9 degree Celsius and 37.3 degree Celsius, which is two degree Celsius less than normal for the month. Sea breeze that set in by afternoon helped in keeping the day temperature close to average. Meteorological Department officials said nearly 20 districts, including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Theni, Tiruvannamalai, Sivaganga, Namakkal, Pudukottai, Salem and Madurai are likely to get light to moderate rains or thundershowers till Wednesday. They cited convective activity, which follows an intense period of heat, as the reason for thundershowers. During the past 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Natham in Dindigul district received the highest amount of rainfall of 5 cm. Moreover, one or two places in some districts, including Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi may experience heavy rains on Tuesday. The Meteorological Department has warned that the mercury level may peak to 41-42 degree Celsius in interior areas such as Karur, Erode, Ranipet, Vellore and Tiruttani for two days. Residents and farmers must avoid direct exposure to sun between 11.30 a.m. and3.30 p.m. Chennai willhave a maximum temperature of 37 degree Celsius till Wednesday, officials added.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual courts to be set up for trying petty offences||Tamil Nadu is all set to become the fourth State in the country to establish virtual courts for trying petty offences and traffic challan cases by eliminating the physical presence of litigants and lawyers in the courts and instead adjudicating the matters online. To begin with, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court would be inaugurating the facility for traffic challan cases in Chennai city alone, in the first phase, in the presence of Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi here on Tuesday. According to court officials, the computer committee of the High Court led by Justice T.S. Sivagnanam had entered into a memorandum of understanding with State Bank of India for providing payment gateway services for depositing fines and penalties. e-challans The virtual courts would eliminate the necessity for mobile courts in the city and ensure seamless online payment of fines imposed for violation of road traffic rules. Henceforth, police could stop with generating e-challans whenever they catch a person for traffic violation. Immediately, after such generation, all details including the name of the violator, age, gender, driving licence number, mobile phone number, vehicle number, nature of offence, information regarding police and so on would get transferred to the server of the virtual court. Summons on email On receipt of such information, the virtual judge would generate summons along with details of the fine amount. Those details would be e-mailed and also sent through SMS to the person concerned along with a link to the virtual court website for payment of the fine amount. After visiting the website, the accused could check a box if he/she chooses to plead guilty and proceed to pay the fine online. On the other hand, if a person pleads not guilty, then an OTP would be generated to confirm it and the case would be forwarded to a regular court for trial. The Supreme Court’s e-committee had decided to use the virtual courts even for offences, other than traffic violations, which attract fine amount of less than Rs. 1,000. It also has plans to introduce such virtual courts for motor accident claim petitions in the future, a court official said. Reducing footfall “Virtual courts will reduce the footfall in regular courts as the accused need not visit the courts to plead guilty. The burden on regular courts will be reduced and many judicial officers can be deputed for hearing other cases. Cases will also get disposed within hours,” he added.  The virtual courts will eliminate the necessity for mobile courts in the city and ensure seamless online payment of fines imposed for violation of road traffic rules
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deputy Chief Minster undergoes medical check up in Chennai||Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on Sunday, was discharged late on Monday evening. According to a statement from MGM Healthcare, Mr. Panneerselvam visited the hospital for a master health check-up on Sunday evening. A team of doctors examined the Minister and all reports were “within the desired parameters” to the team of doctors, it stated. On Monday afternoon, Chief Minister and AIADMK's co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar visited Mr. Panneerselvam at the hospital.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. aims to increase front line staff in city||A meeting chaired by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday discussed ways to increase the number of front line staff in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 in Chennai, which has been witnessing a steady increase in positive cases. A senior official, who was part of the meeting, said “Ways to strengthen and augment healthcare was discussed, including measures such as more staff induction at all levels such as sanitary inspectors, health officers, etc.,” Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Commissioner of Revenue Administration J. Radhakrishnan, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation G. Prakash and other senior officials were present.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students under stress can ‘Take it Eazy’||Several students taking board exams in Tamil Nadu as well as younger children have been feeling anxious and low owing to the pandemic and the ongoing lockdown. To address this, Tamil Nadu School Education Department along with UNICEF has launched a new initiative —‘Take it Eazy’. Students can give a missed call to 92666 17888, following which they will get an automated call on their phones and the “Take it Eazy” story of the day will be played. Calls were chosen as the medium to reach out to everyone, including those without smartphones. Stories have been created for 30 days and each day, students who leave a missed call will get to listen to the story of the day which will be narrated by children, for around five minutes. The stories, which are followed by activities that seek to address several concerns that students might be currently facing. In one week, the line has received around 27,647 calls from students. D. Deepa, a class 10 student from Perambalur, said, “One of the stories I heard was about the importance of following a routine and ensuring I stick to a schedule during the last leg of my preparation. We were also encouraged to write a few lines everyday and maintain a journal.”
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian couple found dead in Choolaimedu||An octogenarian couple were found dead in their house in Choolaimedu on Monday. The police have sent the bodies for post-mortem. According to police, Jeevan, 85, and his wife Deepa, 82, were residents in an apartment complex in Choolaimedu. They have been living there for the past 15 years. A few days ago, volunteers with the Greater Chennai Corporation had went to their apartment complex to collect details of people with COVID -19 symptoms. Some residents directed them to the couple’s house and claimed that Deepa had symptoms. When the volunteers approached Jeevan, he reportedly chased them away stating that neither him or his wife had any symptoms. However, on Monday a foul odour was detected coming from the house and the neighbours alerted the police. When the police broke the door down and went inside, they found the couple lying dead. “We can ascertain the cause of death only from the post-mortem. As of now we don’t suspect any foul play,” a police officer said.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS discharged from hospital||Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on Sunday, was discharged late on Monday evening. Mr. Panneerselvam visited the hospital for a master health check-up. On Monday afternoon, Chief Minister and AIADMK's co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar visited the hospital.
26 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 advisory brochures to be given away||The State government has prepared an eight-page advisory brochure with instructions on self-management to contain the spread of COVID-19, to be distributed to households. The brochure has been sent to all District Collectors, who have been advised to reprint and distribute it to households in municipalities and panchayats, an official release said. The brochure explains with illustrations the various symptoms of COVID-19. It provides details on how the virus spreads, its symptoms, ways to improve immunity, home surveillance and isolation, testing methods and testing centres for COVID-19 infection. It also has a list of common myths about the disease. It also gives tips for personal hygiene. Simple methods like cleaning the house with bleaching powder have been highlighted. Regular exercise, intake of nutritious food, and steam inhalation in case of cold and chest congestion, among other things, will help, the brochure has said. It also recommends having a corona home monitoring kit, comprising a thermometer, a pulse oximeter, gloves and hand sanitiser for home surveillance.
26 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women protest the opening of Tasmac shops||A group of women staged a protest against the opening of a Tasmac shop in Athipattu in Tiruvallur district on Monday. According to police, the women snatched the umbrellas of the men waiting in queue and asked them to vacate the place. However, policemen who were deployed there removed them from the spot and allowed the shop to open. “Most of them are angry that people from Chennai, where most of the COVID -19 cases in the State have been detected, are coming to their village to purchase alcohol,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, a group of 50 women courted arrest after they staged a protest against the opening of a Tasmac shop in Pandur in Chengalpattu district on Monday. The women claimed that life in the village was peaceful as the shop was closed and did not want it to be opened again. They were released in the evening.
26 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Domestic flights resume at Coimbatore International Airport||Flights from three cities touched down on Coimbatore International Airport on Monday -- the first day of the resumption of domestic services across the country. Special teams of the Health Department collected nasal swabs from all the passengers who arrived in Coimbatore for COVID-19 test. They stamped a seal that mentioned the date of travel on the passengers’ hands. Passengers who proceeded to other districts and those who belonged to Coimbatore were asked to remain in institutional quarantine. They could choose any one of the institutions arranged by the district administration or opt for a paid quarantine in hotels of their choice. The institutional quarantine period would end once the test results arrived. Those who test negative can shift to home quarantine for 14 days. Those who test positive will be shifted to a hospital with a COVID-19 isolation ward. The first service on Monday was an IndiGo flight from Delhi that landed with 66 passengers at 9.12 a.m. It returned to Delhi with 80 passengers at 10.21 a.m. The second flight operated by SpiceJet from Chennai arrived with 71 passengers at 9.47 a.m., and returned with 30 passengers at 10.32 a.m. The third one, operated by IndiGo from Bengaluru, arrived with 108 passengers at 4.04 p.m. The return flight at 5 p.m. had 58 passengers. IndiGo operated another flight from Chennai that landed here around 7.50 p.m. and returned around 8.30 p.m. Two other flights planned by IndiGo in the Coimbatore-Mumbai and Coimbatore-Hyderabad sectors were not operated. Sources with the airlines said that the same number of services operated on Monday was expected on Tuesday too. Airport Director R. Mahalingam said that coordinated efforts by Airports Authority of India (AAI), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Health and Revenue Departments, police and airline staff made the first day’s operations smooth.The airport premises was disinfected at frequent intervals. AAI staff, CISF personnel and other workers used protective gear. Passengers had several first experiences of COVID-19 preventive measures during the travel, including use of mask and gloves, touch-free security check-in and attaching luggage tag themselves. CISF and airline staff minimised their contact with passengers and their objects including flight ticker, boarding pass etc. Revenue Department sent back four persons who came to the airport without obtaining the e-pass issued by the Government for travel.
26 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industrial activity on at SIDCO, but sans vibrancy||The tea shops have just one or two customers at the counter, the roads are almost deserted, and very few workers are seen outside the factories during lunchtime. This is SIDCO Industrial Estate on Monday though the 275 units at the estate started functioning on May 6, after more than a month of lockdown. Selvakumar, a mini goods vehicle driver, is taking a nap under the shade of a tree. “I have not made a single trip since last Monday. On an average I used to earn Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 a month. More than 10 vehicles at the estate used to move goods from one unit to another or to customers outside the estate before the lockdown. Now, there is no work,” he says. An eatery on the campus, which was serving over 100 customers for breakfast, lunch or dinner, now sells just 10 of 15 parcels for lunch or breakfast. Though it is nearly three weeks since the industries started functioning at the SIDCO estate at Kurichi, several factors contribute to low utilisation of the manufacturing capacities. Of the 6,000 workers employed by the 275 industries, almost 3,000 are migrant workers. Just 500 have stayed back and the rest have returned to their home towns, says P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association (COSIEMA). Industries that have the necessary resources take e-passes, send vehicles and bring back workers from other districts within the State. But the micro units are unable to do so. Not all the women workers who used to come from other parts of Coimbatore district are able to report to work as there is no public transport, he says. Thus, labour shortage is a major challenge for the industries. On the other hand, there is no clarity on orders from buyers. The manufacturers hope to get a clarity on the market in a week or two. “There are no private orders. Those who have government orders are executing it. It may take about three months for the market to pick up. Overseas buyers are not ready to take the orders they placed,” says S. Surulivel, who has an engineering unit at the estate and is former president of COSIEMA. Of the 17 workers he employed for two shifts, only 11 are available now and all of them have to be accommodated in one shift. “There are difficulties. Raw material supply from the north is irregular. Hence, local traders are increasing the costs,” he adds. “If I want a particular variety of a steel product, the trader does not have it. The units are facing non-availability of raw materials, especially steel items,” adds Mr. Nallathambi. However, for the workers, reopening of industries has come as a relief. Uthriyai, who works at a heat treatment plant at SIDCO, walks to her workplace every day. “I started coming to work only on Wednesday. Till then, there was no job and we managed with whatever the company paid us for the lockdown period,” she says. Netaji Apparel Park    At Netaji Apparel Park in Tiruppur district, the 60 garment units are operating at just 40 % capacity. Most of the migrant workers have left. The companies send buses to rural areas of Coimbatore and Erode district to bring workers. Earlier, 60 to 70 workers travelled in a bus. Now, only 20 are permitted. Labour shortage is affecting production, says a garment exporter. Overseas buyers are asking for supplies and the garment manufacturers will be able to take up orders only according to each unit’s workforce availability, he says.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||11 camps set up in Coimbatore district to evaluate Class XII answer scripts||As many as 11 camps have been set up in Coimbatore district to evaluate Class XII answer scripts and the evaluation process will commence on Wednesday. According to Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha, 11 private schools in three educational districts namely Coimbatore city, Pollachi and S.S. Kulam were converted into evaluation camps. Around 3,000 teachers and 500 non-teaching staff will be involved in the process, she said. In a bid to ensure personal distancing, only eight teachers – six assistant examiners, one scrutiny officer and one chief examiner – will be present in a room. The mark verification officer must ensure personal distancing while receiving the answer scripts from the evaluators. All those at the evaluation camps must wear masks, which will be distributed once in every three days to the staff. Hand sanitisers will be available at the entrance of all the evaluation camps and around 10 handwashing points with soaps will be available inside the camps, Ms. Usha said. Teachers have been advised to bring their own stationery to minimise sharing among themselves. “We have not allowed any canteens inside the camps to avoid crowding,” she said, adding that arrangements will be made to deliver food to the teachers in need. Initially, only three evaluation camps were set up in the district. However, due to the constraint on the number of teachers to ensure personal distancing, additional eight camps were arranged. The premises will be cleaned and disinfected prior to the commencement of the evaluation and after the completion every day with the help of local body authorities, Ms. Usha said. To help the staff members reach the evaluation centres, 74 Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses will ply in 44 routes. Only 30 members will be allowed in a bus, the CEO said.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Air Force’s second LCA squadron to spread wings from Sulur tomorrow||Tamil Nadu’s Sulur-based ‘Flying Bullets’, the Indian Air Force’s No.18 squadron, will become the second squadron of IAF to operate indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) on Wednesday. Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, will operationalise the second squadron in an event scheduled to be held at Air Force Station Sulur near Coimbatore on Wednesday. Advanced systems The second squadron will be equipped with LCA in Final Operations Clearance (FOC) standard, a version that has advanced flight control systems and other features. ‘Flying Daggers’ or the No. 45 Squadron, the first squadron armoured with Tejas is also based at Sulur. The squadron, which was shifted from Bengaluru to Sulur, became operational in 2018. With the operationalisation of the second squadron and being home station for India’s most advanced supersonic fighter aircraft, Sulur will become a strategically important base of the IAF under its Southern Air Command based at Thiruvananthapuram. Sulur will also become the only base of IAF to be equipped with two squadrons that fly Tejas. No. 18 Squadron was formed on April 15, 1965 with the motto ‘Teevra aur Nirbhaya’ meaning ‘Swift and Fearless’. It was flying MiG 27 aircraft before it got number plated on April 15, 2016 and was resurrected on April 1 this year at Sulur. It actively participated in the 1971 war with Pakistan and its Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon was honoured with the highest gallantry award ‘Param Vir Chakra’ posthumously. It earned the sobriquet of ‘Defenders of Kashmir Valley’ by being the first to land and operate from Srinagar and was awarded President’s Standard in November 2015.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Air passengers go into quarantine in hotels in Coimbatore||On the first day of resumption of air travel on Monday, 100 passengers reached the city. From the aircraft from New Delhi and Chennnai, the city received around 40 passengers and by the evening aircraft from Bengaluru the city saw the arrival of 60 passengers bound for the city, said sources in the Coimbatore Corporation. On arrival, a medical team from the Department of Public Health screened them and thereafter the passengers got a list of hotels they could choose from to spend their next few days in quarantine. The sources said that the Corporation had given them three categories of hotels – categories ‘A’ and ‘B’ that included star category hotels with price ranging from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 1,500 (without food) a person a night and category ‘C’ hotels with price ranging from Rs. 2,300 to Rs. 900 a person a day. To transport to hotels the passengers, the Corporation in association with the district administration had arranged vehicles. Around 90 persons chose on or the other hotel and the rest went to a college in Annur, where they would be in institutional quarantine. After three days, the Corporation would facilitate another round of tests and depending the results the Corporation would either send them home to remain in quarantine to complete the 14-day mandatory period or take them to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, if their COVID-19 symptom was severe or moderate. The sources said that if the symptom were mild, the Corporation could consider leaving them in home quarantine, as per the latest State government order. For passengers from outside the city, the district administration had made travel arrangements. The sources also said that the Corporation had deployed teams at the Coimbatore airport to carry out disinfection operation, both within the airport and outside.
26 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three lakh Muslims offer prayers from their homes||Around three lakh Muslims prayed at home on Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday, said a release from the Coimbatore District United Jama-ath. The faithful prayed at home just as they had been doing for the last 60 days, including on Fridays when they go to the mosques to participate in the Jum’ah prayer. The release said that three lakh Muslims resided in over 95,000 houses in Coimbatore. Of those more than 60,000 houses had prayer facilities for four or more persons and there they prayed together on Eid-ul-Fitr. Earlier in the day, the Muslims engaged in charity work and gave away gifts and food in parcels, keeping in mind the COVID-19 restrictions, the release added.  Celebrations low key in Salem S.R. Anwar, Mutawalli from Salem Jamia Masjid Trust Board, said the celebrations were low key in Salem this year. “Prayers were held in small groups on the terrace of homes. As shops remained closed, families could not buy new clothes for Ramzan. We advised people not to hug each other after the prayers. People were also advised to use hand sanitisers and follow other precautionary measures.”
26 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco urged to issue fresh directions on building completion certificate||Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer organisation, has urged the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to give clear instructions to its officials so that they insist on building completion certificate to provide permanent power connection to buildings and clarify on the buildings that are exempted. Secretary of the organisation K. Kathirmathiyon said the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, effective from February 2 last year, insists on obtaining the building completion certificate to provide permanent power connection. Tangedco issued an order recently regarding this, after an year the rules came into effect. However, even now, the Tangedco circular says there is exemption for residential buildings upto 12 metres high not exceeding three dwelling units, other buildings upto 750 sq.mt, and all industrial buildings. “We found there is an incorrect and false information in the communication to your offices, which we feel is deliberate,” he said. According to Rule 20, the buildings exempted from the certificate for power or water connection are: residential building (three dwelling units upto 12 metres high or 750 sq.mt) and all types of industrial buildings. Nowhere it is mentioned that “other buildings upto 750 sq.mt” is exempted. “We fail to understand on what basis the Tangedco had exempted other buildings upto 750 sq.mt,” Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. He urged the Tangedco to issue correct instructions as per the rules and ensure that the instructions are followed without any relaxation.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||35-year-old man arrested for sexual assault on minor||The Pollachi East police on Monday arrested a 35-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. The arrested has been identified as R. Muthukumar of Tiruchi. The police said that Muthukmar, a construction worker, was having an affair with the girl’s mother for the last seven years. Her father died one-and-a-half-years ago. According to police, the accused sexually assaulted the girl, a class VIII student, three months ago. On May 24, the accused attempted to sexually assault the girl in her house at Pollachi in the absence of mother. The girl resisted the move and left the house shouting at the man. Neighbours noticed the incident and spoke to her. They later informed the incident to her mother who lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station at Pollachi on Sunday which led to the arrest of the man. Three booked The Thudiyalur police have registered a case against M. Sheeba, a resident of Bharathi Nagar near Kavundampalayam, her father Mohandas, a car mechanic by profession, and her mother Jayakumari on charges of preventing Sathya, assistant town planning officer, west zone of Coimbatore Corporation, from discharging her duties during an eviction process she was heading near Kavundampalayam on Saturday. The incident took place when the Corporation team was trying to remove cars meant for repair that were parked by the accused on a reserve site.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man found hanging||Pradeepkumar (38), a resident of J.J. Nagar near Edayarpalayam, was found hanging in a graveyard in his locality on Monday morning. The police said that the deceased was getting treatment at a de-addiction centre from where he escaped on Sunday. He went to his house and allegedly fought with wife. After alerted by the woman, the police went to the house and advised them to reconcile each other and visit the station on Monday morning. However, he quarrelled with wife and left the house. He was found hanging at the graveyard on Monday morning. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar programmes||The Smart City Mission and ITDP India Programme in association with World Bank and GIZ SMART-SUT Programme will organise a webinar on ‘Instant street interventions to expand space for walking and cycling’ on Tuesday at 3 p.m. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath will be one of the seven panellists to participate in the webinar, a release said. Those interested may register online at:https://bit.ly/3bVw94R The Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise a webinar on emotional management on May 29 from 10.15 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. P. Isaac Radhakrishnan, a counselling psychologist from Chennai, will host the webinar, which will cover topics including emotional competence, developing emotional management and flexibility in handling change. Those interested shall register online atwww.tinyurl.com/emotional- webinaror contact 99524 04302 and 82200 00371/2/3. SREC Business School, Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College will organise a webinar on ‘Rethinking on Disruptive Challenges and Opportunities’ on Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. K. Ravi, Chief Financial Officer, Roots Industries Limited will be the chief guest, a release said. Those interested may contact 82208 50805.
26 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at Kuniamuthur sub-station, there will be no power supply in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. on May 27: Kuniamuthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, Sundarapuram (Part), B.K. Pudur (Part), Kovaipudur, N.S. Puram, Ramachettipalayam, Marudham Nagar, Arumugagoundanur, Perur Chettipalayam and Perur.
26 May 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Man from Dharmapuri tests positive||A 48 year-old- man tested positive for COVID-19 here in Paapireddypattyy on Monday. The person, a petty shop owner in Paapireddipattyy had returned from Chennai on May 21, having been stranded there during the lockdown. The man’s swabs were collected and the first result returned positive. A confirmatory test also returned positive. He has now been admitted to the Government medical college hospital, while his family members have been home quarantined.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  Four positive cases were reported in Salem on Monday. According to officials, the patients include two women, aged 21 years and 17 years respectively and two men, aged 38 years and 48 years. According to officials, the patients have travelled to Salem from Maharashtra and they were identified during checks at check posts. Officials said there are 23 active cases as on Monday.
26 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for Jharkhand, Odisha from Dindigul||About 1875 migrant workers belonging to Jharkhand and Odisha were seen off in two special trains here on Monday. Forest Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, Collector M. Vijayalakshmi and other senior officials from the railway, health and family welfare, police, revenue and other departments were present. After the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, the governments had announced national lockdown to ensure that the spread was contained. With all the establishments closed, the migrant labourers were jobless. Many others were even finding it tough as they had no shelter. Hence, based on their requests, the governments organised to transport them to their native places. According to revenue officials, many workers from Odisha and Jharkhand were employed as daily wage earners in private spinning mills in Dindigul and Theni districts. After seeking their willingness, they were brought here in buses. While the district administration, on behalf of the State government, purchased the tickets, the health department officials screened them before boarding the trains. All the workers were also provided with a kit, which contained biscuits, water and juice, the officials added.
26 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mobile dispensary screens 20,000 people for various ailments||Understanding the difficulty of people in the slums in reaching hospitals during COVID-19 lockdown, the district administration and the Erode Corporation roped in a private hospital that operated a mobile dispensary and screened around 20,000 people for various ailments. The van was flagged off by District Collector C. Kathiravan on April 9. A health team from the hospital, comprising a doctor, nurse and pharmacist, visited the slums in the van and screened people for a month for non-Covid-19 related ailments. M. Abdul Hasan, managing Director of City Hospital, said that 20,000 people were screened at their doorsteps and medicines were given to them. The Corporation provided the team the list of areas to be covered in a day and through public address system it announced the time the medical team would be available. “People who needed further treatment were referred to government hospitals,” said Mr. Abdul Hasan. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that the service provided by the mobile unit was of great help to the needy at the time of crisis.
26 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two Uzhavar Sandhais to function from old premises||Two Uzhavar Sandhais that were functioning temporarily at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park would be functioning on Periyar Nagar and Sampath Nagar premises from Tuesday. After the lockdown was announced in March, various steps were taken by the district administration to ensure personal distancing. Since, public thronged the two shandies in large numbers when more positive cases were reported in the district, the Corporation decided to shift the shandies on the school premises where adequate space was available for functioning of shops and to ensure personal distancing. As there are no active COVID- 19 cases now in the Corporation limits, the administration along with the civic body decided to shift the shandies to former premises. Collector C. Kathiravan said that the two shandies will function from the old premises from Tuesday and farmers from Erode, Chennimalai, Modakurichi and Kodumudi were asked to operate from Periyar Nagar. Farmers from other parts of the district were asked to sell their farm produce at Sampath Nagar.
26 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Winds damage banana crop in Gobichettipalayam||Strong winds damaged standing banana crop in Gobichettipalayam block here on Sunday night as farmers wanted compensation to be provided to them. Crop that were ready for harvesting at Alankattupudur, Kadukampalayam and Paramakattur were damaged in the winds as farmers said that they suffered massive loss. “We were waiting for the rain, but the winds damaged our crop,” said the farmers. They said that the crops were ready for harvesting in 15 days. They claimed that over 8,000 crop were completely damaged.  Though revenue officials used to assess the damage every year, they were not provided any compensation till today, they alleged. Due to lockdown in the past two months, they were unable to market their produce resulting in huge loss to them. “Only now we were able to sell our produce. But the damage has worsened our financial situation,” they said. Rainfall recoded at various places in the district: Talavadi 17.8 mm, Perundurai 10.3 mm and Bhavani 8.8 mm.  Over 8,000 crop ready for harvesting in 15 days completely damaged
26 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Everyday Heroes of Amma Canteen in Hosur||It was around 8.15 a.m. Pullayar was the first to arrive outside the Amma canteen, near Hosur bus stand. He was seen dragging himself on the street,, hauling his body, pushing forward with the strength of his knuckles scraping on the concrete road. He waited below the ramp, gazing at the shuttered canteen door that would open anytime then. When the canteen opened, he remained waiting below the edge of the ramp. Selvi, the canteen staff walked out and down the ramp to invite Pullayar inside. Pullayar pushed himself up the ramp and inside the canteen, and sat at its entrance. Across the canteen counter, a smiling staff member placed 5 large sized idlies and a generous helping of steaming hot sambar on them and handed the plate over to Selvi. Before handing the plate to Pullayar, Selvi brought water in a plastic jug and poured it for him to wash his hands. She stood and watched, as Pullayar dug his knuckles into the idlies and scooped up a mouthful with satisfaction. The canteen served 2,000 idlies and Pongal for breakfast; and tomato rice, lemon rice, sambar rice and curd rice for lunch. “You too come and eat. There is idly, and pongal,” offered Selvi. If Amma canteen’s central kitchen had been feeding close to 10 lakh people since the start of the lockdown, the Amma canteen itself had augmented its daily feeding capacity for people like Pullayar, who would have otherwise been pushed to beggary. There is food for all, three meals a day. The staff working in two shifts of 6 a.m to 2 p.m and from 2 p.m to 9 p.m. Not a frown, not a harsh word, no sign of exhaustion, same courtesy for all, including men like Pullayar – the staff across the counter, neatly dressed, served all – from the homeless destitute and the migrant worker to a white collared professional. “He would not take any money from anyone. He would eat only from us and would return for his next meal,” said Selvi of Pullayar, as she watched him eat. As Selvi spoke, two migrant workers from the North East walked into the Amma canteen and got themselves two plates of piping hot idlies.
26 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Flights back in the air, but carry very few passengers||After two months of lockdown, scheduled domestic flight operations began from Madurai on Monday. The last scheduled flight from Madurai airport was operated on March 24. Out of six flights scheduled to fly into Madurai, one was cancelled. “An early morning flight from Chennai to Madurai was cancelled for today and tomorrow due to lack of patronage,” said Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan. Passengers who were waiting to take the return flight to Chennai were accommodated in a subsequent morning flight. The remaining flights - two from Chennai, one each from Bengaluru and Delhi arrived in Madurai. The Delhi flight flew further down south to Thiruvananthapuram and returned to Delhi with a touchdown in Madurai. While 117 passengers arrived in Madurai, 177 passengers flew out of the city. Prior to the lockdown Madurai airport had 28 scheduled services, including four international flights.  TN e-pass     Though Tamil Nadu government had made it mandatory for passengers to register with TN e-pass, many arrived without one. A team of revenue officials who were present at the airport with a special counter issued e-passes to those passengers who were bound for districts other than Madurai. “We have briefed the airlines operating to Tamil Nadu about the standard operating procedures, which include the e-pass. The special counter is only a stop-gap arrangement,” Mr. Senthil Valavan said. Thermal scanning was done on all incoming and outgoing passengers by health officials. Wearing of mask was mandatory. Swab test on all passengers coming to Madurai district from other States was done and they would be kept in a quarantine facility till their results are out. “Only those who test negative will be allowed to go home,” Collector T.G. Vinay said. “All asymptomatic passengers from within the State are allowed to go home with an advice for 14 days of home quarantine. But those with symptoms for COVID-19 will have to undergo swab test and remain in institutional quanrantine till the test results are out. They will be allowed to go out only if they test negative,” said Deputy Director of Health (Madurai) P. Priyaraj. Passengers coming from other States and bound for other districts were issued TN e-pass and were cross notified to the authorities of other districts so that they can take up further course of action as per their standard operating procedure (SOP). Passengers unhappy Some of the passengers from other States refused to stay in the special quarantine facility, complaining that they were unaware of this procedure. However, the officials convinced them that the same SOP was being done for passengers arriving here by trains and buses from other States. “The number of passengers travelling between Madurai and Chennai on day one despite the COVID-19 threat and restrictions by way of SOP are good signs for air services,” said a travel agent, N. Sriram. Though the passengers were asked to come four hours ahead of the scheduled departure to enable thermal scanning and social distancing norms, the limited number of flight services and less patronage meant there was not much of a problem. Special glass cubicles were provided for CISF personnel and airline staff for checking tickets and issuing boarding pass. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) K.P. Shanmuga Rajeswaran, Deputy Inspector General of Police Z. Annie Vijaya and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan inspected the security arrangements at the airport.
26 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A very homely Ramzan||It was a low-key Eid-Ul-Fitr celebration in Madurai district on Monday as Muslims marked the culmination of the 30-day fasting during the month of Ramzan by offering thanksgiving prayers at their homes as mosques remain closed in view of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “It was a subdued celebration this year. We offered prayers on the terrace of our home. We maintained physical distancing and wore masks while praying” said Madurai District Court Staff S. Salman Kurshid. M.S. Shaik Madhar Naafiyee, a preacher at Goripalayam Pallivasal, said it was the first time in many decades that they offered thanksgiving prayers at home, instead of mosques. “This year we all prayed to end this pandemic, which is affecting hundreds of families throughout the world. We also prayed for the swift recovery of those who are infected by the virus,” he said. M. Sikkander, a resident of Goripalayam, said the best part of the celebration was the family gatherings and iftar parties, which were not possible due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. “We cooked food at home and delivered it to our friends and family members. People are apprehensive of having large gatherings as they fear that they might contract COVID-19 infection,” he said. “Though we did not have a family gathering, we distributed sweets to our friends and family members to keep the spirit of the festival alive,” said advocate T. Seeni Syed Amma, a resident of Moondrumavadi. A significant part of Eid celebration is offering alms to the needy, said Town Kazi A. Syed Khaja Mueenudeen. “People prayed at home. The spirit of the festival is to offer help. So we identified the needy and offered them alms,” he said.
26 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Haven’t got any income for 50 days’||Weavers from Madurai who are solely dependent on weaving handlooms for a living say that they haven’t gotten any income for 50 days. With difficulty in transportation of material needed to create a sari - like zari and thread and the lack of buyers, many weavers say that they do not know how to bounce back. Although a handful have begun work on Monday, most have no place to buy material or sell finished goods. M. H. Lakshmanan is a prominent weaver from his community in Nilayur, an area with around 2,000 weavers who make handlooms. He says that when the lockdown began, weavers used all their existing supply to make as many sarees as they could. Their stocks lasted exactly for 10 days. After that, they had nothing to work with. Despite having created good quality products in the first 10 days, Mr. Lakshmanan says that they had no place to sell their wares. "Suppliers have not been able to transport thread spools or zari from Surat and parts of Karnataka. Managers of textile companies who usually sell our products in North India too have not been able to sell any of our saris too," he says. He adds that their monthly income of around Rs. 7,500 is completely lost. K.R. Ramkumar, the manager of Madurai’s Thiruvalluvar Weaver Co-optex Society, says that only a handful have backing and local market on Friday. There are weaving families in Nialyur, Vandiyur, Kadachanendal, Sakkimangalam and Tirunagar who are all dependent on this profession and have been coming regularly to him work, he says. “I do not know how to answer them,” he says. Mr. Lakshmanan says that the State government has provided Rs. 1,000 as relief to weavers through their board - the Tamil Nadu Handlooms and Handlooms Silk Weaving Workers Welfare Board. However, only 40% of workers have received this amount, according to members from the Kaithari Nagar Ikkiya Sangam, he says. “We entered the profession because we had skill. Now, there is no use for this skill and other organisations are unwilling to employ us because of the economic climate. I can only hope that all this changes soon,” he says.
26 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give status report on caste-based atrocities’||Pointing to the number of caste-based atrocities being reported in the State during the COVID-19 lockdown, human rights activists have demanded the government to come out with a status report on the action taken in this regard. In a press statement, Executive Director of ‘Witness for Justice’ I. Pandiyan said the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Rules mandated the State to protect vulnerable groups and made it accountable for the atrocities against the SC/STs. He said the State and district-level vigilance and monitoring committees must ensure the provisions of the Act were implemented. The Director General of Police, head of the State-level SC/ST Protection Cell, must conduct a survey of atrocities-prone areas and deploy adequate force. The Collector, being the Chairman of the district-level vigilance and monitoring committee, must review the situation. A meeting should be convened by the State government and a report published, he said. Executive Director of ‘People’s Watch’ Henri Tiphagne said the pandemic was not an excuse for the authorities concerned. They should take action to stop atrocities in addition to the work they had to do now. Otherwise, it would amount to neglect of duty, he said. Executive Director of ‘Evidence’ A. Kathir said at least 50 such incidents had taken place against the SC/ST community during the COVID-19 lockdown.
26 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fourth girl child killed; she worries about other three||Life changed all too suddenly for 26-year-old T. Chitra when she found out that her four-day-old baby girl was no more. On May 16, police exhumed the body that was buried on her backyard and arrested her husband K. Thavamani and mother-in-law K. Pandiammal in connection with the crime. “I was initially unsure what was happening. Suddenly people began terming it a case of female infanticide. I was in disbelief,” she says.Ms. Chitra says on the day of the incident she went to attend call of nature near a channel close to her house in Sholavandan. “On my return, I saw my child’s mouth frothing. My mother-in-law told me that the child was fed donkey’s milk which did not go well with her. In a couple of minutes, my child was dead. We performed the funeral and I was mourning the death,” she says. However, her mourning was short-lived as the police exhumed the body and began the arrests. A police officer investigating the case says both the mother-in-law and son confessed to killing the child. “Our investigation established that it was a clear case of female infanticide. The child’s mother, however, initially thought that it was death due to asphyxiation,” he said. Ms. Chitra says her greatest fear now is raising her three other girls, all below seven years, with her husband in jail. “My children keep asking for their father and I have no answer,” she says. She claims that neither her husband nor her mother-in-law expressed major disaffection towards the fourth girl child. He worked as a clerk in a travel agency and the mother-in-law ran a petty shop near the house. “Everything seemed normal until that day. I still fail to believe that my husband had something to do with the death,” she says. Kind sister-in-law The woman says she is totally dependent on Thavamani’s sister R. Muthulakshmi for food and shelter. She has rejected offers of help from the government. “I only want my husband out of jail,” she says. Ms. Muthulakshmi says she earns Rs. 5,000 a month as domestic help and another Rs. 100 a day from managing her mother’s store. She is confident of helping Ms. Chitra pay her children’s fees as the eldest goes to a matriculation school. She says the entire chain of incidents still do not feel real. “It feels like a movie playing out in our lives. We read about the incident on WhatsApp and understand that female infanticide is wrong. My mother, who is old, probably did not. Had she committed the crime, it was because she thought another girl child would be a financial burden for my brother,” she says. “The children are crying and Chitra is eating just one meal a day. We keep telling her to be brave but if I was in her place, I too would do the same,” she says. Ms. Chitra says everything that could possibly go wrong had gone wrong, but keeps repeating that she wants to see her husband. “Just let me meet him once,” she says.
26 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers narrate ordeal to RDO||An inquiry was conducted with 14 migrant youth engaged in borewell industry in Madurai to ascertain whether they were kept as bonded labourers. They were rescued over a month ago by a city-based non governmental organisation. The Revenue Divisional Officer enquired about the plight of the migrant labourers who hailed from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. Notices were served on the borewell rig owners and the inquiry report is awaited. A first information report was registered against the borewell rig owners by the police. It was hope at last for Hopna Murmu from Jharkhand and his associates as the owners finally paid their long-pending salary dues. IDEAS, the NGO, rescued them after Hopna Murmu sent a video message via WhatsApp to his family members. After the NGO came across the message and was informed of the plight of the youth, its representatives swung into action with the help of the police to rescue them. “The youth were left stranded during the COVID-19 lockdown without food and shelter. They informed us that they were picked up from the interiors of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra and sent to Tamil Nadu for employment,” said advocate Sahaya Philomin Raj of IDEAS. He said that if the inquiry established that the youth were held as bonded labourers, they would be entitled to compensation under Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act. At least 12 of them belong to Scheduled Tribe. So they will be entitled to compensation under the SC/ST Act also. If the owners were guilty, they would face punishment for compelling the youth to work as bonded labourers. The youth belonged to poor families and their financial position was exploited. This was nothing short of human trafficking, he added.
26 May 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 112.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 41.88 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,715 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Andipatti 53.8, Sathaiyar dam 36, Pulipatti 20.2, Thaniamangalam 16, Chittampatti 12.8, Kallandhiri 8.2, Mettupatti 7.8, Melur 5.5 and Idayapatti 5.2. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 40.65 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 216.44 cusecs and a discharge of 404.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 73.80 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 11 cusecs and a discharge of 425 cusecs.
26 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||37 cases registered in Namakkal||Namakkal district police registered 37 cases on Sunday against 38 persons and detained 17 vehicles here for violating prohibitory orders.
26 May 2020||P. Sudhakar,TAMIL NADU||South India’s last zamindar no more||The last zamindar of Singampatti, one of the 72 erstwhile ‘palayams’ in southern Tamil Nadu, T.N.S. Murugadoss Theerthapathi died in his palace at Singampatti close to the Western Ghats in Ambasamudram taluk in the district on Sunday night. He was the last zamindar of south India. He was 92 and is survived by two sons and three daughters. Murugadoss was crowned the zamindar of Singampatti at the age of three and a half years when his father died. Later, he was sent to Sri Lanka. The education he had in the island nation in the pre-Independence era made him an excellent orator in English. After being in Chennai for a while in connection with his business, Murugadoss returned to Singampatti and was administering the famous Sorimuthu Ayyanar Temple inside Kalakkadu-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve beyond Papanasam, which attracts thousands of devotees for Adi Amavasai festival. He would be in the royal robes during the festival. Singampatti zamin had given on lease a few thousand acres of land in the Western Ghats for tea plantation, and it lost its ownership of the land following abolition of zamindari system in the country. Before the formal abolition of zamindari system, he had become the zamindar of Singampatti. After a prolonged legal battle, the Forest department now owns the land. Murugadoss was an agent of Life Insurance Corporation of India. An expert in handling a range of rifles, he was a honorary wildlife warden.
26 May 2020||P.A.Narayani Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||A set of 14 vessels stands the test of time||The ‘rail adukku pathiram’, which consists of 14 vessels of different sizes, neatly placed in a compact manner inside the largest container, has become the cynosure of all eyes over the past few days. Many in Tamil Nadu had forgotten the existence of the multi-layered vessel until a video surfaced online recently, and has since gone viral on mobile messaging platforms. The credit for creating a newfound interest in the container goes to a family in Sivaganga, which has been using ‘rail adukku pathiram’ for nearly the past 150 years. S. Meera, 45, the woman behind the viral video, says the vessel was gifted to her grandmother by the latter’s mother. “My grandmother’s name Padmasani is engraved on the vessel,” she says. She says the ‘rail adukku pathiram’ has two vessels to cook vegetables, a sippal plate to boil rice, a frying pan, a sombu , a bronze pot to carry water and vessels of varying sizes to cook food. “Using these vessels we can cook food for a mini-wedding. The interesting aspect is that the ‘rail adukku pathiram’ is compact and is easy to carry,” she says. A video of her explaining the purpose of these vessels was uploaded on her YouTube channel ‘Parambariya Pokkishangal’ four months ago. However, it was during the lockdown period that the video became viral and was shared on multiple social media platforms, she says. “The vessel is known as ‘rail adukku pathiram’ as earlier it was used by families to carry groceries and cook food during train journeys. There were only a few eateries or inns during those days. I have heard that my grandmother once used the vessel to cook food during a trip to Tirupati,” says Ms. Meera. She adds that the ‘rail adukku pathiram’ is a family treasure cherished by them.
26 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||3 COVID-19 cases in Puducherry||Three more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry on Monday taking the tally to 32. While two cases were reported in Muthialpet, the third was detected in Reddiarpalayam. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the health department was carrying out checks on the quarantine status of residents who had returned from abroad and other States. About 4,090 residents have returned to Puducherry over the past week. This includes eight international travellers from Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Kuwait.
26 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops opened in U.T||Liquor shops in Puducherry and Karaikal regions reopened on Monday after being closed for around two months due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The government had announced the reopening of the outlets for selling takeaways after imposing a special excise duty on liquor brands to make prices on par with that of neighbouring States. Except for the 100-odd liquor outlets that were sealed for indulging in black marketing during the lockdown, all other shops opened on Monday morning. The shops would be open for business at 10 a.m and wind up operations at 7 p.m. following a set of guidelines. Before opening the outlets, workers disinfected the premises and barricaded the entry points for people to stand in queue. Masks were made mandatory and sanitisers were provided. There were long queues in front of certain shops, especially those on ECR and the outskirts.
26 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Gesture to migrant workers for Ramzan||Ramzan this year remained a low-key celebration what with no mass prayers either at mosques or at Eidga grounds, owing to COVID-19 lockdown. However, true to the spirit of the festival that promotes giving to he needy, members of Masjithe Hamsa Jumma Mosque and COVID-19 Sammanthapuram volunteers made this Ramzan memorable for 75 migrant workers. “When Collector, R. Kannan, told us about the plight of 75 workers from West Bengal who were kept in a quarantine facility, our members came forward to help them celebrate the festival,” said T. Samsudeen (62), The migrant workers were caught when they were trying to clandestinely escape to West Bengal to celebrate Ramzan. “This year majority of the Muslims could not buy new dresses because of the lockdown and the virus threat,” he said. However, the masjid members and the volunteers bought new dresses from all the migrant workers two days back. “Today, we distributed a special feast to them and shared our joy with them,” said the masjid president, M. Mohammed Ilias. Rajapalayam Tahsildar M. Anandaraj was present.
26 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Airport to resume operations on Wednesday||Operation of flights at Salem Airport will resume on Wednesday and necessary safety measures are being taken as per government guidelines, officials said. Authorities from Trujet Airlines, which operates flights between Salem and Chennai, said the Chennai-Salem flight would depart from Chennai at 7.25 a.m. and reach Salem at 8.25 a.m. The Salem-Chennai flight would depart from Salem at 8.50 a.m. and was expected to arrive at Chennai at 9.50 a.m. The authorities said the temperature of passengers would be screened before boarding and passengers would be provided with PPE kits along with sanitisers by the airline as part of the precautionary measures. They said the 72-seater aircraft would be totally disinfected before departure and no meals would be provided on board. Bookings would be accepted for only 35 seats, in order to adhere to the physical distancing norms. Airport Director R. Venkatachalapathy said glass shields had been put up at the ticket checking counters and markings had been made on the floor and chairs reorganised for physical distancing among passengers. Mr. Venkatachalapathy said that passengers must possess TN e-pass issued by State government. The cafeteria would remain closed and the airport premises was being regularly disinfected. Passengers would be screened for symptoms of COVID-19 and their baggages disinfected. District Collector S.A. Raman visited the Airport on Monday and reviewed the arrangements.
26 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man murders father for property||A 45-year-old man murdered his father on Sunday for refusing to register properties in his name. Police said that Peter Krishnan (80), a retired postman residing near Sooramangalam, was planning to donate his house and 6,000 sqft land for charity. His son Anbumani wanted his father to register the properties in his name. On Sunday, Anbumani quarrelled with his father in this regard and stabbed him. Peter Krishnan succumbed to injuries. Sooramangalam police registered a case and arrested Anbumani. Police are investigating. Woman set ablaze  In another case near Mettur, a 35-year-old woman was allegedly set ablaze by a man with whom she was in a relationship. Parvathi (35), a widow, was a cook at a students hostel and was in relationship with her colleague Senthil Kumar. Suspecting her fidelity, Senthil Kumar took her to an isolated place near her house in Kolathur on Sunday night and set her on fire, police said. Hearing her screams for help, people in the locality alerted Kolathur police. Parvathi was rushed to Mettur GH and then referred to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for treatment. However, she succumbed to burns on Monday. A team led by Inspector C. Chakrapani arrested Senthil Kumar on Monday and he was remanded.
26 May 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Rail adukku pathiram stands the test of time||The rail adukku pathiram , which consists of 14 vessels of different sizes, neatly placed in a compact manner inside the largest container, has become the cynosure of all eyes over the past few days. Many in Tamil Nadu had forgotten about the existence of the multi-layered vessel until a video surfaced online recently, and has since gone viral on mobile messaging platforms. The credit for creating a newfound interest in the container, goes to a family in Sivaganga, which has been using the rail adukku pathiram for nearly the past 150 years. S. Meera, 45, the woman behind the viral video, says that the vessel was gifted to her grandmother by the latter’s mother. “My grandmother’s name — Padmasani — is engraved on the vessel,” she says. She explains that the rail adukku pathiram has two vessels to cook vegetables, a sippal plate to boil rice, a frying pan, a sombu , a bronze pot to carry water and vessels of varying sizes to cook food. “Using these vessels we can cook food for a mini-wedding. The interesting aspect is that the rail adukku pathiram is compact in size and is easy to carry,” she adds. A video of her explaining the purpose of these vessels was uploaded on her YouTube channel — Parambariya Pokkishangal — four months ago. However, it was during the lockdown period that the video became viral and was shared on multiple social media platforms, she says. “The vessel is known as rail adukku pathiram, as it was earlier used by families to carry groceries and cook food during train journeys. As there were no hotels or eateries during those days, people used to carry these vessels to cook during long journeys. I have even heard that my grandmother once used the vessel to cook food during a trip to Tirupati,” says Ms. Meera. She adds that the rail adukku pathiram is a family treasure cherished by them. “Though we are not frequently using these vessels nowadays, I explain the purpose of the vessel to my children and tell them the importance of preserving our tradition,” she says.
26 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rescued||Forest personnel have picked up the driver of a cargo autorickshaw when he was allegedly transporting four live sea turtles to be slaughtered for meat. The turtles were brought in a boat close to Tharuvaikulam.
26 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Olive Ridley turtles recovered||The forest personnel have picked up the driver of a cargo autorickshaw even as he was allegedly transporting four live sea turtles to be slaughtered for meat. Sources in the forest department said the patrol team, led by Gulf of Mannar Biospehere Reserve Trust Range Officer Raghuvaran, spotted the turtles being loaded into a cargo auto after bringing the turtles in a country boat close to a causeway on a wild stream estuary close to Tharuvaikulam on Sunday night. While auto driver S. Kumar, 45, of Indra Nagar in Thoothukudi was nabbed, others escaped. Efforts are on to nab Jegadish Kumar and Wellington of Fatima Nagar in Thoothukudi.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Paper valuation may burn a hole in their pocket||Plus Two teachers deployed for valuation duty fervently hope for resumption of bus services. While it is not unusual for a section of teachers to commute long distances every day to their schools, those residing in other districts anticipate difficulty in reaching the valuation centres. Valuation of Plus Two papers will take place from May 27 at 13 centres in Tiruchi district: eight in Tiruchi educational district, two each in Lalgudi and Musiri educational districts and one in Manapparai educational district, official sources said. The School Education Department has directed the teachers to be in Tiruchi for the entire duration of valuation of the answer scripts. But there are instances of some of the teachers commuting from Namakkal and Salem districts to schools in Musiri educational district, and from Dindigul and Karur districts to schools in Manapparai educational district. Likewise, a good number of teachers from Ariyalur and Perambalur commute every day to schools in Lalgudi educational district. According to department sources, arrangements have been made to operate buses from towns close to the neighbouring districts to the valuation centres. “We have liaised with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation for operation of buses from places such as Thuvarankurichi, Vaiyampatti, Viralimalai, Thuvakkudi and Uppilliyapuram to the valuation centres,” Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi said. The teachers will have to travel to these towns by their two-wheelers to reach the examination centres. Teachers travelling to Tiruchi from other districts for valuation duty do not require e-passes. They can produce their identity cards, she added. On their part, the teachers say travelling long distances by two-wheeler will be tedious and resumption of normal bus services will remove the element of uncertainty of reaching the valuation centres. Official sources indicate that there is no certainty about restoration of normal bus services after the lockdown. There is also the possibility for teachers from other districts to hire vans on a share basis. But the expenditure will be much higher than the remuneration they get for valuing the papers. They are paid Rs. 10 for valuation of every paper. Barring Biology, for which eight papers are given for valuation for each of the two sessions in the morning and afternoon, teachers of other subjects are required to value 12 papers for each session. “It looks like teachers commuting from other districts will end up spending more than what they earn by valuing answer scripts,” a senior teacher said. Meanwhile, the teachers have been apprised of the safety protocol of wearing face masks, hand gloves, sanitisation and personal distancing. There will be only eight teachers in a room, in compliance with personal distancing norms. “That is why there are more valuation centres this year,” Ms. Shanthi said.
26 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rustic, exotic recipes from the fields||‘Ellarum vaanga, always welcomes you!’ Fans of Village Cooking Channel (VCC), the Tamil YouTube cookery programme that has more than 3 million subscribers, know that these words, shrieked out enthusiastically by its team of five chefs plus their in-house cameraman, are the start to something definitely worth feasting on, at least with one’s eyes. The online success of these paddy farmers-cum-cooks has made their village of Chinna Veeramangalam in Pudukottai district famous among the channel’s international audience. Cousins V. Subramanian, V. Murugesan, V. Ayyanar, G. Tamilselvan and T. Muthumanickam are led by their grandfather and former mass caterer M. Periyathambi, and are currently observing social distancing rules by going off air. “But to keep our fans happy, we have posted a new video that we took before the lockdown, on a Vathal Kulambu (a tamarind-based gravy with rehydrated dried vegetables) that has already clocked up 1,115,197 views,” says Subramanian, VCC’s techie and cameraman. Food preparation plays a big role in village life, and men commonly take over kitchen duties when the womenfolk are out in the fields, says Subramanian. “After television, cooking was the biggest form of entertainment for us when we were growing up. In Chinna Veeramangalam, I would say every man has learned as many recipes from his mother as any woman, from an early age.” This shared passion for cooking came in handy in 2018, when Subramanian, who has an M.Phil in Commerce and previous web design experience, decided to produce online cookery videos. “My cousins were between jobs, and hoping to go abroad for better prospects. That’s when I decided to showcase the food that we eat, cooked in our unique style, with Thatha leading us. VCC’s viewership started growing when we stopped imitating other programmes,” he says. Its near-theatrical production style has won it many accolades, the most recent being the Black Sheep Award for Best Food Programme in February. Before the lockdown, VCC used to post around 3 to 4 videos per week, on mostly non-vegetarian dishes, and up to 126 episodes are now online. The team earns Rs. 7 lakh per month from the advertising revenue generated by YouTube viewings. “Of this, we spend Rs. 2-3 lakh on the cookery show. The rest is shared between the members,” says Subramanian. “Since we also earn from our paddy fields, we don’t solicit sponsorships or donations. We also decline off-camera cooking assignments because we are doing this out of personal interest, not for commercial reasons.” The boisterous energy of the farmer-cooks is engaging, as they introduce each ingredient to the viewer in Tamil and then give a brief explanation of what is going to be cooked that day. All videos have English subtitles. Subramanian’s three cameras focus not just on the cooking, but also the verdant surroundings of the fields where the firewood stoves are set up from scratch. The team usually shoots its recipes out in the open, near the fields in 10 villages near Chinna Veeramangalam, transporting its equipment (including traditional stone grinders) in a Tempo van. And since Periyathambi is not used to cooking for a group less than 100 to 200 people, the VCC team usually arranges free banquets for charity homes near their chosen spot to share out the food they have prepared for the videos (also shown at the end of each episode). “We started off with recipes that are very common in our village, such as winged termites that are fried with puffed rice during the rainy season, and crabs, snails and fish caught in field bunds, and it became a big hit,” says Subramanian. “These dishes have a nostalgic value for our Tamil viewers, especially for those who have migrated from villages to urban areas.” But it’s not all rustic cuisine; Muthumanickam has studied catering in college, and is the brains behind some of the more exotic dishes like the wildly popular Arabian style mutton Biryani cooked with two full goats, which garnered over 21 lakh views after it was uploaded last March. While most recipes are made with easily available ingredients, rare items like paneer and imported fruits are sourced from nearby cities. There are some surreal scenes too … such as a giant cloth ball of chenna (cheese curds made by splitting milk with lemon juice) hanging out to drain like an outlandish fruit on a tree while the team gets ready to make rosogollas in the fields. Audience feedback plays a huge role in their work, says Subramanian. “Everything from sound quality on cameras to the kind of rice (Basmati) that we use for Biryani, has been the result of our viewers’ constructive comments,” he says. Some of the chefs have their own fan following – Ayyanar’s skill with the stone grinder (ammi) gets many comments, while Muthumanickam’s expert onion chopping is also popular. The team avoids using modern conveniences like pressure cookers and electric mixers. “Manual grinding is much more practical and authentic when we are cooking out in the open. It makes for great visuals too,” says Subramanian. After taking three days to research and shoot a recipe, Subramanian and the team edit the video the next day. “Uploading a 10-minute clip can take anywhere from 2 hours to half a day depending on our internet connection,” says Subramanian. What’s on the cards once the lockdown is lifted? “Muthumanickam’s wedding, which got delayed due to the closure,” says Subramanian. “Of course, Thatha and all of us will be cooking his wedding feast. We are looking forward to it.
26 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mridangam makers honoured||Honouring of musical instrument makers marked the 19th anniversary celebration of Naadhabrahmam, an organisation working for development of music and the arts, here on Sunday. Mridangam makers, L. Arockiyasami and L. Soloman who are third generation professionals belonging to Ponmalaipatti were honoured with cash prizes, mementoes and a shawl each by V. Balakrishnan, DIG of Police, Tiruchi. The organisation also provided the instrument makers with provisions, earning the appreciation of the chief guest. Presiding over the award function, the DIG said more such organisations should come forward to help musicians and artistes. N. Subramanian, founder, Naadhabrahmam, said though the organisation had planned to honour 19 instrument makers, they were unable to do so due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Since personal distancing norm was followed, there were only five participants, including Meenakshi Subramanian, Trustee of Nadhabrahmam.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three test positive; two patients recover in central region||Three persons, one each from Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts , tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, while two patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) here. In Tiruchi, a 27-year-old woman tested positive for COVID-19. She was identified as the daughter-in-law of a patient who tested positive last week, official sources at the hospital said. As of Monday, 10 patients from Tiruchi district, three from Perambalur and another from Theni were undergoing treatment at MGMGH. Officials of Tiruchi Railway Division said there was no patient under treatment at the Divisional Railway Hospital here or any railway quarantine facility. Two patients hailing from Perambalur district, who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi GH after returning from other districts or States, were discharged on Monday after making full recovery. The patients were sent to their homes in ‘108’ ambulances after being felicitated by district officials and hospital employees. In Thanjavur, a 30-year-old male tested positive and was undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruvarur, a 51-year-old male tested positive for the virus. In Ariyalur, district officials said that only six active cases remained of the total 356 persons who tested positive. A total of 20 villages had been cordoned off as containment villages. Meanwhile, samples were lifted from 48 people who showed symptoms of fever and cold. They were sent to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Area under gingelly expected to increase in Tiruchi district: official||The area under gingelly is expected to increase by about 200 hectares in Tiruchi district this year, thanks to a push given to oil seed cultivation under the Targeted Rice Fallow Area (TRFA) Oil Seeds Project. Gingelly is raised on about 1,600-1700 hectares in both rabi and kharif seasons in the district. This year the area under coverage is expected to touch 1,900 ha, Agriculture Department officials said. The reason for the optimism stems from the fact that the crop has already been raised on about 1,200 hectares in Lalgudi block alone in the district, the officials said. Under the TRFA project, farmers are being given high yielding TMV-7 seeds under a back-ended subsidy scheme. The seeds have been distributed for an area of 50 hectares each in Lalgudi and Tiruverumbur blocks. “Farmers normally raise local varieties. But TMV-7 is a high-yielding variety, which can help farmers get a yield of about 500 kg,” said B. Elangovan, Deputy Director of Agriculture (Central Schemes), after inspecting a gingelly field at Nerunjalakudi near Lalgudi recently. With local varieties, farmers used to get a yield of about 300 kg an acre, he pointed out. Gingelly is sensitive to water logging. Hence, levelling the field and using adequate seed rate are important to get good yield, the senior official said. R. Santhanakrishnan, consultant, National Food Security Mission, and S. Jayarani, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Lalgudi, accompanied Mr. Elangovan.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Acts of kindness of panchayat union teachers win over parents||By playing the good samaritans through rendering help to villagers in the form of cash and kind to tide over the COVID-19 crisis, teachers of panchayat union primary and middle schools here say they have been able to win over the trust of parents for enhancing enrolment next year. Due to joblessness, daily labourers, who had been educating their children in English medium nursery schools, find themselves pushed into a situation of evaluating the advantages of shifting their wards to government schools. Having lost their capacity to pay tidy amounts as monthly fee to nursery schools, parents are now easily approachable, said a teacher of a panchayat union primary school in Tiruverumbur block. Teachers have contributed their own money for providing essentials to villagers, an official said. “There is no sign that the nursery school where I admitted my child two years back will be considerate enough to cut down the monthly fee in view of the crisis. The only option left is to shift my child to the panchayat union primary school,” said Muthuselvi, a construction labourer belonging to Suriyur. There is now a strong reason for the teachers to see the positive side of the COVID-19 lockdown as they were hitherto staring at the eventuality of manpower reduction in the schools due to thin strength of students. A spurt in enrolment next year would imply that they could remain in their posts in the existing schools without worrying about transfers, a functionary of a teachers' organisation said. “For instance, surplus teachers from panchayat union primary schools were posted last year in some of the anganwadis schools. If things go well, teachers can shed the fear of dislocation,” he pointed out. While extending help, the teachers also impress upon the parents the significance of welfare schemes for students such as supply of four sets of uniform, school bag, geometry box, footwear, colour pencils, crayons, atlas, textbooks, notebooks, noon meal, special cash incentive to reduce drop outs and financial assistance to children who have lost their bread winning parents. Of late, there has been healthy competition among teachers of panchayat union schools to improve their knowledge of English so as to transfer the benefit to students, a headmaster said.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SR to operate workmen special train for staff||Southern Railway will operate a workmen special train exclusively for railway employees to and from Thanjavur and Tiruchi from May 26. The special train will ferry employees residing in and around Thanjavur and beyond Tiruchi to Golden Rock Railway Workshop, Diesel Loco Shed and Divisional Railway Office here. Railway sources say the Chief Workshop Manager, Golden Rock Workshop, recently wrote to the Divisional Railway Manager, Tiruchi, to make arrangements for operation of a special train at the earliest since staff in those areas have been unable to reach their workplaces in the absence of public transport. Barring Sunday, the special train will be operated on all days. The train will leave Thanjavur at 6.30 a.m. and reach Tiruchi junction at 7.45 a.m. with stoppages at Alakkudi, Budalur, Aiyanapuram, Solagampatti, Tondamanpatti, Tiruverumbur, Manjattidal and Golden Rock railway stations. In the return direction, the special train will leave Tiruchi junction at 5.30 p.m. and reach Thanjavur at 6.45 p.m. The Golden Rock Railway Workshop resumed functioning with 50% of its workforce on May 20.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jail warders booked||K.K. Nagar police have registered a case against nine jail warders after a video purportedly showing them dancing and celebrating their transfer at the prison quarters went viral on social media. Police sources said a group of 37 jail warders were given transfer orders to various places recently. Some of them assembled in the prison quarters during the night and started whistling, howling and dancing in celebration. The video went viral on social media and the behaviour, when prohibitory orders were in place in view of the pandemic, raised eyebrows. Based on a complaint, KK. Nagar police on Saturday registered a case against nine jail warders .
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl murdered, juvenile detained||A nine-year-old girl, who was found unconscious with a grievous head injury at Krishnasamudram village near Manapparai in the district, died in hospital on Sunday. Manapparai Police, who initially registered a case under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder), have altered it as a murder case under IPC Section 302 besides Sections 7 and 8 of the POCSO Act. On Sunday afternoon, police sources said, information about the unconscious girl inside a garden a few metres away from her house was passed on by a 14-year-old boy residing near her house. Police personnel conducted inquiry at the crime scene where they found blood stains on a stone, school uniform and T-shirt. The girl was rushed to Manapparai Government Hospital from where she was referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. She died late on Sunday. The post-mortem was conducted on Monday and the body handed over to her parents. Manapparai Police detained the 14-year-old boy on the charge of committing the crime after questioning him about his behaviour.
26 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Father, son arrested for murder||A 40-year-old man was murdered allegedly by two persons at Avarampatti village in Vaiyampatti police station limits in the district on Sunday. Vaiyampatti police arrested S. Arokiasamy, 58, and his son, Ravi Charles, on the charge of killing Jayapal. The accused and the victim were from Avarampatti village. Police sources said Arokiasamy reportedly placed wooden logs in front of a vacant piece of land belonging to Jayapal, hindering movement. Jayapal, in turn, placed wooden logs in front of Arokiasamy’s house. A wordy quarrel took a turn for the worse and Arokiasamy and his son allegedly assaulted Jayapal, who died on the way to Manapparai Government Hospital.
26 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Robots deployed in COVID -19 treatment ward of TVMCH||The Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital has deployed two robots, each costing about Rs. 1 lakh to serve food and medicine to the patients undergoing treatment in the COVID – 19 treatment ward. The robots, which are expected to share the burden of the work of frontline caregivers in the pandemic treatment ward, have been fabricated jointly by SASTRA deemed-to-be university, Thanjavur, and a Tiruchi-based firm to convey the messages from the doctors and the nurses to the patients apart from serving them food, water, fruits and medicines, for which trays have been incorporated. The multifunctional robots, christened ‘Zafi Go’, having the operational range of 1,500 meter radio controllable system, have been designed to support the doctors and the nurses while ensuring proper physical distancing within the treatment ward. It is operated by pre-programmed software and can serve up to 15 patients in one go as the battery back would last for about 3 hours, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said. When deployed, the robots reportedly performed well in the medical college hospitals in Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Madurai and in this line, the intelligent machines have been deployed in TVMCH also. In a simple function, Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi launched the robots. Nanguneri MLA V. Narayanan and chairman of Tirunelveli District Central Cooperative Bank N. Ganesa Raja were present.
26 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Excavation commences at Adichanallur, Sivakalai sites||While the sixth phase of excavation began at Adichanallur near here, known as the ‘Cradle of ancient Tamil civilisation’, commenced on Monday, the maiden excavation at another archaeologically important site at Sivakalai near Eral was started simultaneously by the Department of Archaeology. Although Minister for Tamil Development K. Pandiarajan had announced that excavation in the archaeological sites at Adichanallur and Sivakalai, both in Thoothukudi district, would commence on March 15, it was delayed because of COVID-19 lockdown. While excavation has been taken up at Sivakalai near Eral for the first time following repeated demands by academics and Tamil scholars after recovery of the articles used by ancient Tamils, the sixth phase of digging resumed at Adichanallur on Monday. Excavations were taken up at Adichanallur in 1876, 1902, 1905 during the British time and in 2004 and 2005 by the Archaeological Survey of India. As the sixth phase of the excavation commenced amidst a lot of expectations, a team of officials of the Department of Archaeology, led by Deputy Director Sivanandam, launched the work in the areas close to Sivakalai. Led by its Excavation Director M. Prabhakaran, a team of experts is engaged in excavation at Sivakalai while J. Bhaskaran, Excavation Director, is monitoring the work at Adichanallur. Officials said the work that would go on till the onset of northeast monsoon in September. It is expected to give vital information about ancient civilisation in this region as good number of burial urns and the metals used by ancient Tamils were found.
26 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Last Zamin of Singampatti passes away||The last Zamindar of Singampatti, one of the 72 erstwhile ‘palayams’ in southern Tamil Nadu, T.N.S. Murugadoss Theerthapathi, died in his palace at Singampatti, close to the Western Ghats in Ambasamudram taluk, on Sunday night. He was the last Zamindar of south India. He was 92 and survived by two sons and three daughters. Murugadoss was crowned the Zamindar of Singampatti at the age of three-and-a-half years when his father died and was sent to Sri Lanka for education. The education, he had in the island nation in the pre-Independence era, made Murugadoss an excellent orator in English. After being in Chennai for a while for his business, Murugadoss returned to Singampatti and was administering the famous Sorimuthu Ayyanar Temple inside the Kalakkadu - Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve beyond Papanasam that would attract thousands of devotees for the Adi amavasai festival. He would be in the royal robes during this festival. Though Singampatti Zamin had given on lease a few thousand acres of land in the Western Ghats for tea plantation, the Zamin lost its ownership of the land following the abolishment of Zamindari system in the country. Before the formal abolishment of the Zamindari system, he became the Zamindar of Singampatti. After a prolonged legal battle, the tea estates are now owned by the Department of Forests. Though he was an expert in handling a range of rifles, Mr. Murugadoss was a honorary wildlife warden.
26 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic steals enthusiasm from Ramzan celebrations||The usual enthusiasm for Ramzan celebrations was missing, owing to COVID-19 pandemic here on Monday as Muslims offered special prayers in homes instead of participating in prayers in mosques and on grounds. The Muslim outfits, which would usually give meat, cash and grocery items to the poor families to celebrate Ramzan, gave only the essential commodities this time.
26 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Cases from other States hike toll in southern districts||Of the 35 new COVID–19 positive cases reported in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts on Monday, 29 are from Maharashtra and two are from Gujarat. They all tested positive on reaching the check posts set up on district borders. Tirunelveli district, which already had 282 positive cases, added 15 more new cases, including 14 from Maharashtra. The total number of positive cases is 297. The district now has 197 active cases as 99 patients have been discharged from hospital and an 82-year-old man from Melapalayam died at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Thoothukudi district had 16 positive cases in migrants from Maharashtra and Gujarat. The district’s tally is 177 and the number of people undergoing treatment at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital is 129. In Kanniyakumari, three more cases, including a case from Maharashtra, tested positive on Monday to take the total number of patients to 54, and 26 are under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. Tenkasi and Madurai districts did not record any fresh cases. A local government medical officer and a fireman from Chennai were among the 17 fresh cases reported in Virudhunagar district on Monday. The medical officer was involved in taking swab tests. However, he remained asymptomatic. The fireman and two others, who had come from Chennai, too tested positive. Twelve of the fresh cases were from Maharastra and one was from Kerala. The total number of positive cases in the district crossed the 100-mark to reach 115. However, the total number of active cases is 71 with 44 patients having been discharged from hospital. Theni Two persons tested positive in Theni, taking the district’s tally to 108. Health officials said the first case was a man from Seelaiampatti who had returned from Koyambedu recently. He was admitted to Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital. The second case was from Gudalur. He had contact with persons who had travelled to Koyambedu. In Dindigul district, no fresh cases were recorded on Monday. According to the officials, only 22 of the 133 positive cases recorded in the district are under treatment, and the others have been discharged. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram district reported five fresh cases, which raised the toll to 63. According to doctors, 29 positive cases have been discharged. In Sivaganga district, there were no fresh cases.
26 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||10 special teams formed to nab burglars||A day after burglars decamped with Rs. 16 lakh from a house in Udumalpet, Tiruppur District Police have formed 10 special teams to nab the accused. In the early hours of Sunday, three burglars entered into the house of V. Palanisamy at Elaiyamuthur Pirivu in Udumalpet and stole the cash from a cupboard. The accused escaped the house with Mr. Palanisamy’s car and took the CCTV digital video recorder with them. Udumalpet police registered a case and the investigations are led by Udumalpet Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Jeyachandran. A senior police officer said on Monday that the accused might not have escaped the State. “They must be someone known to the family,” the officer said, adding that the accused must have conducted a reece of the house prior to the burglary. The accused also attacked Mr. Palanisamy with a sickle during the burglary, but he suffered only minor injuries. The police are expected to nab the accused in a few days, according to the officer.
26 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur to be declared green zone soon: Minister||With no fresh COVID-19 cases for over three weeks in Tiruppur, the State Government will soon announce the district as Green Zone , Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said on Monday. He inaugurated the Kudimaramathu works at Periya Kumarapalayam in Kundadam, Dharapuram, on Monday in the presence of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. Mr. Radhakrishnan requested the public to adhere to the COVID-19 safety guidelines issued by the State Government, a press release said. A total of Rs. 2.025 crore has been allocated for kudimaramathu works in Dharapuram. Through this initiative, 46,440 acres of agricultural land will be benefited, the release said.
26 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three held on robbery charge||Tiruppur North police on Sunday arrested three persons on the charges of robbing the residents of Radha Nagar. The arrested were S. Kumar aka Karthik (31), S. Raja (32) and G. Rajesh aka Rajasekaran (32). The accused were booked under Section 399 (Making preparation to commit dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody. Teenager drowns K. Abishek (17), a resident of Jeevanantham Road near Rathinapuri, drowned while taking bath in river Bhavani near Mettupalayam on Sunday. He had gone with his father Karuppaiah around 2 p.m. on Sunday.
26 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Subsidy released for scooter scheme’||A sum of Rs. 8.88 crore has been released as subsidy for purchase of scooters for women under Amma scheme in Tiruvarur district. Disclosing this while handing over the keys to 216 beneficiaries at the District Collectorate on Sunday, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said 3,558 women had availed financial assistance for purchase of scooters of their choice since the inception of the scheme in February 2018. Assistance for SHGs  Calling upon the womenfolk to make use of various schemes implemented by the State government for uplift of their socio-financial status, Mr. Kamaraj said Rs. 2.37 crore had been disbursed as individual loan of Rs. 5,000 for members of women self-help groups under the COVID-19 special financial assistance package in Tiruvarur district. A total of 4,740 members of 367 women SHGs availed the assistance to recoup their financial activities. Further, Rs. 6.67 crore had been released through banks as direct credit to 312 women SHGs to revive their activities. During the lockdown, Rs. 9.40 crore was distributed to 679 women SHGs to help them tide over the financial crisis.
26 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘106 desilting works are on’||Works taken up under the Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme are being executed under the supervision and guidance of farmers, according to Rajesh Lakhoni, Monitoring Officer for the district. Announcing this after inspecting desilting work on Konavaikkal at Arasur hamlet and the Vettar at Thirukalambur village in Kudavasal taluk on Monday. he said 106 works at a cost of Rs. 22.56 crore had been taken up under the scheme in the district. Officials had been instructed to expedite the works. He was accompanied by Collector T. Anand.
26 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers given guided tour of Government Botanical Garden||Continuing their recent efforts to give workers on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19 a break from their daily routine, the Department of Horticulture invited around 200 conservancy workers to the Government Botanical Garden, where they were given a guided tour by officials on Monday. The workers were welcomed with flowers and were applauded for their efforts to keep the Nilgiris safe from the pandemic. The group of 200 workers were the latest frontline staff who were given a tour of the garden, which was prepared for the annual flower show that had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Earlier, healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, and police personnel were invited to the garden on separate days. The workers were also invited to visit the garden with members of their family for the rest of the week. M. Veni, a conservancy worker from Udhagamandalam, said that she was extremely excited to visit the garden this year. “I usually do not visit the garden when the flower show is held each year due to the crowd. This special arrangement makes each and every one of us feel valued and appreciated for the work we do every day,” said Ms. Veni. Joint Director of Horticulture Sivasubramaniam Samraj and Assistant Director of Horticulture M. Radhakrishnan were also present.
26 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for attacking father||A 23-year-old youth,, who was in an inebriated condition, slashed his father’s leg with a sickle near Wellington in Coonoor on Monday. The aftermath of the incident was recorded on a mobile phone and was shared widely through mobile messaging applications. Police identified the accused as R. Rajaram. It has been alleged that Rajaram and his father, Ravichandran entered into an argument on Monday. Both are believed to have consumed alcohol in the lead up to the argument. Following this, Rajaram picked up a sickle and slashed his father’s leg with it. Ravichandran collapsed onto the ground and local residents gathered around to try and stop Rajaram from inflicting further harm on his father. Rajaram is then said to have gone on a spree of vandalism, breaking the windscreens of parked cars near to his house, before he collapsed. The Wellington police came to the spot and took Ravichandran to the hospital, where he is currently undergoing treatment. Rajaram has since been arrested.
26 May 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,300 workers arrive home aboard special train||A special train ferrying over 1,300 migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra arrived in Villupuram on Monday. The workers, hailing from 17 districts including, seven in the northern zone, were sent by buses to their respective towns. The special train arrived in Villupuram at 1 a.m. Of the 1,388 passengers, 561 hailed from Kallakurichi district followed by 499 from Villupuram, 210 from Tiruvannamalai, 38 from Cuddalore and 18 from Vellore district. A team led by Collector A. Annadurai and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar were present. An official said 30 special buses were arranged to transport them to their respective towns. The district administration provided food packets, water bottles and face masks to all the passengers before they boarded the vehicles. Special facility The 499 passengers from Villupuram district were taken to a special quarantine facility set up for those persons returning from other States. Their throat swabs have been taken and they would be placed under mandatory quarantine for 14 days, the official added.  The 499 passengers from Villupuram district were taken to a quarantine facility set up for those returning from other States Official
26 May 2020||Villupuram,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram police file case against Ponmudi||The Villupuram taluk police have booked a case against former DMK Minister K. Ponmudi and 99 others belonging to the party’s advocates wing for conducting a meeting violating lockdown rules. Police said the Villupuram central district wing of the DMK had conducted the meeting with office-bearers and advocates at the party office in Kalaignar Arivalayam here on Sunday evening. They had not followed physical distancing norms and violated all lockdown norms, an official said. A case was booked against Mr. Ponmudi and 99 others under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) read with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 of Disaster Management Act.
26 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in lightning at fireworks unit||Two persons sustained burn injuries following an explosion at a fireworks unit at Elayirampannai after lightning struck the raw materials storage room on Monday evening. The police said that when the explosion took place, B. Karuppasamy (38) of Keezha Chellaiapuram and N. Dhanapal (56) were standing near the room. While Dhanapal who was critically injured was admitted to Government Hospital in Sivakasi, the other injured was admitted to the Sattur Government Hospital.
26 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Lightning strikes fireworks unit; two injured||Two persons sustained burn injuries following an explosion at a fireworks unit at Elayirampannai after lightning struck the raw materials storage room on Monday evening. The police said that when the explosion took place, B. Karuppasamy (38) of Keezha Chellaiapuram and N. Dhanapal (56) were standing near the room. While Dhanapal who was critically injured was admitted to Government Hospital in Sivakasi, the other injured was admitted to the Sattur Government Hospital. Elayirampannai police are investigating.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Domestic flight services resume at Tiruchi airport||Domestic flight services resumed at the Tiruchi International Airport here after a gap of two months, with IndiGo airline operating its service on the Bengaluru-Tiruchi–Bengaluru sector on Monday night. However, flight services on the Chennai-Tiruchi-Chennai sector were cancelled by the airline on Monday, much to the dismay of passengers who had booked their tickets in advance. The airline said on Sunday that services on the Chennai-Tiruchi-Chennai sector — one in the morning and another in the night — would be operated, besides the Bengaluru-Tiruchi-Bengaluru service. Airline sources here said the sudden cancellation of services in the Chennai-Tiruchi-Chennai sector was “due to COVID-19 travel restrictions” without elaborating further. The airline operated an ATR flight in the Bengaluru-Tiruchi-Bengaluru sector as was the case during the pre-lockdown period. The aircraft from Bengaluru landed here at around 9.04 p.m. with 66 passengers on board. It later took off at 9.48 p.m. with 51 passengers who had come well in advance to the airport. Airport sources said incoming and outgoing passengers were subjected to screening using thermal scanners at the airport as per protocol. The luggage of all outgoing passengers was sanitised by Airports Authority of India authorities prior to allowing them inside the terminal building. Personal distancing was maintained outside the airport and inside the terminal. Passengers were advised to remain in home quarantine as per the standard protocol issued by the State government. Airline sources said every Bengaluru-bound passenger was provided with mask, face shield and hand sanitiser prior to boarding the flight. The standard operating procedures laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and by the State government were followed, said the sources. Collector S. Sivarasu, accompanied by revenue officials, was present at the airport during the arrival of the first domestic flight here. Tiruchi international airport has had more international flights as compared to domestic operations, which have been limited to Chennai and Bengaluru. Although the airport saw resumption of domestic services following an announcement from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the lockdown period was witness to a series of rescue flights that were operated by Air Asia and Malindo Air to take back stranded Malaysian nationals from here to Kuala Lumpur.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rice institute touts new high yield variety||The Agriculture Department anticipates an increase of over 5,000 hectares (ha) in the total area of kuruvai cultivation in Thanjavur district this year. Last year, the shutters of Stanley Reservoir were opened only in the middle of August to help samba cultivation. Farmers managed to raise kuruvai crop on about 37,167 ha using groundwater and occasional showers. This year, with the State government announcing that the shutters of Mettur dam will be lifted on June 12, as scheduled, they have started preparatory works. Transplantation has been carried out in about 13,480 ha already. The renewed vigour displayed by farmers — after a gap of nearly eight years — has raised hopes among officials that kuruvai cultivation will be taken up in another 29,745 ha during the season. Also, 183 tonnes of paddy seed have been procured by farmers and 270 tonnes of seeds have been stocked at agriculture extension centres (AECs). Adequate quantity of fertilizers have also been moved to societies and private shops, official sources said. Meanwhile, farmers seem content with CO51 paddy though the Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute (TRRI), Aduthurai, has come out with a new variety, ADT53. While the stock at AECs largely contains CO51, other varieties such as ASB16, ADT42 and ADT37 are also available at the centres with quantities less than 10 tonnes for distribution in case farmers opt for them. ADT53 is also a short-term variety of 105-110 days and will be suitable for kuruvai/summer crop seasons in the delta region and sornavari and navarai seasons in other districts in the State, TRRI said in a press release. Further, it is also a contingent samba variety that can be cultivated in the event of any delay in release of water from Mettur beyond October so as to enable harvest before closure of the dam. Though ADT43, with its yield capacity and quality and special features such as non-lodging with high milling output, and CO51, another high yield variety, still remain the popular choice of farmers, ADT53 has recorded an average yield of about 10% and 14% higher than the other two. Rich in zinc and iron, it has shown resistance to pests such as stem borer and leaf folder and diseases like blast and sheath blight. The medium slender grain of ADT53 has milling output of 65% with good cooking parameters like soft gel consistency. It is a derivative of ADT43/JGL384 cross and developed through pedigree selection by combining yield as well as grain quality, according to the institute.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It was a ‘responsible’ celebration||Celebration of Eid-ul-Fitr, popularly known as Ramzan, was subdued across the central region on Monday. Hundreds of Muslims usually congregate at idgah grounds and mosques to offer mass prayer on Ramzan in Tiruchi and other districts. On Monday, almost all mosques and idgahs were empty. People offered prayer in their homes as the government had prohibited all kinds of public gatherings to control the spread of COVID-19 virus. Most of them offered prayers along with their family members in their homes. Some gathered on the terrace with a group of 10 to 15 persons. They embraced each other and exchanged pleasantries, adhering to social distancing norms stipulated by governments and religious heads. “Offering prayers at home is nothing new as it is our way of life. But this is probably the first time that we are confined to our homes on Ramzan,” said M. Moideen,55, who led a prayer at his house in Cantonment. “As responsible citizens, we fully adhered to the government’s norms while celebrating Ramzan. We avoided public gatherings and open ground mass prayers,” said M.A. Aleem, a resident of Thuvarankurichi in Tiruchi district. The festive buzz was missing in the market too, as major textile traders were not allowed to open their stores since March 25. Only small textile stores and pavement shops were opened. With their favourite shops remaining closed, Muslims could not purchase new clothes of their choice. Many of them restricted their festive purchases to children. “We cannot imagine Ramzan without new dresses. We buy at least two dresses for each of us. This year, however, we bought new dresses only for our grandchildren,” Mr. Moideen said.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In highest single-day spike, T.N. reports 805 cases||With Chennai continuing to witness a surge in cases, health officials said public cooperation for containment measures and physical distancing was low in the city. “In Chennai, the problematic areas are Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar and Teynampet. The main problem is overcrowding. When one person tests positive, their family members are also affected as houses are small in many of these areas. Moreover, people do not cooperate with containment measures. If a street is closed for containment measures, people continue to enter and roam around. No physical distancing is maintained,” a health official said. Apart from Chennai, there were 54 new cases in Chengalpattu, 36 in Tiruvallur, 19 in Kancheepuram, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, five in Ramanathapuram, four each in Ranipet and Virudhunagar, two each in Kanniyakumari and Theni, and one each in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. In addition, five persons who were under airport quarantine and 15 persons who were under railway quarantine have tested positive for the infection. So far, the State has tested a total of 4,21,450 samples that include the day’s 11,835 samples.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. sees increase in number of applications seeking building plan approval||With the State Government easing lockdown restrictions by allowing construction work, the Coimbatore Corporation has started seeing an increase in number of applications seeking building plan approval. In the past few days, the Corporation had started receiving applications from people seeking plan approval, said the Corporation sources, adding that the number of applications, however, had not reached the pre-COVID-19 lockdown levels. Prior to the lockdown the Corporation used to receive between 200 and 250 applications a month. Now, in the past few days, it had seen over 100 applications. During the initial days of the lockdown when the Corporation’s focus was on enforcing the shutdown, establishing containment zones, spraying disinfectants, lifting swab samples and arranging vehicles to sell vegetables at doorsteps, the officials, including those from the Town Planning wing looked after the additional responsibilities handed to them. During the period, the Corporation received no application as people remained indoors. At that point in time, the Corporation had 300 applications pending. The Corporation had accorded plan approval for the pending applications during the lockdown period and started sending those to the applicants. The Corporation had started processing the freshly received 100 applications, the sources said and added that very soon it would give the approval. The sources also said there only one issue that the Corporation tried to address. Prior to the lockdown it had a payment centre at the head office in Town Hall. Employees of a private agency appointed by a bank, with which the Corporation had an account, used to collect the building plan approval fee. During the lockdown, given the restriction on movement of people, the Corporation could not open the payment centre. It was talking to the bank concerned to reopen it soon. In the meanwhile, it had asked the applicants to pay online.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 25     No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Monday) No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of active cases: 0    House quarantined: 1,593 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 25) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
26 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||19 passengers from Ahmedabad reach Belagavi, sent to quarantine centre||As many as 19 passengers arrived in Belagavi from Ahmedabad, capital of the high-risk State of Gujarat, on a private airliner on Monday. A team of district officials, led by Assistant Commissioner Ashok Teli, oversaw the arrangements to send them to institutional quarantine for a week, before they could be sent home for seven days quarantine. All of them were sent to the CPED Grounds on Club Road from where they were sent to the institutional quarantine in either government or private facilities. While most persons said that they had applied for passes on the State government’s sevasindhu portal, only a few said that they had got passes. Rakesh, an IT engineer from Hubballi, who bought ticket for the flight on May 23, said that he applied for the pass on Sunday, but he had not got it yet. Amar Kumar, a businessman from Davangere who was stuck in Ahmedabad, said that he had no e-pass issued by the receiving district magistrate. “I had no idea that I had to apply online. I will ask officers in Karnataka to issue me a pass,” he said. Bunty Arora, a post-graduate student of medicine, said that he had got himself tested for COVID-19 in Ahmedabad itself and that he had been found negative. “I don’t think I will need to undergo institutional quarantine. But officers are saying institutional quarantine is mandatory. Let us see,” he said. Mr. Teli said that all passengers had to undergo institutional quarantine for a week. Only pregnant women and breast-feeding babies who test negative are exempted, he said. They can spend one week in home quarantine, he said. Those who violate the rules, will face action, he said. Mahantesh Hiremath, executive engineer from the Urban Development Department, who has been deputed to supervise operations at the airport, said that a mobile app would track the movement of these passengers. He said that each case would be monitored closely. Meanwhile, flights to Mumbai, Pune and Mysuru that were to begin on Monday were cancelled. Flights to Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Bengaluru will operate, airport director Rajesh Kumar Mourya tweeted on Monday morning. The civilian airport in Sambra had prepared for the operation of 13 flights to connect Belagavi to five cities.  Mobile app to track the movement of these passengers; each case to be monitored closely
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passengers left fuming as flights get cancelled at KIA||The cancellation of flights on the first day of resuming operations left a lot of people angry and disappointed. On Monday, many flights of different airlines scheduled to Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bagdogra, and Kolkata were cancelled. Many people alleged that airlines informed them about the cancellation only after reaching the airport. Vishal A., who had booked a flight ticket to Hyderabad, alleged that he had come to the airport after a long travel. “We were told by the airlines staff that the flight was cancelled as per the instruction of the Telangana government. They should have sent a notification in advance and people could have avoided travelling all the way to the airport,” he said. Airlines have maintained some cancellations were done owing to restrictions imposed on arrival of flights by the respective States. “Due to a change in the State guidelines, affected passengers were provided flexibility to either re-book on alternative flights or transfer their complete booking amount into credit shells for future bookings,” Indigo stated via a release. For those who did get to fly, the experience was unlike anything before. “I had received a message from the airlines asking me to reach the airport at least two hours in advance but I reached much earlier. Flying during the time of COVID-19 is different experience. I am visiting my parents after a long time and they were very worried about me,” said an IT professional. BMTC to operate buses to and from airport soon Meanwhile, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will begin services to and from the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) for the general public. C. Shikha, Managing Director, BMTC, said the corporation operated 68 buses on Monday to transport people to mandatory institutional quarantine facilities and said the BMTC had consulted the Department of Health and Family Welfare to resume operations to and from the airport. “We are consulting the Health Department for guidelines on operating buses to and from the airport. Depending on their advice, we will decide whether to operate only non-AC buses or operate both AC and non-AC buses,” she said.  Taxis, cabs back at KIA  Taxis and cabs started operating to and from the city to KIA as it resumed domestic operations from Monday. As per the guidelines of the Health Ministry, only the driver plus two people are allowed in cabs and taxis. Somashekar.K. of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said that the government should either cancel the airport toll for a few months or reduce the price. “We will also request passengers to go cashless. Many drivers and owners are thinking of having a transparent polyfibre between seats,” he said. Drivers are also worried about the curfew timings. “As the airport operates 24/7, we will have to be on the road. But there are restrictions from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. The government should look into this issue,” a driver said. K. Radhakrishna Holla, owner, Cauvery Cars, and president of Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, said that a major slump in the taxi business was owing to losing passengers from Delhi and Mumbai, especially businessmen. As these places fell under high-risk areas, institutional quarantine was compulsory for people coming from there. “Most tourist taxis hardly had any business today. The cancellation of flights led to cancellation of trips in a few cases. From the airport to towards the city, there was no business at all,” he said.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru:,KARNATAKA||BMTC introduces ‘flat fares’ after drawing criticism for pass system||Coming under attack for forcing passengers to purchase a daily pass worth Rs. 70, which was working out to be disadvantageous for short distance travel, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), on Monday, introduced a new fare structure enabling passengers to buy tickets from conductors. The ‘flat fare’ system has six slabs based on the distance. The minimum single trip fare is Rs. 5 for up to 2 km. Passengers planning to travel for more than 41 km need to buy a ticket worth Rs. 30. The new fares will come into effect on Tuesday. C. Shikha, MD of BMTC, told The Hindu that the new fares were announced after getting approval from the State government. “To maintain social distancing and minimal contact between conductors and passengers, we had asked people to buy daily passes. However, we received complaints from various sections. For the benefit of passengers, we have come out with a new fare structure. We appeal to the passengers to tender exact change and buy tickets for single trip.” She added that the new system will be reviewed later. Ms. Shikha also said that passengers can continue buying daily passes for unlimited travel. After the State government relaxed lockdown norms, the BMTC is running close to 2,000 buses every day. On an average, 1.5 lakh people are using the bus services. In addition, the BMTC has allowed QR based purchase of tickets in 750 buses. A release from the BMTC states that daily, weekly and monthly passes are available at old rates. Relief to passengers The Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike welcomed the BMTC's move to reintroduce daily tickets. “This will provide immediate relief to large sections of commuters excluded or burdened by the high cost of daily commute due to the Rs. 70 day pass. The new fare structure, being in multiples of five, will reduce cash exchanges between conductors and commuters as it is easier for more people to carry exact change for these denominations. We, however, urge BMTC to not de-board people from travelling if they don't have exact change. Along with this, if hand sanitisation for commuters before entry can be made mandatory for commuters by fixing sanitisers at the entry gate, it will make commute safer for all,” the Vedike said in a statement. However, the forum has added that these new fares do not address the issues of the urban poor during the COVID-19 crisis as they are left with little money and are staring at a greater economic distress. ‘Need govt. support’ “To address this concern, we ask the State government to support BMTC to enable a further reduction in fares. BMTC is also providing free passes to construction workers. If a lower fare structure is not possible, we strongly urge the State government and BMTC to come up with a mechanism to extend the free passes to other vulnerable sections, such as domestic workers, street vendors, garment workers and others,” they urged.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New guidelines for policemen as cases increase among force||The Karnataka police force has seen a recent spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases — 13 till date, of which six are cured and seven active and under treatment. Over 400 policemen are in institutional quarantine across the State. Amidst concerns of the growing threat, the State police have issued new safety guidelines for personnel on the frontlines. “We need to gear up for the challenge and control the spread of the virus in the force,” said Praveen Sood, DG&IGP, Karnataka State police. Most of the 13 who have tested positive were deployed to enforce the lockdown, at checkposts and containment zones; four personnel who dispersed a crowd gathered in a place of worship tested positive in Bagalkote, three in Udupi, and one in Bengaluru Rural district were deployed at border checkposts, and two in Bengaluru city and one in Kalaburagi at containment zones. “Strict instructions have been issued to not deploy personnel above the age of 55 at checkposts, containment zones or duty that involves large-scale public contact,” Mr. Sood said. Those deployed on such duties have been now instructed to mandatorily wear hand gloves, apart from face masks. Other safety equipment needed will be provided and funds will not be a problem, he said. Those deployed at the inter-State checkposts are working for long hours in the summer heat and despite shift system are unable to return home. “We have improvised vehicles with six beds where the personnel can rest. These vehicles will be deployed at all inter-State border checkposts,” Mr. Sood said. In Bengaluru, police stations will be equipped with washing machines to ensure personnel have laundry service and wear fresh clothes, said city Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. “Each station has been asked to identify a nearby lodge, where police personnel returning from duty, can rest, bath, and wear fresh clothes before going home. Police families are also a big concern and we need to ensure they are not harmed,” Mr. Rao said. All police quarters have been asked to take additional care and disinfecting them has begun across the State.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||This COVID-19 ward in Victoria hospital did not miss date with Id||Gloomy pictures are usually painted of hospitals, and during the times of a pandemic, a COVID-19 ward would be the last place for people to look for some cheer. But on Monday, when a quiet Id was being celebrated in homes, a hospital ward decided to lift the spirits of patients. It was a festive atmosphere in the COVID-19 ward at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre in Victoria hospital as young girls drew elaborate mehendi designs on their hands and took part in a mehendi competition. The hospital authorities provided a large mat that they could use for their prayer. S. Balaji Pai, Special Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care, said that the patients were told to maintain social distancing and take part in prayers. “The patients said that they were extremely happy to get an opportunity to celebrate in the hospital,” he said. After prayers, they greeted each other. Asima Banu, nodal officer said that it was a warm atmosphere and people from all communities came forward and celebrated Id. “Although majority of the people in our centre are Muslims, people from other faiths too cheered them on and took part in the celebrations,” she said. Dr. Banu gave some of the women new dupattas to add to the festive touch. Dr. Pai said that there are 125 patients in the hospital premises. Of these, 94 are in the trauma centre and the rest are housed in an adjacent building. There are 15 children in the ward. “Most of them are asymptomatic. We want to keep them occupied at our centre,” he said. He also said that he wants to soon provide a special meal to the patients for Id.  The patients were extremely happy to get an opportunity to celebrate in the hospital S. Balaji Pai, Special Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 20,000 students opt for change in examination centres||Around 23,000 students who are gearing up to write the SSLC and second year pre-university (II PU) examinations have opted for a change in their exam centres as they have returned to their home towns during the lockdown. Further, some students living in Bengaluru are planning to go to their native places and write the examination from there. They are worried that students whose homes are in containment zones will not be allowed to write the examination scheduled next month and will have to wait for the supplementary examination. “Although my ward is not a containment zone, my father says that the cases in Bengaluru will increase in the coming days and has told me to go stay with my grandmother in Hassan district and write the exam from there. I think that is the best idea. I don’t want to risk missing my examination,” said a SSLC student living in North Bengaluru on condition of anonymity. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education decided to give the students the option to write the examination either at the centre originally allotted to them or to pick a centre close to their hometown. It offered this option as it wanted students to avoid travel during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, heads of schools and PU colleges say that a majority of students still wanted to travel to their originally allotted examination centre and write the exam with their classmates. “Some students have decided to travel back as public transport has resumed during the Lockdown 4.0,” said a headmaster of a government school in North Bengaluru. More PU students opt for centre change More PU students have opted for a change than students in SSLC as they have only the English paper pending. While 7,984 SSLC students have applied for a change, over 15,000 PU students have exercised this option. M. Kanagavalli, Director, Department of Pre-University Education said the examination would be conducted in 1,016 examination centres and the department would take over additional classrooms in the same centre as well as other colleges and schools in the vicinity. While the last date to apply for change in examination for second PU students is over, V. Sumangala, Director, Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board, said that SSLC students can apply for a change in examination centres till May 29. The SSLC examinations will be held at 2,879 examination centres across the State. Around 5.98 lakh students have registered for the second pre-university English examination that is scheduled to be held on June 18. Meanwhile, 8.48 lakh students have registered for the SSLC examination scheduled to be held between June 25 and July 4.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SOPs revised for stricter management of containment, buffer zones||With the Centre stressing on stricter norms for containment zones, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) for the containment zones in the city. An order issued by BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar on Saturday states that the containment zones should remain under strict surveillance with measures in place to check the spread until no new COVID-19 positive cases are identified for 28 days after the incidence of the last case in the zone, and if there are either 10 or less than 10 primary and secondary contacts under home quarantine. The SOP also covers management of buffer zone, which is the area within 200 metres of the residence of a COVID-19 positive person. Here, the health authorities will conduct active surveillance and social distancing measures, apart from identifying persons with ILI (Influenza-like Illness) and SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness), and managing the same through fever clinics or isolation. No public function or gathering is to be allowed in the buffer zone. Soon after the identification and declaration of a containment zone, the SOP states that teams have to be formed for crisis management, to monitor health, policing and provide municipal services, such as solid waste management and distribution of essential commodities. The crisis management team will be headed by the incident commander, who will be responsible for overall management of the containment and buffer zones. The incident commander should ensure marking of the outer limit of the containment zone to facilitate the police in barricading for effective perimeter control. The health teams have been directed to take up surveillance, contact tracing, sample collection, testing and setting up a health outpost, apart from identifying persons requiring special needs, such as pregnant women, patients with heart disease and other serious ailments. Meanwhile, for policing, the SOP states that the police personnel have to cordon off all roads and seal down completely by barricading, besides ensuring no person enters or exits the containment zone. They will have to undertake complete curfew management, report daily on whether the barricading is intact or damaged. Though entry of private vehicle into the containment zone is prohibited, entry and exit passes may be issued by the jurisdictional police for delivery of essential services and medical emergencies. With regard to supply and delivery of essentials to residents in the containment zone, essential commodities should be made available at their doorstep, the SOP states. Food packets and ration kits should be provided to the needy in the containment zone. Service providers, such as plumbers, electricians, and gas agency, have to be enlisted to facilitate related services. For solid waste management, apart from spraying of disinfectants in the containment zone, daily waste management, inclusive of bio-medical waste management, should be ensured.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths, 93 new cases in State||The deaths of two patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 were reported on Monday. One of the deceased was a 55-year-old woman and a resident of Bengaluru Rural. The other was reported in Dakshina Kannada. The woman from Bengaluru Rural passed away on Sunday. She had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and was admitted to the designated hospital on May 19. She died owing to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). The media bulletin stated that the Dakshina Kannada patient who passed away was a 43-year-old man who had a medical history of cirrhosis of the liver. He was admitted to the hospital on May 23 and died on the same day. His laboratory reports on May 25 stated that he was COVID-19 positive. With this, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the State stood at 44, while two patients who tested positive for COVID-19 died due to other reasons. The State-wise deaths per ten million population stands at 6.9 in Karnataka. 93 new cases Meanwhile, 93 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Karnataka on Monday. Of these, 73 have domestic travel history, while three have international travel history. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 2,182. The highest number of cases was reported from Udupi district at 32. The second highest number of cases came from Kalaburagi at 16. A total of 705 patients have been discharged from the hospital so far. On Monday alone, 51 patients were discharged.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, industries seek deferment of variable dearness allowance||After notifying increase in working hours per shift amidst opposition from the workers, the State government is now holding consultations to postpone the payment of variable dearness allowance (VDA) to workers in the State by four months. Deferment of implementation of new minimum wages could also figure in the consultation. Deferment of both VDA and implementation of minimum wages was on the wish list sent by the Department of Commerce and Industries (MSME) to the State government recently. On Tuesday, the Labour Department has convened a tripartite meeting to discuss the issue with industry and labour representatives. Variable DA is an allowance given to workers to account for inflationary trends for the price rise, and is notified by the State government once in a year after capturing the price rise data over the previous year. Industries are seeking deferment of VDA that has been notified for 2019 during 2020. The consultation on VDA comes close on the heels of State government notifying 10 hours working shift daily from the current 8 hours and weekly maximum of 60 hours from the current 48 hours, which has come under criticism from trade unions that have termed it as “unilateral, immoral and illegal.” Report sought A meeting notice sent out by Labour Commissioner K.G. Shantharam said that in the light of requests coming from industries seeking deferment of payment of VDA, the Principal Secretary (MSME and Mines) has requested the Labour Department to hold consultations and submit a report. The meeting notice said that the request from industries has come in the light of shut down of factories during the lockdown period that had increased financial strain on industries. The industries have sought deferment of VDA and implementation of the new minimum wages under the Minimum Wages Act. AITUC general secretary, Bengaluru, M.D. Harigovind said that the industries that have welcomed the Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package of the Centre should not seek deferment of VDA or the implementation of minimum wages act. He said that the employers have stalled implementation of minimum wages from December 2017 only to be directed by a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court to implement the new wages. “The Karnataka government has stooped to the level of contemplating wage theft from workforce — the most vulnerable section of the society when in most countries across the globe, governments have supported the working class by offering income guarantee and income top up schemes, mandating job security, waived rents and utility bills of its citizens,” Mr. Harigovind said.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youngsters design face shield||A group of youngsters, including a college student, have manufactured face shields for doctors to be part of their gear that aims to protect them from catching an infection if they come in contact with the COVID-19 patients. They have distributed 500 of them free of cost to doctors in both government and private hospitals. Twenty-one-year-old Aayush B., a final year engineering student of engineering student at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, stumbled upon this idea to make face shield for his mother who is a doctor in a private hospital. “The face shield needs to be worn on the mask and ensure that doctors and health care professionals are protected from any particles,” he said. Mr. Aayush, who has a start up - Xtrogenesis Technology in association with Epicentre3D, another start up, are involved in manufacturing these face shields since mid March. His team consists of Rachana Bujurke and Chethan K. “We initially did it for free, but since raw materials are expensive, so we have decided to charge,” he said. He also said that they are now involved in mass production of these shields.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Containment zone set up in D.J. Halli by BBMP||The detection of a COVID-19 positive case in the densely populated D.J. Halli has pushed the BBMP into overdrive. On Monday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar tweeted: Following a fresh positive case in DJ Halli, BBMP has moved to set up a containment zone here. Already, 35 primary contacts of the patient have been quarantined and assessment is on to declare the extent of the area under containment. According to senior officials, D.J. Halli, much like Padarayanapura, is densely populated. To check the spread, the BBMP was adopting a close monitoring approach, apart from ensuring strict enforcement of the revised SOP in containment zones. Mr. Anil Kumar, who visited the locality, has reportedly demarcated the perimeter of the containment zone. He urged residents and religious leaders to cooperate with the civic body. While the 35 primary contacts have been shifted to a quarantine centre, identification of secondary contacts was under progress. The family members of the COVID-19 patient had been sent for testing, an official said. Meanwhile, another person was tested positive in Padarayanapura. According to the BBMP’s war room report, there are 22 containment zones in the city.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quarantine exemption for on-duty Ministers||Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda did not go into institutional quarantine after landing at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Monday. The Minister was returning from Delhi, which the Karnataka government considers a ‘high-risk’ area. After coming out of the airport, Mr. Gowda took his official car. He said the State government protocol of undergoing institutional quarantine did not apply to him as he was discharging duties that fell under the bracket of ‘essential services’. He told the media that he had to coordinate with various States and authorities on the supply of pharmaceuticals. He also maintained that for over 60 days he was staying in Delhi and was returning to Bengaluru only resuming operations. DVS tests negative Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare visited Mr. Gowda’s house for a swab sample later. He tested negative. The Department has issued an addendum to the Standard Operating Procedures for inter-State passengers. The order exempts the quarantine requirements for Ministers of Union or State governments and officials who are on official duty and travelling across States. “Any person who gets a negative COVID-19 test certificate which is not more than two days old from the date of the journey will be exempted from institutional quarantine. Such a person will be asked to go for 14 days of home quarantine,” the order states. “As Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, I am overseeing the supply of medicines to fight COVID-19 across the country. In the Ministry, we have been getting ourselves tested every three days and my profile on the Aarogya Setu app is green. This is not the first time I have travelled out of Delhi.,” he said.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Regular policing hit||Not just those at the frontlines, but even those involved in routine policing have been exposed to COVID-19. For instance, an inspector in Shivamogga district recently took a victim of rape, a minor, in his vehicle to the hospital for treatment. But the girl tested positive for COVID-19, pushing several personnel into quarantine. Those arrested in other cases in Hebbagodi and KGF tested positive days after their arrest. “This has created a fear psychosis among police across hierarchies paralysing policing itself,” said a senior police official. DG&IGP Praveen Sood acknowledged that regular policing had taken a hit and said police going into quarantine has impacted their morale. This has prompted new guidelines for police stations as well. “We have instructed the police to reduce the number of people entering police stations. We have asked them to erect tents at the gates to deal with the public visiting the stations,” said Mr. Sood. “We don’t know when will we emerge out of this pandemic. Even if we flatten the curve, its impact and precautionary measures are likely to extend over the next one year. We need to reinvent how we work and face the crisis at hand,” he said. A set of new Standard Operating Procedures will be issued shortly.
26 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Activists, writers urge PM to impose 2% wealth tax on the richest 1%||A host of activists and writers have petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to impose “2% wealth tax on the richest 1% of the country” to fight COVID-19 pandemic. The signatories include activists Medha Patkar, Aruna Roy and Kannada writer Devanur Mahadeva. Terming the relief package announced by the Union government “inadequate and incomplete”, the letter points out the need to reinvigorate the public health system, which they argue, calls for an additional investment of at least 1.5% of the GDP — Rs. 3.4 lakh crore. They also demanded Direct Cash Transfer of at least Rs. 4,000 for two months for 20 crore poor families, apart from what is already being spent. The letter suggests to impose an “Emergency Corona Tax” — 2% wealth tax on the richest 1% of the population, which as per the recent Oxfam Report holds Rs. 381 lakh crore in 2019. “This proposal of levying 2% wealth tax on the super-rich is mandated by the Constitution in Article 38(2) – “minimise the inequalities in income”; and Article 39(c) – “[securing that] . . . the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth . . .” Hence, in accepting our proposal, you would be only implementing the Constitutional imperative,” the letter further argues.  They also demanded Direct Cash Transfer of at least Rs. 4,000 for two months for 20 crore poor families, apart from what is already being spent.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP shifts quarantine centre||Residents of Geetanjali Layout in east Bengaluru staged a protest on Monday when they got to know that people who are to be placed under institutional quarantine were being dropped off at a service apartment in the residential locality. The three-hour protest by residents and support of the local councillor forced the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to shift the people, who were to be placed under institutional quarantine, to another facility. This is not the first time that residents are protesting against a quarantine centre being set up in their localities. Though BBMP officials have tried to create awareness on the protocols and measures in place at these facilities to check the spread of the pandemic, many citizens continue to be apprehensive about such facilities in their localities.
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five-year-old travels alone||A five year old boy named Vihaan Sharma travelled alone on a flight from Delhi to Bengaluru as domestic flights resumed operation from Monday. Vihaan was holding a placard that read ‘special category’ at Kempegowda International Airport on Monday, that caught the attention of everyone. Vihaan’s mother said that he had gone to Delhi before the lockdown and could not return as domestic air services were suspended. “He has come back to Bengaluru after three months,” she added. He was sent home as home quarantine was allowed for children below 10 years. KIA tweeted, “Welcome home, Vihaan! #BLRairport is constantly working towards enabling the safe return of all our passengers.”
26 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heatwave likely in north-interior Karnataka in next three days||The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has warned of heatwave in isolated pockets of north-interior Karnataka over the next three days even as Madana Hipparga in Kalaburagi district recorded the highest temperature of 45.2 degrees Celsius on Monday. The weather bulletin issued by KSNDMC said that north-interior Karnataka districts are most likely to record above normal (1.6 degrees Celsius to 3 degrees Celsius) at most places. Heatwave is considered if maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40 degrees Celsius or more for plains, 36 degrees Celsius or more for coastal stations, and at least 30 degrees Celsius for hilly region. The bulletin said that maximum temperatures were above normal (1.6 degrees Celsius to 3 degree Celsius) on Saturday too at most place over Bidar, Ballari, Bagalkot, Koppal, Raichur, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Kalaburagi with the maximum temperature of 45.3 degrees Celsius being reported at Almel in Vijayapura district. As much as 29% of the State’s geographical area recorded a temperature of above 40 degrees Celsius, it said.
26 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||A year on, over 100 PG medical students yet to get their stipend||In Davangere, where celebrations are being held every time a COVID-19 positive patient gets discharged from the designated COVID-19 hospital, many medical postgraduate students who have been attending to these patients are facing hardships as they wait for stipend. The students who serve the COVID-19 patients and also at the Women and Child Hospital have not been paid from March 2019 because of a technical issue which needs to be sorted out among the management of the JJM Medical College, the Directorate of Medical Education (DME), and Department of Health and Family Welfare (HFW). For the record, Jagadguru Jayadeva Murugharajendra Medical College (JJM) does not have an hospital attached to it and pays clinical fees to the Chigateri District Hospital and Women and Child Hospital in Davangere to ensure clinical facility to its students. Till 2017-18, the arrangement was smooth with the college paying clinical fees and the students getting stipend from the State government. Kasturba Medical College in Mangaluru too has a similar arrangement with Wenlock District Hospital. However, after an audit objection, the Additional Chief Secretary to government wrote to the Directorate of Medical Education in October 2018 directing them to restrict the payment of stipend for a year and ask the Chigateri District Hospital and Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru to pay students from the ARS Accounts of the respective hospitals. And from then, began the problems of the medical students. They have been running from pillar to post seeking stipends. Students allege that DME and HFW were trying to pass on the responsibility saying they do not have funds. In between, the college management was asked to pay the stipend to which the management sought to clarify that they were paying clinical fee to the district hospital and that had not been taken into consideration while asking them to pay the stipend. It has been over six months after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked the DME to release the stipend and nothing has happened. When Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar chaired a COVID-19 review meeting in Davangere in the second week of May, the junior doctors approached him seeking a solution. The Karnataka wing of United Resident and Doctors’ Association, ABVP, and other students organisations urged the Minister to take immediate steps. They even said that while these doctors were risking their lives to treat COVID-19 patients, they were being forced to face hardships for no fault of them. The junior doctors were forced to stage a black badge protest and hold a candlelight vigil. “But nothing has happened despite assurance from the Minister. We have been repeatedly told that the issue will be sorted,” Rahul, a medical PG student, told The Hindu.  Meanwhile, the confusion on who has to pay the stipend remains. While DME is pointing towards the college, the college management is in turn asking the government to pay. And over 100 students are caught in between.
26 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘10% of GDP should be allocated to public health services’||At a time when the country was fighting an unknown enemy [COVID-19], it was time for resetting priorities and allocating funds [10 % of the Gross Domestic Product] to the public health services, Karnataka State Government Daily Wage Employees Federation president K.S. Sharma has said. He was speaking at a function organised jointly by Sanjivini Ayurveda Medical College and Hospital, B.D. Jatti Homoeopathic Medical College, District AYUSH Department and AYUSH Federation of India (AFI) here recently to distribute AYUSH medicines to media persons. Mr. Sharma said that even as the country was fighting an enemy of public health, it had brought to light that the country was spending just 1 % of GDP towards public health services. He pointed out that the country still faced a major problem of hunger and malnutrition among children and increase in the allocation to the public health services and remedial measures to address the issues of hunger and malnutrition was need of the hour. He said that while proper food was the best medicine to fight any disease, the biggest responsibility was on individuals who had to take proper care of their health by adopting healthy lifestyle practices. ‘India successful’ Legal Advisor to the Chief Minister Mohan Limbikai elaborated on the various measures, including lockdown, taken by the government to fight the pandemic and said that India had been successful in preventing the spread of the disease when compared to other countries and people should join hands with the Union and State governments in the fight. Principal of Sanjivini Ayurveda Medical College Shrinivas Bannigol, District AYUSH Officer Sangamesh Kalahal, Principal of B.D. Jatti Homoeopathic Medical College Anand Kulkarni and homoeopath Sandip Kulkarni elaborated on how Ayurveda, Homoeopathy and other systems of medicines were effective in building immunity against various diseases and how this medicine system would help people fight the pandemic.
26 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||16 Maharashtra returnees test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi district||As many as 16 people, including two children, who recently returned from neighbouring Maharashtra, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 157 which included seven deaths and 75 people discharged upon recovery. As per the information provided by the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner, all the new cases involved migrant workers from various Lambani Tandas (hamlets) across the district that had been quarantined in State-run centres upon their arrival in the district. Of the 16 newly infected persons, nine were from a single hamlet. The new cases are a 42-year-old man (P-2,139), an 18-year-old man (P-2,140) and a 35-year-old woman (P-2,151) from Ram Naik Tanda near Anikera in Chittapur taluk; a 30-year-old man (P-2,141) from Korawar Tanda; a 10-year-old boy (P-2,142), a 55-year-old woman (P-2,143), a 45-year-old man (P-2,144), an 18-year-old man (P-2,145), a 40-year-old man (P-2,146), a 15-year-old girl (P-2,147), a 29-year-old woman (P-2,149), a 36-year-old man (P-2,178) and a 21-year-old woman (P-2,179) from Bugdi Tanda near Arankal; a 26-year-old man (P-2,148) from Sugur K. Tanda; a 68-year-old man (P-2,150) from Songusu Tanda near Arankal, and a 29-year-old man (P-2,152) from Bhimnal Tanda near Dongaragaon in Kamalapur taluk. All the infected persons were shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital. With the new cases, the number of active cases in the district has gone up to 78. Discharged The district also saw 10 COVID-19-infected persons getting discharged from hospitals after they successfully recovered from the infection. The discharged persons included three girls aged between 10 and 15 and a 60-year-old man. Of the 10 people discharged, nine belonged to Mominpur area in Kalaburagi that has reported a considerable number of cases. The other person discharged belonged to Mijugurai area in Kalaburagi city.  All new cases involve migrant workers from various Lambani Tandas across the district that had been quarantined in State-run centres upon their arrival in the district, and, of the 16 newly infected persons, nine are from a single hamlet
26 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Flight services re-start in Kalaburagi||Operations of domestic passenger flight services at Kalaburagi Airport which were suspended on March 12 to contain the spread of coronavirus resumed with the landing of a Star Air flight here on Monday. Kalaburagi Airport Director Gyaneshwar said that the Star Air flight with 25 passengers left Bengaluru at 8.40 a.m. and reached Kalaburagi at 9.30 a.m. The flight on return journey took off for Bengaluru with 20 passengers. The operations were resumed by Airport Authority of India (AAI) in a calibrated manner as laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation to check the spread of coronavirus. The officials collected details of all passengers, ensured thermal screening and carried out medical examination. Mr. Gyaneshwar said that Alliance Air would also resume its operations at the earliest. Star Air will operate all seven days of the week, whereas Alliance Air will operate for three days in a week.
26 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Low-key Id in Kalaburagi||Id-ul-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramzan, was a low-key affair this year in Kalaburagi due to pandemic coronavirus and lockdown. People abstained themselves from visiting Idgah maidans and mosques and prepared to offer Id prayers in their houses. They celebrated Id with family members, without inviting friends and relatives. As per a decision taken by the religious leaders of the community and a people’s forum, people voluntarily avoided buying new clothes and instead, gave that money to those in need. The celebration was limited to buying fruits and milk for preparing sheerkhurma. The usual rush seen on the night before Id (Chand Raat) was missing this year as shops were closed due to curfew.
26 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three new cases in Ballari district||Three more people tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday taking the total number of infected persons to 36 which included one death and 13 persons discharged upon recovery. All the new cases had had a history of travelling to three different States and recently returned to the district. P-2,153, a 40-year-old woman, returned from Mumbai, Maharashtra; P-2,154, a 48-year-old man, returned from Mathura, Uttar Pradesh; and P-2,155, a 23-year-old man, returned from New Delhi. Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said that all of them have been in institutional quarantine after their return and later, shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital when they tested positive for the disease.
26 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Ramanagaram loses green zone tag||Ramanagaram district lost the green zone tag on Monday with a two-year-old boy, who recently returned from Tamil Nadu, testing positive for COVID-19. It is the first positive case in Ramanagaram district. The boy and his parents had returned to a village near Kuduru of Magadi taluk in Ramanagaram. They were put under quarantine. The lab reports of the family state the boy has tested positive, while others have tested negative. A total of 3,222 samples were collected across Ramanagaram district, till Sunday evening. A total of 2,840 samples have tested negative. Reports of remaining samples are awaited, officials at the Department of Health and Family Welfare told The Hindu.  Meanwhile, Mandya district registered two positive cases on Monday. They have been admitted to the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, said Mandya Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh.
26 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One more death in Dakshina Kannada||A 43-year-old man who had died at the Government Wenlock Hospital here on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada rose to seven. The man, a resident of Venur in Belthangady taluk, had been brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital here in an unconscious state on May 23. He suffered from sepsis, right lower limb cellulitis, decompensated chronic alcoholic liver disease and hepatorenal syndrome and died at 9.25 p.m. the same day. His throat and nasal swabs tested positive on Monday, a government health bulletin said. Six of the patients died in the COVID-19 hospital and one was found dead outside a quarantine centre near Moodbidri. Three men who returned from Maharashtra, two on May 18 and one on 20, tested positive on Monday. A 30-year-old man and a 55-year-old man returned from Pune and Dombivili in Thane, respectively, on May 18. A 25-year-old man returned from Kurla on May 20. All the three were in institutional quarantine. The district now has 37 active patients. As many as 47 persons are quarantined at the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka, Surathkal, while 24 persons have been quarantined at the ESI Hospital in the city. Seventeen persons are under observation at the COVID-19 hospital. On Monday, 1,224 migrant workers left here on a Shramik Special train to Jasidih in Jharkhand from Mangaluru Junction. In all, 23,329 such workers have been sent on Shramik Special trains from Dakshina Kannada since May 9.
26 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Four discharged in Shivamogga||Four persons who were treated for COVID-19 at McGann Hospital were discharged on Monday. All four had travel history to Gujarat. On their return to Shivamogga on May 9, they were quarantined. They tested positive on May 10. Four more persons who had returned to Shivamogga from Gujarat with them in the same vehicle and tested positive are likely to be discharged from the hospital on Tuesday.
26 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||32 persons test positive in Udupi dist.||As many as 32 persons from Udupi district tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. This is the highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases in the district. Those infected are 10 children, 12 men and 10 women. The 10 children include eight girls and two boys, and are in the age group of one to 11. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here on Monday that of these 32 persons, 28 had returned to the district from Mumbai recently, while two had returned from Dubai. With regard to the remaining two persons, one was a police head constable and the other was a Zilla Panchayat employee who was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. “We have to investigate how the police head constable contracted COVID-19. We will have to see whether he got it when he was on duty at some check-post or other place. We have to trace the contact,” he said. “We will also have to find out how the Zilla Panchayat employee contracted the disease and trace his contacts,” he said. All the 32 persons had been shifted to the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital here for treatment, here, Mr. Jagadeesha said. With these 32 cases, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has touched 104. Three persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district earlier, while one person died due to the disease on May 14.
26 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi ZP building won’t be sealed: DC||G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said on Monday that there would be no sealing down of the zilla panchayat building in the light of an employee having tested positive for COVID-19. Preeti Gehlot, CEO of zilla panchayat, said that the entire office where the employee tested positive had been sanitised. The employee had fever on May 19 and was immediately sent back home. His swab sample was taken the same day. The report came on Monday. All the zilla panchayat staff have gone under home quarantine.
26 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||‘SP office will not be closed’||Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana on Monday said the District Police Office (SP office) will not be closed. He said this owing to confusion on the office being closed after a DAR staff tested positive for COVID-19.
26 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Simple Id celebrations in Vijayapura||Following the nation-wide lockdown and prohibition on offering mass religious prayers, Id-ul-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramzan, remained low key and simple. The Shahi Idgah where special festival prayers are offered remained locked; perhaps, a never-before happening in the history of the idgah. Normally, the huge open ground of the Idgah which attracts thousands of Muslims during special prayers, remained closed for namaz. Similarly, Jama Masjid, the biggest mosque of the district, too did not see any large gatherings. With masjids remaining closed, Muslims chose to offer prayers in their houses as per the direction of clerics who had appealed to them not to offer mass prayers to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus. A large number of Muslims appeared to have adhered to the appeal of clerics not to purchase new clothes and instead give the money to poor people this year. And, most of the Muslims were seen wearing old clothes during the celebration. The effect of the lockdown was visible not only on garments shops as people desisted from buying new clothes but also seen on the supply of milk. As the special festival sweet which is prepared with milk as the primary ingredient, a large quantum of milk is purchased normally during Ramzan. But this year, the purchases dipped, according to officials of the Karnataka Milk Federation. However, KMF Managing Director Sanjiv Dixit said that there was no significant dip. The demand for milk fell by 20 % this year owing to lockdown, he added. “Every year, we have been noticing a steady increase in the demand for milk during Id. Normally, there is an increase of at least 20,000 litrs every year, but this year we have seen a decline in demand, which is attributed to the lockdown,” he said.
26 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||15 fresh cases in Yadgir district||As many as 15 persons, who returned from Maharashtra on May 12, tested positive on Monday. Health Department officers collected samples from them at the institutional quarantine centres where they were kept under observation soon after they returned. According to information provided by the district administration, the details of patients are as follows: P-2,113, a three-year-old girl from Laxmipur Tanda, P-2,114, a 33-year-old male and P-2,116, a 17-year-old female from Mogdampur Tanda, P-2,120, a 20-year-old female, P-2,121, a three-year-old boy, P-2,123, a 25-year-old female, P-2,124, a 30-year-old male, P-2,126, a 22-year-old female, P-2,127 a 20-year-old female and P-2,128, a 22-year-old male from Yargol Tanda, P-2,115, a 25-year-old male from Thanagundi Tanda, P-2,117, a 22-year-old female and P-2,118, a five-year-old male from Yalasatti village, P-2,122, a 22-year-old female from Allipur Tanda and P-2,125, a 22-year-old female from Soudagar Tanda. Yadgir district was under green zone and the district administration sealed all its borders with Raichur and Kalaburagi districts and also Andhra Pradesh, and took all available preventive measures to stop the spread of COVID-19 virus. However, the number of positive cases is slowly rising after migrant workers started returning to the district from various places in Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Pune and Solapur. All 126 positive patients in the district have been shifted to the designated hospital. It may be recalled that two cases were reported on May 12 followed by three cases on May 17, six cases on May 18, one each case on May 19 and 20, 72 cases on May 23, 24 on May 24 and 15 cases on Monday. The district administration has kept all returnees at the 223 institutional quarantine centres established in the district. So far, a total 14,648 people have been kept in such centres. Health Department officials collected samples from 8,233 people, of which 126 turned positive, 3,163 negative and reports for 4,944 samples are pending. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao visited various institutional quarantine centres and inspected the facilities to be provided for people coming from other States. He visited a COVID-19 care centre at the women’s hostel attached to the Agriculture College campus at Bhimarayanagudi in Shahapur taluk, a quarantine centre at Bapurgouda Nagar in Shahapur city, a residential school run by the Social Welfare Department and a BCM hostel at Kannyekollur village in Shahapur taluk.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Waste segregation units crop up on banks of Vrishabhavathi again||The Vrishabhavathi river, which had a brief respite from industrial pollutants during the lockdown, is again under threat from “illegal” and “unauthorised” waste segregation units that have allegedly cropped up along its banks. Residents of Kambipura in Kumbalgodu gram panchayat said despite managing to get a few such units shut down a couple of months ago, small waste segregation units came up again in March. These units allegedly burn waste in the night and also dump waste along the banks of the river. Narahari Rao, a resident of Kambipura, said that there was a large unit in the vicinity and that they fought hard to get it shut last year. “Now, several small units have come up. They have taken advantage of the COVID-19 situation, as every issue other than the pandemic has taken a back seat. They burn waste in the night. They generally do it on alternate days, or once in three days,” he said. Apart from burning and dumping various kinds of waste, Mr. Rao also said that of late, even meat waste was being dumped near a gomala in the vicinity. Nikhil Tiwari, a resident, said that the burning of plastic and industrial waste had caused allergy to many, and sometimes even led to breathing problems. “What is also a cause of worry for us is that they are burning medical waste, including urine bags and syringes. This will definitely have a negative impact on our health, especially on children and elders,” he said. Residents said that they were promised a dry waste management centre by the panchayat but that has not materialised. “If there is a dry waste management centre here, many such problems will be solved,” said a resident. When The Hindu spoke to Chikkaraju, president of Kumbalgodu Gram Panchayat, he said that he was not aware of the small units that have mushroomed recently. “If residents bring it to the notice of the panchayat, we will take action against the culprits as per law. Last time, we were instrumental in closing one such unit with the help of the police, the residents and other related departments,” he said. The river had enjoyed a brief respite as low industrial waste water inputs had “enhanced the self-assimilation capacity” of the stream with a decrease in Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) levels at certain locations during the lockdown, according to a water quality survey by Priyanka Jamwal Ghosh, fellow, Water and Soil Lab at ATREE Centre for Environment and Development. According to Ms. Ghosh, at locations like Kengeri STP, there was a significant reduction in BOD and COD levels. “The waste water treatment plant located upstream has also contributed to the improved water quality,” she said. Though there has been decrease in the inflow of industrial effluents, high Fecal Coliforms (FC) levels in the inflows and outflows of the Byranmangala tank, a reservoir designed to store water along the Vrishabhavathi ,   suggests inputs from domestic sewage during the lockdown period. “BOD and COD levels in the inflows to Byranmangala tank suggest pollution load inputs from domestic sources,” the survey states. Ms. Ghosh said that they collected samples from five locations on the stream during the lockdown period and compared them with the data on samples collected from the same locations in March and April of 2015-16.  They have taken advantage of the COVID-19 situation, as every issue other than the pandemic has taken a back seat Narahari Rao, resident, Kambipura
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Five injured in accident||Five youths working in a bar sustained severe injuries in an accident when the driver of a car lost control and rammed into the metal railing separating the road from the footpath near Hebbal on Outer Ring Road on Sunday evening. Passers-by and police constables rescued all the five passengers out minutes before the car caught fire. The vehicle was burnt down before fire tenders reached the spot.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power supply||There will be intermittent power supply from May 26 to June 2 in the following areas coming under Rajarajeshwari Nagar sub-station owing to work related to replacement of 11 KV 17 Nos. of switchgears at 66/11 KV at Rajarajeshwari Nagar sub station. According to a release, the areas that will be affected are: Poornaprajna Layout, Happy Valley Layout, Banashankari 6th Stage, Dwarakanagar, Bharath Layout, Uttarahalli Main Road, Vinayaka Layout, Vaddarapalya, Banashankari 5th Stage, BDA 6th Stage and surrounding areas.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Offering a prayer||
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back in action||
26 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Three test positive in Alappuzha||The active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 20 with three more persons testing positive for the disease on Monday. Officials said that two patients had returned from foreign countries and one from Bengaluru. “One of the patients, a youth from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from the Maldives on May 10. The second person, a youth from Chengannur, came from Abu Dhabi on May 18. Both had been observing the mandatory institutional quarantine period at a COVID-19 care centre after reaching the district. The third patient, a woman from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from Bengaluru in a private vehicle. She was in self-quarantine after reaching her home. All three patients have been shifted to Government Medical College, Alappuzha,” said an official. On Sunday, four persons including three of a family tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. According to officials, the family hailing from Thakazhi in Kuttanad taluk had reached the district from Mumbai. The couple and their son came on board a train on May 22. The fourth patient, a youth from Cherthala taluk reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 17, said an official. The district has so far logged 25 COVID-19 cases. Of the 20 active cases, 19 are undergoing treatment at the MCH, Alappuzha, and one at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri in Malappuram district. Seven persons were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Sunday, taking the number of people in isolation at hospitals in the district to 33. A total of 4,102 people are in quarantine/isolation in the district. Containment zones Meanwhile, District Disaster Management Authority chairperson M. Anjana has declared ward no:3 in Chengannur Municipality and ward no: 1 and 5 in Pandanad grama panchayat as cluster quarantine/containment zones. The places will see more restrictions including on vehicular movements.
26 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Woman recovers in Wayanad||A woman who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and remained in isolation at the COVID-19 care hospital at Mananthavady, Wayanad district, was discharged after recovering from the disease on Monday. She has been advised to remain in room quarantine for 14 days. Of the 24 persons who tested positive for the pandemic in the district, 16 persons have recovered so far, Health Department sources said. The 45-year-old woman under the Meenangadi family health centre limits was admitted to the hospital on May 10 following secondary contact with a truck driver who had tested positive after his recent visit to Chennai. As many as 3,784 persons in the district are under observation.
26 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||10 persons test positive in Kannur||The number of COVID-19 patients continues to increase in Kannur with 10 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. While five of the them came from abroad, the remaining five, including two remand prisoners, contracted the infection through contact. The Health Department has sounded caution after the prisoners, a 33-year-old man from Cherukunnu and a 49-year-old man from Cherupuzha, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. It is not clear how they contracted the disease. All their primary contacts, including police personnel at Kannapuram and Cherupuzha police stations, have been asked to go into quarantine. Similarly, a magistrate and other officials at the Kannur District Court have also been asked to go into quarantine. The district currently has 10,975 people under observation. Of them, 10,838 are in home quarantine. Meanwhile, health officials have expressed concern over people not following physical-distancing norms at shops and workplaces. People were seen in large numbers in front of shops and other outlets. They urged people to wear masks and ensure physical distancing. Senior officials said that the disease might spread again if people refused to maintain physical-distancing, wear mask and follow Health Department’s directions.
26 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Death in Goa: woman alleges daughter was murdered||The mother of a 21-year-old woman, who was found dead in Goa recently, has alleged that her daughter was murdered. Speaking to reporters, the mother of the victim, who is residing in Kasaragod, said that her daughter would not commit suicide. Those who had accompanied her daughter were behind the murder, she alleged. They had earlier lodged a missing complaint with the police about her daughter, she said. However, the victim appeared before the police and the court before leaving with her friends. It is learnt that she later left for Goa with some unidentified persons. She was closely associated with an LGBT organisation. Sexual abuse The post-mortem report revealed the victim might have been subjected to sexual abuse. The forensic expert had hinted that she might have been drugged and hanged to death.
26 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||14 more cases in Kasaragod||On Monday, 14 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kasaragod district. Of these, 13 had come from Maharastra and one from abroad. With Keralites stranded in other States entering the State through the Kasaragod check-post, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district has witnessed a huge jump. Meanwhile, 66 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment in the district. The district has at present 3,180 persons who are under observation. They include 2,589 in home observation and 591 in hospital. So far, 6,217 samples have been sent for testing of which 5,617 have tested negative for the virus.
26 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Deadline extended for Vyttila, Kundannoor flyovers||The commissioning date of the Vyttila flyover has been extended yet again to 31 August, exceeding the original date of May 2019 by 15 months. Similarly, the PWD has set June 30 as the revised date to commission the Kundannoor flyover. The structure was scheduled to be commissioned in March this year. The expected three-month delay in readying Kundannoor flyover has been attributed to change of design on the southern side. The expected 15-month delay in completing the Vyttila flyover could have been avoided if the contracting firm and officials supervising the project were more diligent in their work, PWD sources said. “Aimed at speeding up work on the two structures, the contracting firms have been directed to erect countdown boards mentioning the revised deadlines, on both sidez of the flyovers. “The PWD which is in charge of the Vyttila flyover and the RBDCK (a PWD subsidiary) which is partnering with the department in constructing the Kundannoor flyover, both of which are located on NH Bypass, have also been directed to upload photographs of the structures on their websites. This is aimed at apprising members of the public about the progress of works and to hold stakeholders accountable, in order to ensure that they adhere to the revised deadlines to complete the six-lane structures,” higher authorities in PWD said. The site engineers and contracting firms have agreed to adhere to the deadline. One more slab has to be concreted at Vyttila. This would be followed by completion of the flyover’s approach portion on the Palarivattom side, said an engineer of the PWD (NH wing). The work suffered inordinate delay due to the long time taken to complete slip roads on the Palarivattom side to divert vehicles when the retention walls of the approach were built. The slip roads were readied only in April, although they were to be readied in early 2019. Lockdown Both the flyovers could have been completed as had been scheduled, well before the COVID-19 lockdown began, but for apathy of officials and contractors, reiterated a senior PWD official.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL handles 1,050 passengers on first day||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) handled a total of 1,050 passengers on Monday as domestic air services resumed following relaxation of lockdown regulations. The first flight, an Air Asia flight from Bengaluru, landed at 7.10 a.m. and departed at 7.56 a.m. CIAL authorities confirmed eight arrivals and nine departure services. Three departures and four arrivals were cancelled. Flight operations linked Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai. Airport officials claimed that the contactless systems installed to observe COVID-19 protocol were successful on the first day. The airport had also introduced baggage disinfectant mechanism and specially-designed doormats to disinfect footwears. Monday marked the 21st anniversary of the airport, which was inaugurated by former President of India K.R. Narayanan. Flight from U.S. Meanwhile, a special Air India flight landed at the Kochi airport around 8.30 a.m. from San Francisco via Delhi as as part of Vande Bharath mission. The flight AI IX 174 brought 103 passengers to Kochi from different parts of the USA. Eighty of the passengers were shifted to Covid observation centres in different districts and 23 were sent to their homes but will be under observation.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||31,688 students to appear for SSLC exams in Ernakulam||A total of 31,688 students will appear in the district in SSLC examinations that will be held at 320 centres from May 26 to 28. The exams had been postponed due to the lockdown. Teachers have been appointed to oversee the exams that will be held in 55 clusters. Question papers have been kept safe in treasuries, while squads have been deployed to ensure that everything goes as scheduled. The maximum number of students, 510, are appearing for the examinations at the the SNDP High School, Udayamperoor, while there are just three students at the Government Sanskrit High School in Thripunithura.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Canal cleaning, desilting under way in city||Cleaning and desilting of the Changadampokku canal and the lakefront at Perandoor are under way as part of the second phase of the district administration’s Operation Breakthrough. Silt and waste that had accumulated over the years at the lakefront had prevented the smooth flow of water from the canal into the lake. A 4-km stretch of the Changadampokku canal is being cleaned and the two projects together are likely to resolve waterlogging issues in the Kaloor area. District Collector S. Suhas inspected work at the Changadampokku canal on Monday. The two phases of Operation Breakthrough are likely to be complete by the end of the month.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pineapple farmers in State seek govt. aid||Pineapple farmers in the State claim to have suffered a loss of Rs. 300 crore owing to fall in prices during the lockdown in a month. Pineapple farmers are losing at least , said James George, president of Pineapple Farmers Association, representing around 5,000 farmers, engaged in cultivating an estimated 40,000 acres and engaging roughly 20,000 workers from different States of the country. Jojo Joseph, secretary of the association, said Vazakkulam pineapple, with its GI tag, represented the strength of Kerala agriculture just as natural rubber did once. The government must step in to help the farmers, he said. Demands  The farmers have raised demands ranging from waiver of interest on loans to restructuring of all loans without interest up to two years. They want landowners to reduce lease rates and provide more time to make payments. The also sought a procurement price of Rs. 25 and subsidy of Rs. 10 a kg for the fruit produced during this season.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Smart village offices at Kakkanad, Puthuvype||Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan inaugurated through video conferencing the smart village offices at Kakkanad and Puthuvype on Monday. A communication said that close to 400 village offices in the State had been constructed as smart offices. Funds had been allocated for another 50. Maintenance of 230 offices had been carried out and additional rooms added to 267 village offices. The smart offices are citizen-friendly and offer e-governance services.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PHC certificate must for air passengers||The district administration has issued instructions to passengers using the international airport in Kochi for commuting between different cities in the country. Accordingly an asymptomatic certificate from a primary health centre (PHC) is mandatory for air passengers from Monday. Passengers from other States reaching the Kochi airport must produce the COVID-19 Jagrata permit. Website Passengers must use thecovid19jagratha.kerala. nic.insite to furnish details after receiving the tickets. If a ticket is used for more than one person, details of all the passengers have to be filled in. The travel permit will be sent to the mobile number registered along with the QR Code. Passengers can either use their own vehicles of hire taxis to proceed home. KSRTC service is also available from the airport. Details of the travel registration have to be produced before the registration desk at the airport. Those with COVID-19 symptoms will be sent to the COVID-19 observation centres. Those without the symptoms will be sent to their homes for observation. All those arriving in the State must spend 14 days in home quarantine.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IMAGE to manage waste at exam centres||IMAGE (Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly) will be managing the biomedical waste generated at the SSLC, Plus One and Plus Two examination centres in the State in the backdrop of the COVID-19 threat. This follows the direction for using surgical gloves by all teachers who will be on examination duty. Students in quarantine will also be taking the examinations. Gloves are prescribed as teachers will be touching the answer sheets. According to Sharafudeen K.P., secretary, IMAGE, Common Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility, the General Education Department has requested IMAGE to handle the waste that would be generated at the 3,000 plus examination centres. It is learnt that both latex and the non-recyclable nitrile golves (blue gloves) will be provided for use. While IMAGE will handle the latex gloves, the blue gloves will be handed over to KEIL, the toxic sold disposal facility, Kalamassery, after disinfecting them at IMAGE Plant. Gloves have been procured by Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd. According to Dr. Sharafudeen, there is no technology to dispose the blue gloves being imported from China. Collection bags The barcoded and colour coded bags separately for use on each day of examination were supplied by Monday. An estimated five lakh surgical gloves would be disposed by IMAGE, said Dr. Sharafudeen. Meanwhile, IMAGE had been collecting over three tonnes of biomedical waste across the State, a spike that has happened in recent times, as the number of active COVID-19 cases had increased.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation challenging the State government decision to conduct the SSLC and higher secondary examinations from Tuesday. The petition filed by Anil P.S. of Thodupuzha also challenged the Union government’s decision to permit the conduct of exams. According to the petitioner, 13 lakh students are going to take the examinations. If such a large number of students are allowed to come out of their homes, there is every chance of them contracting the novel coronavirus infection. The government submitted that it had put in place precautionary measures for the conduct of the exams.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No spurt in COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||Even as the number of COVID-19 cases has been increasing in the State with the arrival of people from other States and abroad, Ernakulam has been spared the spurt with only 12 active cases under treatment in the district. No new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Monday. The number of people in home quarantine in the district is 7,144. With 10 new persons moved to hospital isolation, the total number in various hospitals is 67, of whom 31 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, six at the Karuvelipady hospital, three at Port Trust Hospital, nine at the Muvattupuzha hospital and 18 in private hospitals. Ernakulam has recorded 39 positive cases so far.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||All about ‘new normal’ under one umbrella||“Our New Earth”, a microsite for supporting individuals to function constructively as they try to make sense of the “new normal” amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, has been launched by Aster DM Healthcare. “As people across the world continue to face daily challenges as a result of the pandemic, it is vital that we make our own well-being the number one priority on our task list,” said Alisha Moopen, Deputy Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare. The microsite is available at https://ournew.earth/
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court stays munsif court order on church||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed for three weeks the Kothamangalam Munsif Court order dismissing a suit field by the Orthodox faction priest seeking to restrain the Jacobite priests from managing the affairs of the Kothamangalam church and also to prevent them from conducting services at the church. ‘Order improper’ In his petition, Fr. Thomas Paul Ramban of the Orthodox faction pointed out that the order of the Munsif Court was absolutely perverse and improper. The suit was necessitated when the right of the petitioner to conduct religious services at the church was under challenge from the Jacobite faction. 2002 constitution In fact, the Jacobite faction had decided to carry out the administration of the church in accordance with the 2002 constitution of Yacobaya Suriyani Christiani Sabha, in complete violation of the declaration of law by the Supreme Court in favour of the Orthodox priests.
26 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New Vice Principal for medical college||Dr. A. Fathahudeen, Head of Department, Pulmonary Medicine, Government Medical College, was appointed Vice Principal of the institution on Monday. He is the nodal officer at the medical college for COVID-19 patient care. He was Associate Professor and Head of Pulmonary Medicine at the Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram medical colleges. He has undergone training in sleep medicine in Australia and in medical thoracoscopy in France.
26 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Snakebite death turns out to be murder||Dramatic scenes were witnessed at the house of Uthra, the woman who died of a snakebite, at Anchal on Monday when Sooraj, her husband and prime accused in the murder, was brought to the crime scene for evidence collection. The police arrested him on Sunday for allegedly murdering his wife, Uthra, and trying to pass it off as a snakebite death. Suresh, a snake catcher who helped him in procuring snakes, was also arrested. While Uthra’s mother broke down seeing the accused, Sooraj kept repeating that he had not killed his wife. He was produced before the court and remanded in police custody. Uthra’s parents had alleged foul play after the 25-year-old died due to snakebite on May 7 at her home where she was recuperating after a similar incident at her husband’s house on March 2. She was first bitten by a viper and then a cobra. Her husband Sooraj was present on both the occasions.  Following her death Uthra’s parents filed a case with District Police Chief (Kollam Rural). Her father Vijayasenan had alleged that Sooraj and his family had planned the murder. They said it was impossible for the snake to enter a closed, air-conditioned room with tiled floor. The snake that killed Uthra was found in the morning and Sooraj told the family that he had opened a window at night and the snake might have entered through it. When Uthra was first bitten by a viper at her husband’s house, he allegedly gave her painkillers and asked her to sleep. Next day an unconscious Uthra was taken to a private hospital where she underwent treatment till April 22. Reportedly, Sooraj had removed Uthra’s gold from the bank locker on the day she was first bitten by a snake. Sooraj married Uthra in 2018 and the couple have a one-year-old son. Confession Sooraj confessed to his crime after a day-long questioning. He admitted that he brought the snake in a bottle and threw it over Uthra while she was asleep. “Sooraj has been plotting the murder of his wife for the past three months and his web history shows a lot of data associated with snakes. Currently we are investigating if any others are involved in the crime,” said an officer.  Woman first bitten by a viper and then a cobra and husband was present on both occasions.
26 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF to intervene in KC(M) infighting||The dispute between the warring factions of the Kerala Congress(M) over post-sharing in the Kottayam district panchayat may end soon with the United Democratic Front (UDF) State leadership set to intervene in the issue. “Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will lead the discussions involving leaders of both the groups to settle the issue,” said a senior Congress leader in Kottayam. The faction led by KC(M) working chairman P.J. Joseph had sought the intervention of the UDF to implement a post-sharing pact it brokered last year. Affirming the claim of the Joseph faction, the leader also asserted that both the factions were aware of the deal. “A public announcement of the deal, worked out last year, was carried out in the presence of leaders from both the groups. Hence, the latest round of reconciliation talks is most likely to facilitate a change of guard in the local body,” he added. Post handover While the Joseph group wants the faction led by Jose K. Mani to hand over the post of district panchayat president to its nominee Ajith Muthiramala in accordance with the pact struck last year, the latter denied any such deal. The post is at present held by Sebastian Kulathungal, a nominee of the Jose group. Saji Manjakadambil, district president of the KC(M) (Joseph group) said the UDF leadership, including Mr. Chennithala, Oommen Chandy and P.K. Kunhalikutty, had agreed to hand over the post. “They are expected to ask the president to step down and settle the issue in two days,” he said. The intervention by the UDF comes amid speculation that the Joseph group may switch allegiance to the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Rumours to this effect gathered steam after Mr. Joseph held discussions with the Chief Minister last week, followed by a warning to take extreme action in the absence of intervention from the UDF to assuage the concerns of his group. ‘Bargaining power’ Meanwhile, rumours are also rife about the Jose faction exploring options of joining the LDF and likely to use the UDF’s intervention as a trigger to bargain its position. “The situation is too delicate for the Congress to handle alone as the outcome of the reconciliation talks will have a bearing on the UDF’s position in the coming election,” a UDF leader said.
26 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||22 python eggs hatch in incubator||As many as 22 Indian Rock python eggs were hatched successfully at an artificial incubator at a forest office in Parambuzha, Kottayam on Monday. The eggs along with the mother python were rescued from an isolated property along the Changanassery-Kavalam route a month ago. While the mother python had been released to the Pampa forests a couple of days later, forest officials decided to hatch the eggs in their care. Accordingly, the eggs were kept in a glass box without ceiling and special attention was taken to keep the temperature inside the box at 24 degree celsius. “Favourable weather and synchronization with the nature are the two crucial factors facilitating the safe hatching of python eggs. Hence, we put plants inside the box, which also helped maintain the temperature at the desired level,” explained Abish K.A, a forest watcher who coordinated the hatching process. According to him, the eggs began to hatch out from Sunday midnight onward and the last among the python babies came out from the shell as late as by Monday afternoon. Interestingly, one of these eggs had two babies in it, taking the total number of python babies to 23 “The hatchlings, measuring an average size of 45 cm, are healthy and will be fed with small reptiles until they are capable of surviving in the wild. Thereafter, they will be released to their natural habitat, probably in the Pampa forests,” the official added. Besides these 23 baby pythons, the forest office here currently houses at least a couple of adult pythons and cobras, caught from the human habitats over the last couple of days. They will soon be released to the wild, officials said.
26 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two cases in Kottayam||Kottayam on Monday reported two fresh COVID-19 cases with two persons who had returned from the UAE testing positive for the virus, taking the total number of patients in the district to 11. Health Department officials identified the latest patients as a 37-old man from Irumboozhikkara in Vaikom, and a 30-year-old native of Nalukodi near Payipad, who returned from Abu Dhabi and Dubai on May 11 and May 17 respectively. The Vaikom native had been undergoing institutional quarantine in a COVID isolation centre at Gandhinagar and his quarantine period was to end on Monday. Three of his co-passengers had been earlier tested positive for virus infection The Payipad native, on the other hand, was under home isolation as he had returned along with a family comprising an elderly couple and a child below the age of 10 years. The new patients were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam by Monday evening. Health officials are looking to subject maximum number of overseas returnees to COVID tests.
26 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Domestic operations resume at Karipur||After a two-month gap, Calicut international airport resumed the operation of domestic flights from Monday. Air India Express flight IX 025 reached Karipur from Mumbai with 21 passengers at 10.20 a.m. The passengers from five districts included six women. An Indigo flight operated in the Bengaluru-Kozhikode sector. The aircraft arrived with 59 passengers and departed with 57 passengers in the evening. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission aimed at evacuating Indian citizens from abroad would go full throttle from Tuesday. Flights would be operated daily to Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Bahrain on priority basis. A chartered flight from Kuwait was expected to land at the Calicut airport on Tuesday. Several organisations in Kuwait planned the service for repatriating stranded Non-Resident Keralites following the COVID-19 lockdown. The Ministry of Civil Aviation had granted permission for the chartered flight, Mr. Rao said. Standard procedures He said the airport had been strictly adhering to the Standard Operating Procedure laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Flyers would have to go through multiple procedures including thermal scanning at the airport. Passengers would be allowed into the terminal building if their flights were within four hours. They should produce confirmed web check-in status to enter the airport. There will be no physical check-in and passengers would have to wear mask and gloves during the entire period of the journey. “Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel. Besides, they will have to install Aarogya Setu app. If green status is not shown in the mobile app or they do not have the mandatory government contact-tracing app, they will not be permitted to board the aircraft,” he said. Three special flights from the Gulf are expected to reach Karipur on Tuesday. Airport officials said Air India Express flight IX-1348 from Abu Dhabi would reach at 7 p.m. Air India Express flight IX-1344 from Dubai is likely to reach Karipur at 9 p.m. Air India Express flight IX-1376 from Bahrain is likely to reach at 11 p.m. Additional District Magistrate N.M. Meharali said that arrangements were made to receive the passengers by maintaining the COVID-19 protocol. Only vehicles coming to pick up passengers with special permission would be allowed to enter the airport premises. Such vehicles should register online at least four hours before the flight’s arrival. The registration can be done athttps://forms.gle/Cjo7TKuU U3MgdJeZ8. Mr. Meharali said that only the driver would be allowed in the vehicle.
26 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||44,555 students to write exams in Kozhikode||As many as 44,555 students are expected to write the SSLC exams at 197 centres in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, which had been postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Deputy Director of Education V.P. Mini said in a release on Monday that the exams for higher secondary classes would begin on Wednesday. As many as 45,487 Plus One students and 46,545 Plus Two students would appear for the exams at 179 centres. A total of 5,111 students from the vocational higher secondary stream too would write the exam on Tuesday. Ms. Mini said that precautions had been taken at all exam centres. Face masks and sanitisers would be provided and thermal scanners had been installed. A representative of the Health Department would be present at each school. Teachers too would be given face masks and gloves. Soap and water for hand washing had been installed at the school entrances. Students should not exchange pens, pencils or instrument boxes. Disinfectants would be sprayed at the exam centres after each exam session. SSLC exams would conclude on May 28 and higher secondary exams would conclude on May 30.
26 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four returnees test positive in Kozhikode||A 68-year-old man from Eramala and his 28-year-old son who returned by a private vehicle from Chennai on May 11 are among the four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday. Both had been home quarantined after their arrival here on May 12. One of their relatives who had travelled by the same vehicle had been diagnosed with COVID-19 two days ago. According to a release, the other two patients are a 22-year-old native of Nadapuram and the other a 40-year-old native of Kattippara. The third person had returned by a Dubai-Kannur flight on May 12 and had been under observation at a COVID-19 care centre at Vadakara. That person’s body fluid samples were sent for lab tests after COVID-19 symptoms were noticed and they tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The fourth person had arrived at the Calicut International Airport by a Riyadh-Kozhikode flight on May 19.  The number of people under surveillance is 7,709.
26 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Infant among new COVID-19 cases||Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Monday, raising the number of patients currently under treatment to 53. They included a 10-month-old boy from Karakurissi who returned from Salalah on May 20 along with his mother and four-year-old sister. A 58-year-old man from Cherpulassery, a 52-year-old man from Mannarkkad, a 44-year-old man from Varod, Ottapalam, and a 50-year-old man from Thonipadam, Alathur, were the other persons who tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The Cherpulassery and Mannarkkad men returned from Chennai on May 17 and May 15 respectively. The Varod and Thonipadam men returned from Maharashtra on May 18 and May 11 respectively. Testing centre Among those under treatment in Palakkad are a man from Malappuram, a woman from Idukki, and two men from Thrissur. Two persons from Palakkad are also under treatment at the Medical Colleges in Ernakulam and Manjeri. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 test centre began functioning at the District TB Centre here on Monday. Officials said that it was the first such facility among TB Centres in the State. Twenty samples can be selected and tested within eight hours. District Panchayat President K. Santakumari inaugurated the facility. The tests will be done by using TrueNat machines made available by the Central TB Division. TrueNat machines were made available after the district set up a biosafety cabinet at the District TB Centre.
26 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Balan warns of community spread||A.K. Balan, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, has warned the people to main extra vigil to forestall community spread of the coronavirus in the district. “As a district sharing the main State border with Tamil Nadu, Palakkad is highly vulnerable. Special attention and enhanced awareness is required,” Mr. Balan said here on Monday. With the strengthening of public transport in the district, community spread is likely to increase. “Within the last four days, we have had 32 new COVID-19 cases. It shows how vulnerable we are for community spread,” he said. He indicated that Palakkd would become the first district in the State to witness community spread of COVID-19 if enhanced vigil was not taken. He said that the infection of health workers further indicated the district’s vulnerability. He said 95 per cent of the people who returned from other States were through Palakkad district. Several people who were supposed to be remaining at home in quarantine were found to have violated the norms. “If you continue to break the quarantine norms, the district is soon going to see a community spread,” he said. District Collector D. Balamurali accompanied Mr. Balan.
26 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Three more cases in Pathanamthitta||With three more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to 13 on Monday. A 31-year old pregnant woman who reached her home at Kidangannur from Kuwait on May 20, a 52-year old man, hailing from Payyanamon, who came from Abu Dhabi on May 18 and a 42-year old man who came to his home at Kuttoor, near Thiruvalla, from Abu Dhabi on May 18 were admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Monday. Goes up to 30 The total number of quarantined persons under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district too has now gone up to 30. Of this, 10 people are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, six persons at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, four at the General Hospital in Adoor, and 10 others at various private hospitals in the district. A medical bulletin released here in the evening said that the nasal and throat swabs of 153 persons tested negative. According to the bulletin, a total of 3,337 people are in quarantine in different parts of the district as on Monday. As many as 2,909 people among them came from various other States and 423 persons came from abroad while five others were primary contacts of the patients. A total of 93 Non-Resident Keratlites (NoRKs) reached the district in a special train from Bengaluru on Monday. According to the bulletin, they were brought to the district in five KSRTC buses from the Kottayam railway station in the afternoon. A total of nine persons among them were sent to the corona care centre and all the others home quarantined, later. Another woman who came to the Thiruvananthapuram airport from San Francisco too was quarantined at her home in Pathanamthitta on Monday.
26 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Migrant workers stage protest||As many as 100 migrant workers, majority of them from Bihar and Jharkhand, gathered at Kannankara near here on Monday afternoon, violating the physical distancing and other lockdown norms, demanding road transport facility to their home States. The workers, in an agitated mood, gathered near the CPI(M) district committee office around 2.30 p.m, demanding that the administration arrange buses, in addition to the trains, for them to return to their home villages. They were of the stand that various other States had been arranging buses for transporting migrant workers to their home States. However, they were pacified by the police team led by District Police Chief K.G.Simon and were sent back to their camps. There were also reports that the migrant workers approached a travel agency in the town exploring the possibility of arranging buses for their journey to their home States. The police took the tour operator and a travel agent into custody as part of investigation into the unlawful gathering of migrant workers on Monday.
26 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Minister opens 14 village offices||Revenue Minister E.Chandrashekharan inaugurated three village offices, two of them ‘smart’ offices, in Pathanamthitta district through a video conference from Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. The Minister inaugurated altogether 14 village offices in different parts of the State, through the same video conference from Land Revenue Commissioner’s Office on Monday. The two smart offices at Ayroor and Eraviperoor and the dual cottage at Aranmula are the three village offices which have started functioning in the district. The Minister said the government, on assuming power four years ago, had announced setting up of 271 smart village offices and the work on converting as many as 180 offices into smart was progressing. 230 completed Repair and maintenance of 230 village offices have been completed so far, he said.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC exams to resume today||The SSLC and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations will resume in the State on Tuesday amid unprecedented arrangements against the backdrop of the COVID-19 threat. The higher secondary education (HSE) examinations are slated to begin on Wednesday. Around 13.74 lakh students are expected to appear for these examinations. As many as 4,22,450 students will appear for the SSLC examinations in 2,945 centres. There are nine centres each in the Gulf region and Lakshadweep. The examinations will be held from 1.45 p.m. The VHSE examinations will be held in the morning on Tuesday. There are 389 examination centres. As many as 56,345 will appear for VHSE Plus One and Plus Two examinations. Higher secondary On Wednesday, 4,00,704 students will appear for the higher secondary examinations in 2,032 centres. There are eight centres in the Gulf, nine in Lakshadweep and six centres in Mahe. A total of 10,920 students who had applied for exam centre change were sanctioned the same. Nearly 180 students who had returned to Lakshadweep were also allowed centre change. Arrangements The General Education Department has made elaborate arrangements for the examinations in association with the Health Department authorities. Students from outside the State and those in quarantine will appear for the examinations in separate classrooms. Sanitised corridors (red channel) will be arranged for them and their guardians to travel to and from the examination centres. Students in containment zones will sit for the examinations in schools in the regions itself. Classrooms and furniture have been disinfected with the support of local self-government institutions and the Fire and Rescue Services. Masks for students and teachers, handwash and sanitisers, and gloves for teachers are ready. Infrared thermometers for thermal scanning of students have also been distributed. Only 20 students will be seated in a classroom. Students should bring drinking water and refrain from sharing stationery. Help desks Schools are setting up help desks to prevent crowding before and after exams. Travel arrangements for students are being ensured through KSRTC services and school buses. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K., in a statement, has urged parents to refrain from making their wards anxious and impressed upon them the need to follow directions properly. These include maintaining physical distancing with friends, using masks at all times, heading straight home after the examinations, and taking bath before interacting with others. Students should reach schools half an hour before the examinations, says the statement. Police to be deployed Police personnel will be deployed at examination centres and police vehicles will be pressed into service for students who fail to find other means of transport. District- level police officers have been directed to ensure smooth travel for vehicles carrying students. Women officers will be posted at examination centres to assist girls and Janamaithri police will be deployed in vehicles carrying students from tribal belts. They will also assist officials in maintaining physical distancing and other regulations.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||5 test positive in district||Five more COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday as the number of people affected maintained an upward trend with the influx of returnees from abroad and other States. Three of those affected came from outside the State, while two others acquired the infection from known sources. Among those who came from outside the State, a 29-year-old Poonthura native arrived from West Asia, while a 32-year old man from Sreekaryam and a 36-year old man from Kattakada came from Karnataka and New Delhi respectively. The fourth patient, a Navaikulam native, aged 32, is an ambulance driver who is based in the Navaikulam primary health centre. He had transported a COVID-19 patient to the Parippally Government Medical College Hospital. A 13-year-old boy from Neyyattinkara was also diagnosed with the infection, a day after his family members were reported to have contracted the illness. The group had come from Mumbai a few days ago. New set of cases With the new set of cases, the number of COVID-19 patients being treated in the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hosptial has gone up to 29. Meanwhile, the Thiruvananthapuram City police booked two people who had come from other States for violating home quarantine. While one case was registered by the Medical College police against a person who came from Thiruneveli, another person who came from Bengaluru was booked by the Nemom police. The duo was relocated to an institutional quarantine facility. The district administration placed 700 people under observation on Monday. In all, 5,783 people were being monitored in the district. Among them, 4,914 people were quarantined in their homes. Thirty people were admitted to various hospitals with symptoms. As many as 163 people entered the State through the Inchivila inter-State border on Monday. These included 145 people who came from Tamil Nadu, eight each from Karnataka and Maharashtra, and two from Telangana. Fifty of them came from COVID-19 red zone areas.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Wave power plant at Vizhinjam soon||A one Mega Watt wave-to-energy plant is to be implemented by Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT) to tap the power of waves off the Vizhinjam coast. Coming three decades after the country’s maiden wave-to-energy project was piloted at Vizhinjam by Department of Ocean Development, the proposed project was conceptualised and developed by a US-based firm named M/S Oscilla Power Inc. Extensive laboratory tests were conducted at universities in the US that paved the way for the sea trial of the proposed project three km off the upcoming Vizhinjam international deepwater seaport. Besides Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Kerala State Electricity Board, IIT Madras, National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), and a host of other institutions are supporting the venture that is expected to cost Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 crore. Vizhinjam selected Vizhinjam was selected for installing the first prototype in 1991 following studies carried out to gauge wave power off Indian coast. Jayakumar, who was also behind the execution of the earlier project under IIT Madras’s Department of Ocean Engineering, has been nominated by the government as the principal investigator for the proposed wave-energy project. Earlier plant Unlike the earlier pilot plant, which was a 150kW fixed oscillating water column device installed at 10m water depth, the proposed plant will be a floating one at 40 to 50 m water depth. The project is expected to be commissioned in two years. “The device will be tethered to the sea bed and the power generated will be evacuated through a submarine cable to the shore. The active device, which will float in the water, will be the first of its type in the country,” Dr. Jayakumar, who is also the MD and CEO of Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd, told The Hindu . High potential Wave energy has a lot of potential, as oceans cover 71% of the Earth. Harnessing wave energy does not emit any harmful gases and it is renewable with high potential. For every meter of wave along the shore, the energy density is between 20 kW and 30 kW. Reliable source Since waves are essentially always in motion, it is a reliable source. As it is in the nascent stage, costs of wave power are still fairly high and the energy devices require regular maintenance.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Just bluster, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday contested the “tall claim” of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had achieved its aims with one more year left for its term to expire. He dismissed Mr. Vijayan’s statement as mere bluster and attempted to punch holes in the “long list of accomplishments touted by the government” on its fourth anniversary. In reality, the government had in four years acquired a rap sheet. Nepotism, corruption, extravagance, pilfering of flood relief funds, PSC and university examination fraud by Students Federation of India leaders, State-backed political murders, and authoritarianism characterised the LDF rule. The government had failed to rebuild Kerala after the floods. It was yet to compensate those who had lost their homes and livelihood in the deluge. Mr. Chennithala asked Mr. Vijayan to point out the “new Kerala” he claimed to have forged in four years. Civic works had ground to a halt. The treasury was bone dry and could not repay contractors. Mr. Vijayan had announced a Rs. 2,000-crore package for fishers struck by the Ockhi cyclone in 2017. “What has come of it?,” he asked.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Space science studies to turn dearer||Training to be a space scientist has never been easy, given the gruelling curriculum and the dedication required of young aspirants. Indications are that it could soon turn out to be tougher financially as well. The Department of Space (DoS) wants the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) to review its practice of providing education practically free of cost and wants it to evolve into a ‘self-sustaining institute.’ The directive is part of a May 15 office memorandum pertaining to Guidelines for expenditure management in DoS/Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on the subject Increasing the Revenue Generated by Autonomous Institutions. The IIST, an autonomous institution under DoS, was established at Valiyamala here in 2007 for moulding future space scientists for ISRO. Self-sustaining model “The institute has established itself as a pioneering institute in the field of space science and technology. As most of the institutes in the country offering graduate/postgraduate courses recover the cost of education from the students, the institute shall review the fee system and financial assistance on its courses with the view to grow into a self-sustaining institute,” reads the memorandum. The IIST has been directed to submit a report on this by June 30. Assistance With courses tailored to meet ISRO needs, the IIST offers two undergraduate courses and a dual degree programme, in addition to postgraduate and PhD programmes. It has made itself attractive to students through a system of performance-based financial assistance, funded by the DoS, and scholarships. Undergraduate students, for instance, get full or partial refund of the semester fee (Rs. 48,400) based on their academic performance. Under it, OBC-NCL category students are eligible for full- semester fee as ‘DoS assistanceship’ on securing a grade point average (GPA) of 7.5 or above. For SC/ST/PD categories, the GPA requirement is 6.5. For GPA between 5.5 and 6.5, the student becomes eligible for just the semester tuition fee (Rs. 20,000). In response to the DoS directive, the IIST has formed a committee of deans and senior faculty to look into matters related to revenue augmentation and academic programmes, according to sources.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF keeps its options open||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is gearing up to reap optimum benefit of the smouldering differences of opinion in the Kerala Congress (M) ahead of the local body and Assembly elections. The front leadership is cautiously weighing options and is willing to have P.J. Joseph or Jose K. Mani in its fold once one of them resolves to sever ties with the United Democratic Front. Appeasing the two leaders and keeping them in the same party or even as different entities would be a tall order for the UDF. A compromise formula would only be at the cost of one leader and that is expected to leave the floor open for the LDF. Anticipating this possibility, the LDF has kept its options open. This demarche is expected to fortify the LDF prospects in Central Travancore as well as the Assembly segments in the adjoining districts and also render a blow to the UDF. Conditions Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told The Hindu that the LDF was not averse to including one of the factions in the front and had not shut its doors to new entrants. Mr. Balakrishnan also clarified that the front would open parleys only with the party that explicitly rejected the UDF and its policies. No discussions had been held so far, he said. Mr. Joseph, once a trusted ally of the LDF, crossed over to the UDF without any strong premise and hence building bridges yet again would not be a tough proposition. Mr. Joseph’s rapport with the Left leaders, mainly Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is no secret either. In the absence of K.M. Mani, against whom the LDF had raised a revolt over the bar bribery case, the front does not have any impediment in forging ties with Mr. Jose either. The drubbing Mr. Jose received at the Pala Assembly by-election may also prompt him to drift to the LDF before the local body and Assembly elections.  Front not averse to welcoming Jose or Joseph group
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Last year of AMRUT project to be hectic for Corporation||The city Corporation has completed 141 out of a total of 270 projects under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. With the extended deadline for the scheme ending in March next year, the civic body has its task cut out in completing the remaining projects amid a slowdown in works induced by the COVID-19 outbreak. Most of the works that have been completed are the comparatively smaller sewerage, water supply, and stormwater drainage projects as is reflected in the lesser fund utilisation of 35.6% of the total outlay of Rs. 357 crore. Out of the 103 stormwater drainage projects, 77 have been completed, while 43 of the 114 sewerage projects have been completed. In water supply projects, 15 of the 45 projects have been completed. Among the four urban transport projects, one has been completed. Thiruvananthapuram is way ahead of the rest of the nine urban local bodies in the State in the number of projects completed. Remaining projects “The projects that remain to be completed are significantly bigger projects. In the past two months, nothing much has happened, but we are still confident of completing it before the deadline. The multi-level car parking lot inside the Corporation office is almost complete, but due to the lockdown, the workers have gone back to Coimbatore. They will come back only after the situation improves. The work on the two remaining parking lots in Putharikkandam and Medical College will also have to begin. The work on a 75 MLD water treatment plant in Aruvikkara is expected to be completed soon,” said an official handling AMRUT projects. The deadline for the AMRUT projects was set for March this year before it was extended to one more year. One of the major projects under the scheme, the sewerage network project covering the Kazhakuttam-Technopark-Medical College area, is still awaiting completion.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suraj Venjaramoodu, MLA quarantined||Actor Suraj Venjaramoodu and Vamanapuram MLA D.K. Murali were among those sent into quarantine on Monday as the detection of SARS-CoV-2 in a remand prisoner sparked panic in the district. The 40-year-old prisoner, who was arrested for allegedly possessing illicit liquor and injuring a police officer on May 22, tested positive on Sunday. Officers in quarantine Soon after the diagnosis, 34 police officers, including the Circle Inspector (CI) of Venjaramoodu police station, over 10 prison officials of the Special Sub-Jail in Poojappura, and 14 other remand prisoners were asked to go in quarantine. Besides, a magistrate in a Nedumangad court, where the accused had been produced, was also placed under observation. It later emerged that the CI had participated in a function in which Mr. Murali launched cultivation on the actor’s plot in Keezhayikonam, near Venjaramoodu, on May 23. The actor’s brother was also present on the occasion. While the district administration is yet to identify the source of infection, the authorities have prepared a contact list of nearly 50 people in Nellanad, Manickal, Pullampara and Pulimath. Fire and Rescue Services personnel disinfected the Venjaramoodu police station, and the Government Hospital in Kanyakulangara, where the accused were taken for medical tests. The authorities also issued an order to shut down a salon the patient had visited.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Schools ready for SSLC, Plus Two exams||Arrangements have been put in place for the conduct of SSLC and Plus Two examinations in the district. The centres in all the 135 schools under the civic body have been readied as per norms. As many as 59,055 students will appear for the exams including 20,055 Class 10; 17,427 Class 11; 17,970 Class 12; 1,729 VHSE first year; and 1,874 second year students. The centres have been disinfected by the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services. Transportation facilities have been arranged for the students. Health squads will be deployed to screen each student.
26 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Flights from U.S., Canada||The Central government has agreed to operate special services for those aspiring to come back to India from the United States and Canada, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The government has written to the Centre seeking more flights to Kerala from San Francisco, New York, Washington, and Chicago.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Financial aid for farmers||The State government is providing financial assistance to farmers for undertaking integrated farming programmes. The ‘Jaivagriham’ project, to be funded under under the Rebuild Kerala initiative, envisages a permanent income to farmers by integrated programmes under farming, animal husbandry, poultry, beekeeping and aquaculture through maximum utilisation of land, time and energy.
26 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Exam centres disinfected ahead of SSLC examinations||A total of 35,319 SSLC students will appear for the mathematics examination in the district on Tuesday, which was postponed due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Mathematics, physics and chemistry examinations will be held from 1.30 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the three days from Tuesday. There are 259 centres in the district. The District Panchayat, in association with Samagra Siksha Kerala, have distributed 5,40,000 masks to schools in the district. The head teachers have arranged travel facility for the students to reach schools. Parents will not be allowed to enter the school campuses. In all, 3,475 invigilators have been deployed for the examination duty. Students from other districts who study in Thrissur can write the examinations from their respective districts. The examination centres have been arranged by maintaining safety guidelines. There will be only one entrance for the school. Thermal scanners have been set at the entrance. Each student will be allowed to enter the classroom after cleaning the hands with sanitizers. Each room will have a maximum of 20 students. Students with high temperature or any health issues will be allowed to write the examination in a separate room. The fire and rescue team with the support of voluntary organisations have disinfected all schools.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Anniversary protest||
26 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nighty makers in dire straits||Women’s popular nightwear ‘nighty’ commands its price anywhere between Rs. 400 and Rs. 2,500, depending on its quality and design, but a person who breaks her back working at a sewing machine day in and day out to stitch a nighty has an income that is negligible. A paltry Rs. 4 to Rs. 6 a piece is what more than 20,000 women in Anantapur district make. At a time when the neighbourhood tailor in any of the metro or tier-II and III cities would not oblige to even stitch a button for this paltry sum, these women hire sewing machines for Rs. 250 a month, buy sewing thread for Rs. 10 a spool that lasts long enough to put together 30 pieces. In addition to this, they have to bear the rentals for the house where they work. Similar tales can be heard in four northern mandals of the district. For Shaik Munni, a divorcee, and her sister, this meagre sum has been the only source of income. Her brother, who is a daily labourer, used to chip in, but even his avenues have dried up since March 22. The family of four used to manage to dish out 90 to 100 pieces a day, bringing them Rs. 400 a day, but now there are no sales and no orders for stitching those nighties. There are 250 to 300 traders in Pamidi and Gooty, who employ between 10 to 30 women on this job and used to sell between 300 to 2,000 pieces a day on an average, exporting them to Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Nellore, Vijayawada.
26 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Weavers need govt. help’||Weavers need the State government’s hand-holding on a big scale as at present only one in three traditional weavers get Rs. 24,000 as initial capital to start their profession afresh, Dharmavaram ward welfare and development secretary Farzana observed while speaking to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the ‘Mana Palana Mee Soochana’ programme at Amaravati on Monday. While praising the YSR Congress Party chief for understanding the difficulties of the weavers during his padayatra and sanctioning financial assistance to the weavers, who were either committing suicide or migrating to other regions for want of work in the aftermath of powerlooms being used widely in Anantapur district, Ms. Farzana said at least 250 families in Dharmavaram had come back to their roots. “I was a fresh graduate when you were on the padayatra, and never expected to get the government job, but today I feel empowered working for my own people in my town in safe environment,” she said while hesitating to bring to the notice of the Chief Minister the problems of weavers. Unlike during video conferences, where beneficiaries laud Chief Minister’s welfare programmes and hardly point out the problems, Ms. Farzana showed courage to speak her mind at Amaravati. The others who represented Anantapur district at the programme, were an NGO, Rural Development Trust, programme director Moncho Ferrer and AF Ecology Centre director and Andhra Pradesh State Agriculture Mission (APSAM) member Y. Malla Reddy. Initiative lauded Mr. Moncho reminded the Chief Minister of the RDT founder Vincent Ferrer starting a ‘Grama Swarajya Nidhi’ as a pilot project 20 years ago in 1,000 villages of Anantapur district, which was a runaway success and today the interest earned on the common fund of the villages is being utilised not only within the village, but also in the neightbouring villages. “Your initiative of starting a volunteer system and village and ward secretariats, was bound to be more effective with the government financial support,” he observed while appreciating the services rendered by the volunteers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Malla Reddy said accountability among the government functionaries had improved after the introduction of village secretariat system. The Chief Minister wanted the corruption rooted out at all levels so that the desired Grama Swaraj becomes a reality.
26 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man struck dead by lightning in Anantapur||A weaver died on the spot when lightning struck him at Lalepalli village of Chilamathur mandal in the district on Monday evening. Identified as Boya Adinarayana, 27, he was reportedly walking on the outskirts of the village at 5 p.m. when sudden gales and rain started. Chilamathur Sub-Inspector of Police P. Venkateswarlu said that lightning struck him while he was on the road and returning home.
26 May 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Expert team to probe pedal edema deaths||Health Minister A. Kali Krishna Srinivas on Monday announced that an expert team would be constituted to carry out a scientific study on the spread of pedal edema which is marked by swelling of feet, and deaths with the symptoms of the disease, in the Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district. Mr. Krishna Srinivas and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday visited the family of a 32-year-old Madavi Gangayya, who died reportedly died of the disease on Sunday, at Pedda Seetanapalli village in Chintoor mandal. Disturbing trend The Minister said the expert team would study the prevalence of the disease apart from establishing the reasons for the deaths in the Agency.  Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Director A. Venkata Rao told The Hindu that as many as 12 persons have died with the symptoms of pedal edema in the area since March. In an interaction with field-level staff from various government departments, Mr. Krishna Srinivas promised timely medical and health assistance for the tribal people. “The existing 30-bed hospital in Chintoor will be upgraded into a 50-bed one and a dialysis unit will also be set up in the facility,” he said. It is learnt that cases of pedal edema have resurfaced after a gap of four years in the Agency. The ITDA authorities swung into action and have screened above 400 persons till date.
26 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagari once again a red zone with 5 cases||The emergence of five cases of COVID-19 in Nagari Assembly Constituency has once again led to erecting of new containment zones at Puttur, Nindra and Vijayapuram mandals on Monday, after a lull of a month. The district reported six cases, including one from Tirupati urban limits on Monday. Mumbai returnees Nagari reported nine positive cases in April and all of the patients were discharged. According to COVID-19 Special Officer (Nagari) P. Ravi Raju, the five cases in the constituency included three with Koyambedu links in Puttur and Vijayapuram mandals, while two were visitors from Mumbai, who came to attend a funeral at Nindra. Woman tests positive The police, revenue and medical department personnel rushed to the new containment zones and undertook disinfecting drive, and arranged quarantine of the possible secondary contacts from the residential areas. The suspect cases from the three mandals were shifted to the Government Hospital at Puttur for collection of swabs. It was observed that a woman from Gate Puttur locality in Puttur municipality limits had come from Chennai a few days ago. On information from neighbours, the COVID-19 task force personnel rushed there and conducted the test on her, which came out positive. She was shifted to Tirupati for isolation. Vendors affected A one-km radius zone was transformed into containment zone, affecting daily wagers and roadside vendors selling vegetables and groceries. The Gate Puttur locality is predominantly populated with workers involved in various segments of construction works and petty businesses.
26 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decision to auction TTD assets not fair’||In a twist to the ongoing row over the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to auction its unprofitable assets, its Trust Board special invitee Rakesh Sinha on Monday wrote a letter to board chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy to stall the process of selling the assets donated to Lord Venkateswara by the devotees, and protect the sentiment behind it. Mr. Sinha said it was not correct on the part of the board to cite the example of the previous board’s decision in initiating such a move. He further sought that devotees be involved in the procedure to protect the assets of the temple organisation. BJP plans protest Meanwhile, leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Tirupati said in response to the call given by State president Kanna Lakshminarayana, they would be observing one-day protest at their respective residences against the TTD decision. They said that the Trust Board should pass a resolution to permanently put an end to the practice of selling the assets.
26 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers of Odisha cross into Chittoor from T.N.||A group of about 100 migrant workers belonging to Odisha, working at construction sites in Vellore city in Tamil Nadu, on Monday reached the district Collectorate here on foot, covering a distance of 40 km. The migrant workers settled on the lawns of the Collectorate, to approach Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta. They urged the Collector to arrange them transport to Odisha, as their repeated requests with officials in Tamil Nadu had not yielded any results. “We are a group of 18 men and six women working in the construction field in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts. When the lockdown commenced, we were with a contractor executing construction works at a college. For 60 days, we depended on public charity and distribution of food packets,” Jathin, a mason from Koraput, said. Temporary shelter Meanwhile, the district officials made arrangements to provide them with temporary shelter and food facilities in Chittoor. Before shifting them to the facilities, they were subjected to thermal screening and following of the social distancing and face mask etiquettes. A senior official said the current batch of workers would be made to join the next batch of workers bound for Odisha as and when the schedule of any Shramik Rail was announced. Some voluntary organisations came forward to extend immediate support to them.
26 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Kanuka, Rythu Bharosa get pride of place||Pensions (YSR Kanuka) and farm sustenance grants (YSR Rythu Bharosa) have garnered a major chunk of funds allotted to welfare schemes launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy after coming to power in May 2019. Amma Vodi, the YSRCP’s flagship programme to increase enrolment of children of BPL families in government and private schools, also got a hefty share — 6,349.63 crore — followed by the Jagananna Vidya Deevena scheme (Rs. 3,857.39 crore). In all, 42.33 lakh mothers have benefited from the Amma Vodi scheme. The Chief Minister’s progress card on 15 major welfares schemes released on Monday kick-starting a week-long brainstorming sessions on one year of governance, revealed several interesting facts. The government has spent Rs. 40,139.58 crore on 15 welfare schemes covering 3.57 crore beneficiaries. “I am happy and satisfied that we have lived up to the expectations of people. Our government has accorded top priority to welfare measures targeting every vulnerable community,’’ Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. The government spent Rs. 14,438.46 crore during June 2019-May 2020 on YSR Pension Kanuka covering 58.61 lakh beneficiaries. Pension coverage The Chief Minister has announced a phased increase in pensions to elderly men and women, widows from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 in five years. The pension coverage has gone up to cover patients covering the third stage of kidney disease, thalassemia and haemophilia diseases (Rs. 10,000 per month) and reducing the minimum age to receive pensions to 60 years from the earlier 65 years. Ryot-friendly approach A sum of Rs. 10,209.31 crore has been spent on Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan covering 49.43 lakh farmers, tenant farmers and landless farmers. The fee reimbursement scheme, renamed as Jagananna Vidya Deevena, got an allocation of Rs. 3,857.39 crore, covering 18.51 lakh students. Yet another interesting facet is that almost half of the beneficiaries are from the backward communities (1.78 crore), while 61.26 lakh beneficiaries are from the SC community, 18.39 lakh from the ST community, 18.61 lakh from minorities, and 77.47 lakh from other sections.  I am happy and satisfied that we have lived up to the expectations of people. YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister
26 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land auction allegations a campaign to defame TTD, says Subba Reddy||An unscrupulous campaign is being launched against the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams over the decision of selling the TTD lands, trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy has said. The decision was taken through a resolution that was passed by the TTD trust board under the chairmanship of Chadalavada Krishna Murthy in 2016 and the issue came up for discussion recently which was shared with everyone, he told the media here on Monday. “I have already clarified about the derogatory headlines pertaining to the issue that appeared in some TDP-friendly media. But, a propaganda is being carried out to defame the TTD,” said Mr. Subba Reddy. Sub-committee report According to the resolution no. 253 that was passed by TTD Board on January 30, 2016, the 50 unused land holdings identified by a sub-committee should be put for open auction. “The sub-committee reported that apart from some assets in other States, many land holdings which are closer to Tirupati were not viable for maintenance. The report further said that these assets should be sold and the proceeds should be added to the corpus fund,” explained Mr. Subba Reddy. The sub-committee observed that barring the property number 18,28,44, the rest should be considered and a decision could be taken for their sale and the the then TTD chairman had signed the resolution. A newspaper wrote that the value of the assets of some TTD properties in Tamil Nadu was worth Rs. 1.53 crore. If the board wants to sell the TTD assets, why should it consider a Rs. 1.53-crore property? questioned Mr. Subba Reddy. Dig at Naidu Launching a broadside against the TDP, he said, “If scams are to be hatched, N. Chandrababu Naidu’s model would be the best . The TDP chief had committed irregularities pertaining to over 800 acres, including 450 acres belonging to a Central University,” The TTD Chairman further said that he had never indulged in any irregularities. “Earlier, a propaganda was made that I was a Christian. When it did not click, some vested interests have started this new one,” he said.
26 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three of family ‘commit suicide’||Three members of a family, including a girl, were found dead under suspicious circumstances at Maruproluvaripalem village in Bapatla mandal. The deceased were identified as Veeraswamy Reddy, Ramana and Poleru (11). The police believe that the family could have entered into a suicide pact, after they were accused of stealing motors by the police. DSP, Bapatla, Srinivasa Rao said the family had no criminal history but the police found three motors on the premises of their house. Later, the villagers began visiting the house and began enquiring about the motors. On knowing that people have begun visiting the house, the family reportedly got humiliated and allegedly resorted to the extreme act on Sunday evening.
26 May 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salon shop owners face a cut in earnings||It was a sigh of relief for the low-budget salon shop owners, who are back to business after the government announced relaxations in the lockdown 4.0. Officials have also given a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the salons to follow, which the shop owners have started to implement. However, most of them feel there has been a drastic drop in the number of customers after lockdown. Simultaneously, there is an increase in maintenance/operating costs. According to the SOP released by the government, people with symptoms must not be serviced and it is mandatory for the owner/employees to wear disposable gloves. The barbers were asked to disinfect the equipment used for each customer before re-use. New experience “Earlier during weekends, we used to receive at least 40 customers. Now the number is just around 15 due to fear factor ,” said Govind, who runs a salon at Seethammadhara. According to him, almost all the customers are coming for just haircut, while most of them are reluctant for shaving and facials, through which they get good revenue. Despite cleaning the aprons in hot water everytime, customers are asking us to use only tissue papers. We have purchased new towels, aprons and other equipment. Our maintenance cost has increased by more than 20%, he said. Ramu, a salon shop owner , said that he had purchased disposable cloth for the use of customers, as such about Rs. 50 is additionally charged for serving. After servicing, the cloth is being disposed of carefully, he said. “Only those customers who are associated with us since long time have been coming and business is definitely dropped by 50 %,” he said.
26 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 cases through single source in E. Godavari||At least 20 persons, all primary and secondary contacts of a 53-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on May 20, tested positive for the virus in East Godavari on Monday. Of the 20 cases, 11 persons belong to Ramachandrapuram town, five from Gollala Maamidada in Pedapudi mandal, the native place of the deceased person, and four from Bikkavolu area. One of them is a pregnant woman, according to District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela. “All the 20 persons had come in contact with the deceased man. A majority of them have been shifted to the GSL Hospital in Ramamahendravaram and their condition is stable,” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu.  While some others, infected but asymptomatic, have been permitted to undergo the medical treatment at their residence itself, given suitable conditions for ‘complete isolation’, the Collector said. In all, 31 persons till Monday had contracted the infection from the deceased who worked at a hotel.
26 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found hanging from tree on school campus||A 42-year-old man on Monday was found hanging from a tree on a government school campus at Malkipuram village in East Godavari district. The man, identified as Yesu, a tractor driver, had reportedly been suffering from mental disorder and was undergoing treatment for the same, said Malkipuram Sub Inspector M. Nagaraju. The body has been sent to the area hospital in Rajole for post-mortem and investigation is on, he added. The police have registered a case. Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial the police helpline 100 or dial 9502947778 (Disha police wing) for help.
26 May 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 patients discharged in Kurnool, 24 in Anantapur||In all, 84 patients were discharged from Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Monday evening. While a record 60 patients were discharged from hospitals in Kurnool district (31 men and 29 women), 24 patients - mostly daily wage earners were discharged from RDT Hospital in Anantapur district. The total number of patients discharged from Kurnool so far are 569, while 107 patients were still getting treated in three hospitals in Kurnool district. The youngest among them was a 2-year-old boy, said District Collector G. Veerapandian. In Anantapur, District Collector Collector joined the medical fraternity in cheering the discharged patients, while they made their way out of the hospital.
26 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases whittle down to 74 as 37 get discharged in Nellore||In a welcome development, 37 persons were discharged from hospital on recovery in SPSR Nellore district on Monday. As many as 15 patients, including 14 from the COVID-19 hotspot of Sullurpeta, were discharged from Narayana hospital and the rest from the Government General Hospital here. The discharged patients included a woman who was into seventh month of her pregnancy, health officials said. A person from Gudur was among those who were discharged at the Narayana Hospital. Doctors and medical staff gave a warm send-off to the cured patients who profusely thanked the former for the care provided to them. With this, the number of patients getting treatment in the two COVID-19 designated hospitals came down to 74. A majority of them were traders from the areas bordering Tamil Nadu, including Gudur, Tada and Nayudupeta and their primary contacts. They had contracted the disease after coming into contact with the traders in Koyambedu for marketing farm produce. The health authorities heaved a sigh of relief as no fresh cases were reported in the district on Monday. The district had been seeing steady increase in the total number of confirmed cases of late with those who had returned after visiting the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market contracting the disease. The pandemic cast a shadow on the Ramzan fete as people celebrated Eid-ul-Fitr in the confines of their homes. The Idgah, closer to Bara Shahid Dargah, where thousands of people used to congregate, was guarded by police personnel.
26 May 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4-month-old is first COVID case in Rampa Agency||A four-month-old boy has tested positive for COVID-19 at Cherukuri hamlet of Rampachodavaram mandal in East Godavari district on Monday. This is the first coronavirus case reported in this part of the Rampa Agency which shares border with three States – Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha – and is the prime route for the migrants to reach their destination via the agency. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (Rampachodavaram) in charge Project Officer Praveen Adithya told The Hindu , “A four-month-old boy tested positive on Monday morning. We are still to establish the primary and secondary contacts of the baby, apart from examining how it had contracted the virus.”  Money-lenders The boy has been admitted to the GSL hospital and his health condition is said to be stable, according to sources. A section of tribal elders reportedly expressed worry over some money-lenders from Bikkavolu and nearby areas moving around in the Rampa Agency.
26 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on toes as returnees’ numbers swell||Thousands of migrant labourers who returned to their native places in Srikakulam district face an uncertain future with the closure of many small and medium industries. So far, 15,000 workers have returned and their number would go up to 80,000 within no time once the lockdown is lifted, according to officials. An estimated 5.3 lakh people have migrated to other States in the last few years. A majority of them are expected to return in the absence of jobs in cities too. Collector J. Nivas and District Water Management Agency Project Director H. Kurma Rao discussed the issue threadbare and decided to issue maximum number of job cards to help returnees get temporary livelihood. So far, 3, 000 persons have applied for the cards which are essential to get work under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA).  Processing units Mr. Kurma Rao said the department targeted to disburse Rs. 490 crore under wages in the current financial year 2020-21. “We could disburse Rs. 490 crore for 4.3 lakh job card holders in 2019-20 financial year. We will try to issue job cards to all the applicants. Labourers who returned to their native places can approach officials concerned to enrol their names,” he added. Srikakulam District Cooperative Marketing Society president Piriya Sairaj said the department finalised Rs. 316 crore proposals for the establishment of various units under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Units related to agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, food processing units are planned to generate more jobs locally. All the ten Assembly segments will have at least one cold storage facility which would improve marketing and ensure remunerative prices for farmers. “Cashew, pineapple, coconut processing units will be taken up on priority basis. All these units will improve economic activity and create more jobs for rural people and returnees,” Mr. Sairaj said.
26 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala laddus fly off shelves in no time||The famed laddus of Lord Venkateswara, which TTD started selling at all the district headquarters in the State on Monday, evaporated within a couple of hours of opening of the sales counters. The demand for laddu from the devout was so high that the TTD Kalyana Mandapams in majority of the district headquarters ran out of stocks well before noon. The TTD had embarked on the ambitious mission of providing laddus to the devout with an intention of respecting their religious sentiments as it is 67 days since the closure of hill temple for public in the wake of COVID-19. This apart, it was also awash with requests for providing them at least with the laddu prasadam, as uncertainty loomed large on the re-opening of the hill temple. It is against this back drop that the TTD shipped about 2.4 lakh laddus to various district headquarters on Saturday. Challenging task TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Rreddy, who was buoyed at the response from the public, told The Hindu that it was after a gruelling exercise that the management had embarked on the challenging task. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba reddy decided to provide laddus at a much subsidised price of Rs. 25 as against its actual cost of Rs. 50 as he didn’t wish to overburden the people who were already laden with low income owing to pandemic though it impacted TTD coffers. Furthermore, he wanted the TTD to bear transportation charges and other expenses involved in the mammoth exercise. Besides finalising the route map, all the district revenue and police authorities concerned were also spoken to and services of SVS volunteers roped in. Diverted  The TTD could not carry out any sales in Guntur as the area where the Kalyana mandapam is located had been marked as red zone. Hence the stocks were diverted to Rajahmundry. Mr. Dharma Reddy said the TTD was determined to ensure the supply chain of laddus on a day-to-day basis till the opening of temple and, in fact, had also despatched its second consignment of over two lakh laddus on Monday. Other States “Requests from other States like Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are also pouring in for the supply of laddus on similar lines. We have asked them to secure required permissions from their respective State governments or wait till June 1 when the current phase of lockdown ends,” he added.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus devours warmth of Id this year||The raging coronavirus has devoured the warmth and charm of all festivals. And Id-ul-Fitr was no exception. Id was different this year. The very mention of Id-ul-Fitr brings to mind images of throngs of Muslim devotees, sporting skull caps and offering prayers at masjids, which was missing, thanks to the lockdown due to the pandemic. There were no community prayers, no hugs and not even handshakes, in keeping with the advisories issued by the Muslim clerics, in the wake of the social distancing protocol. The culmination of Ramzan, a month of fasting wherein the faithful spend their time praying, Id is not just an abstention from food and drink but it is an exercise to inculcate discipline in life. “Community prayer and embracing each other with warm greetings of ‘Id Mubarak’ is the best part of the celebration which is missing this year,” laments Zainab Chikani, a student from Visakhapatnam. The coronavirus has thrown a wet blanket on the festival spirit. The mosques and Idgah grounds that rent with special prayers on this day, were shut to the public, with only a handful of persons offering prayers. People were asked to offer prayers at home, and this was the first time that men and women together offered namaz from their homes. Casareen Fatima, an employee of a private firm, said forfeiting festival shopping due to the lockdown did not bother her, but she certainly missed the ‘steady stream of guests’ at home to exchange the festival greetings. “My mother made sheer korma, seviyaan and other delicacies, but in lesser quantity,” she rued, adding that the family had to make up for the absence of their friends and relatives by connecting with them through online mode like Zoom. Family time Abbas Mastan, a techie working in Hyderabad, said the only good thing about this unprecedented situation seemed to be the fact that the immediate family members were all together. “My elder brother and I seldom stay at home on the festival day, but this year, all of us are together.” “The whole world is in turmoil and an occasion like Id-ul-Fitr is the best time to beseech Allah to save the mankind from this dreaded virus,” said Mohammed Tariq, a teacher in a local school, insisting that true prayers will usher in good things and people could then celebrate collectively.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wildlife authorities step up vigil in Srisailam tiger reserve||Officials of the wildlife division of the Forest Department on Monday reviewed the Royal Bengal Tiger’s population and its protection in the Srisailam tiger reserve in the Nallamalla forest. In united Andhra Pradesh, the Srisailam reserve was spread over about 6,500 square kilometres. Post bifurcation, the area in Andhra Pradesh encompassing Atmakur and Nandyal divisions in Kurnool district and Markapuram and Giddalur divisions in Prakasam district, came down to 4,000 square kilometres. As per the 2018 census, about 50 tigers were found in AP limits and 25 animals were noticed in the Telangana forest area. However, the figure usually fluctuates as the animals move from one forest to another for hunting and other reasons, said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF-Wildlife) D. Nalini Mohan, who presided over the meeting. “We observed the images captured by cameras installed at water bodies and at various places in the Nallamalla forest. We alerted the staff posted at base camps and the fire watchers on protection of the predator in the tiger reserve,” Mr. Nalini Mohan said. The wildlife authorities do not take into count the tiger cubs, which were aged three years below in the census. Some tigers die due to age-related ailments, which happened near the Chenchugudem forest under Kolakaluru beat in Prakasam district a couple of days ago. “Normally, aged tigers die in attacks by wild dogs, gaurs (Indian Bisons) and other animals. But, the Royal Bengal Tiger which died under Yerragondlapalem Range was not attacked by any animal and no injuries were found on the carcass,” the PCCF said. Mr. Nalini Mohan directed range officers, forest guards and other personnelto intensify patrolling and to keep a watch on poachers.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decks cleared for agri boards||The government on Monday issued an order for the constitution of Agriculture Advisory Boards at the State, district and mandal levels. The State-level board will have Agriculture Minister as the chairman, Special Chief Secretary (agriculture) as vice-chairman and Commissioner of Agriculture as the member-convener. The agriculture boards will advise the Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture Departments on crop diversification on the basis of market intelligence and agro-climatic zones and recommend support packages in case of crop diversification. It will also suggest and guide the departments in adopting the best practices for improving net incomes of farmers, give advice on efficient utilisation of irrigation sources and improving the farm net income and augmenting export facilities of agriculture produce. Food security The boards will play a major role in ensuring food security and improve the nutritional status of population in general and address the domestic demand and supply gaps of agricultural commodities. The State-level Board will form a technical team consisting of experts in crop science and marketing who will analyse agro-climatic factors, cropping patterns and market trends obtained from fields and draft agenda for discussion at the State level.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flight operations in State to resume today||The State government has listed guidelines for passengers and airlines in view of resumption of domestic operations in the country. An order by the Department of Infrastructure and Investments has been issued in this regard. As per the order by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, all flyers who wish to come to the State have to enrol in the Spandana website ( spandana.ap.gov.in ) and obtain a clearance before buying tickets. Airlines have been asked to permit booking only if the passengers have clearance from the State via Spandana portal. All the flyers would be screened at the airports and symptomatic persons would have to undergo institutional quarantine where they would be tested on arrival and again after seven days. If tested negative in the second test, they would be allowed for home quarantine for seven days. Asymptomatic passengers would be considered in two categories based on the place they board the flight to A.P. Persons coming from high incidence places like Chennai, Mumbai, New Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh will have to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days. They will be sent for home quarantine if the test shows negative Swab sample Persons coming from low incidence areas and showing no symptoms would be sent to home quarantine for 14 days after their swab samples are collected upon arrival. Meanwhile, flight operation in the State will resume from Tuesday. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted that upon the request by the AP government, the resumption has been withheld for a day. The flights scheduled for Monday have been cancelled.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to hold Mahanadu through Zoom app||The TDP has made elaborate arrangements for its annual conclave Mahanadu, which is scheduled to be organised on May 27 and 28. For the first time in the party’s history, the Mahanadu is being organised in online mode in view of the lockdown. According to TDP Politburo member Kaluva Srinivasulu, the meeting would be organised on the Zoom platform, a video conferencing app, with strict adherence to the social distancing guidelines. “In view of the lockdown restrictions, it wouldn’t be possible to organise Mahanadu as before with a large gathering of the party leaders and cadres from all over the State,” said Mr. Srinivasulu. Around 14,000 leaders and workers from both the Telugu States are expected to take part in the virtual meeting. TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu is scheduled to participate in the conclave from the TDP Office at Mangalagiri . During the conclave, the TDP would pass resolutions on political and economic situation in the country, more specifically in the State. It would also pass resolutions on the political action plan . The TDP organises the Mahanadu, coinciding with the birth anniversary of the party’s founder president N.T. Rama Rao on May 28. The TDP could not organise the annual conclave in 2019 owing to the general elections.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman’s body found in State linked to Gorrekunta deaths in TS||The body of a woman found in the West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh two and a half months ago turned out to be the vital link in the recent gruesome Gorrekunta deaths in Warangal district of Telangana. The body, now identified as that of 32-year-old Rafeeqa, was recovered from the tracks near Nidadavole on March 8 by the Government Railway Police (GRP). The Geesukonda police retrieved nine bodies from a well near Gorrekunta a couple of days ago. On Monday, police arrested Sanjay Kumar Yadav, a migrant from Bihar, in connection with the deaths. Based on his confession, the Warangal police contacted the railway police in A.P. and received the details of the case which helped them establish the identity of the woman. During interrogation, Sanjay Kumar reportedly confessed that he along with Rafeeqa of West Bengal, with whom he had a relationship, boarded a train in Warangal. He sedated and killed her on the train and later threw the body from the running train near Nidadavole. In order to suppress the murder, he killed nine others – her family members and neighbours – after sedating them and dumped the bodies in the well on May 20 night.  FSL report awaited  Superintendent of Railway Police, Vijayawada, K. Narayana Naik said the police recovered an unidentified woman’s body near the tracks. The Tadepalligudem GRP had registered a case under Section 174 CrPc (suspicious death) and took up investigation. “As there was no missing complaint, we conducted postmortem on the body and sent the viscera samples to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The report is awaited,” the SP said. During autopsy, an injury on the throat and some minor injuries on the body were found. “We have uploaded the details and photos in unknown dead body portal, but there was no response,” Mr. Naik added.      Case to be altered  GRP Lines circle inspector K. Madhusudhan Reddy, who visited the spot, said the body was found near the tracks with a ‘chunni’coiled around the neck. “Based on the confession of Sanjay Kumar, we will alter the case to Section 302 (murder) and take the accused into custody on PT Warrant,” Mr. Reddy said. “On the same day (March 8th), we checked the Delhi, Mumbai and Assam-bound trains and enquired with the passengers, but could not get any clues. “The Warangal police spoke with us, took details of Rafeeqa’s death and confirmed that the murder is related to the nine deaths in Gorrekunta village,” the CI said.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trust donates 50,000 masks to VMC||The Rural Development Trust (RDT), Anantapur, donated 50, 000 face masks to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation here on Monday. Trust programme director Mancho Ferrer along with other staff handed over the masks to Vijayawada Municipal Corporation commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh at a programme organised at the Karnati Rammohan Rao Municipal High School in the city. Mr. Venkatesh appreciated the Rural Development Trust for aiding the government in fight against COVID-19. He said the masks would be distributed to people in red zone areas. Mr. Ferrer said the trust has also provided paid work for villagers who lost work due to the lockdown by engaging them in the production of masks.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu reaches Amaravati by road||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu reached in Amaravati by road from Hyderabad on Monday. The police allowed his convoy to pass through the Garikapadu checkpost, the border of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. They, however, inspected the additional cars that were following him. The TDP leaders accorded a warm welcome to Mr. Naidu as soon as his convoy reached the Andhra Pradesh border. TDP leaders Sriram Rajagopal, Tangirala Sowmya and others paid a courtesy call to Chillakallu toll plaza in Krishna district. Mr. Naidu drove straight to his residence at Undavalli near here. His son N. Lokesh accompanied him. Vizag flight cancelled Mr. Naidu has been staying put in Hyderabad since the lockdown was imposed . He is supposed to visit Visakhapatnam to meet the gas leak victims. With the cancellation of flight to Visakhapatnam , he travelled by road to reach Amaravati.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rayalaseema continues to sizzle||The Rayalaseema region continued to record maximum temperatures on Monday. In Coastal Andhra districts, temperatures slightly came down even as heatwave condition prevailed. Kurnool recorded 43.1°C maximum temperature. It was followed by Tirupati, Anantapur, and Kadapa which witnessed 42.4°C, 42°C and 41°C maximum temperature respectively. Jangamaheswarapuram in Guntur witnessed 41°C maximum temperature, while Vijayawada witnessed 40°C maximum temperature. Similar conditions are likely to prevail up to May 28.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 constables held for liquor smuggling||The Krishna district police arrested two police constables for allegedly smuggling liquor from Telangana. They recovered 232 liquor bottles from their possession at Jonnalagadda checkpost on the border. Police during vehicle checkup, took P. Nageswara Rao, attached to Ibrahimpatnam police station in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate and Y. Sivarama Krishna, on deputation to Government Railway Police (GRP), Vijayawada, for illegally transporting liquor.
26 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four flights to arrive today||About 311 passengers will be returning to the city by four flights from Chennai, Bengaluru and New Delhi on Tuesday.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Id-ul-Fitr a low-key affair in city||Id-ul-Fitr, the festival of breaking the fast, was a low-key affair in the city, as almost every Muslim family celebrated it at their homes, without going to the mosques here on Monday. Maintaining the protocol of lockdown 4.0, all of them offered prayers from their homes. Traditionally, we are supposed to accumulate at the masjid or Idgah and offer our prayers, which is followed by the mass blessing by the imam and celebration. But this year, since the government has prohibited congregation at religious places to maintain the social distancing norms, we did not organise the prayer at the Idgah, said Alikhan, president of Abu Sarang Mosque in Kotaveedhi. He said this was the need of the hour and we have strictly adhered to it to prevent spread of coronavirus. According to him and others at Kotaveedhi, which is said to be oldest colony of the city, with settlement of Muslims extending over 400 years, this was probably for the first time that Id prayers were not offered at the Idgah and at the 400-year-old mosque atop the Baba Ishaq Madina hillock. The mosque is said to be built by Aurangzeb and is still called as Alamgir’s mosque. “We offered prayers both at Abu Saragn Mosque, which is over 100-years-old, and at the Alamgir’s mosque, but the attendance was restricted to six persons only, including the imam,” said Mr. Alikhan, who says that his ancestors were fauzdars in Aurangzeb’s army, and had settled down in Kotaveedhi since the 17th century. Though the lockdown may have dampened the festivity at the Idgah or at the mosques, but many were happy that they could spend the entire day with their family. Traditional food Normally, after prayers we embrace each other, offer greetings and visit the homes of friends and relatives exchanging delicious ‘biryani’, haleem and ‘semaiya’, but this year it was sans this excitement. But we spent quality time at home with family and enjoyed the festival over traditional food, said Nusrat Alikhan, an executive with a shipping company. Id shopping was also on the lower side, compared to the previous years, as most of the shops were closed, and it only picked up on the last two days. The city folks also missed out on the ‘haleem’ and ‘biryani’ stalls this year that spring up at different points in the city.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge demand for Tirumala laddus on Day One||Tirumala laddus on Day One of sale saw heavy demand at three counters opened at the TTD Kalyana Mandapam here on Monday. As many as 25,000 laddus, which were earmarked for Visakhapatnam, were sold within four-and-a-half hours of opening the counters at 8 a.m. People formed long lines to buy the laddus-considered most sacred. “The laddus are being sold from Monday at all the districts at Rs. 25 per piece instead of Rs. 50,” TTD Deputy Executive Engineer P. Damodaram told The Hindu . The TTD allotted 15,000 laddus for Srikakulam and 20,000 for Vizianagaram. All the laddus for the three districts were brought in a lorry from Tirumala. As per the decision taken by TTD, the laddus will be sold on daily basis till further orders. Tremendous enthusiasm was seen at the TTD Kalyanamandapam as people lined up ahead of opening of the counters braving sweltering heat. Some devotees distributed water sachets to those buying laddus. Though the TTD officials made arrangement to open counters for sale from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., all the laddus were sold by 12.30 pm.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang rivalry comes to the fore||The City Task Force team led by ACP A. Trinad Rao apprehended nine persons of a 11-member gang, who were allegedly planning to kill two rowdy sheeters of a different gang, here on Monday. All the nine arrested are rowdy sheeters and belong to the Chittimamu gang. The arrested have been identified as Shankar Goud Shan alias Pillikallu, Ambati Madhusudhana Rao alias Madhu, Gudla Vinod Kumar Reddy alias Rama Talkies Vinod, Palla Lokesh alias Puli, Jaggupalli Rambabu alias Mahesh alias Bathu, Erothu Bhaskar Rao, Barikina Ravi, Gedala Siva Kumar alias Gajini and Illapu Hema Santosh. The two absconding have been identified as Jaitesh alias Jagadeesh and Merugu Sai. The CTF team also seized one sword, four iron rods, three steel rods, two four- wheelers and three mobile phones from their possession. According to Mr. Trinad Rao, based on a tip-off that the gang was planning to kill two other rowdy sheeters Dhoni Satish and Vasupalli Chinna from another gang, the CTF team raided a place near Kancharapalem and apprehended them.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. should take a decision on TTD land row: seer||Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham seer Sri Swaroopanandendra Swamy has spoken to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal on the controversy pertaining to the proposed auction of the of the TTD lands, a statement issued by the Peetham said here on Monday. He suggested to the government that a decision should be taken on the issue without giving any scope for controversy or hurting the sentiments of devotees. “It is unfortunate that the controversy came up at a time when the temple of Lord Venkateswara is set to be reopened after the lockdown. The decision of the TTD Board should honour the sentiments of devotees,” a statement quoted the seer as saying. Swaroopanandendra Swamy took strong exception to the unwarranted messages being circulated against the Visakha Sarada Peetham. He said that the Peetham was on the forefront to safeguard the ‘dharma’. “The Peetham is aware of how to protect temple lands,” he said and warned of repercussions if vested interests indulged in criticism against the Peetham on social media.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader blames YSRCP govt. for cancellation of flights||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Monday squarely blamed the YSRCP government for the cancellation of the flight from Hyderabad in which the party president N. Chandrababu Naidu was scheduled to travel to Visakhapatnam and meet the victims of gas leak at LG Polymers. “The YSRCP government granted permission to Mr. Naidu to meet the gas leak victims and on the other hand ensured that the Hyderabad-Vizag flight got cancelled on the pretext of COVID-19 pandemic,” TDP leader former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy told the media here. ‘Pandemic as pretext’ The government, which got the flights cancelled over quarantine issues, is now putting the blame on the Centre, he said. “The Civil Aviation Minister’s tweet has made it clear that it was the State government which sought the cancellation of flights to A.P. ,” said Mr. Murthy. He wondered whether the State government was unaware of the quarantine issues before according permission for the operation of flights to the State. He made it clear that Mr. Naidu’s visit to Visakhapatnam has been only postponed, not cancelled. “Mr. Naidu will meet the gas leak victims soon,” he said. Rubbishing the claims of the YSRCP that its government had earned the goodwill of people through welfare schemes, Mr. Murthy claimed that various courts had given 63 judgments against the decisions of the State government in a year. ‘Rubber stamps’ The TDP leader further alleged that the YSRCP government had reduced the IAS and IPS officers to ‘mere rubber stamps’ . When his attention was drawn to the fact that the TDP, when in power, had not allowed the CBI into the State, Mr. Murthy said: “We had opposed use of the CBI by the Centre to target our government. But, we never said that the CBI was bad.”
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots hit as gas leak damages crop, halts cultivation||Ever since styrene monomer vapour leaked out of a storage tank at LG Polymers here in the early hours of May 7, the farmers from the villages around the chemical plant are in a state of flux. The authorities concerned, as part of precautionary measures, told them not to eat the produce or sell it and even advised them not to take up any agricultural activity till a go-ahead is given. At RR Venkatapuram where the LG Polymers plant is located and in a number of villages that were affected by the vapour leak such as Venkatapuram, Kamparapalem, Kothapalem and Lakshmipuram, agriculture is the mainstay. Caution The authorities concerned, including the survey teams from NGT and NEERI, advised the residents of the villages not to drink groundwater and destroy the crop. Twelve persons died and over 350 were hospitalised in the incident. The farmers in the villages grow their crop between the Meghadrigedda reservoir and the railway track. “We cultivate paddy, sugarcane, casuarina, brinjal, tomato, various leafy vegetables, fresh gherkins, ladies’ fingers, plantains and millets,” says Ganesh, a farmer from Venkatapuram.  Main income source About 800 to 1,000 acres of land is under cultivation, which serves as the main source of income for at least 400 families. About 20% of the crop, especially leafy vegetables, comes to the city from these villages, says a senior official from the Agriculture Department. Rapparthi Appanna, another farmer, laments that it was harvest time and they had lost their crop. “Monsoon is approaching but we have been advised not to take up farming till the soil test report gives us a green signal. The government has given us a compensation of Rs. 10,000, but nothing for the crop loss,” he says. Venkatapuram is the oldest village in this block and was recognised as a revenue village in 1936. The LG Polymers plant, then Hindustan Polymers, had come up in 1961. “Subsequently, with the construction of the Megadrigedda reservoir and laying of railway lines, much of our land was taken away and now we use the patches between the reservoir and the railway track,” explains S. Sudhakar, another farmer. Multiple crops Most of the farmers hold small parcels of land varying from 50 cents to 1.5 acres. Farming is done throughout the year, as they get water supply from the perennial Adivaramgedda. According to a farmer Nagamani, there is no shortage of water all through the year, and after harvesting one crop they sow another. “We consume some of it and sell the remaining at the Ryhtu Bazaars. This is our only source of income and now we are facing an uncertainty,” she bemoans. Farmers demand compensation for the damaged crop and an early clearance to start farming operations.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. provided graft-free rule in State: Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the YSR Congress Party government has provided corruption-free rule since it assumed power a year ago. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, the Minister said that the government was ensuring that the fruits of welfare and development programmes reached all beneficiaries, irrespective of their political affiliations. The government has supplied free rations to the poor four times during the lockdown and they would be supplied again by the end of this month. The Village/Ward Secretariat employees had completed four rounds of COVID-19 survey. He said that works worth Rs. 100 crore were being taken up in tribal areas under the ‘Naadu – Nedu’ programme. He said that employment opportunities were provided to four lakh people and measures were being taken by the government to provide house site pattas to 20 lakh eligible poor in the State. He said that a total of Rs. 108.36 crore was distributed as pension to 4.48 lakh eligible persons in the district through volunteers. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that ‘Mana Palana – Mee Suchana’ was being organised at the district-level from Monday.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industry gearing up for normal activity||Industries in and around Visakhapatnam are getting ready for normal activity in a few months with indications that the Centre will further relax lockdown norms. At present, they are facing problem with regard to availability of public transport for the workers. Some industries are also encountering issues over inter-State transportation of raw material and finished products though there are no curbs on movement of cargo vehicles. Now, most of the industries are carrying out their operations by scaling down production due to Centre's fiat to deploy only one-third of manpower. Still, Visakhapatnam Port Trust, Gangavaram Port, HPCL Visakh Refinery, Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City, NTPC Simhadri Thermal Power Station, and Hindustan Shipyard Limited are operating to the optimum level. Only due to fall in demand, Simhadri has shut down two of its four 500 MW units. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited has also shut down two of its blast furnaces due to lack of demand for steel during COVID-19 pandemic. “Almost half of the revival process is completed. Once the logistic and working capital problems are addressed, mostly for the MSMEs as promised by the government, normalcy will be restored in a few months,” Confederation of Indian Industry State vice-chairman D.T. Raju told The Hindu. He said after giving financial aid it should be recovered in easy instalments so that it would not burden the MSME entrepreneurs. Projections As per the projections, the industries are expected to do well from the second quarter of present fiscal. Many of the industries are educating their workforce on how to live with coronavirus threat till a vaccine is developed. “We have to live with it as we cannot afford to paralyse our production for a long time,” Sravan Shipping Services MD G. Sambasiva Rao said.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel seeks more inputs||The high-power committee set up by the State government to probe the LG Polymers styrene vapour leakage incident on May 7 has decided receive further inputs till May 31 so as to submit its report within the stipulated time. It has appealed to all interested persons to send their inputs by email by the month-end atconvenorhpc@gmail.com. The committee has also decided that all the required information from the regulators, LG Polymers and other stakeholders will be gathered. It will examine and have intensive deliberations and submit its report thereafter. On its request, the State government nominated following experts to the committee: S.K. Naik, Director General, CIPET, Chennai; Bhagat Sharma, Additional Director, Regional Centre, Pune, Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change; R.K. Elengovan, DG, Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes, Mumbai; and Anjan Ray, Director, Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rooster fight: four held||The City Task Force (CTF) team busted an organised rooster fight at an open place under One Town Police Station limits on Sunday. The team led by ACP A. Trinad Rao apprehended four persons and seized four roosters and Rs. 7,910. In another raid, the CTF apprehended 15 persons for indulging in gambling.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City records 10 COVID cases in one day||The city recorded 10 COVID- 19 positive cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 99 in the district. Of the 10 cases, five were foreign returnees, who recently returned from abroad, in the ‘Vande Bharat’ flights. Four are from CB Palem and one is from Chinna Jalaripeta.
26 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA Project Officer takes charge||Venkateswar Salijamula has assumed full charge as Project Officer of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) on Monday. ITDA APO Prabhakar and Administrative Officer K. Nageswara Rao welcomed the PO.
26 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to move court over lamp tower demolition||Telugu Desam Party MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish on Monday said that the party would file a case in the court over the demolition of the historic three lamp tower while alleging that the YSR Congress Party was trying to raze down all the iconic buildings in Vizianagaram. Addressing a media conference here, he said that Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy was making unwanted allegations against former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi raju after public had reacted against him over the demolition drive. “People will teach a lesson to YSRCP for ignoring sentiments of the people,” said Mr. Jagadish.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunger pangs||
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Desperate effort||
26 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||RIMS Director rebuts allegations||Director of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, Balram Banoth on Monday said doctors, house surgeons, nurses and other staff of the hospital are resenting the steps initiated to streamline administration as well as services to patients in the hospital. There was no real basis for the protest that they had staged in front of his office recently, he added. At a press conference here, the Director detailed steps that were initiated by him to streamline the functioning of the major hospital.
26 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tribal woman seeks Minister’s intervention||A tribal woman of Palvancha town, who survived a murder attempt by a group of men in the town last month, sought the intervention of Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod to ensure stern action against the “actual perpetrators” of the crime. In a memorandum submitted to the Minister on Monday, the aggrieved woman alleged that she sustained serious injuries on her head and back in a brutal attack by around 12 goons armed with knives at the behest of a woman of her neighbourhood in Palvancha last month. Stating that she had undergone treatment at a private hospital in Khammam for three weeks and returned home a few days ago, the tribal woman apprehended threat to her life from the same gang. She charged an influential TRS youth leader of Kothagudem town with masterminding the murder attempt for spurning his sexual overtures and sought stringent action against him. The Minister reportedly spoke to police higher ups over phone and asked them to conduct a detailed probe and take stern action against the perpetrators of the crime. However, police sources said that three accused in the attempt to murder case were already arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The Palvancha town police are investigating into the case to find out the role of others, if any, behind the incident.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hazmat suits carelessly dumped at burial site||Five to six blue plastic overalls lay strewn across in the Amberpet grave yard on Monday, which were observed curiously by persons who arrived to pay obeisance to their departed kin on the occasion of Ramzan festival. They were seemingly ignorant of the fact that approaching the material out of inquisitiveness could infect them with the deadly virus which has been on a rampage across the world, killing lakhs. The blue overalls were Hazmat suits, part of the personal protective equipment worn by the handlers of the dead bodies infected with COVID-19. Despite the pandemic creating havoc in the city with ever increasing numbers, handlers of the dead bodies did not as much care to follow the due procedure in disposing of the suits, and dumped them in the graveyard against all established norms. “I have seen two dead bodies being brought here by persons wearing these suits. I even recorded it. I noticed later that the suits were dumped here,” shared Rajesh (name changed), who lives in a building adjacent to the graveyard. Video clip In the video clip shared by him, a total of six persons could be seen in the suits, five carrying a body, and one more person shooting it on his mobile phone. There were no protests when the bodies were brought here, as the road was blocked and nobody was allowed to loiter. “Everybody thought the barricading was for the flyover work which had been going on for some time,” said Rajesh, who could shoot the burial from the top floor of his building. As per the standard protocol spelt by the State government based on the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, safe disposal of the PPE worn by handlers of the body, and family members is GHMC’s responsibility. Also, the protocol enjoins the officials to ensure that the material after usage should be bagged separately marked as ‘COVID disposed Material for Incineration’ and sent in safe method of transport to approved biomedical waste management facility for incineration as per standards. AMOH, Secunderabad, Ravinder Goud, who is in-charge of the dead body disposal, said that there were strict instructions to the handlers and the driver of the ambulance, to follow the protocol. Inquiry promised “The PPEs should be enclosed in a black cover duly marked, and handed over to the Bio Medical Waste unit at Gandhi Hospital. Return of all suits is accounted for whenever a dead body is disposed of,” he said, adding that the suits may have been dumped there by outsiders, probably by private hospital staff. He said the GHMC did not use plastic suits. However, an inquiry will be instituted on the issue, he said.
26 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown casts shadow on Id||Id this year was unlike any other. The novel coronavirus and the lockdown ensured that celebrations were restrained. Idgahs, where tens of thousands usually converge, were deserted. Gatherings were much smaller, largely restricted to immediate families, and the festivities were much quieter. For instance, given the instructions from the State government and the Muslim clergy, the Idgah at the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex was closed for prayers. Police presence ensured that nobody gathered there. With several mosques too off limits for Id prayers, a vast majority prayed at home. “This Id was low-key and completely different. We are a joint family comprising 13 people. The best thing to do was to offer Id namaz at home. We watched YouTube videos of Islamic scholars on how Id prayers are offered and we made a congregation at home. Women of the family too joined. We prayed that the pandemic comes to an end, and for the health and safety of everybody. This was the norm in many homes,” said Zain Syed, a data analyst and resident of Banjara Hills. With the novel coronavirus pandemic, and lockdown in force, many decided against venturing out to meet relatives and friends. “There are senior citizens in the house so going out was out of the question. The new meeting space was the digital space. My sister lives with her family in Manikonda. So we had a video call,” said Sahar Siddiqui, a doctor. While there was movement of people during the day, observers said that this was much lesser that usual. “A huge number of people made sure that they stayed indoors once the night curfew came in force. The Id spread at the dining table too was simpler,” said Mohammed Safi, who works as a team leader in a ITeS company. But with the lockdown, small and medium businesses suffered the most. According to Syed Waseem (name changed), who had opened a restaurant six months before the lockdown was announced, resuscitating his business is an uphill task. “I have entered into a lease agreement for a fixed period of time. With no customers, paying rents are a huge problem. I am not sure how to go about it, whether I should reopen or not. The customers in any case are too few,” he said. Jameel Khan, who owns a chain of ethnic wear stores, says: There were few customers. People’s disposable income has drastically reduced. With this trend, it will be difficult for me to even pay my staff.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clamour for transparency of testing data grows shriller||Why are fewer COVID-19 tests being conducted in the State? And why is data on the number of tests conducted not shared every day? These two questions are being posed to Telangana Health officials for the past few weeks. In fact, if one scrolls through replies to Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s tweets on the daily medical bulletin, concerns of citizens are quite evident. Most of their concerns are centered on the number of tests. According to latest information provided by the Health Minister’s office on May 17, a total of 22,842 tests had been conducted in Telangana till May 14. Of those, 1,388 samples had tested positive. In comparison, a little over 2.01 lakh tests were conducted in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, over 2.79 lakh in Tamil Nadu, and 2.30 lakh in Maharashtra. The highest number of positive cases have been reported from the latter two States. While Health officials say they have been following Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines and that their strategy is focused but not random, scientists, epidemiologists and doctors attending COVID-19 patients opined more tests will help detect more cases and know the exact extent of the infectious disease. ‘Real burden unclear’ T. Jacob John, a retired professor of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, and past president of Indian Academy of Pediatrics, says, “If 22,842 tests detected 1,388 cases, imagine the number of positive cases had 45864 tests been done. Most probably you would have found 2,776 infections! The number of infections detected are proportional to number of tests. Knowing this, you can ration tests to underestimate infections or liberalise tests to understand the real burden of infections.” Kar Muthumani, director of Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases, at an institute in USA, also points out that more tests allow rapid detection, faster treatment and immediate isolation of infected individuals to prevent spread of SARS-CoV2. “Additionally, early detection allows for the identification of anyone who came in contact with the infected individuals to reduce the likelihood of spread by asymptomatic carriers,” adds Dr Muthumani, who have developed vaccines for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome and Zika virus which are in human clinical trial stage. Defending their testing strategy, Mr Rajender has, on multiple occasions, said that they are following ICMR guidelines. Highly placed sources in the State Health department said that if the argument about more tests leading to more cases holds validity, the cases in Andhra Pradesh were supposed to be higher. A little over 2.01 lakh tests were conducted to detect 2,137 cases in AP till May 14. They said that ICMR guidelines are strictly adhered to, including tests on asymptomatic direct and high risk contacts. “When we strictly follow ICMR guidelines, we get more cases. Our accuracy of tests is greater. More tests can be conducted, but what purpose will it serve if tests are not focused and less positives are detected,” highly placed sources in the Health department asks. However, the demand to maintain transparency about data on number of tests, area and district positive cases, is growing shriller by the day. After the bulletin is released at night, doctors who attend COVID-19 patients or suspects in the State compare it with medical bulletins of other States on WhatsApp groups or on Twitter to ask why the Telangana Health department cannot release day-wise data on tests conducted. The informationm which was shared daily until March 19, is released by Health Minister’s office after long gaps, or when Mr Rajender holds a press conference. It was last shared on May 17, after a gap of 18 days. Md Shazad, a chartered accountant based in Hyderabad who raised the issue, says, “In these crucial times, data transparency helps one know what the government is doing to tackle the virus.”
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Less than half of yasangi maize harvest procured so far||With less than half the estimated production of maize procured by Telangana State Cooperative Marketing Federation (TS-Markfed), the nodal agency for the food crop’s procurement, so far this yasangi season, the decision of the agency to close purchasing operations on May 31 has come as a jolt to the farming community. Of the 14.59 lakh tonnes of estimated production at 24.68 quintals per acre, the government agency has procured about 6.94 lakh tonnes as on May 25. The food crop has been cultivated in about 6.26 lakh acres this yasangi season. The production was estimated taking into account the crop’s cultivation in 5.84 lakh acres. However, the decision to conclude the procurement on May 31 comes as a surprise in spite of the repeated assurance from the government that it would procure the entire production this season in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown conditions. Apart from several ministers, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has himself stated several times that the government would procure the entire quantity of production at minimum support price of Rs. 1,760 per quintal, although farmers from a few neighbouring States were willing to bring and sell their maize and paddy at Rs. 1,100 per quintal itself. According to procurement officials, nearly 6.94 lakh tonnes of maize worth Rs. 1,221 crore has been procured from over 1.23 lakh farmers at 1,097 purchase centres opened in 28 districts. Of the procurement value, Rs. 451 crore has been credited into the bank accounts of the farmers concerned. When contacted, a Markfed official said it was decided to stop procurement since the arrivals at purchase centres have come down. The official unwilling to go on record did not comment when asked as to what would happen to the remaining production of the crop. Meanwhile, the government has so far procured about 54.12 lakh tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 9,920 crore at 6,385 purchase centres. Besides, it has also procured over 82,940 tonnes of bengalgram from 88 purchase centres, 6,190 tonnes of sunflower from 14 purchase centres and 4,300 tonnes of jowar from 23 purchase centres.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily wagers’ struggle continues despite easing of lockdown||The partial lifting of COVID-19 lockdown has not helped daily wage labourers who have stayed back in the city. In Toli Chowki, Kishen Bagh and Fateh Darwaza labour addas where they gather in the morning to share their services, there were no takers. The workers range from those who manually carry sand, cement and bricks at construction sites to the skilled ones like brick layers, plumbers, carpenters and those who do masonry work, among others. “I was hired three days ago at a site near Shaikpet. The work got over in two days and I need to find work again,” said Hanumanthu, who works as a mason. “I didn’t get any ration or money promised by the State government,” he said, flashing his Aadhaar card. “We have been eating, sleeping and watching TV for the past two months as money got exhausted. I returned from my village near Mahbubnagar three days ago to find work here but in vain,” said Shiva, a skilled mason who gets Rs. 1,500 per day as wage when he is hired. Earlier, thekedars (contractors) or owners of properties would show up and hire a number of people depending on the requirement at the work site. Most of them would begin their work by 10-11 a.m. and end it by 5 p.m. but with a curfew in place by 7 p.m., this work schedule has gone for a toss. “Now we have to end work by 2-3 p.m. so that we can reach home early,” said Padmaja, who was waiting to get some work. “I have been reduced to begging. These are the food packets I have collected today for my children and me from strangers,” said Sugunamma, emptying a bag containing four food packets. “It’s been three months that I am living like this by begging. I don’t have vessels at home, no rice and have been forced to vacate my house. We are living on the street,” said Sugunamma, who works as a daily wage labourer and lives in Filmnagar. “Forget about Rs. 1,000, I didn’t get even charana (25 paise) from the government,” she said. The reduced work opportunities has also led to reduction in number of workers who used to throng the addas. At Toli Chowki site where hundreds of workers used to wait to get hired, there were only about a dozen people on Monday.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IKEA resumes online sales in the city||Home furnishings firm IKEA India on Monday said it has resumed online services in Hyderbabad as per latest government guidelines. The company has launched ‘Click & Collect’, a safe and contactless shopping experience. Announcing this, an IKEA India statement on Monday said customers can order IKEA products on the company’s website, pay online and select the ‘Click & Collect service’ option when checking out. IKEA’s delivery team will prepare their order for them to pick up from the ‘Click & Collect’ collection station in the store’s car parking area. The store team will notify the customer by text or e-mail when they could come over to the store and collect it. The service ensures minimal contact between co-workers and customers, when the customers arrive to collect the products from the store, the company said. The release, however, did not mention when the company planned to reopen the store here, which is its first and the only one in India thus far. IKEA India had closed the store on March 20, in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, and on March 23, suspended online sales too. Hyderabad Store Manager of IKEA Aurelie Raimon said, “We are excited to meet our customers in Hyderabad again. Safety and security of our co-workers and customers are our priority and all measures have been put in place to enable safe shopping and a safe working environment, in line in with our own internal standards and government guidelines.” IKEA India website said the Hyderabad store is closed until further notice: “However, you can safely order on the website and either use our new and safe click and collect service or get your order delivered to your home. All assembly and installation services at customer homes are disabled until further notice.”
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Graveyards hard to find for COVID-19 victims||Absence of State-run electric crematoriums in city is being sorely felt by officials and staff who are entrusted with the responsibility of disposing of the bodies of those who died of COVID-19 infection. Diminutive graveyards surrounded by human habitations are being used for burying or cremating the bodies, which goes against the recommendations of the committee constituted to oversee the standard protocol. The committee constituted with eight members and headed by GHMC zonal commissioner N. Ravi Kiran recommended designated decentralised burial and cremation grounds each on 20 to 30 acres to be identified by Collectors of Medchal, Rangareddy and Sangareddy districts. Officials under the condition of anonymity say that the idea was to build memorials at the sites for COVID-19 victims. However, the authorities could not identify such huge tracts of government lands. “Here, the graveyards on both sides of the road are congested, and not ideal places for COVID-19 burials. The surrounding areas are heavily populated too,” says a resident of Amberpet. At several locations, officials are threatened by vociferous protests by residents. This is forcing them to carry the bodies to an unidentified location for disposal, when family members are unable to secure permissions at designated graveyards. Another violation One more violation of norms is in spraying of disinfectant. While the standard operating procedure requires spraying to be done every day at all the designated burial/cremation grounds, in practice, it is restricted to only when a body is disposed of. “Area up to 20 to 30 feet is sprayed before and after burial/cremation. Our staff are reluctant to visit the graveyards every day, as it poses grave risk,” an official said under the condition of anonymity.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks govt. reply on encroachment of tanks||Telangana High Court directed the State government to file counter affidavits in two PIL petitions relating to alleged encroachments of water bodies surrounding the State capital. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the government should reply to the pleas by June 24. Lawyer K. Pawan Kumar was appointed amicus curiae to assist the HC to adjudicate the two PIL petitions. A social activist Lubna Sawath filed the first PIL petition stating that illegal construction activities were being allowed in water bodies at Puppalaguda of Rajendranagar coming under Rangareddy district. With some persons filling up parts of the lakes, these water bodies are likely to disappear from the database of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority soon, it was stated in the PIL petition. A lawyer, S. Malleshwar Rao, filed another PIL plea stating that Katta Maisamma tank in Sitharam village of Qutbullahpur was being encroached upon by some persons. Multi-storied structures were coming up on the tank land by illegally occupying them, the lawyer stated. The bench directed the Registry to tag both the PIL petitions together. It observed that no one would be permitted to encroach upon the water bodies.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OU building permissions date back to 2009||The GHMC had issued building permissions on what is claimed as land belonging to Osmania University, way back back in 2009. The permission letter was shown to the officials who went to inspect the site on May 23, after Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan received a complaint by university authorities about the encroachment. According to the representation submitted to the Mayor, fresh encroachment of the land measuring 3,296 square yards happened in the name of a previous allotment to a housing society as per directions from the Supreme Court. On Saturday, the inspection team from the GHMC found a few persons clearing the plots, and upon questioning, they produced building permission issued by the GHMC in March, 2009, and the High Court orders from 2007, directing SHO Amberpet, to grant police aid to the petitioners to clear bushes in their respective plots. Upon enquiry, officials from the GHMC did not deny issuing building permissions, but said the permission lapsed in 2012, and the plot owners will have to obtain fresh permissions before starting any construction. Further the High Court orders were only for clearing bushes and not for making any construction. They also said that the plot holders had started construction of compound wall on May 24 late in the evening. The GHMC officials stopped the construction the next day, and asked the parties to maintain status quo. The plot holders will have to apply afresh for building permissions, which will be examined by the GHMC as per rules, they said.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heat wave conditions to continue for a few more days||The heat wave conditions being experienced in different parts of the State are likely to continue for a few more days. Scorching heat is being witnessed in several districts with important towns, especially those in the coal belt region, registering maximum temperatures of around 45 degree Celsius. Temperature in the twin cities was around 43 degree Celsius during the day while places like Adilabad, Nizamabad, Hanamkonda and Ramagundam registering maximum temperatures of around 45 degrees Celsius during the day, according to the India Meteorological Department’s website. The IMD said the heat wave conditions are likely to prevail over a few pockets in Adilabad, Asifabad, Nizamabad, Jagtial, Sircilla, Bhupalpalli, Warangal, Khammam, Nalgonda and parts of Mahbubnagar for the next two days. There would be light to moderate rain or thunder showers at isolated places across the State. The IMD website said the conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon in some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, Andaman sea and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around May 27. A trough from Chhattisgarh to interior Tamil Nadu is persisting about 0.9 km and is running across Telangana and Rayalaseema.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks white paper on COVID-19 spending||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday has demanded that the TRS government make a proper account of the money spent so far on containing COVID-19 especially the funds disbursed from the Centre under various accounts in the last couple of months and release a white paper. Similarly, the government should make transparent the amount of funds collected by the CM’s Relief Fund and how much of it has been spent for the healthcare and for the benefit of the migrant labour in the last couple of months, demanded party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar in an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The party chief noted that the Chief Minister had heavily criticised the Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Central government for various sectors but stated that States cannot expect freebies lest it be misused under various heads.
26 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PAGE 2/3 HMA opts for e-polls, e-AGM||The Hyderabad Management Association (HMA) has decided to hold an e-AGM and e-election. This was decided at its 11th managing committee meeting, which too was conducted virtually. HMA president Nagesh Vishwanatham said his term ends on June 30 and thereafter vice president Sanjay Kapoor has to takeover. HMA members are based in Telangana and AP. Many of them are associated with units, ranging from large to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), in various industries.
26 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man drowns in lake||A 34-year-old auto rickshaw driver, under the influence of alcohol, who rescued his friend from waters, drowned in the lake at Dervarayamjal village near Pet Basheerabad here on Monday. Eerenti Vasu of Shapur in Quthbullapur along with his friends Vikram Reddy, Shiva and Kiran consumed liquor near the lake. Around 4.30 p.m., they went near the lake and Kiran accidentally slipped and fell in the water. “Vasu jumped into the water and pushed Kiran to the bank, and during this juncture he drowned,” police said.
26 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Low key festivities mark Id-ul-Fitr in TS districts||Abiding by the social distancing guidelines, Muslims celebrated Id-ul-Fitr by conducting special prayers at their respective homes and remained indoors in various parts of Karimnagar town on Monday. There were no traditional mass prayers at the idgahs and mosques due to the ban on social gatherings. For the first time, the festival was a quiet affair. Only a few persons were allowed to perform special prayers at various mosques in the town. The police had made unprecedented security arrangements at the idgah and various mosques to avoid congregation of the people and intensified patrolling in the town. The police forces were also deployed at various markets to avoid crowding and ensure that the customers followed the social distancing norms at the mutton, chicken and other shops.  In the erstwhile integrated Nizamabad district, Id-ul-Fitr prayers were offered at homes on Monday. Instead of going to idgahs and mosques for namaz people remained confined to homes and offered prayers with their family members. When the family head read out the Quran, children and family members followed. They exchanged greetings and pleasantries mostly over phones. Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir and MLA Mohammed Shakeel Amer offered prayers at their homes at Kamareddy and Bodhan respectively.
26 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Draw up crop plans at village level: Minister||Asserting that the State government was creating an enabling environment for making farming remunerative, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar called upon the farmers to strictly follow the cropping pattern of growing crops based on market demand and boosting their farm income. Crop plans should be formulated at the village level as prescribed by the State government to enhance farm productivity and fetch better income for farmers, he said. He was addressing a district-level meeting held under the aegis of Collector R. V. Karnan to deliberate on the crop plan for the coming monsoon season here on Monday. Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, several elected public representatives, members of Rythu Bandhu Samithis and officials concerned were present. The agriculture extension officers, field staff of the allied departments and volunteers of the Rythu Bandhu Samithis should work as a cohesive force to motivate farmers cultivate those crops having demand in the market as suggested by the government, he said. Fine variety rice Farmers should be encouraged to cultivate paddy of ‘Sanna’ variety, red gram and cotton crops besides vegetables in the ensuing crop season. They should be dissuaded from growing maize during vaanakalam (kharif) to avoid losses, he suggested. Agriculture department’s crop plan for kharif-2020 envisages sowing various crops on about 3,14,420 acres. As per the plan, paddy will be grown on 2,30,000 acres, red gram on 10,000 acres, green gram on 22,000 acres, black gram on 320 acres, groundnut on 850 acres, chilli on 51,150 acres, and jowar on 100 acres.  ‘Prudent farming’ Mr. Nama Nageswara Rao said the prudent crop planning and the better farming practices as envisioned by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the new agricultural policy will help reduce losses in agriculture and make farming productive and profitable. The proactive measures coupled with the multi-level interventions such as 24x7 free power supply to farm sector, Rythu Bandhu investment support and massive expansion of irrigation facilities will prove a boon for the farm sector, the Member of Parliament noted.
26 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Police arrest four for murder||The death of a youth from Kathalgudem under suspicious circumstances here last week was a planned murder by a group of four youth, supported by their family and a ‘black magic expert’, Nalgonda police disclosed to media on Monday. Dasari Naveen, 20, a student of degree second year, was found dead in a pool of blood on Thursday early hours, a few hundred metres from his house at Kathalgudem on the town outskirts. He had left the house the previous evening when he received a phone call. According to Nalgonda Town-I police and DSP G. Venkateswar Reddy, N. Srikanth, D. Harish, M. Shekar and K. Raju bludgeoned the victim with beer bottles and then hit him with a boulder. The killing was done reportedly to avenge the death of one Dasari Ramesh, who ended his life unable to bear stomach pain. However, his family members suspected that the suicide was driven by black magic performed by his neighbour Balaiah who had benefited in a land deal in which both were involved. Ramesh’s family members approached a ‘black magic expert’ in Miryalaguda, who ‘confirmed’ that Ramesh’s suicide was a result of black magic performed by Balaiah, the police explained. “They wanted to make Balaiah feel how it is lose a son, and so devised a plan to murder Naveen,” the DSP said. All the four have been booked for murder and sent on judicial remand to Nalgonda jail.
26 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||A mini-forest amid concrete jungle||The industrial town of Ramagundam, which is also known as Agnigundam (furnace) due to the horrid heat in summers, is now turning into a cool spot. Thanks to the urban afforestation initiative taken up by NTPC Ramagundam in coordination with the Peddapalli district administration and Forest Department, the Miyawaki project taken up on an experimental basis has borne fruit within four months with cent per cent survival. NTPC-Ramagundam has launched pilot Miyawaki project on January 23, at its oxidation pond area spread over 1,618 square metres with plantation of around 3,350 trees of 53 species. At present, they are protected with drip irrigation systems, without the use of chemicals or pesticides. After two years of plantation, the forest will become self-sufficient and would not rely on any external maintenance. The dense forests not only help retain groundwater, recharge groundwater tables and support local biodiversity but also increase green cover and curb air pollution. Police join in The Karimnagar Commissionerate of Police had also taken up Miyawaki plantation at the City Police Training Centre (CPTC) on the shores of LMD reservoir and at Karimnagar Two town polices station and the Commissionerate office premises. The plants are growing at a reasonably fast pace, turning the concrete jungle into a mini-forest. At the CPTC, the police had planted 15,000 saplings, including fruit-bearing plants. The police had also won accolades for growing mini-forests on the police station premises by adopting Miyawaki plantation method. Commissioner of Police V.B. Kamalasan Reddy took up the initiative of planting saplings as part of Haritha Haram programme in 2018. Under his supervision, police had planted 25,000 saplings on the Markfed premises and protected them by drip irrigation method. The survival rate was close to 90%. Later, police hit upon the idea of growing native forests in urban areas by taking up Miyawaki technique, now being adopted at police stations with big open spaces.
26 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Ryots of five mandals favour regulated farming||As many as five mandals of Gajwel constituency, represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, have decided to go for regulated farming in the coming vaanakalam season. District Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy said on Monday that farmers in Manoharabad, Murkook, Jagadevpur, Toopran and Gajwel mandals had passed resolutions to abide by the government decision on crop pattern. He thanked the farmers for passing resolutions and said they would soon be able to see the benefits from regulated farming. In addition, 22 villages in Kondapaka mandal, 19 villages in Mulugu mandal and 12 villages in Wargal mandal have also passed similar resolutions. Since past two days farmers in villages in Siddipet and Medak districts, one after the other, are passing a resolution stating that they would not sow maize in vaanakalam crop season as suggested by the government. “We the residents of Malyala village in Chinnakodur mandal have decided not to sow maize crop in vaanakalam season and instead go for cotton or red gram or black gram or any other crop suggested by the State government. We will abide by the government decision,” they said in the resolution passed at the panchayat office. The villagers are assembling before the panchayat office and reading out pledge openly. The government has proposed to regulate the cropping pattern in the villages to ensure that agriculture turns profitable and the farmers do end up in debt. “The intention of the government is to see that farming is profitable and farmers should not fall into a debt trap. We are identifying the demand and based on that crop pattern is being suggested. The vegetable production in and around Hyderabad is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the capital. We are importing from others States. While vegetables are being cultivated in about 6,000 acres, we have to increase it by another 5,000 acres,” said Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at Sangareddy recently.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Catching the rainbow||
26 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||With wheat harvest over, Punjab registers spike in stubble burning||With wheat harvesting over in the key grain producing State of Punjab, there has been a spike in incidents of stubble burning compared with the past two years as many farmers continue to defy the ban on the practice. Government data show that across the State, between April 15 and May 24, as many as 13,026 incidents of straw fire have been reported. Last year the number of such incidents during the same period was 10,476 and in 2018, it was 11,236. Moga district has seen the highest number of farm fire incidents at 1,179, while Amritsar with 1,119 cases is at the second spot. Bathinda district is third with 1,061 cases, according to the Punjab Pollution Control Board. Karunesh Garg, member secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, told The Hindu that action was being taken against all those defying the ban. “Challans are being issued to offenders, besides police cases are also being registered against the farmers who are burning wheat straw,” he said. The ban and action against people burning the crop residue is regulated under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Mr. Garg said so far 3,141 incidents of deliberate straw burning have been identified across the State in which challan amounting to Rs. 39, 27,500 had been issued to the offenders. “Besides ‘red- pen entry’ has been made in the revenue record of 510 farmers and FIRs registered against 322 farmers for defying the ban,” said Mr. Garg.  Health issues According to Sandeep Bahl, senior environmental engineer at PPCB in Ludhiana, burning of wheat straw reduces the soil fertility, besides polluting the environment. “Burning of wheat straw can cause diseases such as problem in breathing, lungs etc, which could affect recovery of patients suffering from COVID 19,” he said.
26 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers protest restrictions on paddy cultivation in Haryana||Several farmers on Monday staged a “tractor march” in Haryana’s Fatehabad against the BJP-JJP government’s decision to restrict paddy (rice) cultivation to a few areas in the State and sought its immediate withdrawal. “Farmers have started a ‘Kisan Bacho-Kheti Bachao’ campaign and under this over 2,000 farmers from around 50 villages of Ratia block today marched on their tractors towards the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Fathehabad to register their protest against the State government’s decision of imposing restriction on paddy sowing,” said Jasbeer Singh Bhatti, Haryana president of the Rashtriya Kisan Sangathan, who supported the protest. “Let the farmer decide what is to be sown in the field. They [government] are asking farmers to sow alternative crop such as maize, but soil and climate is not conducive in most parts of the block. Besides, the compensation offered is absolutely inadequate. We want the government to immediately withdraw its anti-farmer decision,” said Mr. Bhatti. The Haryana government had recently launched ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, aimed at crop diversification to move away from water-guzzling paddy. Under the scheme, farmers sowing alternative crops other than paddy during the ensuing kharif season will get an incentive of Rs. 7,000 per acre. Eight paddy-rich blocks including Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa, where the depth of groundwater level exceeds 40 metres, are included in this scheme. Last year, the total paddy area of these eight blocks was 2,06,000 hectares, however, this year the government is aiming that to replace 50% of the area (1,03,000 hectares) with alternative crops, including maize, cotton, millet, and pulses. Congress dharna Separately, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala led a farmers’ protest by holding a dharna at Guhla-Cheeka in Kaithal district against curbs imposed on paddy cultivation. A memorandum was submitted to the local authorities demanding the revocation of the order. “The Congress would not let the State government crush the rights of the farmers. The BJP government is working to destroy the farmers by depriving them from paddy cultivation,” said Mr. Surjewala.  Let the farmer decide what is to be sown in the field. We want the government to immediately withdraw its anti-farmer decision.  Jasbeer Singh BhattiHaryana chief of Rashtriya Kisan Sangathan
26 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Pandemic dampens I’d celebrations||Shamim, 40, did not buy clothes on I’d-ul-Fitr this year. More than 2,000 people in his firm have been sacked, and he is not sure about his job as well. Sitting outside a meat shop in Masjid Market near the steps leading to Sadar Bazar Jama Masjid in Old City, Shamim, a resident of Gurugram’s Shakti Nagar, said the celebrations around I’d this year were no where close to what it was last year. ‘Saving for the future’ “Though I could, I decided not to buy clothes this I’d. Already 2,500 people in my firm have lost jobs. It is difficult to know what lies ahead. So it is better to save for the future,” said Shamim, his face duly covered with mask. His friend, Mohammad Sahid, who runs the shop in the market, said the business this year was just 25-30% of what it was last year. He added that people would throng the mosque and the surrounding areas in thousands every I’d to offer Namaz, but this year the place wore a deserted look. Ilyas, 55, selling seviyans too sounded dejected. A resident of neighbouring Nuh, he said that sale was just half compared with the last year. Mohammed Shadir, running another meat shop in the market, said he had opened his shop just two days and the usual hustle-bustle surrounding I’d was missing. The market association’s president Mohammed Tahir said the market mostly catered to the migrants and more than half of them had returned to the home towns. He said the religious leaders had also prohibited mass offering of Namaz at the mosque impacting the sales. “I bought around a quintal of buffalo meat hoping for some business after the lockdown, but I suffered a loss instead,” said Mr. Tahir. He said the entire Ramzan month also did not see much business since the shops remained closed for most part of it. Mr. Tahir said he offered Namaz at his home on I’d and did not make any dishes. Shiryauddin, 50, a daily-wager said he could not go to his village in neighbouring Nuh since the buses were not plying. He said he was without work for more than two months now, and could not celebrate. ‘Hate campaign’ Shakir, running a dairy near Pataudi Chowk, visiting the market said his business suffered after a hate campaign against Muslims accusing them of spreading the deadly virus and he had to sell off his cattle. “I need to start from scratch now. It does not even feel like I’d,” said Shakir.
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||5 men lynch vegetable vendor||The Assam police on Monday arrested two people for lynching a vegetable vendor two days ago. The incident happened at Monahkuchi village near in Kamrup district’s Hajo, about 35 km northwest of Guwahati. Police said the middle-aged vendor, identified as Sanatan Deka, was attacked after his bicycle had alleged grazed the vehicle of the accused on May 23 evening. The victim, from Tetelia village in the district, had taken to selling vegetables after losing his factory job during the COVID-19 lockdown. Jalil Ali and Sabir Ali, who were in the vehicle, quarrelled with the vegetable vendor after the minor accident. Three others joined the duo and thrashed Mr. Deka, the police said. The five fled when the locals gathered. They rushed the vendor, grievously injured, to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. “We have arrested Faizur Hoque and Eyusuf Uddin Ahmed, two of the accused. We are hopeful of catching the other three soon,” a district police officer said.
26 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland reports ‘first’ virus case||Nagaland on Monday reported its first COVID-19 case although a person in the State’s commercial hub Dimapur had tested positive after being referred to a hospital in Assam more than a month ago. Menukhol John, Nagaland’s Principal Secretary Health said three persons — two men and a woman — who returned from Chennai in Tamil Nadu last week tested positive for the viruss. “Two of them are showing mild symptoms and one is asymptomatic,” he said, adding that their samples were tested in Kohima. Officially, Nagaland is the last of the States after Sikkim to report COVID-19 positive cases. But a trader from Dimapur had tested positive in Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on April 12.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||635 new COVID-19 cases; Minister’s staff infected||The city registered 635 new COVID-19 cases in the the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,053. This is the second-biggest single-day jump in cases so far. A record 660 new cases were registered on May 22, as per the government’s health bulletin. Also, 15 more deaths have been added to the toll, which now stands at 276. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 14,053 cases, 6,771 people have recovered and there are 7,006 active cases. Delhi Secretariat It has emerged that a person working at Health Minister Satyendar Jain’s camp office has tested positive for COVID-19. “He was tested positive on Sunday and has been quarantined. Also, the Minister’s offices have been sanitised,” a Delhi government source said, adding that the patient is the Minister’s personal staff and used to come to the Delhi Secretariat also. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment. Earlier, a driver working for the Health and Family Welfare Department at the Delhi Secretariat had tested positive for the virus.  Medical staff recover  Around 100 healthcare workers of Delhi government’s Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, who had been infected, have recovered, said hospital officials. “Almost all of them have joined the hospital,” a hospital official said. Three more healthcare workers of the hospital, including a sanitation worker, tested positive on Monday, taking the total number of workers infected to 117. Meanwhile, doctors working in city hospitals on Monday halted their on-going protest against the government’s decision to cancel 14-day quarantine for all healthcare workers, after they work on COVID-19 duty for the same number of days. On Sunday, the Chief District Medical Officer (north-west) had issued an order that healthcare workers staying in hotels or bhawans in the district can stay “beyond 14 days of duty”, but up to “only 21 days”. “Healthcare workers, after doing their duties for 14 days, are at a risk to their families,” the order noted. Seven days of quarantine “They have allowed us seven days of quarantine after 14 days of duty. We have halted the protest as we are awaiting official communication on it from the union and Delhi government," said Shivaji Dev Barman, president of Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association India.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Heatwave sweeps north India||Several parts of north India reeled under an intense heatwave with many districts in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh posting temperatures over 45 degrees Celsius or five degrees above what is normal. Churu in Rajasthan registered 47° C whereas Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh recorded 46° C. The State and district administrations have warned the residents to take precautions. On Sunday, the India Meteorological Department had forecast “heatwave to severe heatwave conditions” over northwest, central and adjoining peninsular India for most of the week along with heavy rain over northeast India. Many parts of coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Maharashtra also saw temperatures soar above 42° C, triggering heatwave conditions.  Northwesterly winds The heat was due to dry northwesterly winds prevailing over northwest and central India. The IMD said that summer temperatures in May — on average — were lower than usual mostly due to several rain-bearing Western Disturbances. High summer temperatures in north India are one of the factors important for drawing in the monsoon rain into Kerala. However, cyclone Amphan delayed this advent. The IMD had said that it expected the monsoon to hit Kerala only on June 5, while Skymet, a private weather forecast agency, disagreed saying it might hit the State by May 28. Beginning Saturday, May temperatures are finally in the realm of normal for this time of the year in north India.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 outbreak in city under control: CM||The COVID-19 outbreak in the city is “under control”, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said at a digital briefing on Monday — a week after lockdown restrictions were eased in the city. He , however, added that the government was prepared for a possible upsurge in cases even as, according to him, most patients of the disease were seen to be exhibiting “mild symptoms”. Since the curbs were eased, Mr. Kejriwal said there had been around 3,500 new cases, and around 2,500 patients had recovered. He added that around 2,000 new beds have been reserved in 117 private hospitals, along with 2,500 beds that are currently available in government hospitals. “We are also preparing around 1,500 beds in GTB Hospital,” said the CM. “It has been a week since some relaxations were given. After a period of one week, I can say that the situation is under control and there is no need to worry. We had expected a sudden rise in cases after the relaxations and that has happened, but there is no need to worry,” he said. “The situation will get worrisome in two cases: if there is a steady rise in the death rate and if the cases are so severe that it leads to the collapse of our healthcare system,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal said there are 3,829 beds in government hospitals out of which 3,164 beds had oxygen availability. Only 1,478 beds are currently occupied leaving around 2,500 beds unoccupied. There are 250 ventilators available in government hospitals of which only 11 are being used. There are 72 ventilators in private hospitals out of which only 15 are being used, he added. Home isolation “Most of the new cases of COVID-19 have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. These cases do not need to be admitted to hospitals and are advised to follow home isolation. My team stays in regular touch with them,” he said. Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Monday ordered all District Magistrates to appoint SDM-level officers as nodal officers to ensure unhindered supply of essential services and medicines to people who have tested positive for COVID-19 and are under home isolation.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||2 Pinjra Tod activists rearrested moments after getting bail||Two Pinjra Tod activists, who were on Sunday granted bail in connection with anti-CAA protests in Jafrabad, were rearrested moments later in a case of rioting and murder related to the north-east Delhi riots. Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita were initially arrested on Saturday in relation with an FIR lodged on February 24 over a sit-in protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, at Jafrabad metro station. The police had sought two-days custody stating that the women were “active in anti-India activities”. Metropolitan Magistrate Ajeet Narayan, however, rejected the plea of the Delhi police and granted bail to the two women in the first FIR. The activists were, however, immediately arrested by the Crime Branch in connection with a separate FIR lodged in connection with the north-east Delhi riots under charges of Sections 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder), among others. The FIR also named relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. They were produced before the same judge, and the Crime Branch sought 14-day remand. The investigating officer said that the accused have to be thoroughly interrogated to ‘uncover conspiracy behind the riots and identity co-accused’. The activists have been remanded to two days’ police custody. Release demanded The Communist Party of India as well as the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have condemned the arrest of the activists, who are JNU students, and demanded their release. “Arrest of student activists, and human rights and civil rights activists are really attacks on the Constitution and our democratic polity,” the CPI said. “It is evident that the Centre is using the police to create an opportunity to crush political resistance. Serious cases like UAPA have been registered against several students,” the CPI(M) said. Meanwhile, the Delhi State Committee of CPI(M) cautioned the Delhi police not to become a political puppet.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP, BJP trade barbs over mishandling of epidemic||The BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday hurled accusations at one another over the handling of the COVID-19 outbreak. While the BJP accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of “serving a new lie” about the pandemic at press briefings every day, the AAP attacked the BJP on COVID-19 management in Gujarat and also hit out at BJP Delhi chief Manoj Tiwari for playing cricket in another State and violating the rules of the lockdown. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that Mr. Kejriwal had become “a machine of lies, as he seeks to hide the failures of the Delhi Health Department”. “Mr. Kejriwal should answer when the Delhi government will stop playing with statistics? How long will the Delhi government continue to harass the people of Delhi with data on infections?” he said. Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta alleged that the health system of Delhi had collapsed and the pandemic had reached unauthorised settlements as well as slums.  Meanwhile, AAP MP Sanjay Singh accused the BJP of being insensitive to the plight of the poor and stranded migrants and attacked Mr. Tiwari for playing cricket in another State. “Every day thousands of poor migrants are walking on the streets of India. Many of them have lost their lives due to road accidents. But ignoring such a humanitarian crisis, how can an elected public representative go to another State to play cricket? How can a public representative be so insensitive?” ‘Gujarat has failed: AAP Alleging mismanagement of the virus outbreak in BJP-led Gujarat, Mr. Singh said that the High Court there had said that the condition of State civil hospital were as good as a dungeon. “Around 865 people have died in Gujarat due to the virus and the number of deaths in the State is the highest in India. It is crystal clear that the health infrastructure of Gujarat has completely failed,” the AAP MP added.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 445 Delhi police personnel infected||Over 445 Delhi police personnel have been found infected with the COVID-19 that include four SHOs and an Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police-rank officer, a senior police officer said on Monday. The officer added that in a meeting, Commissioner of Police (CP) S.N. Shrivastava reviewed the health status of police personnel. He reviewed the trend of cases reported in different units and directed all the Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) to personally visit all the police stations/units and ensure that all the health-related protocols are maintained properly. He said circulars had been issued in this regard to all district DCPs. In the meeting, after Mr. Shrivastava was informed that the number or containment zones were increasing, he said that joint CPs and district DCPs should take up the matter with the authorities concerned to reduce the size of containment zones so that they could be covered effectively. There were reports regarding police stations barring entry of PCR and traffic staff to access barracks in police stations as the staff fear outbreak of COVID-19 at police stations. After the matter was brought to the notice of senior police officers, a fresh set of instructions were passed to all police stations ensuring access to traffic and police control room unit staffers to use barracks but it was mentioned that there should be social distancing and regular sanitisation. Mr. Shrivastava also reviewed the health status of infected policemen. He said that Joint CPs should share the list of panel of doctors with all concerned so that the services of these doctors may be utilised for briefing and counselling of police staff who required medical advice. Isolation facility Mr. Shrivastava was also informed that a place had been arranged in South district for keeping asymptomatic policemen under isolation who have been permitted by doctors to stay at home.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Heatwave continues to scorch Capital||Heatwave continued in several parts of the national capital on Monday with the maximum temperature at Safdarjung, the official reading of city, settling four notches above normal at 44 degrees Celsius. The minimum was recorded at 27.2 degrees, which was one notch above normal. The weather station at Palam recorded a maximum of 46.2 degrees, while the Lodhi Road station and Ayanagar recorded maximums of 44 and 45.6 degrees respectively. Dry winds blew across Delhi with humidity hovering between 18% and 52%. According to forecast, Tuesday is likely to get hotter. The forecast read: “Mainly clear sky with strong surface winds during the day. Heatwave conditions at few places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 45 and 28 degrees respectively. Met department said some relief is expected on Thursday as there is a possibility of thundery development which may bring down temperatures by a few notches.
26 May 2020||Noida,||Zee office building in Noida sealed||The Zee Media Corporation Limited building in Noida’s Sector 16 has been sealed for sanitisation and access to it will be allowed only after the health team issues a fitness certificate, the District Surveillance Officer of Gautam Buddha Nagar said in a statement on Monday. The statement said the building was sealed after the second employee and six more people, who were in contact with the first employee of the organisation, tested positive for COVID-19. The first employee had tested positive on May 15. The closure process was undertaken under the supervision of the district’s Chief Medical Officer.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||FM’s package of no use to micro enterprises: ex-CM||Former Maharashtra chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Monday said the package announced by the Union government is of no help to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), especially micro enterprises. Mr Chavan said a fresh Union budget needs to be presented in the next session of Parliament, considering the impact of successive lockdowns on the economy. Over 6 cr. MSMEs “India has 6.34 crore MSMEs, out of which 6.3 crore are micro enterprises. Out of 11.09 crore workers in MSMEs, around 10.76 crore are employed in micro businesses,” Mr. Chavan said, addressing the press. As per the Union Finance Minister’s announcement, enterprises with a turnover of around Rs. 100 crore, and borrower accounts with outstanding credit of up to Rs. 25 crore on February 29, 2020, will get a loan up to 20% of the outstanding amount. “Which micro enterprise has a turnover of Rs. 100 crore? The announcement essentially means that these 6.3 crore micro enterprises and 10.76 crore workers are automatically negated from the package,” he said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs. 20 lakh-crore package and subsequent explanations from Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman turned out to be ‘hollow.’ “Nobody trusts this government’s economic policies anymore. How is it going to raise money for developmental works? How much is it going to spend on health services? Are salary cuts planned? All these questions need to be answered,” he said. A new budget has to be presented considering the financial position once Parliament meets in June, a loan will have to be availed of, and currency printing has to be pushed, Mr. Chavan said. “But no bold measures are seen in this package.” The Rs. 20 lakh cr. mystery Mr. Chavan referred to Goldman Sachs’ recent prediction that the Indian economy may drop to (-)5% in financial year 2020-21. “The government has to come up with new economic equations,” he said. Hitting out at the Rs. 20 lakh-crore figure, Mr. Chavan said that despite the announcements, it is yet not clear how much money is going to be given. “Forget us, 12 global financial institutions have also not been able to give us the exact number. On an average, from their numbers, the actual amount is barely 1% of the GDP,” he said.  Which micro enterprise has a turnover of Rs. 100 crore... 6.3 crore micro enterprises and 10.76 crore workers are automatically negated Prithviraj Chavan Congress leader
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||NCP chief meets Governor amid rising tensions in State||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday met with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on an invitation sent by the latter. The NCP claimed that no political issue was discussed and the meeting was a regular courtesy visit. Speaking to reporters after leaving Raj Bhavan, NCP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel said, “It was a routine meeting between them. It was not about any particular political issue.” Call for President’s Rule Later in the day, former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP Narayan Rane too met the Governor, demanding President’s Rule in Maharashtra. “The present government led by Uddhav Thackeray is incapable of handling the COVID-19 crisis and it has failed completely. The Governor must dissolve this government and bring in President’s Rule,” said Mr. Rane after the meeting. Meanwhile, the timing of the meeting between the NCP chief and Mr. Koshyari holds significance as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government (of which the NCP is a key constituent), and the Raj Bhavan. Mr. Pawar was the first leader from the State to openly complain about Mr. Koshyari’s intervention in the functioning of the State administration. Additionally, BJP leaders have chosen to make frequent visits to Raj Bhavan, complaining about the ruling party. The UGC disagreement The State government had also locked horns with Mr. Koshyari over the latter’s demand for autonomy in appointing his official staff. The General Administration Department has not sanctioned the request yet, as it has never been done anywhere in the country. Recently, the Governor had taken a strong objection to a letter written by State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant to the University Grants Commission (UGC), recommending cancellation of final year university exams. In a letter to the CM, Mr. Koshyari said not conducting the examinations amounts to breach of UGC guidelines. He also asked Mr. Thackeray to issue suitable instructions to Mr. Samant for his unwarranted intervention.  Last week, Mr. Thackeray did not attend the scheduled review meeting of measures against COVID-19 held by the Governor. Instead, he asked Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta to be present there as his representative.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||HC paves way for release of Netflix horror series Betaal||Betaal , a horror series produced by actor Shah Rukh Khan’s Red Chillies Entertainment and Netflix Entertainment Services, will face no legal obstruction for its worldwide release after a single Bench of the Bombay High Court refused to interfere in its release in a recent order. The web series was scheduled to be released on May 24. A scriptwriter, Sameer Wadekar, had moved the HC praying for an injunction against the production houses, claiming that of the series had many similarities to his work Vetaal , which he penned in 2013-14, and registered with the copyright office and Screen Writers Association in 2015. Mr. Wadekar claimed that on May 7, he received a YouTube link to the promotional video of Betaal from a friend, and the 146-second clip had at least 13 similarities to his work. He said the projections made by the producers of Betaal had infringed on his copyright and were plagiarised from his fictional story, and the characters, props and locations which he had created. However, Mr. Wadekar’s claims did not impress the Bench of Justice K.R. Shriram who noted that he did not get convincing answers on how an original story created by Mr. Wadekar had landed in the hands of the writer of Betaal.  The judge also noted that the claim came very late as Netflix had announced Betaal in July 2019, and several publications, print and online, had written stories to that effect. The judge also noted that the concept of Betaal originates from the mythological story of Vikramaditya and the witty ghost Betaal. But the court allowed Mr. Wadekar to amend his plea and claim damages against the producers of the web series.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||Raut takes jibe at Goyal over train diversion||In a dig at Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over the diversion of the Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Sharmik Special train via Odisha, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said their only request is that train carrying migrants should reach its destination as announced. The Sena’s alliance partner the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), however, took a different stand, saying Mr. Goyal and his ministry are under pressure and their efforts should be appreciated. The Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Sharmik Special train to Uttar Pradesh, which left from Palghar on May 21, was diverted to a different route via Odisha due to heavy congestion. It reached Gorakhpur two-and-a-half days later, when it should have reached the destination in about 25 hours. Amid the political slugfest over the Shramik Special trains, Mr. Goyal on Sunday night said, “We are ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra.” “Since you have said that you have a list ready that is why I am requesting you to please provide all information like from where the train will run, the list of passengers according to the trains, their medical certificate and where the train is to go, to the General Manager of Central Railway within the next hour, so that we can plan the time of trains,” the Railway Minister tweeted. Replying to it, Mr. Raut on Monday tweeted, “Maharashtra government has given you a list of workers who wish to return home. The only request is that the train should reach the station, as announced earlier.” “The Gorakhpur bound train had reached Odisha,” the Sena leader further said. However, when asked if the Railway Minister was politicising the issue, NCP leader Praful Patel said the Indian Railways and Mr. Goyal are also under pressure. “Their efforts should be respected. We appreciate that they are providing trains so that people can reach home,” Mr. Patel said.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||Plea seeking termination of 24-week foetus with Down Syndrome rejected||The Bombay High Court has rejected a petition filed by a 33-year-old woman from Dahisar, 24 weeks pregnant with twins, to allow her to terminate one of the foetuses diagnosed with Down Syndrome. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja rejected the petition based on recommendations of a medical board. On May 15, the court had referred the woman to a medical board of the JJ Hospital and Grant Medical College, and had asked the board to submit a report by May 22. The board made recommendations contrary to the woman’s application, following which the Bench rejected the petition. The board said there are chances that the termination of one foetus will affect the other foetus too. The woman had said she had gone through maternal screening tests on April 29 and May 7. The second test results showed that one foetus suffered from Down Syndrome. On May 11, she took a second opinion from a gynaecologist and obstetrician who said the foetus suffered from an untreatable chromosomal anomaly, which could cause substantial risk of mental or physical disability. This prompted her to approach the High Court seeking permission to terminate the foetus, claiming that the gynaecologist had told her terminating one foetus would pose no higher risk to her in the delivery.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||No interim relief for HDIL promoters||A Sessions court has rejected the interim bail plea filed by Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan, promoters of HDIL and key accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank scam. Mr. Wadhawan and his son Sarang have been kept at Arthur Road jail since their arrest in October last year. The former claimed that he suffers from various ailments and was prone to contracting COVID-19. Special public prosecutor Hiten Venegavkar opposed the bail and said Arthur Road is a containment zone and no person can go in or come out. Thus, in the current situation, it would not be advisable to allow a prisoner to go out into the society and risk the health of all. Mr. Venegavkar informed the court that Mr. Wadhawan was kept in isolation and all medical facilities were provided to him. The other ground for opposing bail was that the duo has been charged under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and these charges are not covered by the high powered committee constituted to release prisoners. On May 8, an additional metropolitan magistrate rejected their pleas.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||China warns U.S. of retaliation if punished for Hong Kong law||China on Monday threatened counter-measures against the U.S. if it was punished for plans to impose a sedition law on Hong Kong, that the business hub’s security chief hailed as a new tool that would defeat “terrorism”. Beijing plans to pass a new security law for Hong Kong that bans treason, subversion and sedition after months of massive, often-violent pro-democracy protests last year. But many Hong Kongers, business groups and Western nations fear the proposal could be a death blow to the city’s treasured freedoms and thousands took to the streets on Sunday despite a ban on mass gatherings introduced to combat coronavirus. As police dispersed the crowds with tear gas and water cannon, Washington’s National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien warned the new law could cost the city its preferential U.S. trading status. But China’s Foreign Ministry said Beijing would react to any sanctions from Washington. “If the U.S. insists on hurting China’s interests, China will have to take every necessary measure to counter and oppose this,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters on Monday. Hong Kong has become the latest flashpoint in soaring tensions between the world's two super powers which China has likened to “the brink of a new Cold War”. The refusal to grant Hong Kongers democracy has sparked rare bipartisan support in an otherwise bitterly divided Washington during the Donald Trump administration. Foreign-backed plot Beijing portrays the city’s protests as a foreign-backed plot to destabilise the motherland and says other nations have no right to interfere in how the international business hub is run. Protesters, who have hit the streets in their millions, say they are motivated by years of Beijing chipping away at the city’s freedoms since it was handed back to China by Britain in 1997. Hong Kong enjoys liberties unseen on the mainland, as well as its own legal system and trade status. Campaigners view the security law proposal as the most brazen move yet by Beijing to end free speech and the city’s ability to make its own laws. Of particular concern is a provision allowing Chinese security agents to operate in Hong Kong, with fears it could spark a crackdown on those voicing dissent against China’s communist rulers. The proposed law, which China’s rubber-stamp legislature is expected to act on quickly, will also bypass Hong Kong’s own legislature. The city’s influential Bar Association on Monday described the proposed motion as “worrying and problematic” — and warned it may even breach the territory’s mini-constitution. The proposal has spooked investors with Hong Kong’s stock exchange suffering its largest drop in five years on Friday. Hong Kong’s government has welcomed the law. “Terrorism is growing in the city and activities which harm national security, such as ‘Hong Kong independence’, become more rampant,” Security Minister John Lee said in a statement.  U.S. sanctions Meanwhile, in a separate development that signals rising tensions between China and the U.S., Beijing vowed to shield a Chinese government institute and eight companies sanctioned by the U.S. over alleged human rights violations in the restive Xinjiang region, where China is accused of mass repression of mostly Muslim minorities. The U.S. Department of Commerce announced the sanctions on Friday, saying they were triggered by human rights abuses against Uighurs and other minority groups in Xinjiang in China's far northwest. Beijing urged Washington to reverse the decision, saying the Commerce Department had “stretched the concept of national security” to “meddle in China’s affairs and harm China’s interests”.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. is now more clear in support for India on China border issues’||Amid heightened tensions on the India-China border, the outgoing top U.S. diplomat for South and Central Asia, Alice Wells, on May 20 hit out at China, saying the tensions reminded the world of the “threat” posed by Beijing. China slammed the remarks as “nonsense”. Jeff Smith, Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation in Washington, explains why her comments are significant, with the U.S. in the past not forthcoming about expressing support on the boundary issue. Excerpts:  Ambassador Alice Wells has said the border incidents have reflected a pattern of China’s behaviour, also seen in the South China Sea. Do you think both are linked? Ambassador Wells made a series of fairly robust assertions in her remarks, including underscoring U.S. recognition of the McMahon Line and Indian sovereignty over Arunachal Pradesh. These are in fact long-standing positions of the U.S. government, but positions it has not always been forthcoming about. In 2012, I recall asking State Department officials, when was the last time the U.S. government reiterated support for the McMahon Line and Indian sovereignty over Arunachal Pradesh? They replied they couldn’t find any comments on the matter in a search of archives stretching back to 2000. Having Ambassador Wells reiterate the position during a time of crisis is noteworthy. I’m hesitant to draw connections among the different fronts, because I do think China calibrates each policy individually. Do you expect to see a different approach from the U.S. towards the region as concerns about China rise? I think the U.S. government wants to ensure that we’re in a position to facilitate stronger security ties with any of these countries that are interested. I think that, frankly, we’ve done a good job in the last few years with the Quad [U.S.-India-Japan-Australia], with not only reviving it, but with upgrading it to the ministerial level and adding new aspects to the quad like counterterrorism exercises. There hasn’t been a wave of regional balancing activity the way some realist theorists might have predicted, in part because China has done a very effective job winning over elites in neighbouring capitals, and convincing them of the economic benefits of engagement with China.  Is the China factor driving the deepening security cooperation between India and the U.S.? The amount of progress the [Narendra] Modi and [Donald] Trump administrations have made over the last three years or so is remarkable. If you just look at the revival and upgrading of the Quad, the establishment of a 2+2 Foreign and Defence Ministers dialogue, the signing of COMCASA [Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement], the likely signing of the BECA [Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement] this year, the stationing of an Indian officer at CENTCOM [Central Command], our first tri-service military exercise. We had a joint sail through the South China Sea that was joined by Japan and the Philippines. If I had a wish list of items to strengthen the U.S.-India strategic partnership before the Trump administration, I’d say they've already accomplished 90% of them. In the past, U.S. administrations have been sensitive to India’s own considerations vis-à-vis China. Has that changed? Is the Trump administration pushing countries to choose? I don’t think that has changed. It’s been 15 years since the civil nuclear deal was announced. In that time I think Washington has developed an understanding of India’s unique disposition, its sensitivities, and its complex relationship with China. And if you look at the record, to my knowledge the Trump administration has not really pushed for India to assume any positions on China it is uncomfortable with. It’s certainly been encouraged when India has supported things like upgrading the Quad or engaging in a joint sail through the South China Sea. Where there has been some friction, it has been over sanctions related to Iran and Russia. On China, the Trump administration hasn’t made any attempt to force India to choose. Is the U.S. approach to China here to stay regardless of the outcome of November’s elections? I believe so. For a long time, I think China was given a free pass with the promise of expected future benefits, including economic and political liberalisation. Those days are over. I think that bipartisan consensus has not only held but sharpened over the past few years. The competition is here to stay and is likely to intensify. The contours of that competition and points of emphasis might change under different administrations but there is clearly a change under way that I think will be lasting and will endure, regardless of who is in the White House.  Over the years, the U.S. has developed an understanding of India’s complex ties with China
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Wuhan uses sample pooling to conduct 6.57 million tests in 10 days||Wuhan, the city at the centre of China’s COVID-19 outbreak, has conducted 6.5 million tests for COVID-19 in the past 10 days, officials said on Monday following a massive citywide campaign launched on May 14. The city launched the unprecedented 10 day-campaign to test all of its 11 million residents after a cluster of asymptomatic infections was reported on May 9. Target of 11 million Between May 14 and May 23, 6.57 million tests were conducted, the health authority said, falling a little short of the ambitious 11 million target, which is expected to be reached this week. The city still managed to carry out a record 1.47 million nucleic acid tests in a single day, on Saturday, which marked a 15-fold jump in the daily testing prior to the campaign. The tests, which were free, were carried out by throat swabs in designated locations around the city. Each of the city’s 13 administrative districts was tasked with coming up with a plan, which would first prioritise residential areas where cases had been reported. Children under six were not tested. The city managed to carry out such a large number by a method called sample pooling, The Wall Street Journal reported. After individual samples are collected, five to ten are bundled and processed in a single nucleic acid test. The entire group is cleared if the test comes out negative. The technique goes back to the Second World War when the U.S. military pooled samples for syphilis screening, The Journal said. The tests so far have not thrown up a high number of asymptomatic cases. On Monday, 38 new asymptomatic cases were reported and Wuhan now has a total of 326 asymptomatic cases under observation. Wuhan had completed three million tests in total before the campaign was launched on May 14.
26 May 2020||Kabul,||Afghan government frees 100 Taliban prisoners||Afghan authorities released 100 Taliban prisoners on Monday as part of the government’s response to a surprise, three-day ceasefire the insurgents called to mark the Id al-Fitr festival. The pause in fighting, only the second of its kind in Afghanistan’s nearly 19-year-old war, appeared to be holding on day two after the government welcomed the truce by announcing plans to release up to 2,000 Taliban inmates. President Ashraf Ghani said his administration was also ready to hold peace talks with the Taliban, seen as key to ending the war in the impoverished country. “The government of Afghanistan has today released 100 Taliban prisoners from Bagram prison,” said National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal. He said the prisoner release was to “help the peace process” and will continue until 2,000 prisoners are freed. The Taliban insists Kabul must release all 5,000 members as agreed in the deal with the U.S. “This process should be completed in order to remove hurdles in the way of commencement of intra-Afghan negotiations,” Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen said on Twitter.
26 May 2020||London,||Johnson defends aide||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday failed to draw a line under a scandal over his top aide Dominic Cummings allegedly breaching coronavirus rules. Mr. Johnson told the nation on Sunday that Mr. Cummings was following his paternal instincts by dropping off his baby son at his grandparents’ house while he and his wife were sick. “I think he followed the instincts of every father and every parent,” said Mr. Johnson.
26 May 2020||Sydney,||Sydney, May 25, 2020 (AFP) -||An inquiry into Australia’s recent bushfires opened on Monday, with a stark warning that such disasters would become longer and more frequent. The Royal Commission heard from a leading government scientist that last summer was not a “one-off event”.Reuters
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The problem with the liquidity push||The present government’s much-hyped, post-COVID-19 relief and recovery package has disappointed many. It provides little by way of additional budgetary resources to halt and reverse the economic and social collapse that the pandemic and the response to it has triggered. Most estimates place the additional fiscal allocation implicit in the proposals at about a tenth of the size of the package, which the government claims amounts to around 10% of GDP. In its effort to tote up a 10% of GDP relief-cum-stimulus figure, the government has relied heavily on measures aimed at pushing credit to banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and businesses big and small, which are expected to use borrowed funds to lend to others, make payments falling due, compensate employees even while under lockdown, and otherwise spend even while not earning. The thrust is to get the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and other public financial institutions to infuse liquidity and increase lending by the financial system, by offering the latter capital for longer periods at a repo or policy interest rate that has been cut by more than a percentage point to 4%. The fourth ‘l’ There was a hint that this would be the thrust when the Prime Minister in his speech calling for a “self-reliant India” identified, besides land, labour and laws, “liquidity” as among the areas of focus of the package. In economic and business parlance, liquidity refers to ease of access to cash — a liquid asset is one that can be easily sold for or replaced with cash, and a liquid firm or agent is a holder of cash, a line providing access to cash, or assets that can be easily and quickly converted to cash without significant loss of value. In periods of crisis, individuals, small businesses, firms, financial institutions and even governments tend to experience a liquidity crunch. Relaxing that crunch is a focus of the government’s crisis-response package. In keeping with that perspective, it gives a much larger role to enhancing liquidity than it does either to direct transfers to the poor and precariously employed workers devastated by the crisis, or to spending to ensure that micro- and small businesses would remain viable and along with medium and big businesses, would ride a demand revival when the lockdown ends. Focus on NBFCs The main intermediaries being enlisted for the task of transmitting liquidity are the banks, with NBFCs constituting a second tier. Among the first steps taken by the RBI was the launch of special and ‘targeted’ long term repo operations (TLTROs), which allowed banks to access liquidity at the repo rate to lend to specified clients. One round of such operations, which was relatively more successful, called for investment of the cheaper capital in higher quality investment grade corporate bonds, commercial paper, and non-convertible debentures. That funding allowed big business, varying from Reliance and L&T to financial major HDFC, to access cheap capital to substitute for past high-cost debt or finance ongoing projects. There is little evidence that this is triggering new investment decisions. The second round was geared to saving NBFCs, whose balance sheets were under severe stress even before the COVID-19 strike, because they were finding it difficult to roll over the short-term debt they had incurred to finance longer term projects, including lending to small and medium businesses, housing and real estate. Banks were wary about lending to these NBFCs, because of fears that their clients could default in amounts that would bring the viability of these institutions into question. Those fears were confirmed when Franklin Templeton announced that it was shutting down six of its funds, setting off redemption requests across the NBFC sector, as investors rushed to take back their money, at a time when the ability of these institutions to mobilise funds to meet these demands had been impaired. Not surprisingly, banks were unwilling to respond when liquidity was infused to target lending to the NBFCs. Building on these initial liquidity infusion efforts, the COVID-19 package identified more intermediaries (such as the Small Industries Development Bank of India, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, and the National Housing Bank) that could refinance lending by the banks to different sections, with targeted lending amounts providing figures to fatten the “stimulus”. To persuade the banks and other intermediaries to take up these offers when the clients they must lend to (micro, small and medium enterprises, street vendors, marginal farmers, etc.) are themselves stressed, in some instances the government offered them partial or full credit guarantees in case their clients defaulted. The government also sought to persuade the RBI to lend directly to NBFCs against their paper. These measures, which are only marginally effective even in the best of times, will not work during this crisis. Consider a bank or NBFC lending to small business. With economic activity either at a complete stop or at a fraction of the normal, those who can access credit would either not borrow or only do so to protect themselves and not use the funds either to pay their workers or buy and stock inputs. Even after the lockdown is lifted, the compression of demand resulting from the loss of employment and incomes would be considerable. It would be aggravated by the fact that spending by a fiscally conservative government would fall sharply because of a collapse in revenue collections. Faced with sluggish demand, firms are unlikely to meet past and current payments commitments and help the revival effort, just because they have access to credit. This would mean that credit flow would actually not revive. This danger is even greater because the government has been measly with its guarantees, not wanting to accumulate even contingent liabilities that do not immediately affect the fiscal deficit. On disposable income Another component of the “liquidity” push is the measures that temporarily increase the disposable income of different sections. Advance access to savings like provident fund contributions, lower tax deduction at source, reduced provident fund contributions and moratoriums on debt service payments for a few months, are expected to provide access to cash inflows and reduce cash outflows, to induce agents to meet overdue payments or just spend to enhance the incomes of others. These are marginal in scope, if relevant at all. They have been combined with non-measures like adding on pending payments such as income tax refunds to spike “liquidity provision”. Overall, the “transmission” of the supply side push from these monetary policy initiatives for relief and revival is bound to be weak. Given the circumstances, the liquidity push, even if partially successful, would only culminate in eventual default, as borrowers use the debt to just stay afloat in the absence of new revenues. The measures are only likely to intensify the crisis, rather than resolve it. Think new transfers What is needed now is government support in the form of new and additional transfers to people in cash and kind, and measures such as wage subsidies, equity support and spending on employment programmes. That, as many have acknowledged, would require debt financed spending by the government, with borrowing at low interest rates from the central bank or a “monetisation” of the deficit. Unfortunately, obsessed as it is with fiscal conservatism and tax forbearance, the Narendra Modi government is unwilling to take that route. Abjuring that option, the government’s “self-reliance package” calls on citizens to rely only on themselves, aided by an uncertain offer of temporary access to credit. That path can only have devastating consequences for lives and livelihoods. C.P. Chandrasekhar is former Professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A well-balanced stimulus package||Cut your coat according to your cloth is a useful dictum to set policy priorities. Not all economies are bestowed with the unlimited resources of the U.S. whose currency, the dollar, still enjoys the enviable status of being the global reserve currency. This affords the U.S. the ultimate luxury to issue debt without any thought of its consequences on its macroeconomic balances. India does not have these many degrees of freedom. Cognisant of its constraints and compulsions, the government adopted a twin mantra for shaping its stimulus package, rolled out in five phases plus one earlier phase. The first strand has been to first ensure that the human cost of the COVID-19 crisis is minimised, especially for those at the bottom of the pyramid. The second has been to convert this crisis into an opportunity by implementing bold structural reforms, which have been pending for a while. Shaped by these two priorities, the stimulus is a carefully crafted, well-balanced, yet bold package that will, in the coming days, achieve both objectives. Lifting demand and supply It is widely recognised that the present crisis has seriously impacted both the supply and demand side of the economy. The stimulus package effectively addresses both these aspects. Several measures have been announced to lift the sagging demand in the economy. It is important to point out that total effective demand is made up of demand for consumption, investment and intermediate goods. This has to be taken note of by those who consider only the cash in hand of consumers as the sole means for reversing the declining demand in the economy. Therefore, additional credit lines provided to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) or to street vendors or to farmers (additional credit of Rs. 2 trillion) will also surely contribute to the strengthening of aggregate demand in the economy. Measures announced for ramping up consumption demand directly included: Rs. 1.73 lakh crore for improving the incomes and welfare of the most vulnerable, including the 20 crore female Jan Dhan account holders who will receive monies directly into their bank accounts (announced in the first package); Rs. 50,000 crore additional incomes in the hands of those whose TDS and TCS were reduced by 25%; Rs. 40,000 crore additional allocation for MNREGA which will provide jobs and succour to those returning to their villages from metros and cities; Rs. 30,000 crore for construction workers; Rs. 17,800 crore transferred to 12 crore farmers; and Rs. 13,000 crore transferred to States to finance the costs of running quarantine homes and shelters for migrant workers. These measures will trigger demand, which is of course the necessary condition for triggering recovery in economic activity.  On the supply side, the government’s response has been four-fold. The first was to ensure that the nation’s food security as also farmers’ incomes were not impaired. The government declared agriculture and all related activities as essential services immediately upon announcing the lockdown. This permitted the successful harvesting and efficient procurement of the critical Rabi crop. Procurement operations pumped in Rs. 78,000 crore as new purchasing power in the hands of the farmers. The second was to prevent the pressing cash/liquidity crunch from converting to insolvencies and bankruptcies. A moratorium was announced for all businesses for their debt servicing obligations to commercial banks. MSMEs were given an additional credit line of Rs. 3 trillion without any fresh collateral to further reinforce their access to credit. MSMEs could also avail of new equity from the Rs. 50,000 crore fund of funds. These measures provided some succour to a large number of businesses, especially those in the services sectors like hospitality, entertainment, retail etc. which have suffered a near complete loss of revenues during the lockdown. A whopping Rs. 90,000 crore credit package has been extended to state electricity utilities to enable them to clear their dues to private sector power producers. Higher self-reliance The third set of measures were directed to significantly improve the ecosystem for private producers and investors, both in agriculture and manufacturing. Farmers now have the much-needed freedom to choose their clients. Freed from the age-old tyranny of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, traders and exporters of agro-products can maintain necessary stocks to meet export obligations. With further liberalisation in the defence production sector, India will achieve higher self-reliance in this strategic sector and also emerge as an exporter. Private businesses can now operate in sectors hitherto monopolised or dominated by the public sector enterprises. Finally, in a measure that touches the lives and livelihoods of more than 50 lakh families, street vendors all over the country have been given a credit of Rs. 10,000 each for re-stocking. Thus, ‘the package’ has guaranteed the survival of existing production capacities and laid strong grounds for attracting fresh investment to bolster growth. The size of the stimulus at Rs. 20.97 trillion is larger than the promise made by the Prime Minister in his address on May 12. At more than 10% of the GDP, it compares favourably with packages announced by other emerging economies. Indian farmers will get the much-needed freedoms, flexibility and financial strength to propel India’s economic recovery in the post-COVID-19 period. And buoyed by the stimulus, Indian firms will operate in an ecosystem that will help them become ‘Glocal’, thereby helping Indian brands command a larger share in to global markets and participate successfully in global value chains. Rajiv Kumar is Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog. Views are personal
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Centre’s Kashmir policy and a heavy price to pay||While public attention is focused on COVID-19, Jammu and Kashmir suffers twin lockdowns, rising violence and unilateral government actions, all at the same time. In the 12 months since the Narendra Modi administration returned to office, their Kashmir policy has comprised measures that are perceived as disasters in the Valley, garner mixed reactions in Jammu and Ladakh, and are welcomed by some in the rest of India. A clear bias The latest of these actions is the new domicile rules, notified on May 18, 2020. Based on the Home Ministry’s order of March 31, these rules seek to replace the Jammu and Kashmir State subjects law, recognised under Article 35A of the Indian Constitution, which entitled permanent residents of the State to free education along with reservation of government jobs, and sole rights to land ownership. The new domicile rules entitle anyone who has worked or lived in the State for 15 years, or studied there for seven years, to receive a domicile certificate and the benefits previously reserved for permanent residents. Curiously, they also entitle Union government officials who have served in the State for 10 years to domicile, along with their non-resident children, and list the categories of those eligible: members of the Indian Administrative Services (including those working in statutory bodies), public sector units and banks, central universities and ‘recognised research institutes of the Central government (sic)’. The clear bias to favour not only Union government officials but also their children smacks of instating privileges that many State and Union governments began to do away with as civil service salaries rose in the early 2000s, and the demographic pressure on urban spaces mounted. That this bias continues to exist in some parts of the country is shameful for any democracy; that it has been imposed on Jammu and Kashmir without the acquiescence of its elected leaders is an absolute violation. Ill-founded argument Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesmen argue that the new domicile rules were necessary since many marginalised groups were denied their rights under the State subject law, such as refugees from west Pakistan. The argument is ill-founded. What prevented the Modi administration from expanding the permanent resident category to include these groups, without doing away with it altogether? How can it possibly be necessary for 12 million people to reapply for domicile when the groups to benefit number a few lakhs? Ruling party spokesmen ask what the fuss is about, when their intent was stated in the party manifesto and followed through by the President and Parliament of India. They ignore the fact that the presidential orders and Reorganisation Act of August 2019, including all actions that follow from them, are under constitutional challenge in the Supreme Court. A democratic government that upholds the rule of law would freeze implementation until the court rules, but the Modi administration proceeded to build facts on the ground with astonishing rapidity. Within months of the August announcements, separate committees were set up to divide Jammu and Kashmir’s assets between the two new Union Territories. The State police was put under direct rule by the Union Home Ministry. The Upper House of the Assembly was abolished. Land was requisitioned for sale to industry, national tourist conglomerates were invited to take over what was a flourishing local industry, and mining rights were sold to non-Kashmiri contractors. All the former State’s statutory bodies were dissolved, including the State Human Rights Commission. Power was concentrated in the hands of the Lieutenant-Governor and his advisers, all but one of whom were from outside the former State. The Jammu and Kashmir Legislature remains dissolved, many of its political leaders remain under detention and forbidden to speak, a ban remains in force on all public gatherings and the media are intimidated. Even so, protest against the new domicile rules has been voiced by all political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, except the BJP. Indications are that their protests will be ignored. BJP General-Secretary Ram Madhav calls the new domicile rules a done deal, implying that the Modi administration will not review them (Indian Express , “It is time to allow J&K full-fledged political activity”, May 21, 2020). Fall of the last bastion Most people in Jammu and Kashmir saw Article 35A and the State subject law as the last remaining bastion of the State’s internal autonomy, guaranteed under the instrument of accession signed by Maharaja Hari Singh. Successive Union governments chipped away at the former State’s powers, but none touched Article 35A or the State subject law. Gradually the two grew to be inextricably tied to Kashmiri identity and, equally importantly, Kashmiri empowerment through education and employment. As armed insurgency rose in the 1990s, many Kashmiri political leaders raised fears of an Indian intention to alter the demography of the Muslim-majority Valley and several Jammu districts. Until 2019, these fears seemed a bogey to intensify Kashmiri alienation. However, the August 2019 nullification of autonomy and division of the State, which overrode the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and dismissed Article 35A, turned the bogey into an immediate threat which the domicile rules have now actualised. With the fall of this last bastion, disaffection has exponentially multiplied in Jammu and Kashmir. Armed encounters are on the rise and the security situation is extremely fragile. Blaming it on Pakistan is futile. Pakistan has always taken advantage of disaffection in the Valley, indeed China is now doing so too. As a result of the Modi administration’s Kashmir policy, India will have to face mounting security threats on its western front, and the people of Jammu and Kashmir the systematic denial of their rights. Are we really ready to pay this price for a mere ideological shibboleth? Radha Kumar’s latest book is ‘Paradise at War: A Political History of Kashmir’
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving beyond geopolitics||Deeper issues arising due to the pandemic are slowly emerging as the world relaxes lockdown measures. These issues, especially those relating to the convergence of technologies such as biotechnology, genetic engineering and information technology, will have a long-term impact on geopolitics. Underlying most geopolitical issues are technology and data, which are interdependent. National governments, policymakers, and healthcare researchers are using technology and data to plan and improve economic activities, social development, and treat deadly diseases more effectively than ever before. Changing idea of privacy Technology and data are now inherently geopolitical. Proper data related to the COVID-19 outbreak were not shared in time, and that is why there is so much anger towards the World Health Organization and China. The nature of technology and data has placed tech giants such as Google, Facebook and Amazon in a commanding position. At one time, these tech giants needed the support of governments everywhere. But now, with their global reach, it is governments that are dependent on them. Access to data on a majority of the population makes these giants stronger when they enter the negotiating room with governments. The current pandemic is a great example of how people across the globe have accepted the idea of their live locations being traced and shared with governments. In India, without much concern for the right to privacy, more than 90 million people have downloaded Aarogya Setu. The pandemic has brought a change in perception on issues like privacy. Tech giants are taking a leading role in geopolitics, at times playing on their own and sometimes as proxies of nation states to influence policymaking and national regulations. The U.S.-China trade war, the position of governments on Huawei 5G technology, and Facebook’s attempt to implement internet.org are a few examples. An unprecedented amount of data are being collected by tech giants. The data need to be used towards the welfare of society, but the sharing of data presents many challenges to human rights. COVID-19 is a good example of this. Are we not doing injustice to people by not sharing data in a timely fashion merely due to geopolitical reasons? It is the right of every human being to benefit from the collective data to which he or she contributes. The current data system is one where the incentives align with the creation and spread of technological innovations but not their governance (think of Cambridge Analytica). Restrictions on the flow of data have increased significantly in the last 7-8 years. Across the world, data protection laws, requirements of data localisation, laws related to weakening of encryption keys and data retention requirements are by and large patchwork. These frameworks are not interoperable. They focus on protection of personal data and privacy and give little thought to the broader impact of data on mobility and social aspects. Data protection frameworks such as the the General Data Protection Regulation of the EU and the CLOUD Act of the U.S. are aimed at putting users in control of their data. But they have issues relating to data localisation and cross-border flow of information. These frameworks have not solved the issues of data sharing. Even the UN has not succeeded in bringing consensus in the preparation of a framework on the norms of behaviour in cyberspace. With data flow set to become more important over time, we need government regulations and standard and inter-operable frameworks to govern issues and address risks emerging from these technological innovations. Data in the post-COVID world The post-COVID-19 world is expected to be different. Digital equity will require frameworks relating to governance of technology and data that look beyond geopolitical considerations. We need to distinguish individual data from large global data sets. We cannot extrapolate the current human rights framework to human rights in the digital and biological domain. The current concept of privacy and cross-border flow of information may require significant change. There is a dire need to impose obligations for data flow on countries and tech giants in the larger interest of mankind. We need to establish a baseline of global norms of data governance that go beyond privacy and geopolitical considerations. These norms must focus on mechanisms to leverage data to solve problems and ensure consistency, interoperability, privacy and security. It is the right time for a Parliament select committee to look at the data protection framework. At the same time we need to identify an international body to evolve global norms on data governance. Anil Taneja is an MBA candidate at the Harvard Business School and Gulshan Rai is former National Cyber Security Coordinator, PMO India
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Battling a virus with masks||Information about SARS-CoV-2 is now being disseminated widely, if somewhat haphazardly. Concerns over the impact on our health, and the health of our loved ones, continue to dominate our thoughts and headlines. These concerns are of course justified; at the time of publishing this, India has recorded 1,39,868 confirmed cases of COVID-19. The importance of using masks The fact that the disease is spread by respiratory droplets and contact is now well understood. While mask use has been made a priority, there is insufficient information in the public domain about the role masks play in the containment of this disease, specifically about mask maintenance and mask etiquette. The maximum transmission distance of the virus aerosol — particles generated in the air during breathing, talking, coughing and sneezing — is about 4 metres. In a study conducted by the National Institute of Health, even after speaking, salivary particles were found to remain floating in the air for eight minutes. These points further emphasise the importance of mask usage. With the rise in the number of infected individuals, many of whom remain asymptomatic, it is essential not just to wear a face mask but also to choose the right one. Disposable surgical masks are now more readily available in the market. It is crucial to avoid reuse of these masks due to the extreme drop in efficacy after even a single-use; additionally, surgical masks can’t be washed. Cloth masks bring with them the advantages of easy production and easy availability. Most importantly, cloth masks can be washed and reused. It is important to note that a study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine did not find a difference in the effectiveness of blocking SARS-CoV-2 between cloth and surgical masks. In a study published by The Lancet , the virus was found to remain viable on surfaces for up to seven days, with the longest viability being noted on plastic and stainless steel surfaces. The question arises as to the ability of the virus to remain viable on masks. A study in The Lancet on the presence of the virus on face masks found that the inner and outer layer of used masks contained the virus up to seven days. A study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine reported higher contamination rates over the outer layer than the inner layer of the face mask, no doubt from the constant interaction between our hands and our masks, further reiterating the importance of hand hygiene. Adopting best practices Rather than worry about studies around the virus and its ability to remain on masks, we must embrace this opportunity to adopt the best practices available right now for mask maintenance. It is crucial to wash your cloth mask every day with detergent in a washing machine set to at least 60°C. If that is not possible, the cloth mask must be scrubbed by hand with soap for 30 seconds, while ensuring it soaks for at least 15 minutes before being rinsed in hot water. Attention should be paid to the duration of soaking. A study in The Lancet reported that the virus continued to be detected when the soaking time was reduced from 15 minutes to five minutes. It would be ideal, but not compulsory, to replace cloth masks after around 20 washes due to the reducing filtration capacity of cloth masks over time. To obtain the best protection from your mask, ensure that it covers the mouth and nose and as much as possible, avoiding gaps between the face and the mask. Avoid touching your mask once you have worn it. While removing your mask, do not touch the front of it; the mask must be untied from behind. Before and after removing your mask, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash with soap and water. During use, if the mask becomes damp/ moist, change it immediately. Mask use, mask etiquette, and mask maintenance can go a long way in our fight against COVID-19. As responsible citizens we should help our government in this battle against the virus. Nikita Mehra is an Assistant Professor of Medical Oncology & Researcher in Molecular Oncology at Adyar Cancer Institute. Views are personal
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Early take-off||Even after long negotiations with States, and with a truncated schedule, the Centre has found it difficult to relaunch domestic flights. Several were cancelled on the first day services were resumed after being frozen on March 25. Some Chief Ministers, notably Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra and Edappadi Palaniswami in Tamil Nadu expressed apprehension about a premature resumption of civil aviation, as the spread of COVID-19 is unrelenting, and quarantine monitoring has its limits. The experience of flight cancellations, passenger frustration and low capacity among States to track thousands of passengers should prompt a rethink on scheduled flights. Access to emergency air travel in a large country is a legitimate expectation, and a targeted programme run efficiently can meet that need, without induced demand produced by commercial flights. Going back to the drawing board to draft a plan for emergency travel, using documentation and aggregation of such passengers may be the short-term option. The risks associated with domestic aviation have multiplied due to early missteps in several States: mass gatherings, political events and consumer crowding for panic buying have resulted in major transmission clusters. The trajectory of fresh COVID-19 cases shows that this was aggravated by the bungled response to the concerns of migrant labour, exposing thousands of workers and their communities to infection. Understandably, States, which have denied the presence of community transmission, want to reduce the pace at which they must monitor newly arriving individuals. Enabling scheduled travel through national policy, whether by air or rail, could be seen as a reasonable effort only when State governments are fully prepared, and adopt a uniform code of practice. Within the lockdown, the virus crisis has snowballed only in States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, and in Delhi, but that picture could change with the operation of daily flights, a couple of hundred scheduled trains from June 1 and the large number of promised Shramik Special trains for migrant workers. It is essential, therefore, for States to adopt a coordinated approach on quarantine and testing. Travel choices, in the present phase, should be designed to discourage optional journeys. Moreover, passengers on all flights, including relief flights, could have a lower risk if airlines and the government keep the middle seats vacant as decided on March 23 by the DGCA. There is no reason to think that the pandemic has begun to wane. The global aviation map shows that even market economies placing great emphasis on individual freedoms have severely limited travel, making exceptions only for returning citizens. Relaxing travel must be preceded by focused containment measures and an agreed protocol for States.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Batting for free speech||A feature of public life in Tamil Nadu in the last three decades has been the indiscriminate institution of criminal defamation proceedings against Opposition leaders and the media. It is no surprise, then, that the most comprehensive judgment on the limits of the State’s power to prosecute members of the press for defamation should come from the Madras High Court. The verdict of Justice Abdul Quddhose, quashing a series of defamation complaints filed since 2011-12, is remarkable for applying a set of principles that would firmly deter the hasty and ill-advised resort to State-funded prosecution on behalf of public servants. The first principle is that the State should not impulsively invoke provisions in the CrPC to get its public prosecutor to file defamation complaints in response to every report that contains criticism. The court deems such impulsive actions as amounting to throttling democracy. It advises the government to have a higher threshold for invoking defamation provisions. It notes that each time a public servant feels defamed by a press report, it does not automatically give rise to a cause for asking the public prosecutor to initiate proceedings on her behalf. The statutory distinction between defaming a public servant as a person and as the State itself being defamed has to be maintained. Justice Quddhose goes on to fault the government for according sanction to the initiation of cases through the prosecutors without explaining how the State has been defamed. He cautions prosecutors against acting like a post office, noting that their role is to scrutinise the material independently to see if the offence has been made out, and if so, whether it relates to a public servant’s conduct in the course of discharging official functions or not before filing a complaint. So, the court finds that many were cases in which public servants ought to have filed individual cases. An earlier Madras High Court ruling noted that an essential ingredient of criminal defamation must be that an imputation was actuated by malice, or with reckless disregard for the truth. A recent judgment by Justice G.R. Swaminathan enunciated what is known in the United States as the ‘Sullivan’ rule of ‘actual malice’. While quashing a private complaint against a journalist and a newspaper, the judge said two of the exceptions to defamation given in Section 499 pertained to ‘public conduct of public servants’ and ‘conduct of any person on any public question’. This implied that the legislature itself believed that unless it is demonstrated that reporting on a public servant’s conduct or on a public question was vitiated by malice, the question of defamation does not arise and that even inaccuracies in reporting need not occasion a prosecution for defamation. Within a matter of days, the HC has struck two blows for free speech and press freedom.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Unrest in Pakistan (From an editorial)||As always, there was strong criticism in Pakistan of the recent communal rioting in Maharashtra and an attempt was made to take the matter to the United Nations. No notice is taken of the steady flow of Hindu refugees to West Bengal under pressure of the Muslim majority in East Pakistan. However, the most significant development inside Pakistan has been the spurt in labour disputes, strikes and demonstrations. It is reported that during the past half-year the loss suffered by textile mills in Karachi amounted to over Rs. 3 crores. Several mills are still paralysed by labour disputes. This is, of course, a consequence of the liberal attitude adopted by the Yahya Khan regime towards organised labour, which now has the freedom to demand better wages and living conditions. Politicians of all types have been complaining about high prices and the scarcity of some commodities like edible oil, pulses, sugar, kerosene, etc.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr. passes away||Three-time Olympic champion and one of the greatest ever hockey players, Balbir Singh Dosanjh passed away after prolonged illness on Monday morning. Known as Balbir Singh Senior to all, the 95-year-old was hospitalised on May 8 after complaining of high fever and breathing problems. He suffered three cardiac arrests but had been stable since May 13. Ventilator support However, his condition worsened after a fresh blood clot was detected in his brain and pneumonia patches in his lungs on May 18. He had been semi-comatose and on ventilator support since then. “He died at around 6:30 this morning,” affirmed Abhijit Singh, Director Fortis Hospital, Mohali. Balbir Singh lived with his daughter Sushbir Bhomia and grandson Kabir in Chandigarh. Kabir confirmed the news. Balbir Singh had been unwell for the last few years, requiring repeated hospitalisation. “I met him last in February, along with Ajitpal Singh, in Chandigarh. He was weak, both with his recent illness and age, but that smile of his, which always had so much love and meaning, was intact. A relationship going back more than 40 years has come to an end,” said an emotional Ashok Kumar, a member of the 1975 World Cup-winning team when Balbir Singh was manager. “I will always remember him as a soft-spoken person who never ever raised his voice. “For someone from Punjab, and Punjab Police, a centre-forward, there was never a trace of aggression in his personality. Team & country, always “And at a time when sports in India was often about where you came from, his first concern was always the team and country,” Ashok added. Hockey India expressed its grief; so did members of the current Indian team.  A member of India’s Olympics teams from 1948-1956, Balbir Singh also captained the side and is considered one of the best centre-forwards of all time. He was also the manager of the only World Cup-winning Indian side (1975), the first sportsperson to be awarded the Padma Shri (1957) and the lone Indian and hockey player to be included in the IOC’s ‘Olympic Icons”, a select group of 16 all-time Olympic greats honoured during the London Olympics. Last rites Balbir Singh was on Monday cremated at Chandigarh with full State honours. Kabir performed the last rites.  Balbir’s world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remembering a gentle and formidable giant||Back in 2009, this reporter took the first steps into a virtual museum of hockey brilliance from a time when India was the unquestioned ruler on the turf. The trophies, pictures and memorabilia, though, were dwarfed by the aura of the man in their midst — Balbir Singh Senior. He was a stick wizard, but it was the warmth of his persona that drew people. Balbir Singh had already made a lasting impression on someone learning the ropes years earlier, during his several visits to Delhi, his aura felt every time he smiled and enquired, “How are you, beta ?” That smile and warmth were always available for anyone who wanted to seek his guidance or simply have a chat on hockey. Especially the days of 1948, when a former colony overwhelmed and outplayed its former masters on their soil. “With every raise of the Tricolour at the Old Wembley that day, the heart beat a little faster, the pride rose a notch higher, the eyes became moister. It wasn’t just a medal — it was India claiming its place on the world stage. And it had chosen us as a means to do that. What honour! That feeling can only be experienced, never expressed,” Balbir Singh told this reporter. The Tricolour mounted on the wall in his living room was a testimony to what that victory meant. No one wins alone “The team won. Hockey is a team game. No one wins alone,” was his firm belief. At a rare public display of Dhyan Chand’s stick used in the 8-1 demolition of Germany in the 1936 Olympic final, during the Punjab Gold Cup in 2009, Balbir Singh held it and said, “What bigger honour can there be for any hockey player”. His own stature never got in the way. His record is impeccable — India has never returned without a medal from a tournament that had Balbir Singh as player, coach or manager. For someone so proud, India missing out on the 2008 Olympics was a catastrophe. He didn’t eat or sleep properly for days. In some ways, it broke him from within. He was also broken by the disregard for history from SAI, which borrowed his medals and memorabilia but lost them. The last time this reporter met him, Balbir Singh had become frail. But the mind was as sharp as ever. “Excellence is not an art, it is a habit. We have to do what we do best, not copy anyone. We did that when we played, never blamed conditions. Hard work can make anything possible,” he said. But it was all said with a smile — as ever, there was no trace of rancour.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A great player and manager departs||V. Baskaran (captain of Indian team which won gold in 1980 Moscow Olympics): A soft-spoken person who knew how to get the best out of every player. Indian hockey, nay world hockey, has lost a great player and manager.  B.P. Govinda (member of 1975 World Cup-winning team): For the coaching camp prior to the 1975 World Cup, Balbir Singh kept the spirits of all the players up. A great human being, he was a father figure to us and looked after us as his own child. We lived like a well-knit family when we won the World Cup in Malaysia.  Joaquim Carvalho (World Cupper): Balbir Senior’s man-management skills were superb. He knew how to handle players and officials, and took on people high up in the administration in support of his players. I feel his loss deeply.  Mervyn Fernandes (three-time Olympian): I played under his charge at the 1982 Asian Games and other tournaments. He was a calm, composed person and a thorough gentleman.  Mohammed Riaz (1996 & 2000 Olympics): Whenever I met him, he would always say: ‘Play for the country. Don't let the country down. Keep the Indian flag flying high'. He was always a positive man.  Dhanraj Pillay (four-time Olympian): No words can express the sadness in my heart. His simplicity touched many hearts in the hockey world.  (compiled by Nandakumar Marar and K. Keerthivasan)
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||After Dhyan Chand, it was Balbir Singh Sr.: Milkha||‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh: We were great friends. I feel sad that he is not amongst us now. After Dhyan Chand, if there was any (hockey) legend, it was Balbir Singh Senior.  Bishan Singh Bedi: India’s greatest hockey player since Independence Sardar Balbir Singh Sr is no more... long live Sardar Balbir Singh Sr... RIP Legend!  P.T. Usha: An athlete par excellence and a role model beyond words!  Narinder Batra (IOA president): His ready wit and willingness to share his vast knowledge were stand-out features. He leaves behind a rich legacy that cuts across all sport and physical boundaries.  Abhinav Bindra: Athletes and role models such as him come very rarely, and it was an honour to know him. I hope his example will continue to inspire athletes from around the world.  Ravi Shastri: A true giant and a half in his field. Hockey legend out and out.  Sachin Tendulkar: He  was one of the greatest to have graced the game of hockey.  Virender Sehwag: In Balbir Singh ji, India has lost one of it's greatest ever sportsman.  Gautam Gambhir: Three time Olympic gold medalist, he brought great laurels to the country! You will always remain in our hearts, Sir!  Virat Kohli: Saddened to hear about the passing of the legend, Balbir Singh Sr. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family in this time of sorrow.  Suresh Raina: Legends never truly leave, they live on in the hearts of people. Thank you for the decades of great hockey and for inspiring us.    Devinder Walmiki: No one could ever take your place in my heart. Today I am crying because I have lost a person who occupied a very special place in my heart.  Sharath Kamal: A true sporting icon, Balbir Singh Sr. Sir’s achievements will continue to be a guiding light for athletes!  Saina Nehwal: Inspiration to many and great sportsperson... we will miss our three-time Olympic gold medal winner.  Geeta Phogat: Sir, you will be remembered forever!
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen and Dubov cruise||Taking the shortest possible route, Magnus Carlsen stopped Wesley So 2.5-0.5 and Daniil Dubov blanked Sergey Karjakin 3-0 in the first of their best-of-three mini-matches for a place in the semifinals of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge. Sunday proved an off-day for Karjakin in the four-game mini-match. So lost two games to Carlsen and opted to draw the third in just 18 moves.  The results: Quarterfinals (first mini-match): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Wesley So (USA) 2.5-0.5.   Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Sergey Karjakin (Rus) 3-0.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wait at NIS gets longer||After more than two months of staying away from the actual field and mats, the elite Indian athletes and weightlifters were expected to finally step out and take their first steps on resumption of training at the National Institute of Sports, Patiala starting Monday. That, however, hasn’t happened. Despite assurances from the administration and Sports Authority of India on Saturday, no training was possible on Monday for anyone. The athletes too remain in the dark about any resumption. Shot-putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor said he had no idea when things would start. “As of now we have no information about anything. We are still restricted to out rooms and the hostel,” he said.
26 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Gurbux praises a colossus||“Balbir Singh (Sr.) was a wonderful scorer, one of the best India has ever produced and the world has ever seen. He was calm and quiet on the field, but was an opportunist,” said 1964 Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Gurbux Singh, in his tribute to one of the all-time greats of the sport. As a youngster, Gurbux had the privilege of watching Balbir in action and playing, albeit briefly, against him. “The first time I saw him was in Lucknow in 1952. Legends like Balbir, Dharam Singh, Uddham Singh and Trilochan Singh were in action. “Then I got to play against him in a semifinal in 1955. I got to know him better in 1959 when he became the camp in-charge of the Indian team for the pre-Olympics,” Gurbux, who bagged a bronze in the 1968 Olympics and gold in the 1966 Asian Games, told The Hindu on Monday.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Guiding light’||Hockey India on Monday condoled the demise of Balbir Singh Sr, saying the sport has lost its “guiding light” and his life will remain an example for generations to come. “Today, we have not only lost our greatest hockey legend but we have also lost ‘our guiding light,’” Hockey India president Mohd. Mushtaque Ahmad said.  International Hockey Federation (FIH): Balbir Singh will be remembered not only as a highly talented and outstanding international player who represented India in three Olympics, but also as a man greatly dedicated to our sport.  Asian Hockey Federation (AHF): Balbir Singh left behind a legacy which will always be cherished and serve as a beacon for many budding talents.
26 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sports scribe Mouli no more||M. Chandra Mouli, a sports journalist with ETV, passed away after prolonged illness. He was 57 and is survived by his wife and two sons. Mouli was a boxer in his college days and started his career with Newstime in Visakhapatnam before moving to Hyderabad. Telangana Sports Journalists Association (TSJA) expressed its condolence to the family.
26 May 2020||Mumbai,||Producers Guild of India suggests stringent rules for film production||The Producers Guild of India has come up with a ‘Back to Action report’ recommending standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be instituted whenever the permission to resume production activities is granted by the government. The exhaustive report touches upon and offers guidelines for almost every department and professional at film and TV shoots. The new practices include temperature checks, sanitisation, social distancing, work-from-home where possible, downloading of the Arogya Setu app on phones, limiting the number of cast and crew, avoiding outdoor shoots, and the presence of a medical team — in two different shifts — on sets for the initial three months when shoots begin. It notes that each filming is different, hence specific risk-based measures need to be established before work begins, and that even after the decrease or termination of government’s preventive measures, the risk of contagion will persist in the first weeks and months, if not longer. What makes film shoots more vulnerable is that it’s very common for crew members to participate in multiple projects simultaneously. One positive case can then endanger several lives and projects. General practices Among the general practices outlined are mandatory hand-washing for everyone on entry, exit and during the shoot. Each crew member to be provided with a triple layer medical mask and gloves, which will be mandatory to wear during the entire shoot. The masks must not be left unattended and would need to be disposed off in the bins provided on location. Only designated people should be allowed to open doors, if any. Minimum two meters distance between colleagues should be maintained, and people have been advised to avoid handshakes, hugs and kisses, and other physical greetings and sharing of cigarettes. Every crew and cast member should undergo temperature measurement with a contact-less thermometer before entering the set, the advisory states. A fitness or declaration form should be signed and submitted by all talent and crew, informing the production team about their health status at the time of booking/ signing-up for a project, and again on arrival on set. “Carry out a drill every day with entire staff regarding precautions so that it becomes a habit,” the statement advises. Crew, artists and participants should be called at least 45 minutes prior to the shoot to ensure thorough implementation of safety precautions, it says. Hired staff All in-house office housekeeping staff hired directly or through third party vendors should have mandatory COVID-19 sanitising, the statement recommends. The complete studio should be sanitised daily before the shoot. Rest rooms should be kept clean and sanitised at all times, and portable washbasins be strategically placed. The PGI document advises the setting up of an isolation zone or holding area, away from the main filming area. Two junior-level doctors and a certified nurse must be present on set for an initial three months in two different shifts, the statement suggests. Work-from-home The guild has encouraged a work-from-home strategy where possible. “Anyone who can work remotely must be allowed to do so, on rotational basis. People over the age of 60, or with co-morbidities and health issues, will have to work from home,” it states. The advisory says that crew above the age of 60 years should not be considered at least for three months after shoots begin, and cast of those above the age of 60 years should be judicially employed.
26 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala team nets silver fish in Velankanni||Velankanni in Tamil Nadu has thrown up a new species of small freshwater fish of the family Cyprinidae. The silver-hued fish has been christened Puntius sanctus — ‘sanctus’ is Latin for holy — after the popular pilgrim town. The fish has been identified and named by Mathews Plamoottil, head of the Department of Zoology, BJM Government College, Chavara, in Kollam. Encountered in a small waterbody in Velankanni, Puntius sanctusgrows to a length of 7 cm. It is used both as food and as an aquarium draw, Dr. Plamoottil said.  “The Puntius species are known locally as ‘Paral’ in Kerala and ‘Kende’ in Tamil Nadu. They are purely freshwater fishes,” he said. While the genus shows great species richness in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the specimen from Velankanni bears “distinct differences” from its Puntius cousins, he said. Its physical characteristics included a protractible mouth, a pair of maxillary barbels (a sensory organ near the snout), 24-25 lateral line scales and 10 pre-dorsal scales.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 07:57 IST,||Sudoku - May 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Several domestic flights from IGI cancelled||Domestic operations resumed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Monday — after being suspended for two months — with 118 departures and 125 arrivals scheduled. Several, flights, however, were canceled at the last minute as many States implemented restrictions on air travel. In particular, passengers traveling to Kolkata and Mumbai had to return home after their flights were cancelled. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) has requested flyers to stay in touch with their airlines for updated flight information. “The first flight to take-off from Delhi was 6E 643 from Delhi to Pune at 4.45 a.m. and the first flight to land was SG8194 from Ahmedabad,” said DIAL. Airlines also asked passengers to check the rules that State governments had put in place at the destinations they were flying to regarding quarantine period and heath checks. At IGIA, arriving passengers were not screened and were allowed to exit immediately. Passengers arriving in Delhi said they were happy with the arrangements made by the airlines and care was being taken to ensure social distancing, and wearing of masks and face shields. Nikhil Kumar, a student who traveled from Chennai to Delhi and was waiting to catch a connecting flight to Patna, said that the airlines disinfected his baggage, ensured social distancing and kept reminding people to wear their mask properly. “But there were still some passengers who were not adhering to the guidelines despite the announcements... A group of labourers were on my flight who were ignorant of the risks and were not adhering to the norms. There needs to be a protocol on how to deal with such passengers,” Mr. Kumar added. Many passengers said they were nervous about flying in the given situation but had no other option than to take the risk after being away from their home for so long. Sofia, who was traveling with an infant, said: “I am terrified, especially for my baby, but there is an emergency and I have to fly to Bhopal. My child is too small to even wear a mask.” Some passengers with connecting flights that had been canceled were left stranded at the airport. Binay, who had been stuck in Ahmedabad for two months, said that he had first tried to get a ticked on a Shramik Special train to reach Kolkata. Not able to get a train ticket, he jumped at the chance to take a flight home when resumption of domestic services was announced. He made it to Delhi but his connecting flight to Kolkata got cancelled. “There are no hotels available and I cannot afford one anyway. I do not have family or friends here. I am waiting to get either a refund or see when flights to Kolkata resume,” said Binay. At the entry point of the terminal, CISF personnel were checking tickets from behind a glass screen to ensure there was no contact. Airline operators were seen sanitising check-in baggage and helping people with the contact-less check-in process. Some travelers even purchased full plastic bodysuits from counters set up outside the terminal to ensure safer travel. There were also automatic sanitiser dispensers next to kiosks set up for self check-in. Satish Chand, a cabbie waiting for passengers at the airport, said: “If I pick up passengers from here, I know that they have been screened and have been allowed to fly. Elsewhere in the city, there is not much work and you never know how safe it is.”
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||DU college principal removed||Officiating principal of Delhi College of Arts and Commerce (DCAC), Rajiv Chopra, was removed from his post and repatriated in a sudden move by Delhi University on Sunday night. Six-month period Mr. Chopra, who has been the principal of the college for the last six and a half years, said the move was completely unexpected with the university issuing the order on late Sunday night through a letter to the university representative Naveen Kumar. The university’s Deputy Registrar, in their letter, wrote that an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) is ordinarily appointed for a period of six months to officiate as the principal of a college. It also contended that Mr. Chopra had completed more than six years, having been appointed in October 2013. He was thus directed to be repatriated to his parent college, Aurobindo College. Mr. Chopra questioned the motive behind the action, arguing that if the six-month rule was being applied to him, it must be applied to officiating principals of several other colleges. Mr. Chopra informed that an issue had earlier arisen regarding his appointment. While a selection committee, comprising three governing body members and two university representatives had in 2018 identified Mr. Chopra as first in the order of merit for the post of principal, he said the administration composed another selection committee and picked a different professor for the post, who was third in the order of merit. The college’s governing body rejected this new selection, Mr. Chopra said, adding that he took the university to court over the matter alleging that the new selection committee was illegal and outside of UGC guidelines.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUSU, admin spar over circular advising students to go home||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday “strongly advised” students living in its hostels to go home and return after the university reopens on June 25. In a circular, the Dean of Students said that many students requested to stay back in hostels due to non-availability of public transport during the lockdown. But now, as special trains and intra-State bus services have become operational, they are advised to return home. The JNUSU responded to the circular saying that the administration was trying to put students at risk by making them travel home at a time when the number of cases is rising. Since the pandemic sees no signs of slowing down, it questioned why the administration intended to make students undergo the hardship of travelling twice in the space of a month and endanger their lives further. Responding to the JNUSU, the university said that some self-proclaimed student leaders always make it a point to oppose any advisory that comes from the administration and give an ideological colour to it. “The same attempt has yet again been made to play politics, to give convoluted interpretations and discourage the willing students to go home,” the university administration said.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shaheen Bagh residents witness muted I’d celebrations||The streets of Shaheen Bagh, which were filled with anti-CAA protesters and art until a few months ago, wore a rather silent look on I’d-ul-Fitr. Only a few sweet shops were open and people on the streets, significantly less than the usual, greeted each other ‘Id Mubarak’. A few kilometres ahead, in Jasola, resides Saima Khan, who was one of the active protesters at Shaheen Bagh. Like everyone else, this I’d was different for her family too. She spend the festival day and the month of Ramzan helping the riot-affected families as much as she could. Donating income Sitting with her family at her residence, where they had been cooking dishes since the wee hours, she said, “Every year in the month of Ramzan, we donate 2.5% of our income. This year, we used that and a little more for those who needed ration in riot-affected Shiv Vihar and Mustafabad.” She said that the family has adopted three-four riot-hit families, who did not have male members. “I had visited the Idgah relief camp, where people were staying for a few weeks, and met many who had my number and contacted me,” said Ms. Saima, who had become active in social work during the anti-CAA protest. As Ms. Saima shared how she celebrated I’d and spent Ramzan, her daughters Sidra (13) and Sumaiya (16), chided her. “But there was no Idi for us,” they said. Though Ms. Saima and her family celebrated the day cooking traditional dahi-wade , chick peas, kheer and sheer , the festival was different for the daughters. “Every year, we used to go to our home village in Sambhal where all the cousins gather. It used to be a lot of fun. There used to be a huge amount of Idi from relatives and neighbours there. But there’s nothing this time. Only our paternal aunts and their families have come,” said Ms. Sumaiya. “We can’t invite people home. We can’t meet friends. It’s very boring,” added Ms. Sidra. Visibly disappointed Children in Shaheen Bagh were also visibly disappointed. Though they were dressed up, the only highlight of the day was going out with friends and getting ice cream. Little Ayat (9) – wearing a gajra in her head bun — came decked up with her friends Shazia (10) and Raunak (11), to the ice cream stall and bought an orange bar. “Every year, there used to be a carnival on the grounds here where they used to put swings, but it’s not there this time. We used to eat biryani and then spent hours in the carnival. Today, we went to our friends’ houses, wished their parents but got only little Idi,” said Ayat. Raunak said that this time, no new clothes were bought. However, they wore the best ones from the wardrobe in the spirit of the festival. Moreover, locals said there was little hugging this time around. Instead, they mostly shook hands to exchange Id greetings and none could visit the mosque, which is the “most essential” deed for the day. “Praying together on I’d is the most important of all. This year, this couldn’t happen for obvious reasons. We are wishing our relatives on video calls. I am just praying that COVID-19 leaves the country soon,” said Mohammed Rizwan, a resident of Shaheen Bagh.
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||An unusual I’d at quarantine centre||For those stuck at Sultanpuri quarantine centre, this I’d-ul-Fitr’s only highlight was a special lunch with a sweet dish. Sharfuddin, a technician, and Abdul Ishaq (63), a retired government employee — both from Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ Port Blair — started their day by wishing each other ‘Id Mubarak’ and that was it. “There are three groups who have been brought here [quarantine centre] who are still positive. So, we don’t have communication with them. The staffers here didn’t wish. It was just another normal day,” said Sharfuddin. The two called their families back home and exchanged greetings over the phone. For Sharfuddin, the call was also without video because he doesn’t possess a smart phone and didn’t ask Ishaq for help. “They are all together there, but we are alone here. It’s been two months now,” said Ishaq. Special lunch Sharfuddin said that his family back home is only cooking dishes and not visiting or inviting relatives. For them, the only thing that stood out was the lunch. “A bunch of volunteers associated with Nizamuddin Markaz has been attending to our needs from outside the gate. On I’d, they brought chapatis, sabzi and kheer for us,” said Ishaq. The duo and others from Port Blair, who are residing in different quarantine centres, have booked their tickets back home for May 27 but they aren’t sure if they’ll be able to catch the flight. Anxious wait However, they are anxiously waiting. “We have been allowed to go and we have booked our tickets. However, we are hearing reports that flights are being cancelled. We are not sure if we’ll be able to go. We are hoping for the best,” Ishaq said.
26 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||No pass needed if you have confirmed travel ticket||The district administration on Monday directed private hospitals not to refuse treatment to COVID-19 patients and also allowed movement without pass between Delhi and Gurugram for those carrying confirmed air and train e-tickets. The late evening directions by District Magistrate, Amit Khatri, said, “Private hospitals/nursing homes in Gurugram shall not refuse any patient approaching them for treatment of COVID-19 infection and other critical services”. The orders asserted that action would be initiated against the hospital under the Epidemic Act, 1897, without any prior notice, in case of violation. Mr. Khatri told The Hindu that there were instances brought to notice when emergency and urgent treatment was denied to COVID-19 patients. He said that such patients could be transferred to government-designated COVID-19 hospitals on case-to-case basis. Many private hospital doctors and expectant mothers had raised questions over the lack of clarity on the protocol in case pregnant woman test positive before delivery. The district administration has designated a polyclinic in Sector 31 for such deliveries. Mr. Khatri said, “Passengers who have a confirmed air/train e-ticket in their name shall be allowed to travel from the airport/railway station to their home/destination and vice versa. They will not require any movement pass for it”. The orders said that private cab operators were allowed to operate. Ghaziabad seals border Meanwhile, Ghaziabad administration on Monday sealed its border with Delhi again in view of the rising cases in the district in the last few days, according to an official order. Essential services will be allowed to move across the two cities after showing identity cards.
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||Asymptomatic travellers can go home: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government on Monday issued guidelines for domestic travel via air, rail, and inter-State buses. People without any symptoms can go to their houses after a thermal screening at the exit points, according to the guidelines. “Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case, they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the DDMA helpline number concerned or the State helpline number,” an order issued by Director General Health Services, Nutan Mundeja, read. Hospital link Every bus stand, railway station, and airport has been linked to a hospital and people found to be symptomatic will be isolated by the authority concerned and transported in ambulances to the linked hospital. Here, those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to a dedicated COVID-19 facility. People with mild symptoms will be given an option to choose between home isolation and isolation at a COVID-19 care centre, both public and private. All passengers will be advised to download Aarogya Setu app, the order said. “Airports/railway stations/bus terminals should be regularly sanitised/disinfected and availability of soaps and sanitisers shall be ensured,” the order said.  Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case, they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the helpline numbers  Govt. order
26 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Spare visually challenged of DU open book examination’||Over 70 students, teachers, research scholars and NGO activists raised concerns over the ability of visually challenged students to take part in the proposed online examinations, in a joint letter to the Delhi University Vice-Chancellor last week. The major grievance was that they did not have accessible reading material, the letter stated. “Apart from accessing the reading through audio recordings and Braille, many of them also rely on e-text, which they could listen and read through the use of screen reading programmes,” it read. But as things stand, such material had not been made available by teachers, with many sending handwritten notes through online cloud platforms. The signatories highlighted that while availability of qualified volunteers to act as scribes and assist visually challenged students was often challenging in a city such as Delhi, it would be especially difficult to arrange in the rural parts of the country. It also pointed out that many students did not have access to laptops, screen reading apps and proper Net connection.
26 May 2020||May 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A quiet affair||
26 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||IPU extends last date for online form submission||IP University on Monday said that it has decided to further extend the last date for the submission of online application forms for all programmes till June 10. Earlier, the last date was May 25. The university had to extend the last date for the fourth time in a row in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak.
