26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||What is wrong in seeking apology, SC asks Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Tuesday wondered about the consistent resolve shown by civil right lawyer Prashant Bhushan in not tendering an apology in the face of contempt, saying “you have hurt someone, you must remove the hurt”. “What is wrong in seeking apology? Is it a sin to apologise? Will that be a reflection of guilt? ‘Apology’ is a magical word which can heal. You will all go to the category of Mahatma Gandhi if you can apologise,” Justice Arun Mishra said. Justice B.R. Gavai, on the Bench, said, “Mahatma Gandhi used to fast. Not for his, but for others’ sins.” Justice Krishna Murari, the third judge on the Bench, remained silent throughout. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal urged the court not to punish Mr. Bhushan. He said this was an opportunity for the court to enhance its greatness through its compassion. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, Mr. Bhushan’s lawyer, advised the court to not make his client a “martyr” by punishing him. What was needed was judicial statesmanship and not mercy, he said. Mr. Bhushan had refused to apologise in his two statements to the court. He was found guilty of scandalising the court with his tweets on a picture of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde astride a heavy bike and the role of the court in the past six years. He stated that the tweets were his bona fide opinions. In the sentence hearing on August 20, he quoted the Mahatma, saying he asks for neither mercy nor magnanimity from the court. The court, however, gave him an opportunity to tender an “unconditional apology” by August 24. But the senior lawyer, in his second statement to the court, said an insincere apology amounted to contempt of his conscience and to the institution he held in high esteem. The hearing was scheduled on August 25 to study the “effect” of the statement. ‘Expected better’ “We expected something better [from Bhushan],” Justice Mishra said, referring to the second statement. But Mr. Venugopal suggested the court should “warn Mr. Bhushan and let him go”. “Many sitting and retired judges have spoken about the institution in the past... It was to tell the court to look within and reform, to seek improvement for advancement of justice. No, it is not necessary to punish him,” he submitted when the court asked him for guidance. Mr. Dhavan said an effect of inflicting punishment would be “you making him a martyr”. “Look at what happened to Kalyan Singh after Babri Masjid demolition. He was punished for contempt and was seen as a martyr... Martyrdom is not what he [Bhushan] wants. We don’t want this matter to continue...,” he submitted. “This controversy will continue depending on the punishment you give to Bhushan. Not only should this case be closed, but controversy should be closed,” Mr. Dhavan submitted. Justice Mishra, referring to Mr. Bhushan’s statements and his reply alleging corruption by Chief Justices in the past, said “we could advice him not to commit this in the future. But he [Bhushan] has no inkling that he has done anything wrong...”
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||NIA files chargesheet in Pulwama attack case||More than a year after the Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed by a car-borne suicide bomber, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a chargesheet, comprising more than 13,000 pages, in a Jammu court. The chargesheet said the attack, planned by Pakistan based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and the “Pakistani establishment”, had been in the making since 2016. The car that blew up the bus ferrying the jawans on February 14, 2019, on the Jammu-Srinagar highway was packed with two Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) weighing 200 kg, it said. The IEDs contained 35 kg high-grade RDX explosives, brought in by Pakistani terrorists in three tranches between March-May, 2018, when they infiltrated in groups of five each from the Hiranagar sector along the Pakistan-Jammu border. Another attempt The NIA said an attempt was made to attack a convoy on February 6, but it did not succeed due to heavy snowfall. Seven Pakistanis in list The chargesheet has been filed against JeM chief Masood Azhar and 18 others. In all, seven Pakistanis have been indicted, including Azhar’s nephew Umar Farooq, who was killed in an encounter on March 29 in south Kashmir and is said to be the mastermind of the attack. Farooq’s father, Ibrahim Ather, is one of the main accused in the IC-814 Kandahar hijack case of 1999 and looks after the training camps of the JeM in Afghanistan. The JeM sent its cadres to the joint training camps of “Al-Qaeda-Taliban-JeM” and “Haqqani-JeM” in Afghanistan to get expertise in explosives and other terrorist tactics, the NIA said. “Farooq also visited Afghanistan for explosives training in 2016-17. He infiltrated into India through the International Border at the Jammu-Samba Sector in April 2018 and took over as JeM commander of Pulwama,” it said.
26 August 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata asks officials to step up work under MGNREGA||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday asked State government officials to step up work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) and urged them to prepare a list of migrant workers who have benefited under the scheme. Ms. Banerjee chaired an administrative meeting with senior government officials as well as District Magistrates in six districts in south-western parts of the State and told the government officials that the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic could not be sighted as an excuse for under-performance in government schemes. The Chief Minister compared the number of man days generated under the MGNREGA scheme in districts like Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia to the previous year, and said that officials would have to step up jobs being generated under the scheme. “I know there are 20,000 migrant labourers employed in NREGA projects in Birbhum, and 17,000 in Purba Bardhaman. There should be a total consolidated figure of the entire State. Please prepare such a list,” Ms. Banerjee directed Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay at the meeting. Millions of migrant workers have returned to West Bengal from different parts of the country due to the outbreak of the pandemic. The CM also directed officials to find out if anyone affected by cyclone Amphan was yet to receive compensation provided by the State government, and to finish the process in seven days. The State government will transfer all the benefits to the beneficiaries of the direct benefit scheme soon, she added. Ms. Banerjee expressed concern over the poor implementation of the rural roads scheme, and urged officials to transfer benefits under the conditional cash transfer scheme for girls, such as the Kanyashree and Rupashree schemes, at the earliest.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Provide medical reports of Teltumbde, Gonsalves to kin’||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to provide medical reports of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, to their families. A Bench led by Justice R.D. Dhanuka passed the order after their lawyer Mihir Desai said he was yet to receive a copy of his clients’ COVID-19 test reports. The authorities at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, where the two are lodged, had tested them for the viral infection. The two activists had earlier moved the court seeking that they be tested for the infection as they had been in close contact with poet Varavara Rao, another accused in the case who tested positive for COVID-19 on July 16. Earlier this month, the State told the HC that Gonsalves had tested negative while Teltumbde’s report had shown the presence of some antibodies, indicating that he might have been infected at some point. During a subsequent hearing, the court was informed by Advocate Vijay Hiremath, the counsel for co-accused Mahesh Raut that COVID-19 test reports of Teltumbde and Raut bore identical findings on vital parameters, height, weight, and other things. The State had then said it would recheck the reports. On Tuesday, Mr. Desai told the court that the State was yet to provide him with medical reports. “It is my health report and I deserve to know,” he said. The Bench agreed and asked the State’s counsel Deepak Thakare to provide the reports for Gonsalves and Teltumbde to their lawyer and family members. “You should know and you will be given the reports,” it told Mr. Desai. The State also submitted a report on the health of Sudha Bharadwaj, another co-accused. Bharadwaj has sought bail on health grounds citing co-morbidities, saying she was more vulnerable to the infection in prison.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 2,375 fresh cases||The State reported 2,375 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,456 recoveries on Tuesday. The cumulative case burden ever since the outbreak began in January has reached 61,879. Having made 40,339 recoveries till date, the number of people currently under treatment in various hospitals is 21,232. The Health Department has confirmed that 181 of those hospitalised are being treated in ICUs, with 55 of them on ventilator support. With 10 more deaths confirmed as COVID-19, the toll has reached 244. Two deaths each were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Malappuram, while one death each was reported in Wayanad and Kozhikode. Of the new cases reported, 2,196 es were locally acquired infections. This includes 49 health-care workers. In 174 cases, the authorities have not traced the infection to any known source. Malappuram tops Malappuram reported the highest number of cases among districts with 454 cases. Locally acquired infection constituted 428 cases, 15 of them being health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram has 391 cases, of which 388 cases, including that of 10 health-care workers, are a result of local transmission. Two more districts had over 200 cases, Kozhikode with 260 and Thrissur with 227 cases. In the other districts, Alappuzha has 170 cases, Ernakulam 163, Palakkad 152, Kannur 150, Kasaragod 99, Pathanamthitta 93, Kollam 87, Kottayam 86, Wayanad 37 and Idukki six. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 34,344. The State currently has a total of 619 hotspots as on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘Study in India - Stay in India’ to check student migration||Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said that the BJP-led government at the Centre was coming up with a programme called “Study in India - Stay in India” to prevent students from leaving the country seeking higher education abroad and also bringing back Indian students studying abroad. “Every year, around two lakhs of our students go abroad for higher education and stay there. Under ‘Study in India - Stay in India’, already 50,000 students across the globe have registered for this programme and many of our students want to come back to India to study under this programme. This will help us make our students contribute to nation building,” he said. He was speaking after remotely inaugurating various new buildings built on the campus of Central University of Karnataka near here on Tuesday. Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP), the Minister said that the policy was designed to make higher education focus on research and development so as it helps nation building. “NEP emphasises on research and development (R&D) because R&D is the backbone of nation building. The Green revolution, the White revolution and other developments are the outcomes of R & D. As our Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) says, we have to reach new heights globally through research and development,” he said. “We are going to establish a National Research Foundation (NRF) to boost research and innovation in the country,” he said. “Under NEP,” he added, “we are going to permit 30 world-class universities to come to India and it will help our students get the best of education within the country.” He inaugurated 17 academic buildings (Block D-7 to D-23), two OBC hostels, one guesthouse, one multi-purpose hall, a pond with 1.20 lakh cubic metres storage capacity and a sump of 20 lakh litres storage capacity. “I am very confident that the university will become a centre of excellence and bring a revolutionary change in the education sector and that it will certainly contribute to nation building,” he said, after inaugurating the structures. Member of Lok Sabha representing Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav sought more funds to develop the university. “Kalyana Karnataka is a backward area and we are happy that the Central University has come up in this region. We need more funds to develop the university and the region. The university needs sufficient water supply to expand its academic activities and both th State and Union governments should provide a permanent solution to water scarcity,” he said and requested the Minister of Education to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya in the northern part of Kalaburagi district and also establish an ICT training centre in Kalaburagi. Vice-Chancellor of Central University H.M. Maheshwaraiah spoke about the progress the university has made in the last five years. Chancellor N.R. Shetty presided over the programme.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records another high in COVID cases||Telangana recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases and tests in a day on Monday. A total of 2,579 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus and 52,933 tests were conducted. Till August 21, a maximum of 25,000 tests were conducted in a day. Thereafter, over 40,000 swab samples were tested. However, Monday was the first time the tests crossed 50,000 in a day. Though highest number of cases was recorded on August 24, the numbers are low from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and cases continue to shoot up in districts. Of the new cases, 295 cases were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The rest includes 186 from Rangareddy, 161 from Khammam, 142 from Nizamabad,143 from Warangal Urban, 129 from Nalgonda, 116 from Karimnagar, 106 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 104 from Mancherial, 98 from Jagtiyal. Nine more COVID-19 patients have succumbed. Total tests The total number of tests crossed 10 lakh. In the past four days (August 21-24) 1.72 lakh tests were conducted. The total number of 1,08,670 cases recorded till Tuesday includes 23,737 active cases, 84,163 recovered, and 770 deaths.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEET, JEE: MHA hints at rethink on dates||Facing escalating demands from political leaders and student organisations to push back the JEE-NEET exams due to COVID-19 fears, a Home Ministry official indicated that reconsideration was on the cards. However, his Education Ministry colleague denied that a rethink was under way. “As of now, the exam dates stand as it is. But the letters by Chief Ministers and other political leaders cannot be ignored,” the Home Ministry official said on background. “As far as I know, there is no rethink,” Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare told The Hindu . Last week, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition from students seeking postponement of the examinations scheduled for September. Following the August 18 order, the National Testing Agency announced the schedule for the exams with JEE-Main to be held from September 1-6, JEE-Advan-ced on September 27; and NEET-UG on September 13. A senior government official said the Home Ministry gave the green signal to conduct the exams on the insistence of the Education Ministry. The official said no decision had been taken to reschedule the exams, but letters by several political leaders were being studied. The Home Ministry’s clearance is required after the Disaster Management Act, 2005, was invoked for the first time in the country in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in March.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Privilege notices to DMK MLAs have foundational error, says HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday held that the show-cause notices issued by the Privileges Committee of the Tamil Nadu Assembly to DMK president M.K. Stalin and 20 other MLAs in August 2017 suffered from a “foundational error” of assuming that their conduct in displaying gutkha sachets in the Assembly was prohibited under the law. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy held that the legislators could not be proceeded against on the strength of the show-cause notices, which relied solely on a May 2017 government notification through which only the manufacture, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of gutkha were banned in the State. The judges made it clear that their conclusion was confined to the interpretation of the May 2017 notification vis-à-vis the conduct of the legislators in the House, which was made the basis for the issuance of the notices. However, the court left it open to the Privileges Committee to deliberate on the matter and proceed further if it was still of the opinion that a breach of privilege had been committed. Authoring the judgment, the Chief Justice wrote, “What we intend to clarify is that [the] carrying of gutkha sachets simpliciter may or may not be a breach of privilege, which is still open to examination by the Committee of Privileges. But to hold that the passage of the gutkha sachets inside the House amounted to transportation or storage is certainly not made out on facts.” Privilege notices to DMK MLAs have foundational error, says HC
26 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Economy to shrink in Q2, says RBI report||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) foresees the economic contraction triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic extending into the second quarter, especially as the shock to consumption has been severe, and said government consumption would be key to the revival of demand. “High frequency indicators that have arrived so far point to a retrenchment in activity that is unprecedented in history,” the RBI said in its Annual Report for 2019-20, which was released on Tuesday. Momentum lost “The upticks that became visible in May and June after the lockdown was eased in several parts of the country appear to have lost strength in July and August,” it said. Citing data, including the total issuance of e-way bills, a marker of domestic trading activity, as reflecting the loss of momentum in July, the central bank said its survey for the month of July indicated that consumer confidence fell to an all-time low, with a majority of respondents reporting pessimism relating to the general economic situation, employment, inflation and income. “Going forward, government consumption is expected to continue pandemic-proofing of demand, and private consumption is expected to lead the recovery when it takes hold, with non-discretionary spending leading the way until a durable increase in disposable incomes enables discretionary spending to catch up,” the RBI noted.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,||KSRTC asks govt. to allow full occupancy in buses||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has sought the State government’s permission to fill all the seats in its buses by relaxing social distancing norms. At present, in non-AC buses, out of the 54 seats, passengers are allowed to occupy only 30, and in AC buses, 20 of the 40-odd seats are allowed to be filled. The KSRTC recently announced that it has modified seating arrangements in some of its buses to ensure social distancing. “Many States have relaxed norms on carrying passengers in buses. We too have requested on similar lines. The government is likely to take a decision after taking the opinion of experts and officials concerned,” said an official. In Karnataka, State-run road transport corporations resumed services on May 19. Owing to poor occupancy, a majority of the fle et remained off the road. Officials said relaxing norms may help even private operators to run buses in large numbers. “Now, only a few private buses are running as it is not financially viable to run a bus with half occupancy. If rules are relaxed, more private players may resume services,” said an official. The number of people travelling in KSRTC buses is increasing gradually. At present, 40% of the fleet is plying. “On Monday, our revenue touched Rs. 4 crore — the highest so far for a day after resuming services. Prior to the lockdown, our daily revenue used to be between Rs. 8 crore and Rs. 9 crore. We are hoping that revenue and ridership will gradually increase,” an official said. For close to five months, the fleet of luxury buses has remained off the road. Out of the 500 AC buses, only 40 are running. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), on the other hand, has got the permission to fill all the seats as its buses are operated within the city limits. “In the coming days, we will request the government to allow standing passengers as well,” said an official. The BMTC is operating 3,500 buses a day and the ridership has touched 11 lakh a day. The fare box revenue collection is around Rs. 1.2 crore a day.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ensure help to Andhra students in Georgia in U.S., Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday asked Special Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Satish Chandra and other officials to help the students whose birth certificates and other important academic documents were destroyed in a major fire that broke out at their apartment complex near Lindbergh MARTA station, Georgia, U.S., last week. Responding to an appeal by Kumar Annavarapu, the Atlanta-based Government Coordinator for Overseas Education, the Chief Minister asked Mr. Satish Chandra and Special Officer M. Harikrishna to arrange for issue of the certificates at the earliest. The residents numbering more than 100 at a Buckhead apartment complex, who were evacuated last week after a massive fire broke out at the building, included 28 students from Andhra Pradesh studying in Georgia State University. Nobody was injured but the fire victims lost all their belongings in the mishap. “The students have lost all their belongings including birth certificates and other important documents besides their passports, key for their stay. The local Telugu associations have come forward to offer financial assistance,” Mr. Annavarapu told The Hindu over phone. He met the apartment management to make sure that the students’ accommodation was taken care of. “All students have been shifted to localities that are close by. They have financial security but are worried about their documents and certificates,” said Mr. Annavarapu, who is preparing a data of the certificates needed by them. He spoke to the State officials and apprised them of the situation there. The officials took the matter to the notice of the Chief Minister. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy responded immediately and asked the officials to expedite the process of issuing the certificates needed by the students and ensure that they do not face any inconvenience on this front,” said Mr. Annavarapu, adding that he was in talks with the Consulate officials to solve their passport issue.
26 August 2020||New Delhi/Bengaluru,||Ex-IPS officer Annamalai joins BJP||Former Karnataka cadre IPS officer K. Annamalai joined the BJP at the party’s national headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday. He is expected to contest the coming Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. After joining the party, he asserted that he wanted to foster “nationalist” feelings in his political work in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Annamalai, while announcing his resignation in 2019, had said he wanted to train young leaders at the grassroots level and refuted speculation that he would join the BJP. A mechanical engineering and an MBA graduate, he joined the police force in Karnataka in 2011.
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,||HC breather for Ramesh Hospitals MD||A single-judge Bench of the High Court on Tuesday granted an interim stay on all proceedings relating to the criminal case against Ramesh Hospitals Managing Director P. Ramesh and Chairman M. S. Rammohan Rao, accused in the Hotel Swarna Palace fire mishap case. After hearing arguments by both petitioners and the government pleaders, Justice D. Ramesh ruled that all further proceedings in the case be stayed. The judge said COVID Care Centres have been set up based on a GO by the State government. The Collector, the Joint Collector and the DMHO have been entrusted with the task of overseeing and checking the condition of the CCCs. In such cases where there was an accident , the district officials should also be made responsible, the judge said.  After hearing the arguments of Mr. Srinivas and Public Prosecutor Srinivas Reddy, the judge asked the PP whether the DM&HO had permitted Ramesh Hospitals to run Hotel Swarna Palace as COVID Centre. The judge sought to know at what stage was the investigation against the Collector and the Sub-Collector, Vijayawada, who were also named as accused. When Mr. Srinivas Reddy said that investigation was pending, the court suggested an arrangement of protecting the petitioners. Soon after lunch break, the judge granted an interim stay on all further proceedings in the case.
26 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Economy to shrink in Q2, says RBI report||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) foresees the economic contraction triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic extending into the second quarter, especially as the shock to consumption has been severe, and said government consumption would be key to the revival of demand. “High frequency indicators that have arrived so far point to a retrenchment in activity that is unprecedented in history,” the RBI said in its Annual Report for 2019-20, which was released on Tuesday. Momentum lost “The upticks that became visible in May and June after the lockdown was eased in several parts of the country appear to have lost strength in July and August,” it said. Citing data, including the total issuance of e-way bills, a marker of domestic trading activity, as reflecting the loss of momentum in July, the central bank said its survey for the month of July indicated that consumer confidence fell to an all-time low, with a majority of respondents reporting pessimism relating to the general economic situation, employment, inflation and income. “Going forward, government consumption is expected to continue pandemic-proofing of demand, and private consumption is expected to lead the recovery when it takes hold, with non-discretionary spending leading the way until a durable increase in disposable incomes enables discretionary spending to catch up,” the RBI noted. The RBI said the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) expected headline inflation to remain elevated in the second quarter.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||In safe hands||
26 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal near 1.45 lakh||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 2,964 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total case tally to 1,44,801. The State also recorded 58 fatalities in the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 2,909. Kolkata recorded 16 deaths in and the North 24 Parganas 18. The district recorded more new infections than Kolkata. While the North 24 Parganas recorded 590 infections, Kolkata recorded 541. The State, however, recorded more recoveries than infections taking the discharge rate to 79.10%. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during an administrative meeting suggested that those with mild infections be released from health facilities and kept under isolation. She said a separate record should be kept for those from neighbouring States who are seeking treatment in the health facilities here. She directed police officials that alternative arrangements for the stay of the personnel should be made so that they do not crowd the barracks and the infection in the force can be contained.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||List contempt case of 2009 on Sept. 10: Bench||The SC Bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, has deferred a 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan that was initiated following his remarks on judicial corruption. The SC asked the case to be posted before another Bench on September 10.page 9
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘38% of COVID-19 patients prefer hospitals’||An analysis by the BBMP COVID-19 war room between from July 1 and August 23 has showed that while 38.4% of the 1.03 lakh people who tested positive were hospitalised, 35.7% of them chose to be in home isolation.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees highest COVID spike since July 16||Delhi recorded 1,544 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday — the highest single-day spike since July 16, when 1,652 cases were reported. The total number of cases in the city now stands at 1,64,071.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi’s air quality still worst among 6 big cities’||Throughout the lockdown, though air pollution in Delhi was less compared to 2019, the air quality of the city was still worst among six large cities, according to an analysis by CSE.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Demands for relaxations surge, but Uddhav firm||While Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is firm on not pushing the State government’s Mission Begin Again, demands, ranging from concessions to single-screen theatre owners and opening gymnasiums to seeking relaxations from e-pass, are increasing every day.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 cases cross 7 lakh||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 10,425 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the State’s tally to 7,03,823, a State health official said. The death toll due to the pandemic in the State rose to 22,794 with 329 fatalities.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Two day monsoon session from September 7||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature, deferred a couple of times due to the COVID-19 outbreak, will now be held from September 7 with all precautions in place to curb the infection spread, an official said on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Eight deaths in Dharwad||Davangere recorded 318 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, while it was 298 in Belagavi. Meanwhile, Dharwad recorded 204 cases and eight deaths. Davangere and Haveri recorded five deaths, Vijayapura four, Chitradurga and Uttara Kannada three deaths each. Uttara Kannada recorded 141 new cases, Vijayapura 135, Chitradurga 114 and Haveri registered 78 fresh cases.
26 August 2020||BELAGAVI,||Yediyurappa to go to Delhi for more funds||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts and announced that he would be meeting central Ministers in Delhi in a week to seek additional funds for relief and rehabilitation work. Mr. Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues boarded a special plane from the Sambra airport and flew over the Krishna basin villages for nearly an hour.
26 August 2020||Chennai,||'1,077 COVID-19 patients underwent dialysis’||A total of 20,550 persons, including 1,077 who tested positive for COVID-19, underwent dialysis in government hospitals since March. The government had been providing all speciality treatment during the pandemic, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.
26 August 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,951 fresh cases, 107 deaths||As many as 5,951 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, taking the State’s tally to 3,91,303. A total of 107 deaths were recorded in the State, while 6,998 persons were discharged.
26 August 2020||Chennai,||SPB responding well to treatment, says son||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is responding well to treatment, his son S.P. Charan said on Tuesday. MGM Healthcare did not issue a health bulletin. The singer was hospitalised earlier this month after testing positive for COVID-19.
26 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana cases touch a new high at 2,579||Telangana’s new COVID-19 cases and tests were the highest on Monday, as 2,579 tested positive and 52,933 tests were conducted. Tuesday’s addition to Kerala’s COVID-19 positive case count stood at 2,375, pushing up the State’s total to 61,879. The number of people under treatment in hospitals was 21,232. The Health department said 181 patients were in ICUs, 55 of them on ventilator support. With 10 more deaths confirmed by the department, the toll stood at 244. Two deaths each were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alapuzha and Malappuram while one death each was reported in Wayanad and Kozhikode. Of Tuesday’s cases, 2,196 out of 2,375 were locally acquired infections. This included 49 health workers; cases without a recognised source of infection stood at 174. On Tuesday, Malappuram again edged past Thiruvananthapuram, which had been reporting 400-500 cases daily, with 454 cases. Thiruvananthapuram had 391 cases. Kozhikode had 260, Thrissur 227, Alapuzha 170, Ernakulam 163, Palakkad 152, Kannur 150, Kasaragod 99, Pathanamthitta 93, Kollam 87, Kottayam 86, Wayanad 37 and Idukki 6 cases. The State tested 34,344 samples in a day. In Telangana, data released on Tuesday said that till August 21, the highest testing level was 25,000 in a day. Among new cases on Monday, 295 were from Greater Hyderabad. The rest included 186 from Rangareddy, 161 from Khammam, 142 from Nizamabad, 143 from Warangal Urban, 129 from Nalgonda, 116 from Karimnagar, 106 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 104 from Mancherial, and 98 from Jagtiyal. Nine more COVID-19 patients died. In Karnataka, 148 deaths were reported on Tuesday, the highest in a day, and the toll was 4,958. Also, 8,161 cases were reported. In Bengaluru Urban, 2,294 people tested positive on Tuesday. Another 5,951 persons tested positive for coronavirus disease in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, taking the State’s tally to 3,91,303. While 6,998 persons were discharged after treatment, a total of 107 persons died. A total of 52,128 persons were under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. Till date, a total of 3,32,454 persons were discharged. The State’s toll was 6,721. Chennai’s daily count continued to stay above the 1,000-mark. A total of 1,270 persons tested positive in the city, taking its overall tally to 1,27,949. On Tuesday, 1,136 persons were discharged, while the city accounted for 20 of the 107 deaths (65 in government and 42 in private hospitals). The number of fresh infections stayed high in Cuddalore and Coimbatore with the two districts recording 370 and 320 cases respectively. Chengalpattu recorded 321 cases, while Tiruvallur had 305 cases.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and Bengaluru bureaus)
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon session from Sept. 14||The monsoon session of Parliament is likely to be held from September 14 to October 1. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, has finalised these dates. There will be 18 sittings and Parliament will meet with a host of protective measures in place to stick to physical distancing and other norms amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The budget session had ended abruptly on March 23 as the number of cases started spiralling. Staggered sitting As per the convention, Parliament has to meet within six months. This period was ending on September 23. Arrangements are being made to have staggered sitting of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. While both Houses usually function simultaneously, this time due to the extraordinary circumstances, one House will sit during the morning hours and the other in the evening, sources say. According to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, members of the Upper House will be seated in both chambers and galleries during the session. Sixty Rajya Sabha members will be seated in the main hall, 51 in galleries barring the media gallery and the remaining 132 will participate in discussions while sitting in the Lok Sabha hall. Similar seating arrangements are being worked out by the Lok Sabha Secretariat as well. For the first time, large display screens and consoles for participation from galleries, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation, special cables between the two Houses and polycarbonate separators will be in place. Politically also this session is expected to be a raucous one considering it is the first time Parliament is meeting amid the pandemic. Opposition parties have been protesting against the government for attempting to withhold GST payouts to States, limited financial support to State governments, large-scale job losses, among other things. It is also the first meeting of Parliament since the June 15 face-off between the Indian and Chinese troops on the Line of Actual Control which killed 20 Indian Army personnel.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Norms for post virus treatment soon||A technical body of experts is gathering data to develop a guideline for addressing post-COVID complications, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. Speaking at a press conference, the official said while the Ministry is not tracking the number of post-COVID syndrome cases in India, it was following reports of re-infection confirmed in Hong Kong earlier this week. “We have read with interest the reports of re-infection in Hong Kong, but we would like to state that re-infection depends on a number of factors including immune status of the person, whether the virus has mutated etc. This is just one case as of now and normally it doesn’t happen in viral diseases,” said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava, who also addressed the press. “This is still a relatively new virus... We aren’t alarmed with the development but are following it closely. We still are understating the time period of immunity that the infection provides,” he added. Speaking about the Sputnik-5 vaccine (COVID-19 vaccine developed in Russia), the Ministry said India and Russia are in communication. “Some initial information has been shared and we are awaiting details,” said Mr. Bhushan. The Health Ministry said of the total number of active cases in India, only 2.7% patients are on oxygen support, 1.92% patients are in ICU and 0.29% patients are on ventilator support. Stating that India has on Tuesday reported the highest recoveries in a single day, Mr. Bhushan said, “66,550 COVID-19 patients have recovered and been discharged in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of recoveries has crossed 24 lakh [24,04,585]. India’s recovery rate has reached 76% [75.92%]. The number of recovered patients has outpaced the active cases [7,04,348] by more than 17 lakh. The recovered patients are 3.41 times the active cases, as on date. There has been more than a 100% hike in recoveries in the last 25 days”. As of Tuesday, India has tested nearly 3.7 crore samples, the ICMR said.
26 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ticket on merit, says Assam BJP||The BJP has told its MLAs in Assam that their renomination for the 2021 Assembly election was not guaranteed. The BJP has 60 legislators in the 126-member House and has set a target of winning at least 100 seats in the election early next year. With its two regional allies — Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People’s Front — the party had surpassed a collective target of 84 seats in 2016. Series of assessments Days after BJP State president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said the party might not field many of its current MLAs, Assam Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the chances of party legislators being re-nominated would depend on the outcome of an assessment of their performance and popularity. “Our candidates are selected through a series of assessments. Only MLAs who make the grade will be given tickets,” Dr. Sarma said on Monday evening. Party insiders said there are at least 15 MLAs who have underperformed or have lost popularity in their respective constituencies. Most of them are from eastern and southern Assam, where the BJP had drubbed the Congress in the 2016 poll. New fronts The “warning” to non-performing MLAs followed a move by opposition parties, led by the Congress, to form a ‘grand alliance’ for preventing the BJP from coming back to power on its own or with its regional allies. While the Congress has been discussing a possible alliance with the All India United Democratic Front led by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal, peasant rights group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti has announced a new regional front. The All Assam Students’ Union too is contemplating a new political party to bat for the indigenous communities. The AGP, meanwhile, said it will continue its alliance with the BJP to balance its brand of regionalism with nationalist sentiments. “Quitting the alliance is not an option for us, but regionalism was, is and will be our focus,” party president and Agriculture Minister Atul Bora said.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC satisfied at royal family’s affidavit||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its satisfaction at an affidavit of undertaking filed by the erstwhile Travancore royal family concerning the progress made in the change of management at Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit noted that the affidavit is “completely consistent” with the directions given by the court in its July verdict. The court had declared the former royals as the manager or shebait of the properties of Sree Padmanabha, the chief deity of the famed temple in Thiruvananthapuram. The court clarified that if the Thiruvananthapuram District Judge is of another faith, the seniormost Additional District Judge in the district could be appointed as the chairperson of the temple administrative committee. The July verdict says the administrators should be Hindus. The Bench said a retired judge of the Kerala High Court nominated by the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court will be the chairperson of the advisory committee. The court said the committees should start implementing the directions in the July verdict in four weeks. ‘Public temple’ The court had in July accepted the royals’ submission that the Padmanabha Swamy temple was a “public temple.” It however issued a slew of directions for its transparent administration in the future. Besides the Thiruvananthapuram District Judge as its chairperson, the other members of the administrative committee include a nominee of the trustee (royal family), the chief thanthri of the temple, a nominee of the State and a member nominated by the Union Ministry of Culture. This committee panel would take care of the daily administration of the temple. It also ordered a second committee to be constituted to advise the administrative committee on policy matters. Both committees should start functioning within the next two months and an executive officer should be appointed without delay. Primary duties The primary duties of the committees would be to preserve the treasures and properties. They would take a call on whether to open Kallara B, considered to be the richest among the temple vaults, for inventorisation. The committees would ensure that rituals and religious practices are conducted as per custom and on the advice of the Chief Thantri. The court said the committees would ensure that income to the temple would be used to augment facilities. It ordered an audit to be conducted for the past 25 years. The royal family will not take any remuneration for the services it renders to temple.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI/Chennai,||Ex-IPS officer joins BJP||Former Karnataka cadre IPS officer and a native of Tamil Nadu, K. Annamalai, joined the BJP at the party’s national headquarters in New Delhi in the presence of national general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao and Tamil Nadu unit chief L. Murugan. Sources in the BJP said he would contest on the party ticket in the Tamil Nadu Assembly election in early 2021. Mr. Annamalai quoted from classic Tamil language text Thirukkural as he joined the party, enumerating in Tamil the qualities needed in a leader. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi embodied all these desired virtues. He asserted that he wanted to foster “nationalist” feelings in his political work in the State. He declared that his future plans in politics depended on what the party decided.  ‘Social change’ Mr. Annamalai, who quit after nine years of service, had been known as a strict and responsive officer. A 2011-batch IPS officer, Mr. Annamalai, who served as Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), Bengaluru, when he tendered his resignation, said he was joining the BJP, as a political and social change was needed in Tamil Nadu and that the BJP had been misrepresented in the State. Mr. Annamalai told The Hindu that he initially toyed with the idea of running a foundation and not have any political labels attached to him. “But in the last couple of months, I felt that a political change is as important and necessary as a social change. They have to go together. The moment I wanted to get into politics, I was looking for a party which naturally suits me. I am a nobody, I am a farmer’s son. Only by merit I have come this far in life. I like a party which promotes meritocracy and which is like nationalistic in character. I have been very open that I am a big fan of [Prime Minister] Modi ji ,” he said. Referred to as ‘ Singham ’ during his stint as police officer in Manipal, Mr. Annamalai said the Dravidian parties had become family-run enterprises and stopped caring for the common citizens. “There are some things a party shouldn’t compromise on — internal, external security while allowing for fresh blood in its ranks where a Tamil is as important as a Punjabi or a Gujarati. All these combined is nationalist,” he said. ‘BJP misrepresented’ According to him, the BJP had been misrepresented in the State. “The BJP always stands for Tamils. Given a chance, I would like to be the voice of the Tamil people and take Tamil Nadu issues to the party high command,” he added. The BJP in Tamil Nadu fought the Lok Sabha election in alliance with the ruling AIADMK but plans for an alliance for the Assembly election are not clear yet. The BJP has struggled to find a foothold in the State although both the DMK and the AIADMK have been alliance partners in Delhi in the past. The party is hoping Mr. Annamalai’s professional reputation and his choice of the BJP may help attract support.
26 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Record Kerala presence in RS||With Shreyams Kumar of Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) getting elected to the Rajya Sabha from the State on Monday, the presence of Keralite has reached a record with 14 members in the Upper House of Parliament. Nine members were elected from the Legislative Assembly. This included Congress leaders A.K. Antony, and Vayalar Ravi, serving their fifth and fourth terms respectively. Indian Union Muslim League State treasurer P.V. Abdul Wahab is another senior leader from the United Democratic Front (UDF) camp. Also, Jose K. Mani, of the Kerala Congress (M), who resigned his Kottayam Lok Sabha seat to contest the Rajya Sabha polls in 2018. The Congress handed over the seat to the KC(M) to pave the way for the party for its return to the Congress-led coalition after vacillating for two years. Other Rajya Sabha members from the State are Elamaram Karim, K. Somaprasad, and K.K. Ragesh of the CPI(M) and Binoy Viswam of the CPI. Actor and politician Suresh Gopi was nominated by the President in the category of eminent citizens as per the provisions of Article 80 of the Constitution of India. He had unsuccessfully contested on the BJP ticket from Thrissur Parliamentary constituency. All others have been elected from other States. This included Congress all-India general secretary K.C. Venugopal from Rajasthan. Rajeev Chandrasekhar, who was elected as an Independent member from Karnataka, is another Keralite and vice chairman of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in the State.  From other States Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan has been elected from Maharashtra, while bureaucrat-turned politician Alphons Kannanthanam was elected from Rajasthan. He served as Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism in the first Narendra Modi Ministry. Incidentally, Mr. Shreyams Kumar will continue in the post till April 2022, the remaining tenure of his father M.P. Veerendrakumar, who died in May. Veerendrakumar was first elected as JD(U) member in 2016 but resigned in protest against his party's decision to support the NDA government in December 2017. But he returned as the LDF-backed Independent candidate in March 2018. The six year tenure of Rajya Sabha seat was shared by three leaders during 1986-92. T.K.C. Vaduthala of the Congress who was elected in 1986. After his death, the CPI(M) nominee P.K. Kunjachan, won the seat. When the seat fell vacant after his death in 1991, Congress leader Thennala Balakrishna Pillai was elected and completed the tenure for less than a year.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Raising age of marriage will pose problems’||Raising the age of marriage from 18 to 21 for women will lead to an increase in parental backlash against young adults who marry against the wishes of their parents and will lead to criminalisation of sexual activity, say activists. The criticism of the government proposal follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Independence Day, in which he said that a committee was deliberating a change in marital age. A task force appointed by the Women and Child Development Ministry in June has been consulting civil society members. Delhi-based NGO Partners for Law in Development undertook an analysis of cases reported under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act (PCMA), 2006, to understand who used the law the most and to what end. The data analysed comprised 83 High Court and District Court judgments and orders between 2008 and 2017 and found that in 65% of the cases, the PCMA was used to punish elopement of two consenting older adolescents. In the remaining 35% of cases of child marriage, the PCMA was invoked in more than half of them to seek dissolution of marriages that didn’t work and not to punish the parents for breaking the law. Moreover, the law was used mostly by parents and relatives of the girl in 56 out of the 83 cases and only 14% of the cases were initiated by legal functionaries such as the Child Marriage Prohibition Office. The study also found that when used to punish young consenting couples for marrying against the wishes of their parents, the PCMA was invoked along with penal provisions for kidnapping and rape under the Indian Penal Code as well as Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 — the minimum punishment under the latter for aggravated sexual assault is 20 years. However, marriages arranged by parents in violation of the law only see PCMA being applied, which provides for a maximum punishment of 2 years. “This is a staggering and dangerous disparity. The law which was designed to protect young people has been set up in the Indian context to harm them,” Madhu Mehra, executive director, Partners for Law in Development, said at a virtual press conference on Monday. “This is not a time to tinker with the PCMA. It’s a time to look at POCSO and age of consent, which should be revised to 16 years from 18, at least in cases of non-coercive and non-exploitative relations among peers,” Ms. Mehra added. Mary E. John, Director, Centre for Women’s Development Studies, cites data from National Family Health Survey-4 to state that a vast majority of women are married by the age of 21 and raising the age of marriage for women will lead to the criminalisation of these women and their families.  Ms. John said the emphasis needs to be on schooling and access to job opportunities to delay the age of marriage and address poverty to prevent under-age marriage and fight malnutrition.  This is not a time to tinker with the PCMA. It’s a time to look at POCSO and age of consent  Madhu Mehra  Executive director, Partners for Law in Development
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||New Bench to hear 2009 Bhushan case||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, on Tuesday deferred a 2009 contempt case against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Justice Mishra said he was “short of time”. The judge is demitting office on September 2. The Bench asked the case to be posted before another appropriate Bench on September 10. The case, initiated on remarks made by Mr. Bhushan about judicial corruption in an interview to Tehelka magazine in 2009, was suddenly listed before Justice Mishra’s Bench recently after an eight-year hiatus. “You should remember, people come to this court for relief. Their faith should not be shaken. We need to safeguard the institution,” Justice Mishra addressed senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, who is Mr. Bhushan’s lawyer. “In my view, people come to court for relief and justice,” Mr. Dhavan said. Both Mr. Dhavan and senior advocate Kapil Sibal agreed with the view of the Bench to defer the case. They said they had the highest regard for the institution. Questions of law The hearing began with Mr. Dhavan referring to questions of law framed by him primarily on whether a bona fide opinion about judicial corruption amounted to criminal contempt. He said the questions should be referred to a Constitution Bench. The court should first hear Attorney General K.K. Venugopal on the questions of law. “Our questions raise the effect of truth and bona fide opinions on a contempt action. It directly goes to the heart of the Prashant Bhushan case. It was never discussed by this court whether a bona fide opinion, negligent or not, amounts to criminal contempt,” Mr. Dhavan submitted. Justice Mishra said the appropriate framing of questions of law to be referred to a Constitution Bench would require extensive pleadings and he had only a few days more before retirement. “Let us leave this to an appropriate Bench,” he said. When Mr. Dhavan requested the Bench to issue a notice to the Attorney General, Justice Mishra said the decision would be best left to the appropriate Bench. He even suggested the nomination of an amicus curiae in the case. On August 10, the court decided to hear arguments on whether the remarks in the interview against the judiciary amounted to per se contempt. However, on August 17, the Bench went on to deflect the issue, saying the court should launch a detailed examination into the circumstances under which a person could make public allegations of corruption against the judiciary. The court also wanted to hear arguments on laying down a procedure to be adopted if such statements of corruption were made in public against sitting as well as retired judges. “Allegation of corruption per se cannot be contempt because the same pertains to criticism of a judge for a biased dispensation of justice and would in all cases require further investigation before such allegations are brushed aside at the threshold,” Mr. Bhushan said in his written submission to the court. Truth was a defence under Section 13 (b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. “When such truth/defence is invoked, the court to hold the alleged contemnor guilty of contempt will have to necessarily return a finding that (a) such defence is not in public interest; and (b) the request for invoking such defence is not bona fide,” he argued. He said he used the word ‘corruption’ in a wider sense to include any act of impropriety other than merely financial corruption.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||CWC resolution unlikely to end Congress power tussle||Congress president Sonia Gandhi reached out to Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the dissenting leaders, after Monday’s stormy CWC meet, said a senior leader on Tuesday. But fresh tweets by dissenting Congress leaders hinted that the group may be preparing for a long fight to push for reforms in the party, leaving the top leadership unsure about their next move. It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most,” senior leader Kapil Sibal said in a cryptic tweet a day after a stormy CWC meeting ended with a resolution for the continuation of Ms. Sonia Gandhi as party president till the next AICC session. Mr. Sibal is one of 23 signatories to a letter sent to Ms. Gandhi earlier this month, which spoke of the need for a full time and visible party president, collective leadership and suggested sweeping internal reforms. Rajya Sabha member and another signatory Vivek Tankha’s tweet that “History remembers the brave and not the timid” became a rallying point for Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, also signatories to the letter. “Friends we are not dissenters but proponents of revival. The letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. Universally truth is best defence whether it be Court or Public Affairs. History acknowledges the brave and not the timid,” Mr. Tankha tweeted. Responding to it, Mr. Wasnik said those who saw the letter “as an offence will realise sooner than later that the issues deserve consideration”. “Well said,” responded Mr. Sharma. “The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the Constitution,” he added. ‘Ready to face action’ Mr. Sharma’s tweet reflected the assertive stance he took at the closed-door Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting where he not only stayed firm on the contents of the letter but also dared the party to take action “immediately” when Ambika Soni talked of disciplinary action. The next flash point could now be over the composition of the CWC-mandated committee that has been proposed to assist the Congress president. “Only a balanced and inclusive committee that doesn’t exclude those who called for reforms, can bring an amicable closure and Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi must engage in meaningful dialogue with the seniors,” said another leader from the group that wrote the letter. The social media responses indicate that the Congress’s efforts to make the letter a “closed chapter” may not succeed as the group seems to be mulling different options and reiterating their “concerns”. “If we have hurt her [Sonia Gandhi’s] feelings, we are sorry for it,” M. Veerappa Moily said, asserting they never questioned her leadership. He defended being a signatory to the letter, as he stressed the need for rejuvenating and restructuring the party. “If we suggest that District Congress Committee chiefs should be decided by the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) instead of Delhi or empowering the PCC leadership, is it anti-party or against the Gandhis?” asked a leader.  (With PTI inputs)
26 August 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Jharkhand man carries aged mother to bank for pension||A man in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district claimed that he had to carry his centenarian mother on his back to bank to withdraw her pension from her Jan Dhan account, but was turned away due to the lack of a COVID-19 test report. The incident took place in Ranka town in Garhwa district on Monday. The block administration had set up a COVID-19 test camp outside Vananchal Gramin Bank in Ranka, and those who tested negative for the coronavirus were reportedly allowed to enter the bank. In order to withdraw three months’ pension amounting Rs. 1,500 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana deposited in his mother’s Jan Dhan bank account, Bifan Bhuyan, a daily wager, had gone to the bank. As he did not find any other means to take his 105-year-old mother — Yatavaria Kunwar — to the bank, Mr. Bhuyan, 60, carried her on his back and covered a distance of 4 km from the Kanchanpur village to Ranka. “When I reached VG Bank at Ranka, the COVID-19 test was being conducted outside the bank. I could not get my mother tested. Bank authorities also did not let me and my mother enter the building. So I carried her back to my village again,” he said. Photographs of Mr. Bhuyan carrying his mother were flashed in local media. The branch manager of VG Bank on Tuesday reached Mr. Bhuyan’s house with the pension amount of Rs. 1,500 and said that the elderly woman did not need to visit the bank again. “It is incorrect that the man and his centenarian mother were turned away from the bank as they did not possess COVID-19 negative certificate. In fact, the man did not wait for his turn to come because of overcrowding. The Ranka block authorities had set up a camp outside the bank for COVID-19 tests on Monday. And tests were facilitated for our bank customers,” said Lakeswar Das Panika, bank manager.
26 August 2020||Bhopal,||Take action if safety norms violated: HC||The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed the Bhind district administration to ensure that COVID-19 precautionary protocols are followed while allowing gatherings and take penal action in case of violation. A Division Bench of Justices Sheel Nagu and Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava gave the order on Monday while hearing a public interest litigation petition that flagged the BJP organising gatherings during a three-day membership drive in Gwalior, Morena and Bhind districts on August 22-24, saying it may lead to the further spread of the pandemic. While disposing of the petition filed by Hemant Singh Rana of the Congress, the court directed the Collector and Superintendent of Police (SP), Bhind, to ensure the following of all precautionary protocols as per the guidelines issued by government of India, the Supreme Court and the State government from time to time while allowing any gathering/congregation of persons of any nature. Further, it said in case the Collector and the SP found any violation of the precautionary protocols, then appropriate preventive or penal action should be taken in accordance with law. The court has asked the respondents to file a compliance report of the order within 15 days. Containment zones Representing the petitioner, lawyer Rajiv Sharma argued before the court that the BJP gatherings would lead to congregation of people from different places and cause further spread of COVID-19 “already at its peak” in the Gwalior-Chambal region, where several areas had been declared containment zones. “I had mailed the petition to the court’s Chief Justice on August 21 and requested for an urgent hearing,” Mr. Sharma told The Hindu.  Additional Advocate General Ankur Mody prayed for listing the matter a day later so that he could seek instructions, which was rejected by the court. He submitted that as regards gatherings in Gwalior and Morena, the petition was “rendered infructuous” as they were held on August 22 and 23. Congress charge Meanwhile, the Congress demanded a police case be registered against Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP State president V.D. Sharma and Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for taking part in the gatherings, thereby violating COVID-19 safety guidelines. “Laws are equal for everyone in our country, in which there is no discrimination between ‘Maharaj’ [reference to Mr. Scindia] and the common people,” contended K.K. Mishra, media incharge, Gwalior-Chambal Congress, in a letter to the police on Monday.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Four Srisailam power plant units may revive soon: panel||The internal committee of TS Power Generation Corporation, which has been tasked to inquire the 6×150 MW Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station fire accident, has assessed that the damage to the power plant was huge and that four units were in a position of revival in 2-10 weeks’ time. The team that had visited the underground power station near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district for preliminary estimation of the damage has returned to the city and held a review meeting on detailed assessment, including the causes for the mishap. A highly-placed executive in the power utility told The Hindu that revival of units one, two, three and five could be taken up soon. The team would again leave for the hydel station site on Wednesday. Sources stated that restoration of power supply for lighting purpose in the tunnel power station was done partially and it could be completed soon. However, installation of the essential air-exhaust and pumping fresh air systems would take time and de-watering of the pool of seepage water from the plant is expected to be completed on Wednesday. “We have already come to an assessment that fourth unit is damaged to the maximum extent and the sixth unit too damaged considerably in the fire. However, units one, two, three and five could be revived over the next 10-12 weeks starting with units one and two. We hope to revive the two units and resume generation over the next couple of weeks so that the flood season is made use of for generation of the low-cost energy and units three and five over the next couple of months,”, the official explained. Along with revival of the units, the generation utility has decided to focus on the upgraded safety mechanisms in the underground hydel project since the existing facilities did not help prevent the mishap or minimise the fire/damage. Official sources stated that the components which are not damaged could be tested for their functionality only after restoration of power supply in the power station. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao is scheduled to visit the Srisailam LBHES on Wednesday to take stock of the efforts to assess the damage completely and restore basic facilities in the underground power station.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Kishan Reddy’s website hacked||After the website of Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy was reportedly hacked, the Cybercrime Police registered a case. The website was hacked allegedly by Pakistan-based hackers who posted content about Kashmir and Pakistan. Mr Reddy’s website is reportedly unavailable since then. When contacted, Avinash Mohanty, Joint Commissioner of Police, Detective Department confirmed that a case has been registered under relevant sections of the IT Act. In a separate case, the Central Crime Station on Tuesday re-registered a case which was transferred from the Panjagutta police station. The case pertains to sexual assault by 143 persons as alleged by a woman complainant. The victim had stated that three months after her marriage in 2010, her in-laws and others had harassed and sexually assaulted her. The Panjagutta police station had booked a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. In a third case, the Cybercrime Police registered a case against unknown persons for allegedly circulating a video clip which purportedly showed two groups of people from the same community involved in a quarrel. The clip was allegedly circulated and portrayed as a skirmish between broups belonging to different communities.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Secretariat fire triggers major row||A fire at the Secretariat assumed a severe political dimension seemingly out of the blue on Tuesday. None were injured in the blaze. However, initial reports suggested "substantial" loss of official records. The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) immediately termed the incident an act of sabotage. Chennithala’s charge Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who visited the spot, said the fire had destroyed three sections. It had consumed records relating to foreign trips of Ministers and bureaucrats, their interactions with foreign entities, classified political files and granting of VIP status to persons. The fire had occurred soon after office hours. The "saboteurs" had destroyed them to hide the role of the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the UAE consulate linked gold smuggling case. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Customs had sought several files from the General Administration Department (GAD) to probe whether the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had abetted the smuggling operation. The agencies had questioned Mr. Vijayan's former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar several times. The government had stonewalled efforts by the agencies to procure surveillance video footage of the comings and goings at the CMO citing it was destroyed in “thunder in the peak of summer,” he said. Mr, Chennithala said the NIA should investigate the blaze. Dramatic scenes The incident also caused some drama at the Secretariat. The police arrested BJP workers, including State president K. Surendran, who entered the Secretariat compound in protest. Officers hustled them away in a police van to a nearby station. The furore caused Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta to come out of his office. He demanded outsiders quit the premises. A firefighter said short circuit could have caused the fire. P. Honey, Additional Secretary, GAD, said the fire had damaged a few files relating to the requests for rooms in government guest houses. Minister’s charge Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan accused the Congress and the BJP of having attempted to unleash violence at the Secretariat. He said their supporters could have started the fire. Mr. Jayarajan announced a police inquiry into the incident.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mullaperiyar dam not in danger: AG||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the level of water in Mullaperiyar dam is 131.85 feet now and apprehensions of danger are unsubstantiated. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Mr. Venugopal, for the Central Water Commission, said the water is only 1.85 feet more than 130 feet. He said the water level has, on an average, been 123.21 feet for the past 10 years. The court was hearing a plea by a resident of Idukki district in Kerala to lower the water level to 130 feet, saying there is a danger of earthquakes and floods in the area as the monsoon progresses in the State. The court, however, adjourned the hearing on the request of the petitioner, Russel Joy.  Similar petition The Tamil Nadu government has countered that the plea is infructuous. Mr. Joy has a similar petition pending in the Supreme Court since 2018, advocate G. Umapathy had submitted in the previous hearing. Advocate Wills Mathews, for Mr. Joy, had said six districts in the State were under the threat of floods and earthquakes. The Bench had finally tagged the new plea along with the 2018 one.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to protest Pak. claims on terror at UN||India will approach the UN Security Council President to bring to his notice a series of false claims levelled by Pakistan on terrorism, in one of the strongest responses by the Indian permanent mission so far, sources here said. The note will also include the fact that Pakistan’s UN Permanent Representative Munir Akram claimed to have addressed a UNSC debate on terrorism held on Monday, which was open only for Ambassadors of the 15 Security Council members, which don’t include Pakistan. “We fail to comprehend where exactly did the Permanent Representative of Pakistan make his statement since the Security Council Session today was not open to non-members of the Security Council,” the Indian mission at the UN said in a statement posted as a series of tweets on Tuesday. Earlier, Pakistan’s mission to the UN had released a note it claimed was a “Statement by Ambassador Munir Akram, Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations, at the Open Debate of the Security Council on the Report of the Secretary-General on the Threats to International Peace and Security posed by Terrorism Actions” held on August 24. However, the meeting was only open to the five permanent and 10 non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, officials said. A video on the UN website of the event, that lasted about two hours also confirms this (http://webtv.un.org/watch/player/6184118855001_). Lodging protest India is lodging its protest formally with the Indonesian Ambassador to the UN Dian Triansyah Djani, who chaired the UNSC meeting on terrorism, to discuss the latest report on Al Qaeda and ISIL (Islamic State) operations. These reports are provided every six months by the UN Secretary-General. This is not the first time Pakistan has tried to make allegations against India on the issue of terrorism. However, officials say they see a “pattern” in Pakistan’s recent statements, with a view to targeting India ahead of January 2021, when India will join as a non-permanent member for a two year term at the UN Security Council. In addition, Pakistan, that has been grey listed at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), is also trying to build a case given that India will face its routine scrutiny or “Mutual Evaluation Report” (MER) on terrorism financing and money laundering issues at FATF beginning February 2021, with a plenary discussion in October 20201. As a result, officials told The Hindu, it is increasingly necessary to call out “falsehoods and inaccuracies” in each Pakistani statement, given the larger repercussions.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||NGT slams Ministry’s report on clean air programme||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) over its report on the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which proposes 20-30% reduction of air pollution by 2024. The NGT disapproved the submission of the MoEF that a committee, upon further deliberation, has concluded that 20-30% pollutant reduction under the NCAP seems realistic. It said the MoEF’s view was against the constitutional mandate under Article 21.  A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A.K. Goel said the MoEF’s stand that pollution could not be controlled except to the extent of certain percentage was directly hit by the constitutional and statutory mandate. Right to Clean Air stood recognised as part of Right to Life and failure to address air pollution was denial of Right to Life, the Bench said. The tribunal said the enforcement of ‘Sustainable Development’ principle and ‘Public Trust Doctrine’ required stern measures to be adopted to give effect to the mandate of international obligations for which the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and other laws had been enacted.
26 August 2020||Kochi,||Kerala High Court upholds CBI probe into Kasaragod murders||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday upheld a single judge’s directive for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periye in Kasaragod. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice C.T. Ravikumar passed its judgment while partially allowing an appeal filed by the State government against the single judge’s order for a CBI probe in the case. The Bench, however, set aside the single judge’s order quashing the chargesheet filed by the Crime Branch before the Hosdurg Judicial First Class Magistrate Court. Incident in 2019 Youth Congress workers Kripesh, 21, and Sarath Lal, 24, were murdered at Kannadippara on the Kallyottu-Thannithodu road at Periye on February 17, 2019. The Crime Branch had attributed the murders to the personal enmity harboured by the first accused Peethambaran towards the two as he had sustained injuries in an attack by them and others. The CBI probe in the case was ordered by a single judge on a writ petition filed by the parents of the Youth Congress workers. They alleged that the investigation was being done perfunctorily by a special investigation team of the Crime Branch in a manner dictated by CPI(M) leaders who controlled the police machinery in the district. Partly allowing the government’s appeal, the Bench directed the CBI to conduct further investigation based on re-registration of the case and file a supplementary report before the magistrate court. The court observed that no offence whatsoever was made out prima facie in the chargesheet. Hence, at the stage when the police report under Section 173 of the Criminal Procedure Code was forwarded to the court after completion of investigation, exercise of extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to set aside the chargesheet was not warranted at all. Directive to trial court The Bench directed the trial court to wait till the receipt of the supplementary report of the CBI to be submitted after further investigation and consider both the CBI report and the report filed by the SIT and proceed with the case further in accordance with law. The court observed that slackness and incompleteness in investigation or lack of serious investigation had occurred in respect of some vital aspects, at least some of which may result in miscarriage of justice.
26 August 2020||KALPETTA,||Panel to conserve Edakkal caves||The government has constituted a nine-member expert committee to conduct a detailed study on the present state of the renowned Edakkal caves on the Ambukuthi hills in Wayanad district. The Director of the Archaeology Department had asked the government two months ago to constitute a committee consisting of experts in archaeology, history, geology, rock mechanics, and conservation to conduct a detailed study on the present state of the archaeological site and suggest measures for its conservation. M.R. Raghava Warrier, historian and Director General, Centre for Heritage Studies, is the chairman of the committee. G. Shankar, former scientist, National Centre for Earth Science Studies; K.P. Sudheer, Ex.officio. Principal Secretary, Science and Technology Department; V. Selvakumar, associate professor, Department of Archaeology and Maritime History, Tamil Nadu University, Thanjavur; Vidya Bhushan Maji, associate professor, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT-Madras; Nidhin Kumar Maurya, Senior Conservator, Regional Conservation Laboratory, Mysore; and Sekhar Kuriakose, Secretary, Disaster Management, are the members. Director, Department of Archaeology, is the convener and Conservation Officer, Department of Archaeology, is the joint convener. The neolithic petroglyphs on the cave walls still await protection from illegal constructions, mining, and urbanisation.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Viraat to head to Alang yard for dismantling||Decommissioned aircraft carrier Viraat , which has been lying at the Naval dockyard in Mumbai, is set to be scrapped at a ship breaking yard at Alang in Gujarat soon. It has been sold to the Shree Ram Green Ship Recycling Industries of Gujarat in an e-auction by the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited (MSTC), a Navy official said on Tuesday. Several attempts by the Navy to preserve the carrier, by converting it into a museum or by other means, failed. The government informed Parliament in July last year that it had been decided to scrap the carrier. “Shree Ram Group got the carrier for Rs. 38 crore... A delivery order has to be placed. Once its signed, there is a time period within which it has to be taken away,” an official said. It is likely to be towed away in early September.  Viraat , a Centaur class aircraft carrier weighing 27,800 tonnes, served in the British Navy as HMS Hermes for 25 years from November 1959 to April 1984. It was commissioned into the Indian Navy in May 1987 after refurbishment and had operated Harrier fighter jets. It was decommissioned from in March 2017, and the the Navy had been incurring expenditure since then on its upkeep, such as the provision of electricity and water, and repairs. It was also taking up space in the crowded Naval dockyard. There had been demands from various quarters to not let Viraat go the way of Vikrant , India’s first carrier that was eventually scrapped. Several States had submitted proposals, but none of them fructified. The Andhra Pradesh government, headed by former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu, had made several attempts. In October 2016, it submitted a proposal for its conversion into an aircraft museum, including tourist and hospitality components, on a commercial basis through a joint venture with the Centre. But the Defence Ministry rejected the proposal two months later. In 2018, the Maharashtra Cabinet approved a proposal to convert the carrier into a museum and hospitality centre on a Public-Private Partnership basis and had invited bids. But there were no takers.
26 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Once vocal against the CAA, now part of BJP||A group of artistes who were at the forefront of the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Assam joined the ruling BJP on Tuesday ahead of the 2021 Assembly election. Another set has joined the Congress. Thirty Assamese entertainment industry professionals became part of the BJP at the party’s headquarters in Guwahati. Close by, 34 fellow musicians, singers, actors and others joined the Congress at a hall in memory of a party youth leader killed three decades ago. Among those who joined the BJP were flautist Deepak Sarma, singer Simanta Shekhar, actor Pranjana Dutta and fashion designer Rittika Hazarika. “Our mission in 2016 was 84 [of the total of 126] Assembly seats. Our mission for 2021 is at least 100 seats. We welcome the artistes to BJP, which is a mission, not a party,” said State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass. Singer Shekhar, who had sung the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign song “ Akou Ebaar Modi Sarkar ” (Modi government once again), had been vocal against the CAA, which offers citizenship to non-Muslims from three neighbouring countries. Support for Congress On the other hand, singer Babu Baruah said providing a platform against the CAA was the primary reason why he joined the Congress. “I had opposed the CAA, so did the Congress,” he said after State Congress chief Ripun Bora and the party’s Assam in charge Harish Rawat welcomed him and 33 other artistes. “People had embraced the BJP in the 2016 Assembly election after taking to its slogan of ‘poribartan’ [change] but they are now seeking ‘porittran’ [respite] through the Congress,” Mr. Bora said. The recent trend of anti-CAA activists joining the party began with actor Jatin Bora. He rejoined the BJP on August 17. “I joined the BJP in 2015 but quit out of fear during the anti-CAA movement, which caused heavy loss to Assam and claimed the lives of five innocent youths,” he said. More leading personalities who had taken part in the anti-CAA movement joined the BJP two days later. They included popular Assamese singer Vidya Sagar, actor Asha Bordoloi and former All Assam Students’ Union leader Tapan Das.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||No signs of conspiracy in power plant fire||No signs of any evidence suggesting conspiracy or foul play in the fire accident at Srisailam hydel power project were found in the investigation conducted so far. However, sleuths of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) do not want to jump to any conclusion and rule out ‘conspiracy element’ in the incident that claimed nine lives. Instead of completely relying on their regular procedures, they are involving persons having expertise in electrical engineering to reconstruct the incident. “Our task now is to ascertain if there was any element of negligence in maintenance of trip systems, safety mechanisms which ignited fire and eventually resulted in an explosion of sorts,” CID officials unwilling to be named said. Forensic experts are gathering evidence to assess as to how the fire started. Unlike in regular fire accidents or explosions, in the present investigation it is not sufficient to establish the cause of fire. The exact measurement of resistance or capacitance of the electric components that ignited and spread the fire is equally important. This required specialised examination and involvement of electrical engineering experts. Some engineers suspected if the fire accident was the result of electric arcing. It is described as discharge of power when a strong current jumps a gap in a circuit or between two electrodes. Forensic experts said it is difficult to confirm, in case of electrical arcing, if it occurred prior to ignition of fire or as a result of the fire. Though the inputs given by staff members and the injured are helping investigators in reconstructing the whole incident, they are yet to precisely assess the physical conditions of the electrical systems that were there before the fire broke out. It was confirmed that the fire occurred reportedly while affixing new batteries at the control room. Questions as to why installation of the batteries was taken up late in the night have cropped up. CID sleuths are yet to find an answer to such critical questions. Meanwhile, they are verifying if adequate fire fighting systems were available at the hydel power plant and why the fire could not be put out using the fire extinguishers available there.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET, JEE: MHA hints at rethink on dates||Following the August 18 order, the National Testing Agency announced the schedule for the exams with JEE-Main to be held from September 1-6, JEE-Advanced on September 27; and NEET-UG on September 13. A senior government official said the Home Ministry gave the green signal to conduct the exams on the insistence of the Education Ministry. The official said no decision had been taken to reschedule the exams, but letters by several political leaders were being studied. The Home Ministry’s clearance is required after the Disaster Management Act, 2005, was invoked for the first time in the country in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in March. Anxious students opposed to holding the examinations have not only received support from political parties, but also from global youth icon and climate activist Greta Thunberg. “It’s deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the COVID-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID,” Ms. Thunberg tweeted on Tuesday. CMs against exams On Tuesday, Odisha Chief minister Naveen Patnaik wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to postpone the JEE (Main) and NEET examination scheduled to be held in the first fortnight of September to ensure the safety and security of the students. He said in view of the prevailing pandemic situation in the country, it would be “highly unsafe and perilous for the students to visit the test centres physically.” Mr Patnaik said though more than 50,000 students were appearing for NEET and around 40,000 students were to appear for JEE (Mains) in the State, only seven townships had examination centres.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||What is wrong in seeking apology, asks SC||“This controversy will continue depending on the punishment you give to Bhushan. Not only should this case be closed, but controversy should be closed,” Mr. Dhavan submitted. Justice Mishra, referring to Mr. Bhushan’s statements and his reply alleging corruption by Chief Justices in the past, said “we could advice him not to commit this in the future. But he [Bhushan] has no inkling that he has done anything wrong...” Mr. Dhavan said he wore two hats — one as Mr. Bhushan’s counsel and the other as an officer of the court. Donning the first cap, Mr. Dhavan said the August 20 order of the court demanding an “unconditional apology” from Mr. Bhushan was “nothing but an exercise in coercion” against a senior lawyer who has done much public good. Wearing the second hat, Mr. Dhavan said: “the institution will collapse if it does not suffer criticism, if it does not suffer extreme criticism. This court can only survive on the basis of strong criticism”. Mr. Dhavan asked what the court expected by drawing a statement from Mr. Bhushan that he “will not do this again”. “Do what again? Not to criticise the court? Never to express his bona fide opinion, even if truth is his defence. That will silence him forever... No, he will always be critical...”, he said.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA files chargesheet in Pulwama attack case||Farooq’s father, Ibrahim Ather, is one of the main accused in the IC-814 Kandahar hijack case of 1999 and looks after the training camps of the JeM in Afghanistan. The JeM sent its cadres to the joint training camps of “Al-Qaeda-Taliban-JeM” and “Haqqani-JeM” in Afghanistan to get expertise in explosives and other terrorist tactics, the NIA said. “Farooq also visited Afghanistan for explosives training in 2016-17. He infiltrated into India through the International Border at the Jammu-Samba Sector in April 2018 and took over as JeM commander of Pulwama,” it said. Farooq and his Pakistani accomplices — Mohd Kamran, Mohd Ismail alias Saifullah and Qari Yasir, and local associates, Sameer Dar and Adil Ahmad Dar (suicide bomber) — planned and prepared for the attack. The other accused, Shakir Bashir, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmad Shah and Bilal Ahmad Kuchey, provided logistics and harboured the JeM terrorists in their houses. “From December 2018 onward, Bashir started doing reconnaissance of the movement and deployment of security forces on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Mudasir Ahmad Khan arranged gelatin sticks and handed them over to Bashir. RDX was brought by the Pakistani terrorists who infiltrated into India. Bashir collected the explosive material and stocked them at his house for making the IED,” the NIA said. In January 2019, Sajjad Ahmad Bhat purchased a car. “The car was kept in the frontyard of Bashir’s house. Waiz-Ul-Islam ordered four kg of aluminium powder from his Amazon account on the directions of another accused, Ismail, and gave the same to him,” the investigating agency mentioned.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Economy to shrink in Q2, says RBI report||“An assessment of aggregate demand during the year so far suggests that the shock to consumption is severe, and it will take quite some time to mend and regain the pre-COVID-19 momentum.” Observing that private consumption had lost its discretionary elements across the board, particularly in transport services, hospitality, recreation and cultural activities, the central bank said, “Behavioural restraints may prevent the normalisation of demand for these activities.” “Urban consumption demand has suffered a bigger blow, passenger vehicle sales and supply of consumer durables in Q1: 2020-21 have dropped to a fifth and a third, respectively, of their level a year ago; air passenger traffic has ground to a halt,” the RBI said. Stating that rural demand, by contrast, had fared better, the RBI report said among underlying indicators, tractor sales picked up by 38.5% in July, spurred by the robust pace of kharif sowing, while the contraction in motorcycle sales eased in July. The central bank said a fuller recovery in rural demand was, however, being held back by muted wage growth, which was still hostage to the migrant crisis and associated employment losses. The RBI said the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) expected headline inflation to remain elevated in the second quarter of the current fiscal, but likely to ease in the second half, aided by favourable base effects. “The MPC expected real GDP growth for the year 2020-21 as a whole to be negative,” it said. The MPC was conscious of the upside risks to its medium-term inflation target, the central bank added.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar could meet Wang at SCO next month||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi may meet next month in Moscow during talks of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Foreign Ministers, scheduled to set the agenda for the SCO summit later this year, officials told The Hindu . The meeting, scheduled for September 10, has yet to be confirmed formally, but will mark the first high-level meeting between the Ministers since the deadly Galwan clashes and tensions at the Line of Actual Control. Visit to Moscow According to the officials, Mr. Jaishankar would make a short visit to Moscow for the SCO and bilateral talks. Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang attended a virtual meeting together of the Russia-India-China trilateral in June and are expected to also attend a virtual meeting of BRICS Foreign Ministers on September 4, but no bilateral meetings have been scheduled between the two governments at present. On Tuesday, China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong said at an India-China youth webinar that bilateral relations should not be disturbed by “one thing at a time”. “Not long ago, an unfortunate incident happened in the border areas that neither China nor India would like to see. Now we are working to handle it properly. It is a brief moment from the perspective of history,” he said. “We hope to put the boundary question at an appropriate place in bilateral relations, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and push bilateral relations back on track at an early date.”
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Terror funding: ED files chargesheet against 12||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against 12 persons in a terror funding case involving banned outfit Hizb-ul-Mujahideen. It had also requested for confiscation of attached properties worth Rs. 1.22 crore. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in October 2011. Among those arraigned is Hizb chief Syed Salahuddin. The accused were involved in the execution of blasts in Jammu and Kashmir. The funding was organised by the Jammu & Kashmir Affectees Relief Trust, “which was operating in connivance with the government of Pakistan and ISI”, the ED said. “The mastermind behind the distribution of funds are Mohammod Shafi Shah and Talib Lali, residents of Bandipora; Muzaaffar Ahmad Dar from Budgam and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone, a resident of Anantag,” said an official.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Control of senses||Lord Krishna says in the Gita that we should do our duties, but never think of ourselves as the doers. We should never be attached to the results, for we do not have the adhikarah (right) to the results. If we fail to do our duties, we will anger the Lord. However, if we do that which is prohibited, we will incur the Lord’s anger, said V. Sowmyanarayanan in a discourse. The Lord then tells Arjuna that he must not be attached to relatives, or to wealth. His mind must remain the same — samabhUtvA — regardless of whether he meets with success or failure. Action not performed with this state of mind is of an inferior nature (dUreNa avaram). One should be a sthita pragnya, says Lord Krishna. A sthita pragnya, is one whose mind remains calm and unperturbed. He is not overjoyed when something desirable happens. Nor is he dejected and sorrowful when something disastrous happens. A sthita pragnya has control over his five senses. Such a man is compared to a tortoise. A tortoise can draw its head and four limbs into its shell whenever it senses danger. We find a similar idea in Thirukkural. The Kural says that if in one birth a man becomes adept at controlling his five senses, then it will serve as a great protection to him in future births. The Kural also gives the tortoise comparison. A sthita pragnya does not care for the comforts of life. He is quite content to sleep on the hard floor. He does not need a quilt to sleep on. Costly clothes hold no attraction for him. Surya drives around on a one wheeled chariot, and yet he never once loses balance. We should be like Surya. Equanimity of temper is repeatedly stressed throughout the Gita. We must not be caught in dualities like joy and sorrow and like and dislike.
26 August 2020||KOCHI,||Airport lease: Kerala HC declines plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday declined to issue an interim order staying further proceedings in pursuance of the Centre government's approval of grant of lease/concession on right of operation, management and development of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL). When a petition filed by the State government seeking to stay the proceedings came up for hearing, the Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice T.R. Ravi said that the court was not inclined to consider hearing on the stay petition and it wanted a final hearing in the case. The court then adjourned the case for final hearing to September 15.  Case returned to HC The government pointed out that the Supreme Court had set aside a judgment of the High Court dismissing the government’s writ plea against the Airport Authority of India's (AAI) 'Request for Proposal' to grant the right of operation, management and development of the airport to AEL. The case was returned to the High Court by the Supreme Court for considering the government's challenge on merit. The government said the Centre had now approved the lease in favour of the Adani group. As such, necessary contractual transactions would be entered into by the Centre government, AAI and the company. In fact, the State government had substantial proprietary and other rights over the land on which the airport was constructed. The government contended the grant of right of operation, management and development of the airport to AEL, which has no previous experience in managing airports, was not in public interest and violated the provisions of the AAI Act as well as the proprietary right of the State government over the land where the airport was situated.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions slam airport privatisation||Ten Central trade unions on Tuesday came out against the government’s recent announcements of privatisation of three airports and the sale of a portion of its stake in the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation. The unions urged the government to withdraw the proposal, saying the decisions would be “against the interests of ordinary commuters”, a statement said. The Union Cabinet had approved the leasing of Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports on August 19. The unions said one entity, the Adani Group, was being granted many of the airports, which would lead to a “monopoly”. “Besides there were income leakage and loss of revenue for the Airports Authority of India through the past experiences that had happened at Mumbai and Delhi airports. Hence, this privatisation of airports should be immediately stopped as it would escalate the cost of the airline travellers and airlines as well,” the unions said.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish virtual rally to herald poll season||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is likely to sound the poll bugle on September 6 by addressing a virtual rally. The Election Commission may announce the Assembly election schedule by the third week of September as polls to 243 seats are due in October-November. “The Chief Minister and our party president Nitish Kumar in all likelihood will address a virtual rally on September 6 through a digital platform JD(U)live.com,” said senior party leader and Minister Ashok Chaudhury. Bihar will be the first State to go to the polls amid the pandemic. Sixteen districts of north Bihar are reeling under floods. BJP president J.P. Nadda may visit Bihar on September 12 to start the campaign from Mithilanchal.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No change in Pranab’s condition||The medical condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged and he continues to be on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Tuesday. “He continues to be on ventilator support and his vital parameters are stable,” it said in a statement. Last week, he developed respiratory infection and is being treated for that. On August 10, Mr. Mukherjee underwent a lifesaving emergency surgery for brain clot and has since been on ventilator support. He had also tested positive for COVID-19.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||RS Secretariat to now take up complaints||Complaints of ethical misconduct or violation of code of conduct against Rajya Sabha members can now be filed directly with the Upper House’s Secretariat. Till now, only complaints addressed to the Ethics Committee were valid for examination. The responsibility has been entrusted to two officials of the rank of Director and Additional Director. The Committee took the decision in its very first meeting held last week.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR’s second sero-survey to end by Sept. 5||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will complete its second national serology survey by September 5. The results from the sero-survey it conducted in May will be published next week, Director General Balram Bhargava said during a media briefing on Tuesday. “The ICMR sero-survey is publication in-process. Hopefully, by this week, it should appear in the Indian Journal of Medical Research . Two rounds of peer-review have been done. Most of the sero-surveys have been conducted by the States. We have embarked on the second sero-survey, which should be completed by the first week of September,” Dr. Bhargava said. The first serological survey by ICMR encompassed 69 districts across 21 States and the findings indicated that an estimated 7,00,000 people could have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in these districts even in early May. The number indicated by the survey was twenty times higher than the 35,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported as of early May in the entire country, suggesting that the actual COVID-19 count overall could have been underestimated by a factor of at least 20. The May sero-survey was the first of its kind survey and was followed up by smaller surveys commissioned by States.
26 August 2020||Kolkata,||Visva-Bharati staff to work from home||At a physical meeting held on Monday evening involving the presence of 80-100 employees, the Visva-Bharati administration decided the staff would work from home (WFH) for the time being. The work from home directive has nothing to do with COVID-19, but because the authorities felt the situation on the campus was still volatile following last week’s violence when a mob of locals disrupted the construction of a wall around the popular Bhuban Danga ground. .The university had shut down following the incident. “It was unanimously resolved to continue those activities which are for student-benefits and those essential services which are absolutely essential for the university to remain functional. We will continue to work from home in regard to these activities since the campus is highly volatile and tense,” a press release stated.
26 August 2020||IMPHAL,||Manipur Minister tests positive||Nemcha Kipgen, the only woman minister in the BJP-led coalition government in Manipur, has tested COVID-19 positive, official reports said on Tuesday. Ms. Kipgen is the Social Welfare Minister. Health department sources said her samples would be tested again in the J.N. Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal. She was in-charge of COVID-19 management in Kangpokpi and Senapati districts.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Deft hands||
26 August 2020||Lucknow,||Man found dead, kidney theft alleged||Family members of a man whose body was found outside a Varanasi hospital, a day after he went missing from the COVID-19 ward, have accused the hospital administration of negligence. The family alleged that the youth was found with an incision mark near his hip and they suspect an organ may have been removed from his body. Friends and relatives of the youth staged a protest on Monday outside the S.S. Hospital, affiliated with the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), demanding action against the officials. “His kidney was removed,” alleged a family member. The youth was admitted to the hospital last week after a head injury and had subsequently been shifted to the super speciality block of the S.S Hospital. The patient had gone missing from his ward around 2 p.m. on Sunday, according to a hospital spokesperson. A search operation was launched by the staff and security personnel, and every corner of the building was scanned, said the hospital. ‘Climbed down a pipe’ The officials then searched near a pipe duct outside the hospital based on CCTV footage. The patient’s body was recovered near the spot, said the hospital. S. K Mathur, Medical Superintendent, said it appeared that the patient had tried to climb down the pipe from the second floor but it had broken and he had fallen. The youth had been diagnosed with psychosis, said the hospital, adding he had made a similar attempt a day earlier.
26 August 2020||Agartala,||Probe into custodial deaths sought||The Opposition CPI(M) has demanded a judicial commission to probe the custodial deaths occurred in Tripura in the past two and half years. The party also sought intervention of the Tripura Human Rights Commission in every such incident. The party’s state secretary Gautam Das claimed that five custodial deaths have taken place after the BJP-led coalition assumed office in March, 2018. He raised the demand in the wake of the death of Sujit Gour, 32, at the Kamalpur sub jail in Dhalai district on Sunday. Gour was arrested and remanded in judicial custody hours before his death. He was declared brought dead when rushed to the local government hospital.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Interpol issues Red Notice against Nirav Modi’s wife Ami Modi||The Interpol has issued a Red Notice against Ami Modi, wife of the Punjab National Bank fraud case prime accused Nirav Modi, in connection with the money laundering probe being conducted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Mr. Modi had left India along with his wife and other family members in January 2018, shortly before the CBI registered FIRs against them. The ED probe has revealed the alleged role of Ms. Ami Modi, a U.S. citizen, in the laundering of funds.
26 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha demands postponement of JEE, NEET||The Odisha government has sought the postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and opening of centres in all 30 districts when examinations are rescheduled. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday shot off a letter Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in this regard.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Subedar Sawant gets Arjuna Award for tent pegging||Subedar Ajay Anant Sawant from the Army’s 61 Cavalry has been conferred the Arjuna award for the equestrian sport of tent pegging. Subedar Sawant joined the Army in 1993 and had no prior background in equestrian sports. Subedar Sawant has won several medals over the years. He won his first international participation in 2002 and won the team silver in the 2018 World Cup in Abu Dhabi. His focus is now on the Tent Pegging World Cup in 2023, an Army officer said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At the heart of city, the much-loved ‘Madras food’||From haute cuisine to street food, filter coffee to Marina beach food, wedding food to home-cooked delicacies — Madras food is an emotion for many. Harrison’s, founded in 1891 by G. Varadharajulu Chetty, was a name to reckon with in catering circles in the city, says historian V. Sriram. “They were famous for their officers’ lunches and music band. They were the first caterers in the city. Bosottos, De Angelis Hotel, Coronatikn Durbar and Buhari were all into the catering business as well. Vegetarian hotels, including Woodlands, Ambis Cafe and Dasaprakash, also did catering for weddings and other events at the homes of patrons,” he said. Establishments like Rayar Mess, Murugan Lodge Mess and Saidoji Mess fed many office-goers, who stayed in lodges. The city saw several hotels being started by youngsters. K. Krishna Rao, who founded New Woodlands on Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai, started as a grinder in a hotel in George Town. “He came to the city when he was barely into his teens. When he leased the property in Mylapore from the A.M.M. Murugappa Chettiar family, his friends told him it won't take off since the area was residential. But he went on to open the drive-in Woodlands on the same road when the government gave that land on lease,” said his son K. Murali Rao of Woodlands. Celebrity chef Dhamu fondly recalls the hot and tasty idli-vada-sambar and puris served at CLR canteens at Mambalam, Kodambakkam, Park and Central railway stations. “People would go to the stations just to eat at these canteens and have theirdavaracoffee. There were many more places like the Annapurna Canteen that sold boondhi, Hotel Imphala that had yummy masala milk and Blue Diamond’s Ceylon egg parotta. This was some 40 years ago and many hotels just had wooden benches for customers to sit. Mari Hotel in Saidapet, which has existed for nearly 100 years, is still famous for dosa/idli vada curry,” he said. Caterers such as Pattappa, Arusuvai Natarajan and Mount Mani were hugely sought after for weddings and other functions. Later, they set up canteens at Sabhas during the music season. The food scenario in the city has undergone a sea change over the years. From just having hotels, messes and catering establishments, it now has food courts, cloud kitchens and a never-like-before street food culture. Another key change over the last five years or so, and especially during the pandemic, has been the rise of home cooks/bakers. “About 10 years ago, there were only a handful of home cooks and bakers. Their number has grown. The quality of food has risen,” said Wasim Mohideen, author of popular blog Grub Waz. For many, these start-ups are convenient — they are in the neighbourhood and sometimes customise food. Indu’s Kitchen, run by Indu Kommareddy and her daughter Kavya, for instance, was launched during the lockdown. “We started small, offering meals on Saturdays. By the second week, we got so many orders that we had to refuse many of them,” said Ms. Kavya. For Harshita Mirpuri, the shift has been from home to a commercial kitchen, and back to home due to the pandemic. “I soon realised that there was a need for the same,” said the 26-year-old, who runs Dough Dough Deli. From families that have been in the food business for generations to places that are just months old, the city has them all.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,951 fresh infections, 107 deaths||As many as 5,951 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, taking the State’s tally to 3,91,303. While 6,998 persons were discharged after treatment, 107 deaths were recorded in the State. A total of 52,128 persons are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 3,32,454 persons have been discharged till date, while the death toll stands at 6,721. Chennai’s daily case count continued to remain above the 1,000-mark on Tuesday. A total of 1,270 persons tested positive for the infection in the city, taking its overall tally to 1,27,949. As many as 1,136 persons were discharged. The city accounted for 20 of the 107 deaths (65 in government hospitals and 42 in private facilities). Ninety-five of those who had died had co-morbid conditions. Among the deceased who did not have co-morbidities was a 35-year-old woman from Kanniyakumari, who died at the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital within five hours of admission on August 24. She died due to respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. Similarly, a 39-year-old man from Virudhunagar, who did not have any co-morbidities, died within two hours of admission to the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on August 23, due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Rising fatalities The number of deaths continued to rise across the State, with Coimbatore recording eight deaths and Tirunelveli seven. Thanjavur and Tiruchi reported six deaths each. The number of fresh infections stayed high in Cuddalore and Coimbatore, with the two districts recording 370 and 320 cases, respectively. Chengalpattu recorded 321 cases, while Tiruvallur had 305 infections. Four districts had 200-plus cases — Salem (297), Theni (226), Kancheepuram (214) and Tirunelveli (204). Ten districts recorded 100-plus cases. Returnees test positive Another 14 returnees tested positive for the infection in the State. A total of 70,221 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total figure is 43,46,861. One more private laboratory — Molecular Diagnosis, a unit of Preethi Hospital Pvt Ltd, Madurai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing.  The number of fresh infections stayed high in Cuddalore and Coimbatore, with the two districts recording 370 and 320 cases, respectively
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail ready to resume services if allowed, says CMRL||Chennai Metro Rail Limited has been making elaborate arrangements to resume services as and when the State government issues orders. The agency has been making arrangements, including disinfecting stations and floor markers for physical distancing. The Ministry of Home Affairs had indicated on Monday that Metro Rail services may be allowed to recommence and fresh guidelines would be announced, adding that the State government should approve of the same. Sources at CMRL said irrespective of when the permission comes, the stations were ready for operation. “Floor markers have been placed inside all 32 stations, starting from the entry point till the point where the passenger boards the trains. Since there are CCTV cameras everywhere, we can monitor passenger movement to make sure physical distancing norms are maintained,” a source said. “Of course, before a passenger enters, as required, temperature checks will be done and sanitisers will also be provided. We are prepared so that any time the government gives the nod, we can restart services,” he said. Revised train frequency But the number of seconds the trains stop in each station would likely be increased, sources said. Before the lockdown was enforced, Chennai Metro was running trains every five minutes during peak hours. But now the number of people who will take these services may come down as many are working from home even now. “Workers are continuously disinfecting every station ever since the lockdown was imposed. In addition, trial runs have also been carried out to make sure trains are operational and there are no glitches when services resume,” another source said. According to CMRL officials, the frequency and the number of seconds trains will stop in every station will be decided soon. “The government has to first announce that operations can resume. We have only been planning everything so that we are ready whenever they want us to resume services,” an official said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When forced displacement took away a part of the locality’s soul||Chintadripet was created as Chinna-thari-pettai , which literally translates as a small loom-town, during the British era more than three centuries ago, as a settlement of weavers. Today, with no significant upward mobility for the people here, a large number of whom belong to Dalit communities, and with the recent resettlement of slum-dwellers in faraway places, the locality has lost a part of its “soul”, says author Tamil Prabha, who grew up here. Transformed lives His debut novel Pettai , set in Chintadripet, talks about the history of the locality and how the lives of the people have transformed, and have yet remained the same, in several ways. He said the “forced” resettlement of thousands of people residing along the Cooum, particularly over the past three years, to areas like Kannagi Nagar and Semmenchery, has had a significant impact on the locality. “Earlier, even if one visited the area at midnight, it would be lively. Today, many of the streets have become deserted,” he added. A lot of people who were dependent on the fish market in the area, now have to travel from distant places. “The resettlement has affected the families, socio-economically, in unimaginable ways,” Mr. Prabha said. Vacant spaces He fondly remembers the time when the area had a number of vacant grounds to play. “We used to play cricket regularly near Rajaji Hall, the place where the Omandurar hospital (the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super-Specialty Hospital) now stands, and the May Day park. There were some great players here. All these places have now turned inaccessible and this has had an impact on the lives of the youngsters here,” he said. He highlighted how Chintadripet was renowned for its carrom players and gana songs. “We had people who played and won carrom at the international level. Similarly, the area is well-known for gana . Sinthai Punniyar, one of the well-known figures of gana, was from Chintadripet,” he said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.14 lakh applicants to take part in TNEA counselling||Over 1.14 lakh candidates have uploaded their certificates for seat allotment through the single window counselling for engineering admission. The last date to upload certificates was Monday. Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions 2020 officials said 1,60,834 candidates had registered, and 1,31,436 aspirants had paid the registration fees. The TNEA officials said random numbers for each applicant would be generated on Wednesday by Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan. In 2019-20, of the 1,49,821 seats in the government quota, 1,08,932 seats had been filled, the Minister had informed during the announcement of online counselling last month. This year, 465 colleges had registered for counselling but that number was expected to increase as colleges could add seats till August 15. The All-India Council for Technical Education had since then revised the deadline to September 15. Anna University officials, however, said barring a few colleges, all others had sent the data. “We are waiting for the colleges to send us data. The process should be over in a few days,” an official said. New courses The University has given permission to affiliated colleges and autonomous colleges to offer new courses. According to an official, as many as 10 new courses had been permitted. Quite a few colleges have announced courses in Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Robotics and Automation. Some autonomous and affiliated colleges in western regions of the State have introduced these courses either as B. Tech or B.E. programmes. But others are in a wait-and-watch mode. The principal of a college in the western region said, “We are a bit apprehensive. We would rather wait and watch how the courses progress. Besides, we have just received autonomous status. May be next year we will introduce them.” The AICTE has extended the deadline for completion of the first round of counselling and seat allotment till October 20.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses cases filed by Class X students||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a batch of writ petitions filed by Class X students, challenging the methodology adopted by the School Education Department to award marks to them, this year, for public examinations that stood cancelled due to the outbreak of COVID-19. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh refused to entertain the cases after observing that the court should not unnecessarily poke its nose in every other policy decision taken by the government, unless the decision was found to be arbitrary, irrational or actuated by malice or bias. “These are areas which should be safely left within the domain of governance and the courts must be very slow to interfere with such decisions,” the judge said. The judge pointed out that the government had decided to adopt a particular method only in the interest of the students. “It may be possible that some of the students are not happy with the method adopted by the government, or it is also possible that there are some alternative or effective methods available to award marks. That by itself cannot be a ground for this court to interfere,” he said. The judge pointed out the government had actually decided to declare all State board Class X students to have passed the public examination this year, even without writing it, and award 80% of marks on the basis of their half-yearly and quarterly examination scores. The rest of 20% of marks were to be awarded on the basis of their attendance. However, the petitioners claimed that it took time for them to get acclimatised with the new syllabus, and, hence, marks scored by them in the last revision test should be taken into consideration. Some of the students also stated that 30% of marks should be awarded for attendance.  These are areas which should be safely left within the domain of governance and the courts must be very slow to interfere with such decisions Justice N. Anand Venkatesh
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal sand quarrying in Thirukandalam lake raises concern||Farmers and residents of Thirukandalam village in Tiruvallur district have complained of indiscriminate quarrying operations in water bodies in their area, located 30 km from Chennai. They fear it may lead to groundwater depletion and disrupt agricultural activity in surrounding villages. Roads to the village have been busy even during the lockdown as soil-laden lorries from the Thirukandalam Eesa lake use them, especially during the night. Spread over nearly 144 hectares, the lake is the main source of irrigation and drinking water for the surrounding villages. Residents alleged that illegal sand quarrying was done under the guise of removing top soil from the lake. While permission was obtained for quarrying to a depth of 0.90 m in the lake, soil was being removed beyond the permissible limit. Major irrigation source T.R. Kathirvanan of Thirukandalam said about 1,000 acres of agricultural lands in villages, such as Purivakkam and Neyveli, were dependent on water bodies like Eesa lake for irrigation needs. M. Umachandran, a farmer from Thirukandalam, said some water bodies also supplied Chennai during summers. Only 4,725 lorry loads of soil were permitted for removal during a span of 50 days till September. But nearly 1,000 lorry loads of soil were being transported every day, he said.  Water Resources Department officials said permission was given by the district administration after obtaining environment clearance. “We had given a ‘no objection’ certificate to remove top sedimented soil. This will increase the storage capacity of the water bodies and prevent further encroachments on their shores. The site will be inspected for violations and action will be initiated,” an official said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko demands that the lockdown be lifted||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Monday made a strong case for lifting the COVID-19 lockdown and resuming the operation of State-owned transport corporation buses, with restrictions, from September 1, in the interest of all sections of the society. In a statement in Chennai, he said commercial flight operations from foreign countries also should be allowed. Mr. Vaiko said that even though Delhi was affected by COVID-19 severely, the government there had lifted all restrictions and normalcy had returned. “The Karnataka government also lifted the restrictions, while Puducherry had opened its territory,” he added, while calling for lifting of the lockdown in Tamil Nadu. Alluding to a related issue, Mr. Vaiko said that even though the Tamil Nadu government had started online classes, students did not have computers, laptops or smartphones to attend the classes.  Mr. Vaiko said the opening of Tasmac retail shops had caused further problems to the families.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 20,000 underwent dialysis in govt. hospitals’||A total of 20,550 persons, including 1,077 who tested positive for COVID-19, have undergone dialysis in government hospitals and government medical college hospitals in the State since March. In a release on Tuesday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the State government had been providing all specialty treatments for patients without any interruptions during the pandemic. Apart from those who underwent dialysis in government medical institutions, 1,347 persons underwent angiograms, while angioplasties were performed on 439 persons. A total of 4,154 pregnant women, who tested positive for COVID-19, were treated in the State, while 37,436 children received the required treatment. A total of 805 blood donation camps were held, from which 88,280 units of blood was collected. The Minister said that the uninterrupted availability of healthcare services during the pandemic had saved many lives. The Minister added that due to COVID-19, patients were unable to approach private hospitals. Government doctors and hospitals were providing additional services.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. mulls amendments to Public Health Act||The Tamil Nadu government is mulling certain amendments to the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act to make flouting of COVID-19 prevention guidelines a compoundable offence. The amendments are right now at the “drawing-board” stage, and the State might take the ordinance route to implement it at the earliest once the provisions are finalised.  “While we have excellent cooperation from the public, we still have people who create a problem,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) leader dies after contracting infection||Senior CPI(M) leader D. Lakshmanan, who played a major role in organising government employees, died on Monday after testing positive for COVID-19. He was 84. He quit his job as a government employee to become a full-time member of the party. He was the first secretary of its Chengalpattu district unit. He was also elected to the party’s State secretariat. CPI(M) leader K. Balakrishnan said Lakshmanan worked tirelessly to build a minority-welfare panel and a union to represent the differently-abled.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. wants all e-seva centres to be reopened||The Greater Chennai Corporation has urged the State to reopen all of the city’s e-seva centres to improve delivery of services to residents and promote property tax collection. A few e-seva centres in all 15 zonal offices and 16 taluk offices resumed operations a few days ago. But those in the 200 wards of the Corporation did not. They have remained closed due to the pandemic and officials at a recent meeting pointed out the challenges faced by residents owing to their closure, stressing on the need to reopen them to improve property tax collection after the lockdown. Residents have also requested the civic body to reopen the centres.  “They should at least open them in a few of the 200 ward offices of the Corporation. E-seva centres in at least five ward offices in every zone should be opened. It will prevent overcrowding,” said V. Sukumar Babu, former floor leader of the Chennai Corporation. Essential role In the absence of councillors, employees at the e-seva centres have been playing a key role in creating awareness about welfare schemes among those affected by the lockdown. After relaxations kicked in, many residents have requested the civic body to keep e-seva centres open to facilitate delivery of services relating to welfare schemes and safeguard the livelihood of poor people affected by the lockdown. According to estimates, over 50% of the beneficiaries of a few welfare schemes have not received assistance announced by the government during the lockdown. Many who lost their livelihood have not received the benefits. Officials said they had not been able to trace many of the beneficiaries.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City will get light rain over the next 2 days||Tamil Nadu’s coastal districts, including Chennai, will experience light showers over the next few days, while places around 14 interior districts are likely to benefit from a fairly widespread spell of rain. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a weak trough in westerlies running from Rayalaseema to south Tamil Nadu and convective activity would trigger thunderstorms, which may be heavy up to 12 cm, in one or two places. Cloudy conditions would prevail over Chennai and light rain could occur in some areas. The day temperature in the city would be around 34 degree Celsius like on Tuesday, he said. Live updates for suburbs The Meteorological Department has introduced live weather updates in four areas of Chennai district — Nungambakkam, Meenambakkam, Ennore and Madhavaram — on its website. Places in 14 districts will get moderate rainfall. Officials said districts, including Vellore, Theni, Namakkal, Madurai and Krishnagiri, would get moderate rainfall till Thursday. Rainfall may be heavy in one or two places in six districts, including Tiruchi, Madurai and Karur. However, other places may experience light rain. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Vedasandur in Dindigul received 13 cm of rainfall, followed by Musiri in Tiruchi with 9 cm. This southwest monsoon, the State has recorded an average of nearly 27 cm of rainfall, which is in excess by 32% than its normal of 20.3 cm for the season.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant will decide on alliance, says Premalatha||DMDK deputy general secretary Premalatha Vijayakant on Tuesday expressed ambiguity over her party continuing to feature in the AIADMK-led alliance during the Assembly election next year. Speaking to the media, on the eve of the party founder Vijayakant’s birthday celebrations, she said though the DMDK was with the AIADMK as of now, the collective wish of the cadre is that the party should contest alone. She said that the decision would be made public in December or January. “There is enough time for the election. Captain (Vijayakant) will call for a general body and executive council meeting and announce his decision. Right until this minute, we are in the alliance. When we spoke to party cadre across Tamil Nadu, they said that Captain should be the King and that they are ready to contest the election alone,” she said. Ms. Premalatha said there was no disappointment with the AIADMK for not giving the DMDK a Rajya Sabha seat. DMDK senior leader and former MLA B. Parthasarathy told The Hindu that any alliance was only for the election. “There is no issue with the AIADMK, but alliances do not automatically continue. The decision will be taken by Captain,” he said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin welcomes HC order||Opposition leader M.K. Stalin on Tuesday welcomed the Madras High Court order holding that the notice of breach of privilege initiated against 19 DMK MLAs suffered from a “foundational error”. He described the High Court order as “historical”. The DMK president, in a statement issued in Chennai, said that even though the Assembly Speaker had failed to safeguard the freedom of members, the court had saved them. The notice for breach of privilege was initiated against 19 DMK MLAs including Mr Stalin for bringing gutkha sachets to the Assembly to highlight the sale of the banned tobacco product in the state. “It is a shame that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has not taken action against the minister who received commission from gutkha merchants. The sale of gutkha continues in the state,” he alleged.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||First meeting of sixth State Finance panel held||The first meeting of the sixth State Finance Commission was held in the virtual mode on Monday on account of COVID-19. At the meeting, C.V. Sekar, AIADMK MLA from Pattukottai constituency, raised the challenges faced by the local bodies in paying water charges, electricity bill and disposal of garbage, among other issues.  Issues noted Mr. Sekar also raised the issues faced by local bodies during natural disasters, such as cyclone, and COVID-19. The issues were noted by the Commission, according to a press release. The next meeting of the Commission is proposed to be held during the third or fourth week of September, and views and suggestions of the public can be sent tomemsecy.sixthsfc@ tn.gov.inand the Commission’s office at 6th Floor, Integrated Office Complex for Finance Department, Veterinary Hospital Campus, No.571, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai – 600 035.  AIADMK legislator C.V. Sekar raised issues faced by local bodies during natural disasters
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Property buyers may have to spend more on stamp duty||Property buyers may have to spend more on stamp duty this year as the Public Works Department has raised the schedule of plinth area rates for building valuation. The common schedule of plinth area rates has been raised by 7.3% and this would lead to an increase in the value of buildings and indirectly a hike in the payment of stamp duty, officials said. Every year, the PWD releases the common schedule of plinth area rates for the valuation of various types of buildings, based on which stamp duty is collected by the Registration Department and rental value of a structure is arrived at. This year, the new plinth rates would be effective from August 16 for a year. While the average increase is 7.3% across the State, the rise in plinth area rates varied from 8.03% to 8.76% depending on the cities and towns. Officials of the PWD said the plinth area rates are calculated based on the type and quantity of construction materials in a building, labour charges and the type of structures, including those built with brickwork, cement concrete structure or ones with thatched or tiled roof. There would be an overall 0.7% increase in the stamp duty to be paid as the building value has been revised this year. For instance, if a building was worth Rs. 1 crore last year, its value would be Rs. 1.07 crore this year, for which the buyer would have to pay the stamp duty, officials said. However, officials noted that the revised building valuation was less compared to last year when the average annual increase was nearly 10%. Various factors, including the dip in demand for construction materials, had influenced the plinth area rates. This common schedule is also used to calculate rental rates by the government and private owners. “We also assess the value of buildings in disproportionate assets cases of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, based on this plinth area rates,” the official added. However, builders and real estate developers noted that the rise would only discourage consumers from buying property. Though the hike may be cited as marginal, consumers would have to pay a stamp duty of 7.7%. Suresh Krishn, president-elect, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India — Tamil Nadu (Credai), said the purchasing power of consumers had already dipped during the pandemic. Any increase in building valuation or stamp duty would only disappoint buyers. This had been done without consulting real estate developers. The State government must take steps to encourage home buyers and decrease stamp duty, he said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ITI to be set up in Oragadam Industrial Corridor||In order to train youngsters for relevant industrial jobs and provide practical skills, the Tamil Nadu Skills Development Corporation (TNSDC) is planning to establish an Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Oragadam Industrial Corridor. With a capacity of 100 students, the facility will offer courses in dual mode with a greater emphasis on practical training. The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) will fund the institute. Sources in TNSDC said industries would run short term upskilling courses. This is being done on a pilot basis to hone the skills of youngsters and prepare them for better employment opportunities. On an average, nearly 35,000 students pass out of 90 government ITIs across the State every year. For the first time this year, online admissions of students had been conducted due to the pandemic, officials said. The TNSDC has also roped in industrial partners for the ITI management committees. This will help to get an industrial perspective for skill development courses. For instance, Maruti Suzuki India is the industry partner for the Ambattur ITI, Grundfos Pumps India for the Guindy ITI and V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust helps manage the Thoothukudi ITI. New vocations The corporation also has planned to introduce two new six-month courses — drone operators and smartphone technicians — this year in the Guindy and Coimbatore ITIs. “A few of the courses are not popular among students. We have revamped those this year. For example, the carpenter and pattern maker course is now interior design and decoration,” an official said. The courses for electricians and mechanic (motor vehicle) are some of the popular ones among students. Measures had also been taken to improve structural issues in government ITIs, the official added.  A few of the courses are not popular among students. We have revamped those this year TNSDC official
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Son says SPB is responding well to treatment||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is responding well to treatment, his son S.P. Charan said on Tuesday. But MGM Healthcare did not issue a health bulletin. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was hospitalised earlier this month after testing positive for COVID-19. As of Monday evening, he was on life support in the ICU. In a video message, Mr. Charan said his family was extremely thankful for all the prayers and wishes that had been pouring in from the singer’s fans and friends. Responding to requests for video updates in Tamil, Mr. Charan said he was sharing them in English so that his father’s fans from across the country and the world could stay updated about his health status.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police bust gang of ganja suppliers||The police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang of ganja suppliers, including the kingpin from Andhra Pradesh. They were allegedly involved in the online sale of the contraband to college students and youth. The Virugambakkam police raided a lodge on Ponniamman Koil Street on Saturday and rounded up six college students. They seized 19 kg of ganja from them. Police identified the suspects as T. Abdul Razak, A. Prithviraj, S. Ezhilarasan, K. Yuvaraj, S. Vijay and Ragul. Based on their confessions, police arrested Vignesh alias Haribabu, 22, in Madurai. He was one of the main dealers. His five associates were also nabbed. Interrogation then led to the arrest of Nuthakki Issac, 24, who was the kingpin.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From October, biometric authentication must at fair price shops||Ration cardholders all over the State will have to carry out biometric authentication from October before receiving their entitlements from fair price shops, according to the present plan of the Civil Supplies Department. This will be part of the One Nation One Rationcard (ONOR) scheme, which is aimed at achieving “seamless intra-State and inter-State portability” of rationcards, said senior officials in the government. For every transaction, the cardholders, regardless of the category – priority or non-priority – will do the authentication, making use of Aadhaar numbers. At present, the coverage of biometric authentication is taking place in varying degree in the districts of Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Nagapattinam and Udhagamandalam. In four to six weeks, the entire State will be covered, said an official in the Civil Supplies Department. In respect of those senior citizens and differently abled, who are not able to visit the fair price shops physically, the government will notify separate procedures. Once the scheme is rolled out fully, only inter-State migrants, holding priority household cards (PHH), will be entitled to get their monthly quota of foodgrains, as per the scale of supply – 5 kg foodgrains (rice or wheat) per month per person - stipulated in the National Food Security Act (NFSA). They will have to pay Rs. 2 per kg for wheat or Rs. 3 per kg for rice, even though in their home States, they would have received the foodgrains free of cost. This has been done for the purpose of “uniformity,” clarified the official. Apart from the foodgrains, only Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders, representing the “poorest of the poor,” will get sugar at the price stipulated by the Central government. Even though the Central guidelines on the ONOR scheme are silent on non-priority household cards, inter-State migrants, holding the cards, will get their entitlements at the rates, as is prevalent in their respective home States. Another decision of the State government is that even the inter-State migrant PHH cardholders will not be entitled to get commodities – edible oil and tur dal - that are being given under the special public distribution system. Allaying concerns of certain sections that interests of people of the State will be hit by the scheme, the officials pointed out that the scheme will be found useful more by intra-State migrants than inter-State migrants, as the scheme provides them to use the fair price shop of their choice anywhere in the State, subject to the condition that such fair price shop should not be in the same revenue village or municipal ward. In view of the presence of the national-level data depository data depository, the problem of duplication of cards will be eliminated through de-duplication, the official added.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri rejects Nadda’s claim||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday rejected BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s criticism that the Congress and the DMK are “obstacles to Tamil Nadu’s growth”. He said it was unacceptable to blame the Opposition parties for lack of growth. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri said that Mr. Nadda does not have any right to criticise the Congress and the DMK when they are neither in power in the State or at the Centre. “A State’s development can only be ensured by the Central and State governments. To state that Tamil Nadu’s Opposition parties are preventing the State’s growth is unacceptable. I condemn the BJP president’s argument with an intention to divert people’s attention [from important issues],” he said. Mr. Alagiri said that multiple factors have “made BJP, the most hated party in Tamil Nadu.” These included President Ramnath Kovind’s refusal to sign on legislation that provides exemption to Tamil Nadu for NEET, Central government’s refusal to provide the Environmental Impact Assessment draft document in Tamil and trying enact it into a law without adequate discussion and series of amendments to workers rights, divestment of PSUs – privatisation of railways, and reducing the number of publicly owned banks. Besides, the Centre wants to implement the National Educational Policy unilaterally, he said.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kalvi TV partners with Airtel in Tamil Nadu to make video lessons more widely available||Video lessons and learning resources from Kalvi TV will now be available on Airtel’s digital platforms as the government has partnered with Bharti Airtel to make the content more widely accessible for students.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teacher enrols son in government school||A government school teacher, whose son was previously studying in a private school, has enrolled him in a government school in Sulur near Coimbatore. V. Jasmine Victoria, a Tamil teacher at the Government High School in Semmandampalayam, said that she enrolled her son B. Jerick Samuel in Class VI at the Panchayat Union Middle School in Aathupalayam on Monday for the academic year 2020-21. The boy was previously studying in a private matriculation school at Somanur, she said. “Ever since I started working as a government school teacher, I wanted my son to study in a government school,” Ms. Victoria told The Hindu on Tuesday. As there was some hesitation among my family members, Jerick was put in a private school till Class V, she said. This year, they were convinced about the decision to enrol him in a government school for Class VI, Ms. Victoria said. Her son was also keen to study in a government school. “I used to take him to my workplace (school) now and then,” she said, adding that the boy enjoyed the school’s environment. Expressing happiness over the admission, Headmistress of Aathupalayam Panchayat Union Middle School C. Tamilselvi said that Ms. Victoria contacted the school a week before she enrolled her son. “We have both English and Tamil medium schooling from LKG to Class VIII,” the headmistress said, noting that the school has also engaged a private van to pick-up and drop students living within five km radius from the school. Established in 2002, the Panchayat Union Primary School has 220 students and nine teachers, she said.
26 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU cancels Syndicate meeting||Bharathiar University has announced that it had postponed the Syndicate meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday. On Monday evening, the University informed its members that it would hold the meeting at 3 p.m. on Tuesday and sent by evening the hard and soft copies of the agenda to be tabled at the meeting. A few members opposed the University’s plan to hold the meeting in less than 12 hours of announcement. The members’ grouse was that the University had violated its Act, rules and statutes as the notice period should be a minimum of seven days. They also accused the University administration of not giving them enough time to go through the agenda, which had 90-plus subjects. One of the members sent a mail to senior State government officers who were also ex-officio members of the Syndicate, objecting to the way the University chose to conduct the proposed meeting. And, by Tuesday morning the University said it had postponed the meeting. Asked about the postponement, Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj said the decision to defer the meeting had nothing to do with Syndicate member P. Kanagasabapathi sending a mail to Secretary to Higher Education Department, other ex-officio members and the Chancellor’s office. The University chose to postpone the meeting because many of the senior IAS officers, who were ex-officio members, were unavailable to attend the meeting online from Chennai. Maintaining that there was no hidden agenda behind holding the meeting at such short notice, Mr. Kaliraj said most of the items on the agenda were routine in nature and sought only the Syndicate’s ratification. And, a few were policy matters that required the senior officers’ presence.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mills closure hits NTC workers||V.K. Mathiazhagan, a textile mill worker, is without a job since March when complete lockdown was announced to control the spread of COVID-19. He is employed at CS & W Mills in Coimbatore for the last 33 years. “We are fighting every day to get even 50 % of our monthly wages,” he says. As the only earning member, he takes up odd jobs now to meet the basic needs of his family. “It is a struggle for the last few months. The NTC management paid full salary for one-and-a-half months. Now, they are not operating the mill saying it is running under loss. We want the mill to operate fully and we should be paid full wages,” he said. According to AITUC leader M. Arumugam, the National Textile Corporation (NTC) has not operated its seven mills in the State since March last week. Almost 5,000 workers are employed at the mills that are located in Coimbatore, Ramanathapuram, and Sivaganga districts. The permanent and temporary workers received full wages for the lockdown period till May 17. After that, the trade unions approached the Regional Labour Commissioner and the management is paying 50 % wages to permanent workers and the prescribed minimum wages to temporary workers. “For July, the wages were paid only last week,” he said. The unions are organising protests in front of each NTC mill since August 18. “We plan to appeal to all the MPs in the State to take up the issue with the Prime Minister and Union Textile Minister. The unions will meet on August 27 and decide the future course of action,” he said. T.S. Rajamani, State secretary of HMS, alleged that the NTC management was not taking steps to operate the textile mills as before. Further, the permanent workers are unable to get the unemployment benefits announced by the Central Government recently under the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna . “The temporary workers will get the benefits hopefully. If we try to apply for the permanent workers, the application gets rejected online. That is probably because even when they get only 50 % wages, the management is deducting the ESI amount. So, it is seen as these workers are still employed,” he said.
26 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. sets up triage centre for COVID-19 patients||Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday established a Corona Triage Centre at the Siddhapudur boys’ higher secondary school to act as a nodal point for COVID-19 patients. The Centre would be the first stop for COVID-19 positive persons. It would be decided at the Centre where the positive persons would be sent to, said sources. The medical officers at the Centre would assess the patient’s health by looking at their co-morbid condition and based on the outcome would send them to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital if their COVID-19 condition was severe and they had co-morbidities; to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital if their COVID-19 condition was severe, but they had no other medical condition or if their COVID-19 condition was moderate; and, to COVID-19 Care Centres if the infection was mild or they were asymptomatic, the sources said. The Corporation would transport the patient from house to the Centre and from there to any of the aforementioned places. The Centre would continue to remain the first stop even for those who had given samples at private hospitals or laboratories, the sources said. At present, the Corporation had established the Centre in the Siddhapudur school, primarily to cover patients from the 20 wards in the Central Zone. In the next few days, it would establish a Centre each in the remaining four zones – North, East, South and West. The Corporation felt the need to establish such centres because it wanted all COVID-19 patients to pass through one of the five triage centres and to primarily have a better management of beds at designated hospitals or care centres. And, also because it expected the number of cases to rise in the next seven to 10 days.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cage set up to trap monkeys||The Forest Department on Tuesday placed a cage to capture monkeys roaming in Bharathi Park Road area in Coimbatore. Officials said the cage was placed following complaints from local residents. The situation in other parts of the city are yet to be assessed, according to the officials.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested in child marriage case||Sirumugai police on Tuesday arrested two men in connection with a child marriage near Thudiyalur. Police said the 15-year-old girl visited Thudiyalur All Women Police Station (AWPS) on Tuesday to register a complaint. As the AWPS Inspector was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, she was sent to Sirumugai police station, where she lodged a complaint regarding her marriage. Based on her complaint, Sirumugai police registered a case under the provisions of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. On Tuesday evening, the police arrested a 36-year-old man, who married the girl, and another 31-year-old man, who was reportedly the matchmaker. The two were remanded in judicial custody. The Sirumugai police also booked a few more persons in this case and efforts to arrest them are on, sources said. Officials from the Department of Social Welfare are expected to conduct a field inspection in connection with the case, sources said.
26 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Test employees for COVID-19’||Coimbatore Corporation has asked big commercial establishments in the city to get their employees tested for COVID-19 every 15 days. In a social media post, the civic body said the establishments should get their employees tested in private labs under the pool test method. Sources said this was part of the Corporation’s efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 as in the last few days it found commercial establishments’ employees testing positive. The Corporation had shut down such establishments, the sources pointed out and added that they had turned into places where people gathered and vulnerable places for spreading the infection.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Inspector felicitated||Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan on Tuesday felicitated V. Selvaraj, Inspector of Saravanampatti police station, for his efforts in maintaining law and order during Vinayaka Chathurthi celebration. A release said that Mr. Selvaraj set up a temporary pond at Saravanampatti on August 22 to help immerse around 40 idols and avoid overcrowding.      District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced that all State government offices in the district will be closed on August 31 on the occasion of Onam. The offices will function on September 26 (Saturday) to compensate for the local holiday, he said in a release.
26 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work there will be no power supply on August 27 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Keeranatham sub-station : Keeranatham, Varathaiyangar Palayam, Idigarai and Athipalayam.  Sahara sub-station: Saravanampatti (part), Visuvasapuram, Revenue Nagar, Karattumedu and Vilankurichi (part).
26 August 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Broken barricades in Hogenakkal await repair||The floods of last year in Hogenakkal had left behind broken infrastructure of protective barricades and walls as River Cauvery was in spate. However, the floods may have receded soon after but the infrastructure ravaged by the water was awaiting repairs and restoration. A year after the famous tourist attraction saw heavy floods during to heavy rain in Karnataka, no tangible renovation works had been taken up in Hogenakkal. The floods caused by River Cauvery that flowed exceeding over three lakh cusecs last year had left in its wake broken barricades and felled parapet walls that had until then reinforced bathing ghats for the tourists. The floods had also left behind river debris of washed garbage strewn all over the tourist spot. Whilst, the garbage strewn by a raging river was cleared up, the infrastructure that was destroyed required repair and rebuilding. However, long after the floods, and despite many demands the barricades near the Cine Falls that gave a closer view of the Five Falls remain to be repaired. With the COVID lockdown and the pandemic forced ban on tourists, the time is seem as ripe for repair and renovation works to be taken up in Hogenakkal.
26 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC workers on flash strike||Employees affiliated to various trade unions working in the TASMAC outlets resorted to a flash strike and as a result, liquor shops remained closed for about two hours on Tuesday. About 70% of the outlets in the district, particularly in Oddanchatram, Palani and Dindigul city limits, were shut until noon. The employees, shouting slogans against the State government, demanded implementation of their 14-point charter of demands. Speaking to reporters, the employees’ representative Karuppiah from Thozhilalar Munnetra Sangam said that regularisation of employees, compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the staff who had died due to COVID-19 virus, jobs on humanitarian grounds and adequate security and insurance cover to the employees carrying cash for remittances in banks should be implemented. As the appeals made in the past had not fetched any desired results, the employees had decided to shut down the outlets. As the news of strike spread, senior officials from the TASMAC and revenue departments intervened, following which the employees opened the shops past noon, officials said.
26 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rural development staff begin two-day strike||Urging the State government to fulfil their nine-point charter of demands, the members of Tamil Nadu Rural Development Department Officers’ Association began their two-day strike across the district here on Tuesday. Members said that during the COVID-19 pandemic, they were being pressurised to complete works related to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and other Central government schemes implemented across the district. They said frequent video conferencing, instructions through SMS and Whatsapp were putting them to untold hardships. They also wanted the punishment transfer of four employees of the department in Coimbatore revoked.  Their other demands were cancelling the 17B order issued to employees who participated in the JACTO-GEO strike, issuance of promotion orders for the posts of joint directors and assistant directors, providing all the statutory rights to secretaries of village panchayats, providing time-pay scale to computer assistants and coordinators of health projects, and avoid conducting video conferencing on weekends and holidays after 6 p.m. Employees abstained from work and staged protests outside their respective offices. The strike will continue on Wednesday.
26 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Smoke from dump yard chokes residents||Smoke emanating from the Corporation’s dump yard at Vendipalayam here continues to choke the residents for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Solid waste generated from the town is being dumped at the yard spread over 19.46 acre. Under the Smart City Mission, the civic body proposed to biomine the six lakh cubic metre of legacy waste and a private company began work earlier in the year. So far one lakh cubic metre of waste has been biomined. At 11 p.m. on August 22, fire broke out at the yard. Five fire tenders and heat hydrants installed around the yard extinguished the fire by next day evening. Corporation water tankers and 50 workers were also involved in the process. However, smoke continues to engulf the area and the worst hit are the residents in the neighbourhood of the dump yard. Officials said that the smoke would stop completely by Wednesday. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that biomining the remaining five lakh cubic metre waste would be completed in a year after which the yard would be free of garbage. Steps will be taken to establish a park in the yard, he added.
26 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Statue installation postponed||With the district administration seeking a week’s time to decide on the installation of Ambedkar statue on the Collectorate premises, a few outfits that had demanded the installation have agreed to wait till August 30. Arunthathiyar Ilaingar Peravai, Tamil Puligal Katchi, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and few other parties had announced that the Ambedkar statue would be installed at the Collectorate on August 25. On Monday, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen held a meeting with Erode Town DSP Raju and members from the outfits. Mr. Saibudeen told the participants that since Section 144 has been clamped across the district, permission cannot be given for conduct of functions. He said that the issue would be taken up with higher officials and sought time till August 30 to arrive at a decision. The members disagreed with it and announced that they would install the statue without permission. But later, they agreed to postpone their protest till August 30. On Tuesday, security was beefed up outside the Collectorate to prevent any move by the members to install the statue.
26 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac staff attempts self-immolation||Urging the State government to regularise his job, a temporary worker attached to a Tasmac outlet attempted self-immolation during a protest here on Tuesday. Workers were demanding job regularisation, time-pay scale and also a job for their family member in case of death due to COVID-19. They abstained from work from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and were staging protest when a worker doused kerosene over him. However, his attempt was thwarted by the public. Those with a suicidal tendency can contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
26 August 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Concern over surge in customers at liquor outlets in Karaikal||Public welfare organisations in Karaikal are worried about the impact of abolition of e-pass system by Puducherry government. They point to the surge in the number of customers at liquor outlets. Though there is not much of a price difference between the liquor sold in Nagapattinam and Karaikal after the levy of COVID-19 tax by the Puducherry government earlier this year, the people from Tamil Nadu still prefer liquor sold in the union territory, A. Muthaiya, president of Karaikal Chamber of Commerce, said. People from Peralam, Nagore, Tranquebar, and many other parts of Nagapattinam district make a beeline to Karaikal also because of the availability of toddy and arrack, he said.  The arrack supplied to the outlets by Puducherry Distilleries Ltd., a PSU of the government of Puducherry under the Ministry of Industries and Commerce, is considered to be of good quality and, hence, attracts a large number of buyers from Nagapattinam district. Officials say owners of private liquor outlets and bars have been cautioned adequately on the impending tough action if they lower their guard on adherence to safety protocol.
26 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Multiple injuries found on bodies of Jayaraj, Benicks’||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday that as per the post-mortem examination reports, 17 injuries were found on the body of trader P. Jayaraj and 13 injuries on the body of his son J. Benicks, who died of alleged custodial torture at the Sattankulam police station recently. During the hearing of the bail petitions of the policemen accused in the case, the CBI submitted that the cause of the deaths was the blunt injuries sustained by Jayaraj and Benicks. So far, 38 witnesses have been examined in the case and the investigation is under way. The investigation resumed after a hiatus, as most of the CBI officials probing the case had tested positive for COVID-19. Further, it was submitted by the CBI that suspended policemen Murugan, Muthuraj and Thomas Francis, who had filed the bail petitions, were involved in the custodial torture of the father-son duo. It was said that Jayaraj and Benicks were arrested by the police based on a false complaint. In an intervening petition, Selvarani, wife of Jayaraj, opposed the grant of bail to the accused policemen. She apprehended that the evidence could be tampered with, if the accused were released. Justice V. Bharathidasan observed that the bail petitions were filed when the investigation was at a preliminary stage. After counsel for the accused agreed to withdraw, the petition was dismissed.
26 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Private schools see dip in Class 11 admissions||Heads of private matriculation and management-run schools say that there has been an overall drop in the number of students joining Class 11 in their institutions. Although admissions began on Monday, many find the usual rush to join courses lagging. Headmistress of Nirmala Girls Higher Secondary School Sister Sahayakanakam says less people have been turning up at the school for Class 11 unlike in the previous years. ‘Our school offers hostel facilities for the girls but many who have not joined. Usually, there is a rush to choose courses,’ she says. K. S. Narayanan, Headmaster of Sethupathi School, says though schools run by management and boards have seen a drop in the overall admission numbers, parents of students are flocking to aided schools as fees is far lower. Madura College Higher Secondary School run by their same management has not seen many takers. ‘We provide similar infrastructure and good education for lesser cost. Since the overall earnings for all have significantly reduced, parents are unwilling to pay full year fees,’ he says. Though their school earlier had students from areas like Melur, Sakkimangalam and Kariapatti, many prefer institutions closer to their homes due to lack of public transport. S. Ravan, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Melur, says though matriculation schools face a slump, several students are interested in joining government schools. Matriculation schools often expect parents to pay fees for the whole year. Nearly half of the academic year has come to an end. So, parents do not want to pay fees for the full year. Many enquiries are coming for government and aided school admissions. K. Kandasami, Headmaster, Pottapatti Government Higher Secondary School, says government schools are regularly conducting online classes and helping students learn better. ‘That is why we are preferred. Usually, at least 10 students from our school would move to matriculation schools every year. No one seems to have shown the inclination this year,’ he said.
26 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs State to make amendments to appointment rules||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to take appropriate steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant rules for preparing the panel to promote Assistants to the posts of Deputy Tahsildar. The court was hearing a batch of writ petitions pertaining to the issue of temporary promotions made to the posts of the Deputy Tahsildar in Dindigul, Pudukkottai and Ramanathapuram districts. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that the State government should make amendments to the relevant rules for appointment to the posts of Deputy Tahsildar within four weeks by implementing the direction given by the High Court in 2019. The court had taken cognisance of the fact that there were two sets of Assistants – promotee Assistants and direct recruited Assistants – who constituted the feeder category to the posts of Deputy Tahsildar. There was always conflict between the two whenever a seniority list was prepared for preparing a panel to promote Assistants to the posts of Deputy Tahsildar and this led to a number of litigations. To settle the issue, the High Court had in 2019 directed the State that such a seniority list be prepared by giving a reasonable gap between the date of preparation of such list and date of preparation of panel. Justice Suresh Kumar directed the State government to implement this order and said failure to do so would be a wilful violation of the order of the High Court. In such circumstances, the matter would be referred to a Division Bench to take appropriate action by invoking the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. With respect to the temporary promotions made to the posts of Deputy Tahsildar, the promotees should continue to hold office for now and vacate office once regular promotions were given effect, the court said. The State government had made the temporary promotions so that district administrations would not get affected in view of the fight against COVID-19.
26 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Strengthen healthcare system’||Prabhdeep Kaur, scientist and Deputy Director, Head, Division of Non-Communicable Disease, National Institute of Epidemiology, Indian Council for Medical Research, said business enterprises should create workplace interventions for employees to ensure that spread of COVID-19 is limited since restrictions on intensified lockdown are being lifted in Tamil Nadu. Inaugurating the sixth edition of the CII Tamil Nadu MEDex 2020, a conference cum exhibition conducted by the Confederation of Indian Industry, through the virtual medium, on Tuesday, she said it was essential to ensure good technology, availability of call centres and other avenues since 90% of cases in Tamil Nadu was under monitored home isolation. ‘South Korea has successfully done monitoring of home quarantine people,’ she said. Dr. Kaur said that although surveillance, testing, contact tracing and isolation are the four pillars of containing COVID-19, some districts were lagging behind in respect of testing and tracing. She said the State government have set up monitoring committees and several hospital beds are available. C. N. Raja, president, Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu, called for a stronger combination of modern and Ayush doctors to strengthen the Indian healthcare system. He said that Tamil Nadu has contributed immensely to the growth of medical tourism in the country. Hari K. Thiagarajan, Chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, said the COVID-19 has made the world realise and appreciate the importance of having a robust healthcare system. The healthcare sector in India is expected to reach $372 billion by 2022 in view of better health awareness and access to insurance despite temporary setback. Sathish Devadoss, Chairman, CII Madurai Zone, and J. Adel, Chairman of MEDex conference, organised the event.
26 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider woman’s plea for job: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai Collector to reconsider the woman’s representation seeking appointment under compassionate grounds. It was hearing K. Ilayarani’s petition. Her father V. Kallanai, a village assistant in the Revenue Department, died in 2011, while in service. He was survived by his wife and three children. The woman’s representation was rejected on the ground that her brother Sakthiponnusamy got a government job in 2013. His appointment was on merits and not on compassionate grounds. The petitioner said her brother was living separately and did not come to the aid of the family. She sought appointment on compassionate grounds to make ends meet. Justice R. Suresh Kumar directed the Collector to reconsider her representation based on her educational qualification. The court relying on two government orders observed that the orders did not restrain or prohibit the Collector from considering the candidature of a legal heir for appointment on compassionate grounds merely because another legal heir had a government job. The Collector can consider appointment of other legal heir if already a legal heir, who is in a government job, was not lending a helping hand to the family.
26 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pay relief, Tangedco told||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State to pay compensation to the family of a girl who had sustained injuries after coming in contact with a livewire that was lying on the ground in 2014. In a petition filed in 2017, her father Mohamed Ashok said his wife had visited her mother in Tallakulam along with their daughter. While playing outside the house, his daughter sustained serious injury after coming in contact with a livewire. His wife and a relative who went to the rescue of the girl sustained injuries. Blaming the Tangedco for negligence of its employees in leaving the wire on the ground, he sought appropriate compensation from the State. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed Tangedco to pay a total compensation of Rs. 2.25 lakh to the family of the girl.
26 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Portion of Anuppanadi road caves in||Anuppanadi Main Road in ward 57 caved in here on Tuesday at around 8.30 a.m., causing 10 feet wide and 15 feet deep hole in the middle of the road. Sources from the Madurai Corporation said a sewage pipeline at about 30 feet below ground was leaking for a couple of days. The leak caused the ground to become weak leading to its eventual collapse under immense pressure. The pipeline was sewage carrier for four wards under the Corporation limit. The sewage was eventually treated at Anuppanadi main pumping station. The road cave-in has caused other problems in the area. Many houses, which are connected to the sewage pipeline, have drains gushing out of their houses as there is a lack of outlet. We are trying to address this issue as soon as possible, a source said. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the area and told the people that the problem would be resolved soon. Earlier, a roundabout in Palam Station Main Road caved in when Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju was inspecting the area in May.
26 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed by lightning near Melur||A 55-year-old woman, P. Santhammal of Perunjankudi near Melur, was struck dead by lightning on Monday night. The police said that the woman who was standing near her house was struck dead by lightning around 9.30 p.m. Kottampatti police have registered a case.
26 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three held for chain snatching||The police have busted a chain snatching gang involved in many cases. A special team arrested N. Pandiarajan, 35, of Thanakkankulam, S. Stephen Varghese, 38, of Kannannendal and K. Kottai Eswari, a lawyer. The police have so far recovered 14 sovereigns of gold, two motorbikes and nine mobile phones. Pandiarajan, who has been a history-sheeter with Tirupparankundram police station, was an autorickshaw driver. The team arrested them in connection with a robbery case reported in Tirupparankundram on August 19. R. Bharathiraja, badminton coach, was waylaid while he was riding a motorbike by two persons, who robbed a gold chain, a ring and Rs. 18,000 at knife point. All the three were sent to judicial custody.
26 August 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. mulls weekend lockdown from next month||The Puducherry government is considering imposing total lockdown on weekends from next month to prevent spread of COVID-19, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao said here on Tuesday. In a video message to the media after visiting the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute (IGGMC&RI), the Minister said he had made the proposal to impose a two-day lockdown at Monday’s meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority. “At the meeting, I appealed to the Chief Minister to impose lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays, starting this week. “But the Chief Minister felt bringing restrictions from this week will disrupt marriages and other family functions. So he has agreed to consider imposing lockdown on weekends from next month,” he said. The Minister said he had directed IGGMC to provide facilities in hostels so as to accommodate more patients. If the hostels could be converted, around 400 more beds could be provided at the medical college. Tuesday lockdown At present, all shops and business establishments remained closed on Tuesdays. The police sealed the border areas at Kanniyakoil, Madagadipet, Gorimedu and Kalapet restricting entry of vehicles from other States. People roaming on motorbikes without valid reason were fined and their vehicle impounded.
26 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Localised lockdown in COVID-19 cluster zones mooted in U.T.||The administration is exploring the idea of localised lockdowns in and around heavy clusters of COVID-19 cases across the region as a containment strategy, given the sharp increase in the number of patients. With the governmment clearly not in favour of a harsh lockdown strategy at the moment — Chief MinisterV. Narayanasamyon Monday ruled out an extended lockdown after chairing a meeting of the Disaster Management Committee — the Health Department is mooting a proposal to freeze areas where cases are high. “We have identified about five areas where the number of cases is high, though a final call on areas to be sealed off will be on the guidance of the war room of the disaster management committee,” said Health DirectorS. Mohan Kumar.  This would mark the return of a more aggressive, though more selectively deployed, COVID-19 response strategy. While in the early phase of the pandemic spread in April, entire neighbourhoods had been cordoned off even on the detection of a single case, the strategy was later changed to isolate only the affected households plus the two flanking units, and now only the affected household unit is isolated. “Our COVID-19 response so far has been to strike a balance between effective containment and minimising disruption of life and livelihood,” Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. “Localised lockdowns could provide the best outcome in the circumstances where it can serve as a deterrent tool to shake off complacency without any largescale disturbance to public life,” he said. Going by the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management Committee's status report, as of Monday, there were 143 containment zones in the city and suburbs and four to five zones with large clusters of COVID-19 cases in the region. By revenue village, Saram had the highest number of containment zones (55), followed by Thattanchavady (37), Reddiarpalayam (25), Oulgaret (12) and Karuvadikuppam (11). On Tuesday, the zones had come down to 99, with Saram having 34, Thattanchavady 32 and Reddiarpalayam 10.
26 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||571 admissions recorded in U.T., toll up to 172||Puducherry recorded its highest single-day increase in COVID-19 cases with 571 admissions while the death toll went up to 172 after eight more patients succumbed to the virus. It pushed the total of COVID-19 cases past the 11,000-mark. Puducherry accounted for five deaths, Karaikal two and Yanam one. The patients, including one woman, were in the 50-75 age-group. There are currently 1,907 patients in hospitals and 2,074 in home isolation. During the last 24 hours, 331 patients were discharged. The tally stood at 172 deaths, 3,981 active cases, a cumulative total of 11,426 cases and 7,273 discharges. The Health Department has so far tested 65,769 samples, of which 52,857 returned negative. ICMR deputes team The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has deputed a three-member team of experts from the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai to assist in the containment of the pandemic in Puducherry. The ICMR deputed the epidemiologists to help the three-member Jipmer team which was recently appointed by the Centre, based on an appeal made by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. In a letter to Ms. Bedi, ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said he was sending a panel comprising Manoj V. Murhekar, Scientist ‘G’ and NIE Director, P. Ganesh Kumar, Scientist ‘D’, and N. Nesan, scientist ‘C’.
26 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Control rooms set up in five taluk offices in Pudukottai||The Pudukottai district administration has established control rooms at the office of the Revenue Divisional Officer, Pudukottai, and at five taluk offices to convey information for the general public relating to COVID-19 pandemic and receive complaints, if any. The control rooms have been established at the offices of the Tahsildar at Pudukottai (04322-221566), Thirumayam (04333-274223), Alangudi (04322-251223), Karambakudi (04322-255199) and Gandarvakottai (04322-275733). They will function round- the -clock. The general public canconvey information relating to measures to curb COVID-19 and complaints to the control rooms. According to an official release, precautionary measures to check the spread of the pandemic infection is being undertaken on a war-footing.
26 August 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC shop burgled||Unidentified persons broke open a TASMAC shop here on Monday night and decamped with 186 liquor bottles. The police said that the accused had broken open the shutter and stolen the bottles. Besides, they had also damaged the CCTV network. Rajapalayam south police are investigating.
26 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Intensive screening begins in Salem Corpn.||Collector S.A. Raman on Tuesday launched an intensive fever screening in Salem Corporation limits to contain the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Raman along with Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar launched the screening which will be on for about 21 days. Mr. Raman said effective screening could bring down the positive cases in the Corporation limits. There were 20 COVID-19 care centres in the district and around 4,000 beds were kept ready. The Collector advised healthcare workers to handover samples collected during the camp by afternoon so that the results could be declared soon. People whose samples were collected should be under home quarantine till the results were declared. Health officials said 140 teams including doctors, lab technicians, pharmacists and fieldworkers had been deployed as part of the camp. There were about 1,500 active cases and 30 clusters identified in the Corporation limits. They said they were planning to conduct tests to vendors at farmer markets from Wednesday. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Salem Government Hospital, said they were planning to set up another 100 beds for COVID-19 treatment and increase equipment at the laboratory to increase the number of tests. Erode With the number of active COVID-19 cases in Erode district crossing 1,000 mark on Monday, testing was intensified for early identification of cases. As on Tuesday, the district reported 2,252 positive cases, 1,217 discharges, 1,003 active cases and 32 deaths. About 65% of the total cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Health officials said the average number of samples lifted every day had increased from 1,900 to 2,100 in the past few days. Targeted testing was being done where samples were lifted from persons with symptoms, contacts of positive cases, elderly persons, pregnant women and persons near containment areas. Also, people with symptoms gave samples at the three urban primary health centres. With over 20 cases being reported in Talavadi Hills and Talamalai Road, medical camps were being held to lift samples, they added.  Coimbatore Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath on Tuesday held a review meeting to take stock of the steps taken to contain COVID-19. A release said the Commissioner directed medical teams to conduct as many fever clinics as possible to identify people with infection. In containment zones, the sanitation teams should regularly spray disinfectants and conduct door-to-door survey to identify people above 50 years of age and with medical conditions. The Commissioner also directed teams engaged in door-to-door survey to identify people who had violated quarantine norms, and gather details of persons with medical condition like heart or kidney ailment. The flying squads should focus on penalising those violating COVID-19 safety precautions.
26 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur dam||The water level at the Mettur dam was 96.8ft on Tuesday morning. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam stood at 96.8ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 60,722mcft. The dam received an inflow of 6,957 cusecs and outflow to Cauvery river was maintained at 18,000 cusecs and 600 cusecs was released through east-west canal.
26 August 2020||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Woman poisons children, attempts to end life||A woman attempted to end her life after administering poison to her two children over a domestic quarrel with her husband near Vembakottai on Tuesday. Police said Subbulakshmi alias Esther (30) used to have frequent quarrels with her husband Alex Pandian. On Tuesday, she administered a poison to her children – Jaleena (10) and Joshua (3). She also consumed it at her residence in Vettrilaiyoorani. All the three were rushed to the Primary Health Centre at Thayilpatti. The mother and the daughter have been shifted to GH in Tiruthangal. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
26 August 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Desilting over in 42-km stretch along Vaigai’||Expressing satisfaction over the desilting of channels and removing bushes along the 42-kilometre stretch of Vaigai river here, Minister for Khadi and Village Industries G. Baskaran said that the government was committed to improving the welfare of farmers. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday after inspecting the channel works along the Vaigai at Manalur-Veediyarendal here, he said Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had earmarked funds for the first phase for linking the Vaigai with Gundar. This is bound to permanently solve the water issues faced by the farmers. Already, the kudimaramathu scheme in the district had enhanced the water table in many locations. Ooranis and minor tanks had been cleared. Not only water for irrigation has been made available, but also for drinking purposes, the Minister said and welcomed suggestions for improvement. Collector J Jayakanthan said the Agriculture Department officials had been instructed to identify barren lands and appealed to farmers to make use of water availability for irrigation. Progressive farmers from the district suggested to the Minister to encourage setting up farm ponds so that tiny and marginal farmers can benefit during summer, where cash crops can be carried out by them. Farmers from Tirupuvanam, Manamadurai and nearby places said the long pending demand to remove encroachment on the irrigation channels had been addressed. They also urged the Minister to stop sand mining in the belt, which was going on unchecked, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic times. The officials said that there was a control room functioning at the Collectorate and farmers and activists can alert it on illegal mining activities.
26 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose to Thiruvaiyaru by-pass road project||The proposal to build a by-pass road for Thiruvaiyaru to reduce traffic congestion in the town has evoked opposition from a section of farmers. In a memorandum submitted to the Velumani, Revenue Divisional Officer, Thanjavur, the farmers claimed that laying the by-pass road through fertile agriculture belt was unacceptable. Instead of acquiring wetlands the officials should come forward to remove encroachments on the existing roads wider for easy and quick movement of vehicles, the added. Later talking to reporters, P. Sugumaran, deputy secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, claimed that the implementation of the project would result in the reduction of cultivable area in this region as the proposed by-pass road has planned to be laid via Manakarambai, Kalyanapuram, Kandiyur, Thirupoonthuruthi, Perumpuliyur and Thiruvaiyaur hamlets. Further, the formation of the road would affect the water bodies and water courses resulting in water-logging in several areas, he added.
26 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fast by BSNL contract workers in Thoothukudi||Condemning non-disbursal of wages for the past 12 months, contract workers of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited commenced their two-day fast at the BSNL General Manager’s Office here on Tuesday. Led by C. Panneerselvam, president of BSNL Contract Labourers’ Union, and M. Jayamurugan, president of Thoothukudi District BSNL Employees’ Union, the contract labourers observed a fast. The workers said the BSNL, which was refusing to settle the bills for the past several months, should ensure payment of bills so that the contract labourers would get their 12-month wages arrears. Besides extending Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation facilities to the contract labourers, the BSNL should ensure that the contract labourers should not be laid off, they said. After the end of the agitation at 5 p.m., the protesters will resume the agitation on Wednesday also.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One lakh tests and still counting||The K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, Tiruchi, has crossed a significant milestone by carrying out over one lakh RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) granted permission to the college to carry out COVID-19 testing in the third week of March. The PCR machine procured mainly to analyse HINI influenza in 2010 came in handy for the college to seek permission to conduct the tests. It began its first test on March 24. With just a machine and a few technicians, the Department of Microbiology could do just 100 tests a day in the initial stage. RNA extraction was done manually. As patients with symptoms of COVID-19 went up rapidly, Collector S. Sivarasu stepped in to make special arrangements to procure one more RTPCR machine and an automated RNA extractor at a cost of Rs. 24 lakh. Similarly, six persons, including two research assistants, were recruited under the National Health Mission to the department. In addition to them, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital also deputed eight technicians for collecting samples and processing. With an addition of one more machine and RNA extractor, the college scaled up its testing to 1,000 in April and May. However, as the number of samples kept increasing, the college increased its RTPCR machines to four with two machines of Bharathidasan University. It enabled the medical college to scale up testing. “Our team is working round the clock and we have crossed one lakh tests within a short span of time. It is a remarkable milestone,” said College Dean Dr. K. Vanitha. As on Monday, 1,00,876 samples had been tested. Of them, 96,118 samples turned out to be negative and 4,758 were positive. Of the total samples, 5,612 were from Ariyalur, Karur, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts. Remaining 95,264 samples were from Tiruchi district. K. Lakshmi, Head-In-Charge, Department of Microbiology, said the laboratory could handle 1,600 to 1,800 samples a day. The team had about 60 members including doctors, medical officers and technicians. The men and machines were being utilised at an optimum level considering the demanding situation. Each and every member had contributed for achieving the milestone. Besides running the samples, the team members were engaged in pre-analytical and post-analytical sample works. “Pre-analytical sampling is an important and laborious work as we have to check and cross the samples of patients collected from different sources. We check the samples at least thrice before testing the samples,” Dr. Lakshmi added. She said a team of persons had been assigned to upload the results and analysis of samples on the ICMR portal on a daily basis. The results of all samples had been uploaded on the portal up to Monday. The patients could download the results too.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Queries raised over admission process||Students and parents apprehend there is no authenticity in the PG admissions being carried out by colleges and universities without exams being conducted for third-year UG students. Although the verdict of the Supreme Court on whether final year degree examinations in universities should be held before September 30 is still awaited, a good number of higher educational institutions have apparently almost completed the process of admission for postgraduate programmes based on scores obtained by students till the fifth semester. Shortly after the nation-wide lockdown took effect following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the University Grants Commission spelt out the need for a change in the academic calendar for the academic session 2020-21 based on suggestions from an expert committee. Subsequently, the UGC released its guidelines mandating conduction of final year examinations in every university in the country, after the Delhi and Maharashtra governments cancelled final year exams due to the pandemic. According to a college head here, the UGC had earlier this year permitted completion of provisional admissions by August-end subject to the condition that the relevant documents of the qualifying examination must be submitted by September 30. However, parents say the colleges have not factored in the UGC's emphasis on conduct of exams for the final year UG students. K. Murali, a parent, says conduct of PG admissions without completion of final year UG exams is injustice to students. “Normally, students look for PG admissions only after the results are out. When there is no decision on further plan of action, all such admissions should be declared null and void.” The Higher Education Department, according to professors of Bharathidasan University, has not taken a call on conduct of examinations for even semester for final year students. College principals say conduct of exams through adherence to social distancing protocol, as enunciated by UGC, is not possible at this juncture. “Nevertheless, the PG admission process cannot be delayed indefinitely,” another principal of a leading arts and science college adds.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram-Thanjavur track to be electrified by October||The 228-km mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur is expected to become fully electrified in a couple of months as the project’s final leg from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur has been targeted for completion by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL) by October. Overhead electrification works on the nearly 70-km segment from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur is racing towards completion, a senior RVNL official said. RVNL, which was entrusted with the task of electrifying the entire mainline section, falling under the limits of Tiruchi Railway Division, carried out the works in phases energising at first the portion from Villupuram to Cuddalore in early 2019 and, subsequently, electrifying the next portion from Cuddalore to Mayiladuthurai via Chidambaram, Vaitheeswarankoil and Sirkazhi in early 2020. As part of the project costing nearly Rs. 300 crore, the organisation constructed a traction substation at Cuddalore. Upon getting mandatory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety separately for operation of electric loco-hauled passenger and freight trains on Villupuram-Cuddalore portion and, thereafter, on Cuddalore-Mayiladuthurai stretch, RVNL took up the final portion from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur via Kumbakonam. Although the project suffered a setback from March-end when the lockdown was clamped due to COVID-19 pandemic, it resumed and gained momentum from July. The RVNL official said the target now was to complete the entire overhead electrification works on the project's final portion from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur by October. Post-completion, the entire mainline section would become a fully electrified stretch. The organisation would submit relevant documents pertaining to completion of work in the project's final leg to the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru to conduct mandatory inspection on the newly electrified portion from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur to obtain statutory clearance for operation of electric loco hauled passenger and freight trains on this segment. The official said the state-owned Tangedco began supplying power to the newly constructed traction substation at Cuddalore from last week. A substation had been constructed at Mayiladuthurai junction as part of the project for which power supply from Tangedco was expected only next year. Nonetheless, this would not be a constraint for operating electric loco-operated trains on the mainline section once the clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety came for the electrified Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur portion as power could be drawn from Cuddalore and Thanjavur substations. The mainline section with a single broad gauge track is one of the oldest stretches in the railway network covering portions of the fertile delta region from where movement of paddy by rail takes place to various destinations. It is one of the major sections under the Tiruchi Railway Division after a double track chord line stretch from Villupuram to Tiruchi via Vriddhachalam and Ariyalur was electrified a few years ago.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 19 deaths, 614 new cases||Nineteen deaths and 614 fresh cases of COVID-19 were recorded in the central districts on Tuesday. As per a medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health of the State government, Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts topped the list of casualties with six deaths each. Pudukottai followed with four fatalities. Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Perambalur district recorded one death each. As far as fresh cases of COVID-19 were concerned, Nagapattinam topped the list with 149 followed by Pudukottai with 116 cases. A total of 106 patients tested positive for the virus in Tiruchi district, 74 in Thanjavur and 59 in Tiruvarur. Ariyalur and Karur registered 54 and 34 cases. Of the 19 deaths, a patient from Perambalur died of COVID-19 without any pre-existing conditions. The 60-year-old man from Perambalur was referred from a private hospital and admitted to the Government Hospital in Perambalur on August 20 with the complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for two days. But he died on Sunday due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. He did not have a history of major diseases. All other patients, who died of COVID-19, had co-morbid conditions including hypertension, Among the 19 victims, eight died in private hospitals and remaining in government hospitals. Except two patients, others were above the age group of 60 years. Of them, five were above 80 years of age. Patients aged 73, 82, 50, 84, 69 and 87 belonging to Tiruchi succumbed to COVID-19. They had pre-existing conditions including diabetics and hypertension. All patients suffered from COVID pneumonia and died in private hospitals. The virus claimed six lives in Thanjavur. They were aged 55, 77, 80, 62, 68 and 75. The patients, who died in Pudukottai due to the novel coronavirus, were aged 70,43, 73 and 54. A 90-year-old patient from Nagapattinam, who was admitted to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam with complaints of difficulty in breathing on August 19, died on Sunday. She had severe acute respiratory infection. With Tuesday’s tally of 149 cases, the total number of patients infected in Nagapattinam district went up to 2,105. The surge in the number of fresh cases was attributed to clearance of pending swab test results in a day. The active cases in Tiruchi district went up to 945 with the addition of 106 cases on Tuesday. The day saw the discharge of 105 patients. The total number of active cases in Thanjavur stood up to 797 after 74 fresh cases were added to the list on Tuesday. A total of 152 patients were discharged in a single day on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||ITIs anticipate upswing in demand for seats||Heads of a section of Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) anticipate an upswing in applications this year, due to the government’s ‘all pass’ decision for SSLC students following the COVID-19 pandemic. After the recent release of admission notification by the Directorate of Employment and Training, the ITIs have been able to sense a demand for admission into these institutes. “On our part, we are collating data of the category of students with low marks who would otherwise drop out of the mainstream education from government schools,” said N. Nagarajan, Principal, Government Industrial Training Institute, Ariyalur. In recent years, an increase in awareness among economically backward parents about placements in ITIs has become perceptible, he said. Candidates are to be admitted through a common counselling to 89 government ITIs (all seats) and 476 private it is (50% of seats). The Government Industrial Training Institute (Women), Pullambadi, in Tiruchi, which usually admits less than 60% of the sanctioned quota of 320 seats, anticipates cent percent patronage this year. “More students with low scores in SSLC will inevitably approach us,” hoped its Principal Karpagam. Since practicals form the major component of syllabi in ITIs, the students do not face difficulty in coping up, according to the principals. The ideal proportion of executives-supervisors-technicians in an industrial set-up, they say, has always been in the ratio of one engineer for two supervisors with polytechnic qualification and 10 ITI technicians. “We are expecting good patronage for the ITIs this year. In any case, 90% of the seats in ITIs get filled every year,” said T. Rajashekar, Additional Director, Directorate of Employment and Training. However, it remains to be seen to what extent the COVID -19 pandemic would impact the admission process, Mr. Rajashekar said. “The emphasis on vocational education in the National Education Policy 2020, with provision for internships, is a sound augury for developing future manpower requirements for industries in manufacturing sector,” S. Sangapillai, former Principal of Seshasayee Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, said.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Transport workers stage stir; demand restoration of bus services||Transport workers affiliated to various trade unions staged a demonstration here on Tuesday in support of their charter of demands including restoration of bus services. Representatives from the Labour Progressive Front, AITUC, CITU, INTUC and HMS participated in the demonstration that was held near the Collectorate in the city. The demonstrators urged the State government to start public transport services immediately with adequate protective measures. They demanded that the government disburse DA and other arrears to transport workers besides disbursing monetary benefits to retired transport workers. They also urged the government to withdraw G.O 288A which, they said, went against the Motor Vehicle Act among others. The demonstration was led by Gunasekaran representing the Labour Progressive Front.
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Take immediate steps to reopen Gandhi Market, say traders||Expressing concern over the hardships faced by traders due to sporadic rainfall in the absence of basic infrastructure at the temporary vegetable market at G. Corner grounds, a section of the community has reiterated its plea to the district administration to take steps to reopen Gandhi Market in the city. “Traders do not even have a place to take shelter from the rain at the temporary market at G. Corner. They have to brave the rain to continue the trade as they cannot leave the shops unattended. The ground gets inundated and temporary stalls have to function amidst the slush. So far, no basic amenity has been created at the temporary market by the authorities. With the monsoon season ahead, the situation will only turn worse at the temporary market,” said M.K. Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam, in a statement. Calling for steps to reopen the market in view of the hardships faced by traders, Mr. Kamalakannan urged the Collector to take steps to vacate the interim injunction granted by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against the opening the Gandhi Market recently while hearing a public interest petition. “The Gandhi Market has remained shut for 170 days raising a question mark over the livelihood of thousands of traders and labourers. Besides vegetable, fruits and flower wholesale and retail traders, a large number of small businesses selling various commodities in and around the market have remained closed. All these traders have been reduced to penury,” Mr. Kamalakannan said. If the district administration failed to take steps to get the Gandhi Market opened by having the interim order vacated, traders would have no option but to launch a hunger stir after surrendering their ration cards, he added.  No place to take shelter from rain in temporarymarket at G. Corner M.K. KamalakannanPresident, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam
26 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plus One admission under way||Admissions for Plus One got underway in government and government-aided higher secondary schools on Monday. Besides the Department of School Education, government schools under the purview of Adi-Dravida welfare, Forest, Kallar Reclamation, Municipalities, Social Welfare and Tribal welfare departments also began the process for science, commerce, arts and vocational groups. School authorities have laid emphasis on physical distancing and wearing face masks.”The school heads were instructed to take utmost care to ensure that physical distancing was followed while carrying out the admission process,” S. Shanti, Chief Educational Officer, said. While priority is being given to students of the same school for Plus One admission, those with higher scores can rest assured of admission. The school heads anticipate a deluge of applicants in the coming days in view of the all-pass gesture of the State government for SSLC. Usually, government schools have 60 students for one section. But, there are also schools admitting more than 70 for a section, much to the chagrin of teachers. No deadline has been fixed as yet for the Plus One admissions, according to teachers. According to a senior teacher of a government higher secondary school in Manapparai union, there is no information as yet on when the classes will begin for Plus One. The teachers say they would prefer classroom teaching, citing difficulties in engaging students of SSLC and Plus Two in the virtual mode. Textbooks for Plus One are ready for distribution in schools. The school heads await instruction from the government to begin distribution. On their part, matriculation higher secondary schools had initiated admissions and completed the process well in advance, even before publication of SSLC results.
26 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli ranks second in ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ in T.N.||The Tirunelveli Corporation, with the total score of 2,780, has bagged the second place in Tamil Nadu and got the all-India ranking of 159 in the world’s largest cleanliness survey of ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ for having put in place credible waste management system to ensure cleanliness in the city. With the score of 3,360.47, Tiruchi Corporation has bagged the first place in Tamil Nadu and got the all-India ranking of 102. A total of 4,242 cities, having the population below 10 lakh, across the country were covered for this survey. Tirunelveli City, with a total area of 108.65 square km, houses 1,81,488 households with the population of 5,13,284 (it was 4,78,236 in 2011). The city, housing just over 5 lakh population generates 170 tonnes of garbage, including 102 tonnes of degradable waste and 68 tonnes of non-degradable garbage everyday. Of this, 22 tonnes of solid waste is being generated by 97 bulk waste generators in the city. Since source segregation of degradable and non-degradable wastes is mandatory in Tirunelveli Corporation, the waste is being collected separately by 270 battery operated vehicles deployed in all four zones of the Corporation. “Since a section of the residents, despite the source segregation of waste put in place in the Corporation, has nurtured the habit of packing both degradable and non-degradable waste getting generated in their house in one bag and put it in the bins, garbage bins in these areas were identified and removed to inculcate the habit of source segregation. Now, we have kept the garbage bins only in select areas based on the needs,” says G. Kannan, Commissioner of Tirunelveli Corporation. In Tirunelveli Corporation, 1,335 sanitary workers, including 358 permanent workers, 744 sanitary workers affiliated to self-help groups, 233 outsourced sanitary workers have been deployed to collect the garbage from the houses, from the streets and send it to the garbage dump at Ramaiyanpatti either to the micro compost centres concerned through 4 compactors, 6 dumper placers, 13 tipper lorries, a tractor, two lorries, a light commercial vehicle apart from the 270 battery operated vehicles. After collecting the 102 tonnes of degradable waste, 35 tonnes are being taken to the micro composting centres where it is converted into manure to be given to the public while 5 tonnes of degradable is taken to the bio-methanation plant and 40 tonnes to the Ramaiyanpatti compost yard. The remaining 22 tonnes being generated by the bulk waste generators have been told to establish their own solid waste management system. The 68 tonnes of solid waste, mostly plastic waste, is being sent to the recyclers and also to the cement factory nearby where it is being used as supplementary fuel or the fuel derived from the refuse. The women self-help groups involved in shredding the plastic waste into granules give it at the rate of Rs. 30 per kg for road laying. “The city, having 62 hospitals, has put in place an appropriate biomedical waste management system through a private firm. While a few clinical laboratories and dental clinics are yet to get the approval, appropriate instructions have been given to them to put in place a credible biomedical waste management system,” says Dr. Saroja, City Health Officer.
26 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Detention of criminals under Goondas Act goes up in Tirunelveli district||The Tirunelveli district police, with the objective of crushing crimes and the criminals, have started action against ganja peddlers, usurers and other habitual offenders by invoking the provisions of Goondas Act. So far, 47 persons have been detained under the Goondas Act this year and of them, 11 have been put behind the bars in the past one month alone. The sudden spurt in the detention of criminals under the Goondas Act in the district has discouraged the habitual offenders to leave the district at the earliest towards a relatively safe haven. An antisocial element from Thatchanallur area in Tirunelveli city, who is operating all over Tamil Nadu under the cover of his caste, has apparently moved out of Tirunelveli district. To check the execution of organised crimes, Mr. Manivannan has strengthened the intelligence network by involving locals in every police station limits apart from getting information from the special branch constables also. “The special branch constables have to be on tenterhooks round-the-clock as the SP’s intelligence network starts from the grassroots level. So our personnel have to be alert all the time in crime prevention,” a police officer says. While ganja peddlers are being arrested and their detention under Goondas Act has started, the moneylenders collecting exorbitant interest and the self-styled caste leaders are being monitored closely as a few of them are using the youth of their caste for nefarious activities. When a team from Anna University scientifically surveyed Hanumanadhi to revive the watercourse from Panagudi to Idinthakarai as the farmers of this region appealed to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, it was found that most of this river has been encroached upon by a few individuals having political and caste backing. Even though they tried to scuttle the survey of the river, the Anna University officials, with the backing of revenue officials, completed the survey. The police would act as per the laws on the encroachers, said the SP.
26 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||Power supply to the following areas will be suspended on August 26 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in view of the maintenance work to be carried out in the Thatchanallur sub-station: Thatchanallur, Nalmeippar Nagar, Selva Vignesh Nagar, Balaji Avenue, North Balabhagya Nagar, South Balabhagya Nagar, Madurai Road, Tilak Nagar, Babhuji Nagar, Sivanthi Nagar, Gomathi Nagar, Sindhupoondurai, Manimurtheeswaram and Irudhaya Nagar, an official statement said.
26 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Man stabs wife to death||Alangulam police are on the lookout for a labourer, who allegedly stabbed to death a woman who was living with him. Police said Murugan, 45, of Nattarpatti near Pavoorchathram, after leaving his wife, married Chitra, 36, mother of a boy and a 16-year-old girl from Thiruchuzhi near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, when he was working there. When Chitra was living with Murugan at Nattarpatti, Murugan sexually harassed Chitra’s daughter. As the harassment continued despite Chitra’s warning, she filed a complaint with All Women Police in Alangulam. As the police interrogated Murugan and Chitra on Tuesday evening, they came out of the police station after the end of the investigation. When a quarrel broke out between Murugan and Chitra, he allegedly stabbed the woman. Though she was rushed to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Chitra died on the way to the hospital.
26 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||204 cases in Tirunelveli||After a lull, Tirunelveli witnessed a spurt in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, recording 204 new cases, which took the district’s tally to 8,770. After 152 people were discharged, Tirunelveli, which lost seven patients to the viral infection, has 1,293 active cases. Kanniyakumari recorded 155 new cases, with which the district’s tally rose to 8,840. The district has 1,485 active cases after 104 people were discharged from hospitals. The district registered three more deaths, which pushed up the toll to 152. Tenkasi’s tally moved up to 4,926 with the addition of 86 fresh cases. The district now has 914 active cases after 53 people were discharged. With two deaths recorded on Tuesday, the district has so far witnessed 96 deaths. Thoothukudi added 60 fresh cases to have a tally of 10,801. As 22 people were discharged on Tuesday, the district has 668 active cases, and its toll stands at 105. Theni reported 226 new cases, with which its total case count went up to 11,864. There were 216 discharges in the district. Dindigul recorded 121 fresh cases, which pushed its tally to 5,990. A total of 126 people were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram added 69 new cases to mark a tally of 4,484. There were 58 discharges. Sivaganga accounted for 43 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 3,826. There were 51 discharges. Virudhunagar recorded five deaths, which took the district’s toll to 179. The deceased included a 71-year-old woman. They died at different hospitals on August 22 and 23. The district reported 97 new cases to have a tally of 12,049. After 117 people were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 412. In Madurai, 80 people tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 13,590. All the new cases were indigenous. With 58 people being discharged on Tuesday, the district has 1,001 active cases. Two more persons died.
26 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers on contract strike work||Over 300 conservancy workers employed by the Tiruppur Corporation on contract went on a strike on Tuesday with multiple demands, including payment of pending salaries. Organised by the CITU, the contract workers staged a demonstration at the entrances of the four zonal offices of the Corporation on Tuesday. ‘Provide payslips’ CITU district secretary K. Rangaraaj said the demands of the contract workers were payment of salary pending for July, payment of salaries before the fifth of every month, provision of payslips every month, regular COVID-19 testing and salary hike for all contract workers. “The [Corporation] officials are not meeting us at all,” alleged Paapathi, one of the conservancy workers who participated in the demonstration. Another worker Saraswathi alleged that the salaries of contract workers were not being paid properly. Fund sanctioned Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said that Tiruppur Corporation had sanctioned Rs. 24 lakh on Tuesday for payment of pending salaries to conservancy workers. “The issue will be resolved within one or two days,” he said. Following this, Mr. Rangaraaj said the strike was called off and the contract conservancy workers would resume work on Wednesday. However, he warned of another strike in the first week of September if the Corporation does not fulfil the other four demands.
26 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘National education policy’s objective is to make nation self-reliant’||Speakers at a webinar on the Implications of National Policy on Education 2020, organised by the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur. recently, observed that the objective of the policy was to make the Nation self-reliant. Delivering the presidential address, R. Karpaga Kumaravel, Acting Vice-Chancellor, said the NEP document rightly observed that “education is fundamental for achieving full human potential, developing an equitable and just society, and promoting national development”. Bringing out-of-school children into the school system, reducing the number of dropouts, empowering the students by providing an opportunity to choose the subjects they wish to learn, bringing in a single regulator to look after all institutions except medical and law to improve governance, giving a fillip to holistic education by envisioning convergence of science and arts streams, focusing on ethics, human and Constitutional values would go in a long way in the creation of enlightened citizenship which was essential for deepening the democratic roots, he said. Expanding the scope of foundational education, increasing the school-going years from 3 to 18 instead of the prevalent 6 to 14, would enable a more holistic development of children in the formative age group of 3-6 years, he added. Participating in the webinar, P. Manisankar, Vice-Chancellor, Bharathidasan University stressed the need for systematic implementation of the NEP for the desired outcome. “It will make the education system holistic and make the nation self-reliant,” he said. Touching upon the aspects in the NEP aimed to make the Universities world-class institutions, J.A.Tareen, former Vice-Chancellor, Pondicherry University, observed that important factors to be considered for global competence and recognition were density (campus strength) and diversity (students from all parts of the country). Deliberating on the development-driven guidelines in the NEP 2020, Professor N.Panchanatham, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, highlighted the need for alumni support and fund generation by pointing out that all stakeholders should observe and share the responsibility for the development of higher education. G.Padmanaban, Chancellor, CUTN, S.Sivasubramanian, Vice-Chancellor, Bharathiyar University, were among those who participated in the webinar, according to a CUTN press release.
26 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Coonoor municipality builds retaining walls with plastic waste||The Coonoor municipality is using the plastic waste generated in the town as an alternative material to build retaining walls. K. Balu, Coonoor Municipality Commissioner (CMC), said that most of the plastic waste generated within the town is “baled” at high pressure into blocks, each weighing around 200 kg. “This process allows for the plastic to be transported to pyrolosis plants, where high pressures are used to convert plastic waste into energy,” he said. “We also began thinking about how we can use the plastic bales as an alternative building material, and chanced upon the idea of using it to build retaining walls,” he added. The municipality has used multiple plastic bales, weighing around 15-25 tonne, to construct a wall measuring more than 100 feet in length and three feet in width near the Micro Compost Center (MCC) in Coonoor. “We want to see if the wall can stand up to the rigours of the climate and other environmental factors,” said Mr. Balu. If the trial proves successful, the plastic bales could be proposed as an alternative building material for the construction of retaining walls and compound walls, for private residences as well as for government construction projects. P.J.Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor, an NGO working with the municipality in processing the waste generated within the town, said the repurposing of the plastic, into reusable building material would serve as an alternative means of dealing with plastic generated within the town. “Most of the plastic is of poor grade and cannot be recycled. So repurposing the plastic into building material will ensure that it has some use and remains away from landfill sites and from incineration,” he said. Over the last seven months, since the opening of the waste management park in Coonoor, the municipality, along with Clean Coonoor, has managed to process more than 630 tonnes of dry waste, of which 100 tonnes of zero-value plastic has been salvaged, said Samatha Iyanna, managing trustee of the NGO.
26 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tea growers seek hike in green leaves price||The Small and Tiny Tea Growers’ Association of the Nilgiris has appealed to the Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Ltd (Indcoserve) to increase the minimum price for green tea leaves for September.  Tea price Small and Tiny Tea Growers’ Association president J.B. Subramanian, in a letter to the managing director of Indcoserve, said that he welcomed the tea price fixed for August 2020 at Rs. 22 – one rupee more than the minimum tea price declared by the Tea Board. However, the growers felt that Indcoserve should have fixed the price at Rs. 25, taking into account the current selling price of tea. Educational expenses  “This month they (the growers) have to meet the educational expenses for their children… and for manuring their tea gardens. For the past several months they have no other sources of income [sic], said Mr. Subramanian.
26 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Three drown in well at Devala||Three persons drowned in an open well at Vadamula in Devala, the Nilgiris, on Tuesday evening. Police identified the deceased as S. Suganya alias Ruby (20), her brother S. Tamilalagan (24), and their neighbour A. Sathyaseelan alias Murali (24). Police said the three had ventured into a reserve forest, encroached on by a coffee plantation, to gather firewood. It is believed that Suganya failed to spot an uncovered well that was overgrown with plants, and she fell inside. Tamilagan is said to have jumped in after her to rescue her, plummeting more than 70 feet into the well. Sathyaseelan had grabbed a rope and was trying to pull both Suganya and Tamilalagan out when he too fell inside, and all three persons drowned. Fire and rescue service personnel as well as police were called to the area, and the bodies were retrieved. Investigation is on.
26 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns of action against illegal tourism in the Nilgiris||Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris over the last few days, the Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, promised action against tourist resorts and home stays operating illegally. She reiterated that tourism was currently banned in the district. Ms. Divya told media persons that since the process of obtaining e-passes was eased, an average of 2,000 to 2,500 people were entering the district every day. “The ease in travel restrictions is not for tourists to visit. We have teams who will be checking whether resorts are operating illegally and will close them down if any are found to be in violation of the rules,” said the Collector. People having any symptoms associated with COVID-19 had been urged to visit their nearest healthcare facility. “Till now, the Health Department has been pro-actively testing people across the Nilgiris. We now urge anyone who has symptoms consistent with COVID-19 to get tested so that they can get effective treatment,” she said. “Five of the eight deaths in the district were caused by people whose condition deteriorated over the course of a few days as they did not seek treatment at the early stages of infection,” said Ms. Divya. The Collector said that more than 55,000 swab samples were collected in the Nilgiris, and 83 places were designated as containment zones, while 500 additional beds are ready to house and treat asymptomatic COVID-19 patients.
26 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||52 COVID-19 victims in Virudhunagar did not have comorbidities: Collector||The COVID-19 death audit in Virudhunagar district has revealed that at least 52 persons, who had died due to the virus, did not have any comorbidities, but they had not sought treatment at the right time. “These patients had died within 24 hours of getting admitted to private or government hospitals. They never gave any opportunity for the medical teams to provide them any treatment,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. The Collector said that these fatalities were among the 174 recorded in the district till August 24. “These patients had resorted to self-medication and had not come forward even to take swab test. Only after their health condition worsened with higher body temperature, severe breathing problem and body ache, did they come to hospitals,” he said. In all these 52 cases, the patients did not survive even till their swab test results were announced. The Collector cautioned that if proper treatment was not administered within three or four days, the gravity of the infection could lead to severe breathing trouble and ultimately to death. The doctors did not get even the minimum time to diagnose the problem and start the right treatment, he added. He pointed out that 11,341 of the 11,952 COVID-19 patients in the district recovered after treatment. Patients with COVID-19 symptoms like fever, cough, throat pain and body ache should immediately rush to a government hospital or fever camp to get tested for COVID-19. The Collector also appealed to the people to avoid crowded places like places of worship, functions, festivals and social gathering.
26 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two-day sit-in protest by employees||Normal functioning of the offices under the Department of Rural Development across Virudhunagar district came to a grinding halt after its employees began a two-day sit-in protest pressing for a charter of demands, on Tuesday. Over 400 employees, ranging in rank from Office Assistant to Block Development Officer, are taking part in the protest in the district, as part of a State-wide programme, said secretary of Tamil Nadu Rural Development Officers’ Association, N. Pugalengthi. Stating that the officials and employees in the Block Development Offices were involved in COVID-19 preventive work, Mr. Pugalenthi said that, of late, the government was imposing a heavy burden on them with work related to various schemes without giving them adequate time for execution. Besides, the government had not revoked various penal actions taken on the Rural Development employees for their participation in the State-wide protest called by JACTTO-GEO in January 2019. Stating that a functionary of JACTTO-GEO, M. Subramanian, was suspended in June 2019 for his role in the strike, Mr. Pugalenthi said that despite the Madras High Court ordering the revocation of his suspension order, the State government was not doing it.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region reports over 900 cases||The western region saw 997 COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, with Coimbatore reporting 322 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,467. Coimbatore district reported the death of eight persons aged 89, 83, 85, 75, 68, 74, 68 and 48. A 57-year-old man died in Tiruppur. With the death of a 60-year-old woman in Erode, the total deaths reported in the district so far stood at 33. Salem district on Tuesday reported the death of seven persons aged 46, 68, 48, 84, 60, 70 and another elderly man. The Nilgiris district reported the death of a 60-year-old woman, taking the toll to nine so far. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that a 20-year-old COVID-19 patient from Tiruppur underwent an emergency surgery on August 15 at the hospital. He underwent a surgery at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital following a road accident and was diagnosed with anastomotic leak (leakage through intestinal wall following surgery). He was referred to CMCH. The doctors took adequate COVID-19 precautions during the surgery and the patient was stable as on Tuesday, Dr. Kalidas said in a release. Tiruppur district reported 44 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 2,143. A 56-year-old man, who was the Village Administrative Officer of Kanakkamapalayam village under Tiruppur Block, tested positive. Salem district saw 297 cases on Tuesday, 277 of which were indigenous including 117 in the Salem Corporation limits. About 20 patients returned from Chennai, Kalakuruchi, Namakkal, Tiruvanamalai, Erode and Chengalpet. In Namakkal, 60 cases were reported, of which 57 were indigenous and three were imported cases. Erode district reported 143 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 2,396. While 64 persons were discharged, 1,065 persons were under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 79 persons tested positive, of which 56 were reported in Kookalthorai. The total number of infections in the district stood at 1,473, with 1,080 people having recovered so far. In Krishnagiri, 44 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 1,913. There were 329 active cases. With eight persons testing positive in Dharmapuri, the district's tally stood at 1,149, active cases being 148.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Privilege notices to DMK MLAs have foundational error, says High Court||He went on to state, “There is no law, [and] nor was any shown to us, that a mere display of a gutkha sachet, which was [done] with the clear intention of drawing the attention of the entire Assembly to alleged apathy of the government in not tackling the menace of the free sale of gutkha in Tamil Nadu, was conduct prohibited under the May 23, 2017 notification.” The Bench also pointed out that the intention of the legislators in bringing the gutkha sachets to the House was not to promote the consumption of gutkha and other chewing tobacco products that had been banned in the State. Rather, they were raising their voice in support of the government notification and for its rigorous implementation. The judges agreed with senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, N.R. Elango and Amit Anand Tewari, representing the MLAs, that the intention of the government notification was to ban the trade of gutkha and not to ban freedom of speech. “Since the notification entails penal consequences, it should be construed strictly to achieve its purpose of saving human lives,” they said. Chief Justice Sahi also held that the courts were entitled to interfere in such issues, even at the stage of issuance of show-cause notices, if a pure question of law had to be decided. “To curb the power of the court is to suffocate the freedom and independence which the Constitution confers on superior courts in the tripartite federal arrangement representative of the doctrine of separation of powers,” he said. “Judicial review is not supposed to be viewed as policing, but rather [as] conserving and preserving the rule of law so as to ensure that all authorities act within the confines of their power in an accountable way. Wherever the law is wrongly construed or applied, the power and authority of courts to interpret and pronounce on the same step in,” he added.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar today||The next in the series of free webinars of The Hindu Education Plus on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities,’ will focus on architecture. The webinar, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on August 26. A. Srivathsan, Executive Director, Centre for Research on Architecture and Urbanism, CEPT University, Ahmedabad; Habeeb Khan, President, Council of Architecture, New Delhi; and P. Satheesh Kumar, Dean, School of Architecture and Interior Design, SRM IST, Chennai, will be key speakers. The session will be moderated by Radhika Santhanam, Assistant Editor, The Hindu . The session is open to students of classes IX, X, XI and XII. To register, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHEP2 or scan the QR code.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Facilitating online application||Several hundreds of candidates from rural parts of the district for UG programmes in the four government arts and science colleges in the district have derived optimal utility of the District Facilitation Centre to apply for courses online, according to principals. The number of students who have applied online by themselves with devices is less compared to the assistance of coordinators at the District Facilitation Centre to candidates to create their own email ids for the purpose of admission. The DFC in Tiruchi functioned at Periyar E.V.R. Government Arts College for facilitating admissions to three other government arts colleges in the district at Thuvakudi, Musiri and Lalgudi. For the first time, the students aspiring for admission in government arts colleges could exercise the leverage to choose the colleges and courses of their choice by applying online. The principals are understood to have received instructions from the Directorate of Collegiate Education to fill seats through counselling on August 28 and 29. Admissions will be carried out for special category students on the first day and general category students on second day. “We are in the process of reaching out to students through phone calls, text messages and emails, to inform them about the status of their applications,” A. Megala, Principal of Government Arts College, Tiruverumbur, said. A total number of 9,70 seats are to be filled for the various UG programmes in the college. Teachers are reaching out to students before embarking on the counselling process to make sure that they have not taken admission in other colleges. The rank lists are being prepared accordingly, Ms. Mekala said. Marks obtained by the students in the subject component out of total 400 marks under Part III in Higher Secondary examination is the basis for preparing the rank list. The colleges are required to intimate students about provisional selection one week in advance. The selection can be cancelled only if the candidate fails to turn up on the date of counselling.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s move draws flak||The Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam (TDP) has strongly opposed the Centre’s move to form a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) and said it would deny Tamils employment opportunities in government and private sector establishments. In a statement issued here on Thursday, P. Maniarasan, president, TDP has said the formation of the new body would lead to a situation wherein an aspiring candidate would have to sit for two examinations/selection process to get employed.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tug of war||
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Motor Driving Allowance for Constables||A proposal to encourage policemen to learn driving motor vehicles is under consideration of the Government, so that they may be of service as drivers during emergencies. The idea is to sanction an allowance of two rupees a month for constables who have qualified to drive light cars as well as buses and lorries.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 25     Persons tested +ve so far: 12,467 Indigenous cases: 12,427 Imported cases: 40 Persons recovered: 9,083 Active cases: 3,132 Deaths: 252    Persons tested +ve so far: 2,143 Persons recovered: 1,431 Active cases: 658  Deaths: 54
26 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Flood relief: Yediyurappa to visit Delhi to seek more funds||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts and announced that he would be meeting central Ministers in Delhi in a week to seek additional funds for relief and rehabilitation work. Mr. Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues boarded a special plane from the Sambra airport and flew over the Krishna basin villages for nearly an hour. “The State government will release funds based on our financial condition. I will go to Delhi in a week or so to seek additional funds for flood management,” he said. “I will hold a meeting of officers to discuss the flood situation in Bengaluru in two or three days. A proposal for relief amounts, with all relevant information from all flood-hit districts, will be sent to the Centre,” he said. The Chief Minister admitted that Central government was not able to release money to the State government to the extent sought due to economic slowdown. “Karnataka and other States had sought higher amount of relief from the Centre. But we got lesser funds due to the lockdown-induced economic slowdown and financial difficulties,” he said, speaking to journalists near Almatti dam. Besides seeking additional grants, the State government will also request the Central government to release its share of GST collections, he added. He said the government has some money for calamity relief under NDRF and SDRF accounts of Deputy Commissioners and he asked all officers to take up relief and rehabilitation work using that money. He asked MLAs to stay in their headquarters and coordinate with officers in flood-relief works. Mr. Yediyurappa said there was Rs. 412 crore for flood management and other work in Belagavi district alone. This includes Rs. 174 crore for repair and reconstruction of damaged houses. In response to the demand by MLA Mahadevappa Yadavad for immediate release of compensation to those who had lost houses in last year’s floods, the Chief Minister said the State government had released Rs. 448 crore to 44,156 families. “You all know that the State’s finances are not in a strong position due to COVID-19. But we are working to ensure that government functioning is not affected,” he said, adding that flood relief will be unhindered. ‘Properly compensated’ “We are probably the only State government in the country that has not stopped full salaries to its employees. We are also releasing some funds for development projects. We will make sure that all farmers who lost crops and families who suffered damage to their houses are properly compensated as per the Central and State government rules,” he added. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, and some officers accompanied the Chief Minister on the plane.
26 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers stage protest||Farmers staged a protest in front of the Sambra airport in Belagavi where Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with officers and legislators on Tuesday. They were protesting against the State government for amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the APMC Act, which they said were against the interests of farmers. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader Jayashree Gurannanavar accused the State government of colluding with the real estate and mining mafia to bring pressure on small farmers to sell their land. Farmers’ leader Choonappa Pujari argued that Mr. Yediyurappa, who had come to power in the name of farmers’ welfare, had turned against them and was supporting the industrialists instead. He alleged that the CM refused to receive a memorandum.
26 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Book release||Sri Basavalinga Pattadevaru released a book, “Mahajangam”, written by Raju Jubre, during the valedictory of the Shravana Masa Pravachana series recently. The book is an account of the life of Sri Basavalinga Pattadevaru and his efforts in building the Bhalki Hiremath. On the occasion, the seer recollected his travel across 36 districts of Maharashtra and his month-long pravachana in Marathi. He said that a large number of students from Maharashtra had participated in the essay and quiz competitions on Lord Basaveshwara and his Sharanas and Vachana literature and Lingayat religion.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Green signal for inter-State services awaited||Resumption of operation of inter-State bus services to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Telangana may take more time though the State government eased restrictions for movement of people coming from other States to Karnataka on Monday. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said on Tuesday that State-run road transport corporations such as KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC are awaiting the green signal from the other States to operate buses on inter-State routes. “After receiving the green signal from the respective States, buses will be operated in the interest of the general public.” He added that a decision on running buses to Maharashtra, which has the highest number of COVID-19 cases, will be taken at a later stage. The Minister said that a letter has been sent from the State government to its counterparts to resume services. Prior to the lockdown, 2,500 buses were operated on inter-State routes. Karnataka was the first State in South India that showed interest in resuming inter-State services. In the first week of June, the State government had asked neighbouring States for permission to resume services. However, only the Andhra Pradesh government responded positively. Beginning June 17, both Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh resumed inter-State services. “At present, both KSRTC and APSRTC operate 400 buses. The number of services is gradually increasing from Bengaluru and other parts of the State. We are hoping that even other States such as Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Kerala are keen to resume services.” On Monday, going by Union government guidelines, the State government issued a notification to relax various norms for inter-State travellers. As per the notification, the 14-day home quarantine rule was discontinued and compulsory medical check-up at the State borders, bus stations, railway stations and airports was dropped. In another major decision, earlier rules of registration on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal to enter the State were also relaxed.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on plea seeking NIA probe into D.J. Halli, K.G. Halli violence||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on two PIL petitions, one seeking a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and another by a special investigation team (SIT), into the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities in the city, while alleging failure of the city police to invoke stringent provisions of various laws against those who indulged in violence. The court also directed the State government to submit, in a sealed cover, the steps taken to investigate the incidents of violence in these localities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the separate petitions filed by Girish Bharadhwaj and Amruthesh N.P. Apart from seeking invoking of stringent laws like Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and the Disaster Management Act against rioters and conspirators, the petitioners also sought directions to appoint Claims Commissioner to access damages caused to public and private parties during violence. Meanwhile, the Bench, which is also hearing a separate petition filed by the State government seeking appointment of Claims Commissioner, has indicated to the State Advocate-General that the court’s registry is in touch with two recently retired judges of the High Court – P.G.M. Patil and K.N. Phaneendra – to seek their consent to be appointed as Claims Commissioner.  Notice to MLA The Bench also ordered issue of notice to Pulakeshinagar constituency MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy as one of the petitioner alleged that though the MLA was duty bound to protect law and file complaint against persons who damaged his house, he lodged the complaint only three days after the incident without naming anyone as accused. Mr. Murthy, who spoke to the media on threat to his life by the mob, was apparently under pressure to not lodge a complaint, the petitioner contended. Pointing out that the mob of over 3,000 to 4,000 people had posed greater threat to spreading COVID-19 to several innocent persons and police personnel, as gathering was a clear violation of COVID-19 guidelines issued by the State and Union governments, the petitioners contended that those who indulged in violence must also be booked for violating provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Deceases Ordinance, 2020.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cooperate in probes involving child pornography victims’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development to cooperate with the investigation officer (IO), who sought information on the report of presence of victims of child pornography in children’s homes in the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction as the State police had informed the court that the Ministry’s officials did not respond to the request sent by an IO on May 29, 2020, seeking certain information on the report. On FIRs registered The First Information Reports (FIRs) were registered by the State police based on the report — an analysis of date of mapping and review exercise of child care institutions under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 — which had specifically stated that there are 113 child victims of pornography in the State’s children’s homes. The FIRs were registered after the High Court pulled up the State government and the police for not registering FIRs despite disclosure of cognisance of offence in the report. However, after taking up the investigation, an IO had written to the Ministry seeking certain information but the Ministry had responded to the letter so far. Copy of letter As a counsel representing the Union government on Tuesday told the Bench that proper steps would be taken by the Ministry if the IO hands over a copy of the letter to the counsel, the Bench directed the IO to send a copy of the letter to the counsel, while directing the Ministry to cooperate in the investigation by providing required information. The Bench was hearing two separate PIL petitions, one filed by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, and another initiated suo motu by the High Court for monitoring implementation of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Consultants for discarded SWM model submit Rs. 2 cr. bill||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is saddled with a bill of Rs. 2 crore from consultants hired to check the feasibility of implementing the Indore model of garbage collection, which has since been shelved. This comes at a time when civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad recently admitted in the BBMP council that the corporation has just Rs. 68 crore in its accounts. Senior civic officials insisted that the money has not gone to waste. BBMP’s Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu that the Rs. 2 crore consultation fee was not just for the collection and transportation aspect. “There are many solutions that are in place in Indore, which has been topping Swachch Bharat consistently, that can be replicated here, such as biomethanisation plants and smart control room. The consultants will also give advice on setting up transfer stations and improving the running of processing plants among other things,” he said. Initially, the consultants were asked to take up a feasibility study on implementing the Indore model in five wards. “The study was taken up in only two wards – Jogupalya (Mayor M. Goutham Kumar’s ward) and Jakkur,” said Mr. Khan. The BBMP had sought approval from the State government on payment of fees, and the cost would be re-looked at. “The fees includes hiring 80-odd people for undertaking surveys and collating data, and setting up an office. The payment will be based on performance and only for services rendered,” he said. Under the Indore model of waste collection, which was backed by a Mayor-led committee, a single vehicle with separate compartments would be used to collect dry and wet waste. Under the garbage tenders now approved, contractors will be responsible for collecting and transporting wet and sanitary waste while dry waste would be collected by ragpickers from Dry Waste Collection Centres (DWCCs) or self-help groups. Biomethanisation Kalpana Kar, a member of the Technical Guidance Committee (TGC), pointed out that the Indore model proposal was not even placed before the committee for discussion. TGC had pushed for decentralised processing by setting up more biomethanisation plants as an efficient and sustainable solution. However, the 13 biomethanisation plants in the city are not being operated. Professor Chanakya from the Indian Institute of Science, who is also a TGC member, told The Hindu that an economical model for biomethanisation plants had been suggested, which is yet to be implemented. Another member of the committee, H.C. Sharathchandra, who is the former chairperson of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, pointed out that this is not the first time that the BBMP has hired consultants to provide SWM solutions, adding that none of the recommendations made by those hired earlier had been implemented. This, he said, was due to the lack of policy continuity. Members of the TGC are keen on setting up of a separate board for SWM. “We are convinced that BBMP cannot manage the city’s waste. There is also no political will in implementing workable solutions,” Mr. Sharathchandra said.  We are convinced that BBMP cannot manage the city’s waste. There is also no political will in implementing workable solutions H.C. Sharathchandra, member, Technical Guidance Committee
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Open letter to CM raises concerns over violation of procedures||While the CCB is probing to ascertain possible terror links of the accused in the D.J. Halli violence, an open letter endorsed by 31 organisations and 286 individuals, including lawyers’ groups, farmers’ groups and slum residents’ groups, has raised concerns in relation to the violation of procedure by the police in respect to arrests and detention. They have also requested the Chief Minister to drop UAPA charges against the accused. In the open letter issued on Tuesday, the group, which visited the violence affected areas to take stock of the situation, alleged police high-handedness while handling the situation and urged the government to ensure an impartial probe. They alleged that the police have made arbitrary arrests leading to harassment of innocent persons and their family members and said the police should provide information to the family members of the detained persons and follow the procedure as per the law. They have also said that the police clamped down the area after the violence disrupting normal life and the government should ensure restoration of normalcy in the area and take action against the media for spreading misinformation to perpetuate violence. The members also demanded compensation to Syed Nadeem who allegedly died in police custody, as also for those who have been detained illegally. The State minority commission should set up a probe to ensure fair investigation and take cognisance of the criminalisation of minority communities, the letter said. Meanwhile, the SDPI, which has been under the police scanner, also demanded a judicial probe.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four more arrested in robbery of Rs. 26.5 lakh||Continuing their investigation into the daylight robbery involving a police sub-inspector, city market police arrested four more persons, including a retired head constable, who was allegedly a part of the gang. The four accused are Arogyaswamy, 67, Mahesh, 46, who claims to be the president of a city-based workers’ union, Kishore, 25, a photographer, and Thilak, 22, a cab driver. The accused are part of a gang led by Jnanaprakash, a reporter with a tabloid and member of a city-based NGO, and Police Sub-inspector Jeevan Kumar, 31, who is attached to S.J. Park police station, the police said. The accused allegedly abducted Shivakumar, employee of a private firm, last week and took Rs. 26.5 lakh that he was carrying. Based on CCTV footage and call record details, the police, on Monday, arrested Jnanaprakash and Jeevan Kumar.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Updating voters’ list||Block Level Officers and in-charge BLOs will be undertaking a door-to-door survey starting August 26 across the city. According to a press release from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday, the survey will be undertaken till September 14. This is to update the electoral voters’ list to suit the new wards, following directions of the State Election Commission. The final gazette notification on delimitation of wards was issued recently.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New hospital||The 130-bed super-speciality hospital on Broadway Road has been named Charaka Super Speciality Hospital. An order in this regard was issued by the Department of Medical Education on Tuesday. The hospital has been established by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and Infosys Foundation for treatment of COVID-19 patients, at a cost of around Rs. 10 crore. It has been handed over to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and Research Institute.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Date to upload documents extended||The date to upload documents online has been extended to August 29 for candidates falling under Agriculturist Quota - Practical (Farm Sciences and Veterinary Sciences). This has been done in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and due to floods in Karnataka, said UAS-B, via a release. No more extensions will be given, the release added.
26 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP welcomes Annamalai||The State BJP has welcomed former Karnataka cadre IPS officer Annamalai, who joined the party in New Delhi on Tuesday, and appealed to all with ‘patriotic fervour’ to join too. BJP leader and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K. S. Eshwarappa said that ‘patriots’ should join the BJP in the interest of the country’s development. He said the BJP was a party with over 12 crore members while the Congress had become ‘a broken mirror’. Meanwhile, BJP State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said it was natural that Mr. Annnamalai had joined the BJP and the party was “a natural habitat for a humane officer like him” and one with “a nationalist mind-set.” Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar took to Twitter to welcome Mr. Annamalai.
26 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway employees to get e-pass for booking tickets||The Hubballi Division of South Western Railway has launched an e-pass module for its employees as part of the Digital India initiative. According to a press release issued by the Hubballi Division, the initiative aimed at promoting transparency and efficiency in administrative functioning was launched on Monday as per the advice of the Railway Board. Earlier, the process for issuing a Pass/Privilege Ticket Order (PTO) was done manually. As a result, there was no provision for railway employees to book tickets through online mode using Pass/PTOs. Now, with the launch of e-privilege Pass/PTO, railway employees will be able to book tickets online using the Pass/PTOs generated through digital mode through IRCTC. Railway employees will also be able to utilise these e-pass/PTO for booking tickets manually across PRS/UTS counters. The release said that the existing provision of issuing manual passes will be available only up to to October 31, 2020. From November 1, 2020, privilege pass/PTOs would be available only in digital forms. Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede has lauded the efforts of the officers and staff of the Personnel Department for successfully implementing the e-pass system within the target date. He has in the release said that with the launch of the new facility, railway employees would be able to apply for a pass online from anywhere and get their e-pass generated online itself. It has been planned to extend the new facility under Digital India to retired railway employees shortly, the release said.
26 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||New Commissioner for Kalaburagi City Corpn.||Lokhande Snehal Sudhakar, a 2017 batch IAS officer, has been appointed Kalaburgi City Corporation Commissioner. He replaces Rahul Pandve, who has been posted as GESCOM Managing Director. Mr. Lokhande has served as Assistant Commissioner of Indi Sub Division.
26 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kerala BJP members stage protest against curbs on inter-State movement of people||Members of Kerala’s Kasaragod district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday staged a demonstration in protest against Kasaragod district administration’s continued curbs on inter-State movement of people at the Kerala-Karnataka border. They demanded that the curbs be immediately lifted in line with Union Home Ministry’s direction and said that continued curbs on people affected hundreds of workers travelling between Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada. Assembling on the Kerala side of the Talapady check-post under the leadership of Kasaragod BJP president K. Shreekanth, party workers removed barricades at the Kerala check-post. Later, they also removed barricades at the check-post in Tuminad near Manjeshwar. The members raised slogans against the Kerala government for what they called an anti-people move. Addressing the protesters, Mr. Shreekanth said that the Kerala government was violating the Union Home Ministry’s direction to ensure unhindered movement by compelling people entering Kasaragod to undergo 14 days home quarantine and asking them to produce COVID-19 negative certificate for issuance of daily pass. Rebutting Kerala government’s claim that many daily travellers between Mangaluru and Kasaragod tested positive for COVID-19 to substantiate continued curbs, Mr. Shreekanth said that only five out of the over 5,000 daily travellers tested positive for the disease. Moreover, none of the students from Kasaragod who appeared for the Class 10, II PU and Common Entrance Test in Dakshina Kannada had tested positive for COVID-19 back home, he pointed out. Restrictions on people’s movement are affecting the livelihood of thousands, he said. The Kasaragod Police arrested the BJP activists on the charge of violating orders passed under the Epidemic Diseases Act. New order Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Tuesday issued an order stopping registration on Seva Sindhu portal, hand stamping, checking at entry points and other procedures followed for those entering the district as per a State government directive. In a notification, Dr. Rajendra said that those entering the district need not undergo 14 days home quarantine if they did not have COVID-19 symptoms. If they develop fever and other symptoms within 14 days of their arrival, they can consult a health facility or call the helpline on Ph: 104.
26 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||As many as three COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died, while 247 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday. As many as 218 persons were discharged leaving 2,323 active cases in the district. According to a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration, the district has recorded 319 deaths so far. In Udupi, two COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died and 217 new cases were registered on Tuesday. With the discharge of 180 persons, the number of active cases is 2,625. The number of COVID-19 deaths has gone up to 91 in the district, a bulletin from the Udupi district administration said. Meanwhile, there were two deaths in Hassan district on Tuesday taking the toll to 167. As many as 206 more people tested positive for the infection.
26 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSET 2020 on Sept. 20||Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET), which determines the eligibility of candidates for the posts of Assistant Professors and lecturers in colleges and universities, will be held on September 20. The State government, in a communication on Tuesday, has permitted the University of Mysore, the nodal agency for conducting the test, to hold the KSET on September 20. Earlier on Tuesday, Prof. Hemanth Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, said the varsity had written to the State government seeking permission to conduct KSET, which had been repeatedly postponed on account of COVID-19. However, by evening, the Registrar received a reply from the Higher Education Department (Universities) about the government granting permission to conduct KSET after examining the university’s proposal. The examination will be held at 11 nodal centres across the State in about 41 subjects.
26 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger found dead in Nagarahole||A tiger was found dead in the Kallahalla range of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on Tuesday. Though there are speculations of foul play, Mahesh Kumar, director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said the cause of death will be ascertained only after the post-mortem on Wednesday morning. Mr. Kumar said the forest guards, who saw the carcass partially behind a bush, did not venture too close as they did not want to disturb the spot.
26 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||220 new cases in Yadgir, Raichur||As many as 220 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Tuesday. Of these, 132 are in Yadgir, while 88 are from Raichur. Now, the total number of active cases has reached 4,827 in Yadgir, while it has gone up to 6,138 in Raichur. There are 1,592 patients getting treatment in Yadgir, while 1,239 patients are getting treatment in Raichur.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||38% of COVID-19 patients prefer hospitals||A higher percentage of people in Bengaluru, who tested positive for COVID-19, have been admitted to hospitals compared to those who were in home isolation or COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs). An analysis by the BBMP COVID-19 war room between from July 1 and August 23 showed that while 38.4% of the 1.03 lakh people who tested positive were hospitalised, 35.7% of them chose to be in home isolation. As many as 15.8% of them were shifted to COVID-19 care centres. As many as 10.1% of the patients who tested positive for COVID-19 have been categorised as “others”. The civic body is either unable to trace these patients or has not been able to find out which of the three options they have chosen. The guidelines for home isolation were issued by the State government on July 4 giving the option to be isolated at home if they have the necessary infrastructure. After this, the percentage of people in CCCs too reduced as people chose home isolation. However, many continue to stay at CCCs if they do not have the necessary infrastructure to isolate themselves or have elderly people with co-morbidities at home. Zone-wise differences Among the eight zones in the BBMP limits, the highest percentage of people in home isolation are from Mahadevapura zone with as many as 46.1% of them under home isolation. The least percentage of people in home isolation are in the West zone with 29% of those who tested positive opting for home isolation. The highest number of cases in BBMP areas in this time frame has been reported in the West zone. As many as 21,346 people have tested positive in the West zone. In this zone, 43.1% of patients have chosen to be hospitalised. Among all the zones, the highest percentage of patients who have chosen to get admitted in hospitals is from the West zone and the least is from the Dasarahalli zone. Trend changing Health experts say that the trend is changing as there is more awareness on home isolation. Many hospitals and clinics are providing home isolation packages for patients who have tested positive. They are scheduling video consultations with patients so that they can be treated in the comfort of their homes. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that with more awareness on home isolation, patients prefer home isolation and very few patients are getting admitted in hospitals. “Initially, people were not aware of the protocol to be followed during home isolation and chose to admit themselves in a hospital. But now fewer patients are getting admitted in hospitals. Only those who are 60 and above, and have co-morbidities choose to be hospitalised even if they do not have symptoms when they test positive,” he said. Over the past few weeks, PHANA has apprised the government that many of their beds, including the 50% beds reserved for COVID-19 patients under the government quota, are going vacant as patients prefer home isolation. R. Ravindra, president of PHANA, said that they are in talks with the State government to allow private hospitals to admit other patients if the beds under the government quota are vacant.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Three waste processing plants shut for 6 months||The city’s waste management system continues to battle challenges, among them opposition from local communities living around wet waste processing plants. Three of seven waste processing plants have remained shut for nearly six months now, and the latest objection to be added to this list is from a political and cultural organisation. Sources claimed that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) got directions – albeit oral – from the Chief Minister’s office to close operations at the Seegehalli plant due to proximity to a school run by a political and cultural organisation. The school is around three km away from the Seegehalli plant. “As per oral directions from the Chief Minister’s office, we have shut down operations,” another source said, adding that the plant existed before the school. While the Lingadheeranahalli plant has been shut following directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), opposition from local communities around Subbarayanaplaya was “politically motivated”, sources added. Below capacity Sources from the BBMP’s Solid Waste Management Department said that the closure of the three plants had affected waste processing. The installed capacity of more than 2,100 tonnes per day is being under-utilised as well, with just around 600 tonnes reaching the plants at Chikkanagamangala, Kannahalli, Doddabidarakallu, and that of the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation. This is just a fraction of the approximately 5,000 tonnes of waste that is generated in the city every day. The High Court of Karnataka has, on multiple occasions, directed the BBMP to revive all the seven waste processing plants and run them at optimum capacity. While pointing out that no one has the authority to shut down waste processing plants, BBMP sources said they would be inviting contempt of court if the plants are not revived soon. Sources said that the BBMP is preparing to appeal against the NGT order on closure of the Lingadheeranahalli plant, but officials are still trying to figure out how to deal with political opposition to the two other plants. Continued opposition A few months ago, members of the local communities had barged into the Subbarayanapalya plant and set fire to it. “We took all precautions to reduce the stench and hoped to reopen the plant. However, we continue to face opposition. We have been requesting the police to convene a meeting with representatives of local communities to resolve the issue, but over the past four months, no such meeting has been convened,” sources said. “We will also bring this up during the coordination committee meeting chaired by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar apart from apprising the Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development Department about the issues,” sources said.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Study in India - Stay in India’ to check student migration||“We are going to establish a National Research Foundation (NRF) to boost research and innovation in the country,” he said. “Under NEP,” he added, “we are going to permit 30 world-class universities to come to India and it will help our students get the best of education within the country.” He inaugurated 17 academic buildings (Block D-7 to D-23), two OBC hostels, one guesthouse, one multi-purpose hall, a pond with 1.20 lakh cubic metres storage capacity and a sump of 20 lakh litres storage capacity. “I am very confident that the university will become a centre of excellence and bring a revolutionary change in the education sector and that it will certainly contribute to nation building,” he said, after inaugurating the structures. Member of Lok Sabha representing Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav sought more funds to develop the university. Vice-Chancellor of Central University H.M. Maheshwaraiah spoke about the progress the university has made in the last five years. Chancellor N.R. Shetty presided over the programme.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Take responsibility or name someone: Doreswamy to Rahul||Freedom fighter and Gandhian H.S. Doreswamy has written to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to take the timely decision to name someone other than a Gandhi family member to helm the party if he cannot take responsibility. “Your mother is sick and she cannot be active. You are hesitating to take control of the Congress. If you sincerely feel you cannot take up the responsibility of organising a formidable Congress, an aggressive Congress and a sacrificing Congress, kindly take a timely decision to name someone other than your family member who can deliver the goods,” he said, in a letter to Mr. Gandhi. The letter comes in the midst of the Congress leadership of interim president Sonia Gandhi facing a challenge from 23 of its party leaders. “The Congress is in deep sleep all over India. Every Congress leader is only interested in elections. Leaders are not bothered about building the party or fighting for people’s cause,” he said in the letter. The centenarian further said: “Congress leaders of your generation are no match to either Jawaharlal Nehru or Indira Gandhi. You are not devoted to building the Congress with the fervour with which they did. You are not even prepared to leave Delhi and have a whirlwind tour of all States to build a vibrant Congress.” He said: “If you have not been thinking on these lines when there is a crisis, then when will you wake up from your slumber?” Mr. Doreswamy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “no hesitation in burying the Congress by means fair and foul.” Once the Congress is finished, there will be no national political party that can counter Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, he added.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB nabs gang which robbed jewellery shop||The CCB arrested a gang of six, including four from Nepal, for their alleged involvement in a jewellery shop theft in Whitefield last week. The accused are Saleem Pasha, 23, and Shahid, 22, from Bengaluru, and Amar Singh, 26, Ganesh Bahaddur, 32, Charan Singh, 29, and Krishnaraj Jayashri, 33, from Nepal. The accused broke into the jewellery shop in Whitefield on August 5. Failed to open locker They tried to cut open the locker using a gas cutter. After failing to break the locker, which had gold valuables, the accused took away 50 kg of silver articles. The CCB, which took up the case, tracked down the accused and arrested them. The police have recovered the stolen valuables and tools used to commit the crime.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Accident||
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Thanksgiving||
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sugar factories told to expedite loan repayment||The District Central Cooperative Banks and Apex Bank have disbursed loans amounting to Rs. 5,229 crore to sugar factories in the State in various years and the overnment has asked factories to expedite repayment of the loans. Cooperation Department Minister S.T. Somashekar on Tuesday reviewed loans sanctioned by 21 DCC banks and Apex Bank to various sugar factories located in different districts and asked officials to collect details related to assets and liabilities, ownership, and management of factories in a week. The loan amount of Rs. 4,864 crore was in the current accounts of DCC banks and Apex Bank. A sum of Rs. 365 crore has turned into non-performance asset. The Minister told department officials to formulate guidelines to be followed during lending to factories. As on August 24, a total of 10,57,825 farmers had borrowed crop loans amounting to Rs. 7,038.91 crore as against the lending target of Rs. 14,500 crore to 24.5 lakh farmers during 2020-21.
26 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No let-up in cases in Alappuzha||The COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district with 170 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 156 people who contracted the virus through local transmission and seven each who came from abroad and other States. The district reported two more COVID-19 related deaths, taking the toll to 14. The deceased were identified as a 78-year-old woman from Aroor and a 54-year-old man from Nooranad. They died on August 20 and August 22 respectively. Of the 156 contact cases, 56 cases were reported from Kadakkarappally, another 33 from Ambalappuzha South and 23 from Alappuzha. Meanwhile, 60 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative in the district. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now stands at 2,034. Officials said that among the COVID-19 patients only those with serious symptoms would be admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha from now on. This was decided in a meeting attended by District Collector A. Alexander and officials of MCH. “COVID-19 patients will be divided into three categories- A, B and C. Only patients in the C category (seriously ill) will be admitted to the MCH. Those in the B category (mild symptoms) will be admitted to first-line treatment centres (FLCTs) set up at Century Hospital, P M Hospital and College of Engineering and Management, Punnapra. Patients without any symptoms will be admitted to other FLTCs in the district,” said District Collector A. Alexander.
26 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man held for killing son||The Alappuzha South police on Tuesday arrested Vishnu, 61, in connection with the death of his son. Vinod, 36, was found dead in a rented house at Pazhaveedu on August 12. “On the night of August 11, the father-son duo consumed alcohol. Later, Vinod started to make loud noises. To stop him, Vishnu covered his son’s mouth with his hand. We questioned Vishnu and he confessed to killing his son,” said the police.
26 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Drivers’ deaths hit tribal panchayat hard||The remote tribal grama panchayat of Edamalakkudy in Kerala is in grief. It is not because of the usual destruction of the only road connecting the village to the outside world in the rainy season but due to the loss of six expert drivers in the Pettimudy landslip on August 7. With electricity cut off, and other means of communications not available, the isolation is complete now. Usually a visitor to Edamalakkudy is amazed by the way these expert drivers manoeuvre the vehicles through potholes, negotiating the curves and streams during the rainy season. The experienced drivers were from the estate lanes at Pettimudy which was buried under the devastating landslip. If the drivers are not there, one has no option but to walk from Pettimudy to Societykudy - a distance of 18 km. Societykudy is the administrative centre for 24 hamlets spread in a wide area inside the Munnar forest division. Georgekutty, who served the grama panchayat at Edamalakkudy for the longest period, said that not just people but goods too were transported from Munnar to Edamalakkudy by these drivers. There would always be one driver camped at Edamalakkudy to meet emergency services. They were part of the tribal life and had a strong bond with the tribespeople, he added. According to Edamalakkudy Vana Samrakshana Samithy secretary Ramesh, floods and small landslips had damaged the road. However, ration and other essential items are stocked for September, he said. Annadurai, Raja, Mayilswami, Bharati, Samudayya and Murugan were the regular drivers who carried men and materials from Munnar to Edamalakkudy.
26 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Four held for attack on panchayat staff||Santhanpara police have arrested four persons in connection with the attack on the Chinnakanal grama panchayat secretary and other staff and damaging the panchayat office on Monday night. A seven-member gang attacked them for demolishing a structure illegally constructed by one Rajan. The panchayat had issued a stop memo to the building and the structure was demolished after the District Collector visited the spot recently. The Collector had given direction to the Revenue officials to remove the structure. The panchayat staff were staying at the quarters close to the panchayat. Those arrested were Rajan, Antony Raja, Muthukumar and and Vijay.
26 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul reviews CSS schemes||The execution of the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) should be intensified in the district, Rahul Gandhi, MP, has said. Chairing a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee to assess the progress of CSS programmes through video conferencing on Tuesday, Mr. Gandhi said he would write to the Centre demanding not to hold back subsidy for loans of farmer and self-help groups during the moratorium period. The District Collector presented a report on the progress of CSS.
26 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Families of victims welcome verdict||The families of the Periya double murder case victims said they were happy with the High Court verdict. Sathyanarayanan, father of Sarath Lal, and Krishnan, father of Kripesh, along with Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, were on a hunger strike since Monday to press their demand for a CBI inquiry. They called off their strike soon after the high court verdict. Kin hopeful “We are hopeful that with this, the actual culprits, including the conspirators, behind the murders will be caught,” they said. They questioned the government’s intention, which went in appeal against the order of the single judge for a probe by the CBI in the case. It had also hired a prominent Supreme Court lawyer to appear in the case. “If the government has nothing to hide why it was against the CBI probe,” they asked. To continue struggle Mr. Unnithan said they would pursue their struggle until those involved in the crime were behind bars. Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarath Lal were allegedly murdered by CPI(M) workers on February 17, 2019 at Periya in Kasaragod. They were reportedly attacked by three motorcycle-borne men while returning from an event.
26 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Govt. allots Rs. 19 crore for endosulfan victims||The government has allotted Rs. 19 crore for the Sneha Santhvanam project implemented by the Kerala Social Security Mission for the endosulfan victims in Kasaragod district, Health Minister K.K Shylaja has said. The mission had been directed to take immediate steps to ensure that the victims received the benefits before Onam, she said. Under Sneha Santhvanam, a monthly pension is provided to endosulfan victims.
26 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Metro pins hopes on Unlock-4||Close on the heels of the State government writing half a dozen letters to the Centre seeking permission to resume Kochi metro services, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is banking on the upcoming Unlock-4 guidelines, hopeful that it will permit operation of metro trains. Metro services had been curbed under Unlock-3 guidelines. KMRL is keen to resume metro services in the Onam season, following demand from commuters and a steep fall in revenue. Officials of the agency expressed hope that permission would be granted in a week. The State government first wrote to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, at the behest of KMRL, seeking its permission to resume operations, citing that Kerala was relatively better off regarding the COVID situation. The metro agency also readied a plan of action to ensure hygiene in metro trains and stations, in keeping with the COVID protocol. In this, all passengers were to be put through thermal screening, while adherence to physical distancing would ensure that only 78 passengers commuted in every three-coach train, around half of the seating capacity. Currently, each of the total 25 trains take turns in operating along the Aluva-Pettah metro corridor, to ensure that the systems and tracks are up to date and functional. A senior official of Kudumbashree, which has supplied manpower to clean metro trains, stations and to issue tickets, said that KMRL had already imparted training to its personnel to ensue safety and health of commuters. Commuters’ take Regular commuters had mixed reaction to the metro resuming service. Among them is Mathew V. Kariath, a 12th standard student of Rajagiri Public School, Kalamassery, who used to travel to and from school in the metro for over a year. “Faced with financial difficulties, everybody cannot afford to commute in private vehicles. The metro is any day safer than other modes of commute like buses,” he said. Photojournalist Josekutty Panackal, a resident of Angamaly, used to commute in the metro each day, from Aluva station, paying over Rs. 3,000 per month. “I now work from my hometown and have not used public transport ever since the lockdown. I will not rely on the metro even if it resumes service since travelling in AC compartment makes commuters vulnerable to the pandemic. I might still rely on private commute, till the pandemic subsides,” he said.
26 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees 163 new cases||As many as 163 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. This included 144 persons who were infected through contact. Eleven among the total count were health workers and employees of various government and private hospitals in the district. Fourteen persons belonged to Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Eleven persons each were from Mattancherry and Palluruthy. About 1,960 persons have been admitted in hospitals in the district after being tested positive for the virus. Eighty-five persons tested negative on Tuesday. Nearly 176 persons have been admitted at various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. Seven persons continue to remain critically ill at the intensive care unit of the Govt. Medical College, Kalamassery. This included four persons above the age of 70. The condition of a 35-year-old native of Neendakara continues to be critical, according to an official release. Mayor tests negative Civic representatives of Kochi, including Mayor Soumini Jain, tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Besides the Mayor, a few councillors and Standing Committee chairpersons had gone into home quarantine after a councillor, who was tested positive, had interacted with them. While Poornima Narayan and Johnson Master, the two chairpersons, made use of the testing facility arranged by the local body, the Mayor and others went for testing in private labs. Sixteen officials of the local body, who appeared for the test, too turned negative.
26 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Port facilitates over 10,000 crew change||Kochi port facilitated more than 10,000 crew change since the lockdown began and suspension of international flights came into effect. The port crossed the 10,000-mark in crew change on August 20 and the total was around 10,400 now, said a Cochin Port Trust official on Tuesday. Crew change comprises replacing one or more of a ship’s crew members with others as they come off and others sign in for duty. Around 500 ships called at the outer anchorage of the Kochi port for crew change as the COVID-19 spread continued unabated across the world. In normal times, a ship’s crew member gets off at a port of convenience and takes a flight home. Similarly, those joining duty fly to the destination where they join duty on board a vessel. However, the cancellation of flights and quarantine requirements in view of the pandemic made all normal operations impossible. Port Trust sources said that while ships with crew change requirement waited at the outer anchor, the crew are brought ashore or taken into ships by tugs. The port levies only the tug charges. The continuous flow of maritime crew has helped the hospitality and auxiliary businesses in Kochi stay afloat during the lockdown. Hotels, taxi services as well as medical laboratories testing people for COVID-19 got a helping hand from continuing crew change. Meanwhile, a communication from the Shipping Ministry, issued in New Delhi, said that ports across India had effected one lakh crew change. This was the highest number for any country, said the communication. Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya lauded the port authorities for the work as crew change is not just a normal port operation but an act of assistance in unprecedented times to mariners across the globe. Despite the maritime sector being hit hard, ports had operated providing essential services and remained the pillar of smooth supply chain, said the communication.
26 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hunt for accused in rape of minor shifts to UP||The investigating team probing the alleged sexual assault of a 14-year-old girl of Eloor here has sought the help of the Uttar Pradesh police in tracing three natives of Rampur district suspected to be involved in the crime. They had left Kochi for their homes following the lockdown in March. Three others, including Shahid, 24, of Hanupura; Farhad Khan, 29, and Haneef, 28, both from Rampur, were arrested on the charge of threatening and sexually abusing the girl since March. The Eloor police had invoked charges of gang rape, rape and provisions of the POSCO Act against the accused. The migrant workers were staying near the house of the girl, who had disclosed about the incident while undergoing a counselling session for mental depression, according to a senior official of the investigating team.
26 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,006 title deeds issued to beneficiaries||The government issued title deeds (pattayams) to nearly 1,006 eligible persons in Ernakulam on Tuesday. E. Chandrasekharan, Minister for Revenue, who inaugurated the programme online, claimed that the government had issued title deeds to 1.4 lakh persons in four years. District Collector S. Suhas said that nearly 2,899 persons in the district had received title deeds since 2016.
26 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Extend deadline for SAY registration: tribal students||Students in tribal hamlets have urged the authorities to extend the registration window for the Save-a-Year (SAY)/improvement exam for the higher secondary examinations held in March. The last date for submitting the application forms for the exam without fine was Tuesday. Many students in tribal regions were facing difficulties to comply with the deadline in view of the short window for registration given by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education (DHSE) amidst the pandemic crisis, according to Adishakthi Summer School, a collective that works for the uplift of Adivasi students.
26 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 83. 39 lakh seized||The Kochi unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized 2 kg of gold compound from a passenger who arrived at Cochin International Airport from Sharjah on Tuesday. The compound, on extraction, gave 1560.5 grams of gold worth Rs. 83. 39 lakh. The passenger, K. Sajeev of Malappuram, hid the gold compound in packets placed inside a knee cap, according to a communication.
26 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||87 new cases in Kollam||A total of 87 people from the district, including one health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. While 85 patients contracted the virus through contact, one person had travelled from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Department has also confirmed that the deaths of 63-year-old Ayoor resident and an 81-year-old Piravanthur resident are due to COVID-19. They had died on August 20 and August 23 respectively. While around 20 persons tested positive from Alappad and Kalluvathukkal, Kollam Corporation also reported a number of contact cases. The health worker is 23-year-old Chitara resident who has been working at Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. While the number of recoveries is 57, the number of active cases touched 993 on Tuesday. Kollam district currently has 9,617 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 42,150. While 119 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 12,816 primary and 4,139 secondary contacts of the cases. Apart fromDistrict Hospital and Government MCH, eight first-line treatment centres at Valakam, Sasthamcotta, Chavara, Asramam, Vilakudy, Veliyam, Chandanathope and the special centre opened at a Children’s Home are operating in the district.
26 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Gold merchants flay e-way bill||All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants Association has demanded that the move to implement e-way bill in the jewellery sector be abandoned since it affects the survival of small traders with a market share of 80%. “The e-way bill will have far-reaching consequences for the jewellery trade. According to various agencies, at least 1,000 tonnes of gold has been smuggled into Kerala in the last five years. Not a single gram of gold has been seized by the GST officials and instead of taking steps to curb gold smuggling in Kerala, they are trying to harass traders,” said association office-bearers at a press meet here on Tuesday. The law would cause difficulties for traders and customers alike, S. Abdul Nazar, treasurer of the merchants’ association, said.
26 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||PhD: exemption to govt. self-financing teachers||From now on, experienced teachers working at self-financing colleges (SFC) under government control can register for PhD in Mahatma Gandhi University without having to qualify the General Aptitude Test. Varsity officials said a decision to exempt teachers from such institutions with three years continuous teaching experience from the test had been taken on a request from A. Abdul Vahab, general secretary, Self-Financing College Teachers and Staff Association. “The Vice Chancellor, exercising powers of the Syndicate, under Section 3.10(17) of Mahatma Gandhi University Act 1985, has approved the recommendation of the Syndicate Subcommittee on Research and Development,” says an order. The PhD regulations of 2016 stipulate such exemptions to only regular teachers from government or aided colleges and from the university departments or centres. The rules permit candidates from this category to register as part-time researchers. Registrar Prakash Kumar B. said those registering for Ph.D from self-financing colleges should complete their course work in six months and may be extended the part-time research option only afterwards. While the move drew criticism from a section of the teaching community, MGU officials termed it the first step towards inculcating quality among teachers in such institutions. “The move will result in sharp deterioration in the quality of research as several of the teaching staff at these institutions do not posses the qualification stipulated under the UGC- CSIR norms. This move, a first by any varsity in the State, is intended to countenance the ineligible to the research stream,” a representative of college teachers’ union said.  “Self-financing colleges are a reality and the only option that we have is to raise the quality of teaching in such institutions. With a teaching experience of three years, every person becomes thorough in their respective subject and they no more require to prove their skills by qualifying in the entrance,” MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas said said.
26 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||86 cases in Kottayam||As many as 86 people including a health worker with the Government Medical College in Kottayam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 85 people contracted the virus through local contact while the lone remaining case came from outside. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 23 cases while Arppookkara panchayat reported six cases. Thiruvarppu, Madappally and Ettumanur reported four cases each. Meanwhile, 66 people recovered from the disease during the day. The district currently has 71 containment zones across 29 local bodies.
26 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New cases cross 200-mark again in Kozhikode||New COVID-19 cases rose above the 200-mark for the second time in four days in Kozhikode when 260 people were reported infected on Tuesday. As many as 232 cases were reported from the district on August 22. According to a release from the District Medical Officer, 218 of the new cases on Tuesday are through local transmission of the infection. The source of infection of 20 others is not known. Thirteen persons had returned from other States and nine from abroad. As many as 140 people recovered on Tuesday. In Thrissur As many as 227 people tested positive and 90 under treatment recovered in Thrissur on Tuesday. There are 1,077 active cases in the district and 50 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in other districts. Of the positive cases reported on Tuesday, 223 were infected through contact. The source of infection of 17 patients is not known. The Lulu COVID first-line treatment centre at Nattika will be functional from Wednesday. In Kannur In Kannur, 150 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. As many 128 people contracted the disease through contact, while 15 arrived from other States and seven are health workers. Ninety-two people recovered on Tuesday. In Kasaragod All ninety-nine people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Tuesday contracted the disease through contact. In Wayanad As many as 37 cases were reported in Wayanad on Tuesday. While 26 persons contracted infection through local contact, 11 came from other States.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
26 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants directed to take steps to ensure safe Onam shopping||The district administration has issued fresh directions to merchants for crowd control in markets on account of Onam festivities. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has requested the public to restrict celebrations to their homes while imposing a ban on community feasts, pookkalam competitions and other public celebrations. The merchants have been asked to ensure that COVID-19 protocol is maintained in their shops and to restrict the number of customers if necessary. The flow of customers to S.M. Street, Valiyangadi and Palayam, the city’s commercial hubs, is under control at present, but is likely to go up as Onam nears. Police squads and quick response teams will be deployed in all markets to control the situation. Action will be taken against violators of restrictions. The Kozhikode Corporation has bestowed the responsibility of crowd control in shops on the shop owners. They have been asked to keep more than one register if necessary to record the details of customers and to check the temperature of all those who enter the shops. People who come in groups and those aged above 60 and below five, pregnant women, and critically ill patients should not be allowed inside shops. The members of the staff should not be from any of the containment zones or from houses with quarantined persons. In a meeting convened by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Monday, the merchants had demanded the extension of closing time of shops to 9 p.m. The Corporation has recommended the same to the district administration.
26 August 2020||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||Malappuram sees biggest ever spike||Malappuram saw the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases when 454 people in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. As many as 428 of them were found to have contracted the disease by local transmission. There were 240 recoveries in Malappuram on Tuesday. In Palakkad district, 152 people tested positive on Tuesday. District Collector D. Balamurali said 119 infected persons recovered on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||93 in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district on Tuesday recorded a sharp jump with 93 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 . Of the fresh cases, 63 contracted the virus through local contact while 14 others had landed from abroad. The remaining 16 people had returned from other States. Of the local contact cases, as many as 19 were linked to the Kadakkadu cluster while the Kadambanad cluster reported five cases. Among those who contracted the virus also included a couple of health workers from the Government Medical College in Alappuzha.
26 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||After Onam, capital may see cases surging||Anticipating a sharp surge in COVID-19 cases during the next three weeks, the district administration has drawn up a multi-pronged action plan to ensure a greater public participation for its containment activities and prevent a possible saturation of the existing healthcare capacity in Thiruvananthapuram. Briefing media persons, District Collector Navjot Khosa said the district was in the midst of a critical situation. “With the district having attained a minimum threshold positivity rate, the chances of a sharp peak is high against the background of the Onam season. Through timely interventions, we might be able to change the course of the epidemic and slow the spread,” she said. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who launched the action plan, said the prime objectives of the approach were to limit the daily active cases to within the surge capacity of the district, prevent community transmission in unaffected areas, and to reduce mortality due to COVID-19. Under the plan, the district has been divided into five zones—coastal, Corporation, rural, interstate border (southern parts of the district) and tribal zones—to implement area-specific strategies. COVID-control teams, comprising people’s representatives and officials, will be strengthened in each ward and mandated with various tasks. These committees will assess each household within their jurisdiction to identify vulnerable persons including senior citizens and their medical needs. The district administration will also boost the functioning of COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and rope in the services of private hospitals. While home-based management of COVID-19 cases has been restricted to health workers, the system will be extended to the public this week for asymptomatic patients alone. Oximeters A greater utilisation of finger pulse oximeters is also on the cards with the district authorities deciding to deploy the device for preliminary screening of symptoms to complement the existing practices. Those recording oxygen saturation readings of less than 95% will taken to the nearest PHCs for further examination. To drum up support, the district administration will launch a campaign that will involve a COVID protocol pledge and a hashtag campaign (#Fightcovidtvm) for popularising the efforts through the social media.
26 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District adds 391 fresh cases||Thiruvananthapuram witnessed a massive leap in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as the daily caseload went over twice the figure recorded a day ago. As many as 391 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The day also brought relief when 303 people recovered. The death tally rose to 64 after the deaths of an 80-year old Neyyattinkara native who died on August 17 and a 58-year old Kulasekaram native who died on August 23 were confirmed to be due to COVID-19. Over 99% of the cases have been attributed to local transmission, while only three were imported ones. As many as 388 people, including 10 health workers, have contracted the infection in this manner. Sources of infection in 49 cases were unknown. As many as 12 police officers tested positive. Among them, four officials including a sub-inspector are attached to the Kovalam police station. In the Poojappura Central Prison, 125 COVID-19 infected prisoners tested negative. Meanwhile, the Government Medical College Hospital courted another controversy in its handling of COVID-19 cases when the body of a Balaramapuram native, who succumbed to COVID-19, was allegedly abandoned for five hours in a ward where there were over 10 other patients. Protest Despite confirming the woman’s death at around 5 a.m., the body was shifted only at 10.30 a.m. after the patients began to protest. New containment zones were declared in Valiya Ela ward in Kizhuvilam and Kodumon junction in Attingal. Restrictions were withdrawn in Thekkumbhagam, Oottuparambu (excluding Chambavil and Oottuparambu), Railway Station, Kadakkavoor (excluding Karingode, Vayalithitta and Sanketam) wards; Puravoor ward in Kizhuvilam; Madanvila ward in Azhoor; Njekkadu, Sivapuram, Muthana and Thachode wards in Chemmaruthy; Menappara ward in Navaikulam; and Nilakkamukku ward in Vakkom.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ganeshotsav ends with low-key immersion||Immersion of Ganesha idols at Shanghumughom marks the conclusion of the Ganeshotsav celebrations organised by the Ganeshotsav Trust Committee here on Tuesday. The three-day truncated celebrations focussed on pujas and rituals and avoided any pomp in line with the COVID-19 safety guidelines. Cultural meetings and processions with towering Ganesha idols gave way to smaller idols this time in most places. Prayers were offered to the idol at East Fort for nine days. Lamp was lit at the Pazhavangady Ganapathi temple and coconut broken before the idols in the city headed towards Shanghumughom. Idols at Varkala, Attingal, Nedumangad, Neyyattinkara, Vamanapuram, Kattakada, and Kilimanoor were immersed in the respective constituencies after the three-day pujas.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP call for protest today||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will observe August 26 as “black day” and “protest day” respectively to spotlight the “government-sponsored” fire at the Secretariat on Tuesday. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala called on Governor Arif Muhammad Khan and expressed his apprehensions. Mr. Chennithala said the fire had consumed crucial files sought by Central agencies in connection with their probe into the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case.  Police action The BJP will hold protest meetings across the State to highlight the “subversive act.” The police used water cannons to disperse Yuva Morcha workers who burned the effigy of Mr. Vijayan in front of the Secretariat. The State government had accused the Congress and the BJP of having attempted to unleash violence and anarchy at the Secretariat. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan told journalists that BJP State president K. Surendran had arrived at the Secretariat as if on a cue soon after the fire broke out. It pointed to a plot to tarnish the government. Files digitised Minister for Tourism and Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran told news channels that the government had already given the files and video footage sought by the NIA. The records lost in the fire were those pertaining to the booking of rooms in government guest houses via the General Administration Department (GAD). They had back-ups on the computer. Government files were almost entirely digitised. A special team headed by Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham would investigate the fire. A panel of the experts from the Fire and Rescue Services Department and the Kerala Disaster Management Authority would assist him.
26 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD lax with road maintenance, says CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India audit has found that the mandatory quality control tests envisaged in the PWD manual were not included in the tender and contract documents. The State circumvented the quality control tests stipulated by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways by restricting the cost of works, the CAG report on economic sector for the year ending March 2018, tabled in the Assembly on Monday, said. Works with large estimates were split into smaller works to avoid quality control tests. In an audit that checked 282 works, it was found that field laboratories mandatory for works costing more than Rs. 2 crore were not set up by contractors at the site of 85 works. Further, 119 works costing Rs. 366.09 crore did not have mandatory first-tier quality control tests and 106 works were subjected to four to nine tests only. Second tier tests were conducted only in 85 works costing Rs. 495.32 crore. The departmental supervision of works was inadequate. In eight out of nine ongoing works, the contractors did not deploy qualified engineering personnel at sites.  PWD manual flouted The CAG pointed out that PWD did not carry out road maintenance works as prescribed in the PWD manual. The roads division did not maintain chart of important roads. The PWD Roads wing did not have a mechanism for the timely detection and rectification of defects of roads. The audit observed that lapses in arranging periodic renewal works resulted in severe damage to the carriageway. Road drainages were not maintained properly. Lapses in road restoration after trenching works damaged the road surface. Aquaculture agency The report contains findings of one performance audit and 12 compliance audit paragraphs. In the audit in the Agency for Development of Aquaculture, Kerala, functioning under the Department of Fisheries, it was found that the hatchery and farms functioning under the agency did not comply with the requirements stipulated in the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act, 2005. The agency failed to adhere to the guidelines issued by Coastal Aquaculture Authority (CAA) for culturing of Whiteleg shrimp. The agency farmed genetically improved fishes without adhering to the safeguards recommended by the Kerala State Biodiversity Board raising potential risk to biodiversity.
26 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poor patronage hits inter-State services||Poor patronage has hit Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC)’s inter-State services to Karnataka and back that began on Tuesday to clear the rush during the forthcoming Onam festival season. The non-air-conditioned superclass buses that operated from Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kozhikode to Bengalaru were full. The occupancy was 50% on the buses from Pathanamthitta and Kottayam. On the bus that commenced inter-State journey at 3 p.m. from Thiruvananthapuram, all the 39 seats were full. Although it was decided to commence services from Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod to Bengaluru and back till September 9, poor patronage has forced authorities to cancel services from Palakkad, Kannur, and Kasaragod. No demand “The advance bookings are there for the initial days. In the Bengaluru-Kerala sector, there is no demand for seats and the operation of services needs to be looked into,” a top KSRTC official of operations wing said. The inter-State service will be using the super class buses for the first time since the pandemic-induced lockdown in March. Lack of confidence among the public to use public transport; spurt in COVID-19 cases; and the lockdown not being fully lifted are cited as the main reasons for poor patronage. Commuters will have to pay 10% more than the regular inter-State bus fare, which will be levied on an end-to-end basis. With Onam just six days away, the KSRTC authorities do not see a change in the pattern of passenger flow to Kerala from Bengalaru and back. However, the KSRTC has decided to operate inter-State service from Thiruvananthapuram to Chennai via Ernakulam on August 27 to clear the rush during the Onam season. The return journey will be on August 28 from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram via Ernakulam.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Why is market not being used, asks rights panel||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered an investigation into sale of fish and meat by the roadside despite a market, complete with large parking space and waste processing plant, built by the city Corporation on nine cents of land at Vallakkadavu. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic ordered the Corporation Secretary to investigate the matter and submit a report within four weeks. Project cost The market, built by the civic body at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore, is not utilised fully. Leftovers from the sale of fish and meat were dumped by the roadside, leading to pollution of the surroundings and gradual spread of diseases. The waste attracted birds, which posed a threat to flights at the airport here, a complaint from human rights activist Ragam Rahim said. The market had a building complete with facilities for sale of fish, meat, and vegetables. Tender A Vallakkadavu resident had got the tender for operations of the market for Rs. 2.5 lakh. However, a few of the local people had encroached upon the market space, leaving no profits for the person who had got the tender. Denied entry Traders from outside had been denied entry to the market. If sales were made from the market, uniform pricing too would come into effect, the complaint said.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No-confidence motion a friendly contest: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Tuesday said the government and the United Democratic Front (UDF) had engaged in a friendly contest in the Assembly on Monday to hoodwink the public. At the start of the session, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and his cohorts backed a government resolution against the Centre to stop the privatisation of the Thiruvananthapuram Internation.. . The same day evening, the UDF voted against the government in a flippant no-confidence motion slated to fail from the outset. “The UDF married the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the morning. The marriage ended in divorce by mutual consent in the evening,” he said. Mr. Surendran said Mr. Chennithala had failed as Leader of the Opposition. He could not elicit a straight answer from Mr. Vijayan on any issue. The Chief Minister defeated Mr. Chennithala by filibuster. “The UDF had enough ammunition. It could have easily cornered Mr. Vijayan. But, Mr. Chennithala did not know how to use the arsenal at his disposal. He had no war plan,” he said.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,76,390 apply for Plus One||As many as 4,76,390 students have applied for Plus One admission this year. Online submission of applications concluded at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Of the applicants, 4,20,139 students have created candidate log-in. The remaining 56,251 are yet to do so. They have time till 5 p.m. on September 4 to create the candidate log-ins. The maximum number of applicants is from Malappuram district — 80,890. The least is from Wayanad — 12,330.  Trial allotment will be held on September 5. The first allotment will be on September 14 and the main allotment will come to a close on October 6.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solar project at Assembly||Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan opened a rooftop solar project at the Assembly complex on Tuesday. The project has been included in the Smart City project. The project will generate 395 kW of power, which is 33% of the power requirement of the Assembly.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Control room opened||A control room has been opened to receive complaints about black marketeering, and diversion of ration stock during Onam. Contact 0471 2731240. It will function till August 30.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aerobic bin facility opened||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the newly constructed aerobic bin and material recovery facility units at Sastha Nagar in Arannoor ward on Tuesday. There are four aerobic bins in the unit.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police register case||The Edathala police in Aluva have registered a case in connection with a complaint that a six-year-old girl was made to drink liquor. The police action comes in the wake of a directive from Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson K.V. Manojkumar and member K. Nazeer after allegation that police had not taken action four months after the complaint was filed.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree initiative||Kudumbashree is distributing Onam kits among its neighbourhood group members. The distribution is part of Karuthal, a State-level campaign for sale of its products. The kits are being distributed by the respective district missions. Each kit has 21 products. Each member has to give Rs. 500 for a kit. It can be paid in 20 instalments.
26 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on `How to start an Industry'||The Kerala Financial Corporation, in association with the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, is organising a webinar at 2 p.m. on August 27 on ‘How to start an industry’ as part of the Chief Minister’s entrepreneurship development project. Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac is scheduled to inaugurate the webinar. The programme can be accessed live on the KFC Facebook page. For details, dial 1800-425-8590 (toll free) or email tocmedp@kfc.org.
26 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||17 projects to be commissioned||As many as 17 projects of the Public Works Department costing Rs. 276 crore will be commissioned in various districts by Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated online the Kolode bridge in the Dharmadom constituency. Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said the projects would be inaugurated following the COVID protocol.
26 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undertrial ‘ends life’||An undertrial, Akbar Basha, 27, allegedly committed suicide at the District Jail here on Tuesday by hanging himself from the gills of the toilet block around noon. District Jail Superintendent Narasimha Reddy said Basha had arrived at the District Jail from Gooty Sub Jail after COVID19 tests on Monday. On Tuesday, he was to be produced in a court, but he was not found in the cell. On searching entire premises, he was found hanging with his lungi from the grills of toilet block on the backside, Mr. Reddy said. There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.
26 August 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children take part in painting contest||Hundreds of children participated in drawing competitions organised by Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), on COVID-19 and child rights. Participants made paintings on masks and gloves, maintaining hygiene, social distancing, taking good diet and protecting children from the virus. “CRAF is organising the competitions titled Bala Melas. We started the programme in West Godavari district and will be extending it to neighbouring districts,” said State programme coordinator and director P. Francis Thambi.
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan warns private hospitals fleecing COVID patients of severe action||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has warned that severe action will be taken against the hospitals which are collecting more than the charges specified in the G.O. 77 for various treatments for COVID-19 patients. During an elaborate review meeting on ‘Spandana’ with Collectors and Superintendents of Police, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the respective district administrations should take severe action against the hospitals which are collecting exorbitant fees from COVID-19 patients. “It is unfortunate that some hospitals have shed all humanitarian values for making money even at this crucial juncture (pandemic). All Collectors have been instructed to form mandal-level committees comprising three to five members. These panels will ensure that hospitals are following all safety precautions. If necessary a time frame should be set up for all hospitals to ensure compliance with all safety protocols,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister also insisted that helpdesks were set up at every PHC, CHC, area and district hospitals to ensure that patients got all the information pertaining to the next level of treatment available. The helpdesks should also see that ambulances are available to patients. Arogya Asara benefits “The patients should get the Arogya Asara benefits (Rs. 225 per day or Rs. 5,000 per month) every month,” he said. Reviewing on COVID-19 management, the Chief Minister said that there should not be any complaints over the availability of beds and asked the district administrations to give a priority to the calls received through toll-free numbers—104, 14410. Focus points “I urge all Collectors to ensure that helpdesks are functioning properly and treat the helplines as eyes and ears to monitor whether the patients are getting enough supplies of food and medicine. There are six points you (Collectors) should focus on—staff, food, sanitation, medicine, infrastructure, oxygen lines. Ensure that awareness is created about the helplines and CCTV cameras are installed in all the COVID-19 wards,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang, Special Chief Secretary K.S Jawahar Reddy and other officials were present.  Every PHC, CHC, area and district hospitals should have helpdesks to ensure patients get all the information pertaining to the next level of treatment. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water saving: a legacy of Kondaveedu rulers||Water conservation may appear to be an idea that has gained ground in the recent decades, but the royals who founded the Kondaveedu fort atop a hill in Guntur district had thought of it some centuries ago. The historic fort that was built by Anapotha Reddy in 1,250 AD and later developed by Ana Venkata Reddy atop a hill, 25 km from the present Guntur city, still carries the testimony of the well-planned structures built in that era to conserve water. Many old tanks, wells and other man-made structures built atop the hill still serve the purpose. Multiple spells of heavy rain that lashed the district last week have those structures brimming now. Long after the fort ceased to be the citadel of power, it continued to be an army garrison for the French and British troops in the 19th century and availability of water was one of the many reasons for it, says Kondaveedu Fort Development convener Kalli Siva Reddy. “The Reddy kings, from the times of Prolaya Vemareddy, have always preferred Kondaveedu as their capital due to the availability of water. The dexterous planning to conserve water is evident as the kings had chosen gorges and valleys to developed check dams, tanks and strengthened their borders, dug up wells. They had even laid pipelines to allow water to flow from the tanks located at a height. It is not less than modern irrigation practices,” explains Mr. Kalli Siva Reddy, who has been working for the development of the Kondaveedu Fort for the last 15 years. Fed by the recent rains, the old water bodies are brimming now. Many of the tanks (cheruvu) are named after trees such as Vedulla (bamboo) Cheruvu. Tourist potential Mr. Kalli Siva Reddy observes that the vast tourist potential of the fort remains unexplored. “Visitors from Krishna and Guntur districts can enjoy the clean air and greenery here. Vedulla Cheruvu is also ideal for pedal boating operations. The government can explore the possibilities of introducing boating here,” he said.
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vemuru MLA challenges TDP chief to a debate||YSR Congress Party MLA from Vemuru and the party’s SC cell president Meruga Nagarjuna has challenged Telugu Desam Party chief Nara Chandrababu Naidu to a public debate over the allegations levelled by the latter regarding atrocities against people from the Scheduled Castes community. Mr. Nagarjuna told reporters here that Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy had displayed positive intent by initiating action against erring policemen in all five incidents of atrocities against Dalits. “While the Chief Minister has not spared anyone, including policemen charged with dereliction of duty, Mr. Naidu has tried to muzzle the voices of Dalits, protected his henchmen and even threatened government officials with action if they tried to enforce the law,” Mr. Nagarjuna said. Mr. Nagarjuna recalled incidents like social boycott at Garapadu in West Godavari district, abuse of Dalits at Amalapuram in East Godavari, assault on medical practitioner K. Kalyani in Srikakulam, and the negligence resulting in the death of Dalit youth from Pedagottipadu, at a site in Guntur. The Vemuru MLA questioned why Mr. Naidu did not take action in these incidents which occurred during 2014-2019 when he was Chief Minister.
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Founder’s Day celebrated at SRM||SRM University celebrated Founder’s Day on the birthday of T.R. Paarivendhar, founder chancellor of SRM Group and MP from Perambalur Constituency in Tamil Nadu. The celebration included visiting the elderly at the Sri Krishna Chaitanya Old Age Home, Mangalagiri. Vice-Chancellor Vajja Sambasiva Rao said jute bags were distributed among the dwellers of Neerukonda and Kuragallu, urging them to quit using plastic products.
26 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Compensate flood-hit people before Sept. 7’||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Collectors of East Godavari and West Godavari districts to ensure that the additional compensation of Rs. 2,000 is paid to the people affected by flood before September 7. Apart from the additional compensation, the government will provide 25 kg of rice, two litres of kerosene, one kg of bengal gram, one litre of palm oil, one kg of onion to the affected people, he said. The major drains and canals damaged in the flood should be repaired at the earliest. Appreciating the efforts of the administrations of East and West Godavari districts to tackle the flood situation, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the Collectors to launch measures to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.
26 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-infected Cong. leader ‘ends life’||Kadapa district Congress vice-president Sirigireddy Gangi Reddy (55) allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train near Yerraguntla late on Monday. The step, which is attributed to depression, has rattled the Congress party circles. Mr. Reddy, along with two other family members, had tested positive for COVID-19 and was under home quarantine for some time. After he reportedly found slight difficulty in breathing, he got himself admitted to a private hospital in Proddatur. On Monday evening, he drove out on his motorcycle from the hospital and did not return till night. Growing suspicious, the hospital staff alerted the police. His body was later found on the tracks in Kalamala area late in the night. Congress state working President N. Thulasi Reddy, who also hails from Kadapa district, rushed to the spot on Tuesday and expressed condolences to the bereaved family members. Hailing Gangi Reddy as a sincere and trusted party worker, Mr. Thulasi Reddy called his death a setback to the party in the district. Railway Protection Force sleuths from Guntakal rushed to the spot. People with suicidal tendencies can dial 100 for counselling.
26 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Groynes have saved the day during flood’||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Tuesday said the existing groynes have protected the island villages from erosion during the flood in the River Godavari. During a field visit to Serullanka, an island village affected by flood in Ramachandrapuram revenue division, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said river bunds were being strengthened to prevent breaches in the event of major floods in future. He said volunteers played a key role during the flood by rendering services such as from enumeration of the affected people, supply of commodities and coordination with the officials concerned. The Minister distributed essential commodities to those affected by the flood in Serullanka island village, and assured them of timely compensation. “The officials have been directed to restore power supply and supply drinking water as soon as situation improves,” he said.
26 August 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai’s wait for water from Krishna set to end soon||The prospects of release of Krishna water to Chennai early this year brightened with the Somasila reservoir in SPSR Nellore district getting good inflows in the wake of the Srisailam reservoir filled to its full capacity. “Water release to Chennai will be started from September 15 if the present inflow of 22,000 cusecs per day continues to Somasila during the next month also,” reservoir Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao told The Hindu . The reservoir is also getting good inflows from Kundu, a tributary of the Penna in Kurnool district, the Superintending Engineer said. “On an average two tmcft is being realised in the Somasila reservoir now which has started receiving floods 15 days in advance this year, thanks to good rains in the catchment areas of Srisailam,” he explained. The main Reservoirs in the district fed by the floods in Krishna — Somasila and Kandaleru — have a combined storage of 78 tmcft and a flood cushion of over 90 tmcft. “The discharge to Kandalueru will be stepped as and when the inflows to the Somasila reservoir increase,” Mr Rao said. At present, Kandaleru has an inflow of 634 cusecs. It had a storage of 20.55 tmcft. The discharge was maintained at 125 cusecs.  An obligation Andhra Pradesh had an obligation to release 12 tmcft to Chennai in two spells. It would have no problem in meeting its commitment this year as more inflows could be expected during the late phase of the south west monsoon and also the north east monsoon, he explained. Meanwhile, the floods have raised hopes among farmers in Nellore and Prakasam districts for a good crop for the second year in a row after successive years of drought.
26 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more succumb to virus in Nellore, Prakasam||There was no respite for people from COVID-19 in the south coastal Andhra region as 16 more patients succumbed to the virus in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts, while over 1,600 new cases surfaced in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The death toll in the two districts rose to 476 with 10 patients in Prakasam district and six others in SPSR Nellore district losing the battle against the pandemic during the period. So far, 233 patients in Nellore district and another 243 in Prakasam district succumbed to the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The total number of confirmed cases went up to 24,491 in SPSR Nellore district and 17,875 in Prakasam district with 1,654 persons, including 949 in SPSR Nellore district, getting infected during the period. As many as 1,074 patients, including 319 in Prakasam district, were discharged from hospitals. Meanwhile, the Nellore district administration decided to rope in third year and fourth year nursing students from Wednesday to attend on a large number of in-patients in the designated government and private hospitals.
26 August 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram project works resume after a brief lull||Work on the Polavaram national project, which was suspended from August 12 to August 20 following heavy rains and flood in the River Godavari, resumed on Tuesday. At Polavaram, the Godavari received 21 lakh cusecs flood, and at present, it was 19 lakh cusecs. Brisk progress Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL), which is taking up project works, suspended them keeping in mind the safety of about 2,500 workers, technicians and other staff hailing from West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and other States.. Shuttering, deck sheeting, 500 square metres of works are under progress on the spillway. Similarly, 300 metres of shuttering, girders and 1,000 tonnes of steel cutting for deck sheeting have been completed in the non-flow block. Safety gear has been provided to workers and two boats with expert swimmers have been kept at the ready, project in-charge A. Satish Babu said. So far, 44 girders have been set up in 11 blocks. The Stage government, the Water Resources Department and MEIL had prepared an action plan in advance to continue works in adverse conditions also, the project in-charge said in a release. “As there was only flood without rainfall, we resumed girder works,” said Polavaram Project Superintendent Engineering (SE) Medapati Nagireddy. “We will speed up the works if the flood comes down further,” he added. As regards strengthening of the necklace bund at Polavaram village, the Irrigation Department has written to the government, seeking constitution of a technical committee. “Once the situation improves, experts and the technical committee are likely to visit the bund and suggest measures for strengthening it. The base of the bund has eroded due to floods in the last two years. We are planning to take up permanent measures to solve the problem once and for all ,” Mr. Nagireddy said. Project works were affected during the lockdown period after workers returned to their native places. Irrigation, revenue and police officials visited the site and reviewed the flood situation with the authorities concerned. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who undertook an aerial survey of the site recently, directed the officials to take measures to complete the project as per schedule.
26 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online ticket quota for donors||The TTD on Tuesday released online quota of darshan tickets for donors to the Srivani trust for September. The TTD decided to allocate hundred tickets every day except for the days coinciding with Dwajarohanam ceremony on September 19 and Garuda Seva on 23 during the Brahmotsavams. Devotees donating Rs. 10,000 for the trust are eligible for a one-time VIP darshan of the Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. In view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the country, the TTD extended the period for claiming darshan facility, after the donation, to one year. The redemption period earlier was six months.
26 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple ready for ‘Pavitrotsavam’||Sri Padmavathi Ammavari Temple at Tiruchanur has been spruced up for the ‘Pavitrotsavam’ festival slated to be held from August 31 to September 2. Ahead of the annual festival, a purificatory ritual ‘Koil Alwar Tirumanjanam’ was performed on Tuesday morning, when the inner walls of the sanctum sanctorum, ceiling, pillars and puja materials were cleansed with ‘parimalam’. . Pavitrotsavam is a three-day Agama-based ritual performed once a year to ward off the evil effects of the acts of commissions and omissions(if any) done by the staff or devotees in the temple, knowingly or unknowingly. The three-day event marks ‘Pavitra Pratishta’ on August 31, ‘Pavitra Samarpana’ on September 1 and ‘Purnahuthi’ on September 2.
26 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple city sets sights on top ‘swachh’ ranking||Having bagged the enviable sixth position across India under ‘Swachh Survekshan’, the temple city of Tirupati is now getting ready to plug the leakages ‘underground' to go up further in the ranking list. The city’s Underground Drainage System (UGD) has evidently developed numerous chinks over time. Authorities fear that this ‘crucial point’ could let the city down in Swachh rankings in future. Legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and MCT officials sat down for a discussion with technical advisers and consultants from Greater Mumbai (Brihanmumbai) Municipal Corporation on Tuesday. The meeting decided to implement a pilot project in the next 15 days for 10 km-length of UGD pipeline covering two divisions.
26 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kaluvakolanu no more||Renowned novelist and the first generation literary personality from the Rayalaseema region, Kaluvakolanu Sadananda passed away at his hometown Pakala in Chittoor district on Tuesday. He was 81. He was born here in 1939, from where he grew to carve a niche for himself in the arenas of novel, prose and poetry. These apart, he was also known to the Telugu people as a painter and a cartoonist. ‘Raktha Yagnam’, ‘Pairugali’, ‘Navve Pedavulu Yedche Kallu’ were some of his famous compilations. Similarly, he shot to fame through his novels ‘Gadida Brathukulu’, ‘Gandaragolam’ and ‘Bangaru Mama’. “Sadananda strikes the right chord in taking the message across. He writes not only in a subtle and artistic manner laced with satire, but also in a style that is easily understandable to his target audience,” recalls veteran journalist A. Raghava Sarma, while paying tributes to him. Sadananda had also served as a teacher and received the ‘Best teacher award’ from the Union government for the year 1992. He also won the Sahitya Akademi award. He was also known in literary circles as ‘Bala kathala thathayya’ (grandfather of storytelling) in view of his contribution to children’s literature. His demise came at a time when both of his sons are under treatment for COVID-19.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh handed over to kin of COVID Care Centre fire victims||Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas and Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Tuesday handed over Rs. 50 lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased in the Ramesh Hospitals COVID Care Centre fire accident. Ten patients died and 21 persons suffered injuries when fire broke out in Swarna Palace hotel that was converted into Ramesh Hospitals COVID Care Centre, on August 9. The fire that broke out in the ground floor in the early hours and spread to the first and second floors. The Ministers handed over cheques to the kin of six victims. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz will give the cheques to three family members of the deceased at Machilipatnam, and the money will be handed over to the family members of one victim at Kandukur in Prakasam district, Mr. Srinivas said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced compensation to the bereaved families from Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, the Minister said and consoled the family members who lost their bread winners in the incident. Speaking on the occasion, the Health Minister said the probe into the fire was going on and that the government had served notices on the accused in the case. Asked about the delay in arresting the accused, Mr. Srinivas said the government was following legal procedures in initiating action. “Inspections were being conducted in hospitals across the State. Some hospital managements are not following safety and security guidelines and are collecting excess fees in COVID centres. A few hospitals are running the centres without permission,” the Minister said. MLAs Malladi Vishnu and Samineni Udaya Bhanu, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and other officers were present.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police open ‘cyberbullying sheets’ against 562 suspects across State||The Crime Investigation Department has opened cyberbullying sheets against cybercrime offenders in the State, similar to how suspect sheets, history sheets and Known Depredator (KD) lists are maintained against those with a criminal history. The Cybercrime division of the CID will keep track of the cyberbullying sheeters, who have been booked for offences like stalking, posting objectionable comments on social media profiles and uploading doctored or derogatory content of women on the Internet. “We have started opening cyberbullying sheets from August 3. This is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. A few Cybercrime offenders, against whom the sheets were opened, are from Andhra Pradesh while a few are from neighbouring States,” said CID Additional Director P.V. Sunil Kumar. G.R. Radhika, Superintendent of Police of the Cybercrime division of the CID, said that while a large number of women are victims of cybercrimes in the State, only 32% of them come forward to lodge a police complaint. “As the data on cybercrimes is going up by each passing day in the State, we thought of opening cyberbullying sheets against the suspects. We opened the sheets against 562 persons in just 20 days. A dedicated team of cybercrime experts are tracking the movements of the suspects,” Ms. Radhika said. Mr. Sunil Kumar said that the sheets were opened against the offenders who were booked in multiple cases. The accused were harassing women and girls on various social media groups by creating fake profiles, morphing photographs and by posting indecent comments against public representatives, VIPs, celebrities and the general public, he said. 112 helpline “The Cybercrime police are on the job of collecting the details of the fraudsters. Victims are requested to dial ‘112’ to register cases against online stalkers,” the Additional DG said. More cyberbullying sheets will be opened against the stalkers and hackers. A strict vigil will be kept on the sheeters on their activities on social media groups and the Internet, Mr. Sunil Kumar added.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 92 lives, 9,927 infections detected in a day||Coronavirus claimed 92 lives in the State, while 9,927 people were tested positive in the last 24 hours, ending on Tuesday morning, taking the toll to 3,460 and the tally to 3,71,639. According to officials, 6.29% of the total population of 5.34 crore in the State has been tested for the virus and 0.7% of them have been found to be infected. Meanwhile, 9,419 patients were discharged from various COVID facilities on recovery in the 24 hours, taking the total count to 2,78,247. With the recovery rate being increased to 74.87%, there are 89,932 active cases at present.  Positivity rate goes up In the last 24 hours, 64,351 samples were tested and the total number of tests done has gone up to 33,56,852. The positivity rate of these tests stands at 11.07%. The tests per million ratio has also increased to 62,862. Meanwhile, four districts reported 10 or more deaths. They are Chittoor (16), Anantapur (11), Prakasam (10) and Kadapa (10), followed by East Godavari and West Godavari with eight deaths each; Nellore, Guntur and Visakhapatnam with six deaths each, Krishna with four deaths and Vizianagaram with one death. Kurnool reported no death in the last 24 hours. East Godavari reported the highest single-day spike in cases. It reported 1,353 new infections, while Chittoor reported 967 cases, followed by Nellore (949) and Guntur (917). West Godavari district reported 853 cases, followed by Visakhapatnam (846), Kurnool (781), Prakasam (705), Vizianagaram (667), Srikakulam (552), Kadapa (521), Anantapur (494) and Krishna (322). District tally The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (52,039), Kurnool (40,100), Anantapur (36,220), Guntur (31,776), Visakhapatnam (31,561), Chittoor (31,292), West Godavari (31,179), Nellore (24,275), Kadapa (21,683), Srikakulam (19,486), Prakasam (17,875), Vizianagaram (16,907) and Krishna (14,351).
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. approves DPR for Bhavanapadu port project||The State government has approved the Detailed Project Report (DPR) prepared by M/s. RITES for the development of Bhavanapadu port in Srikakulam district. A government order (G.O.) issued on Tuesday said a non-major port will be developed in ‘landlord model’. In this model, a publicly governed port authority holds the ownership and acts as a regulatory body, while private companies carry out the operations—mainly cargo handling. The landlord port gets a share in the revenue. The port will be developed by Bhavanapadu Port Development Corporation Limited (BPDCL) under the overall supervision of Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board (APMB). The government has accorded administrative sanction for the first phase of work with the total project cost of Rs. 3,669.95 crores. The works will be completed in 36 months, the G.O. said. Debt funding The State government would also give Rs. 261 crore towards the cost of land acquisition. It proposes to acquire 500 acres of land required for the Phase-I development. The government has also permitted the Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board to raise a debt not exceeding Rs. 2,123 crore, with appropriate support of the government. The APMB has also been allowed to utilise certain portion of its revenue as equity and escrow in future for debt funding to the project as per the A.P. Maritime Board Act, 2019. The Chief Executive Officer of the A.P. Maritime Board has been instructed to take the necessary action.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All students who sat for Inter exams declared pass||In view of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, the State government has declared all the students, who appeared for the Intermediate Public Examinations (IPE) held in March, as pass. The decision was taken in response to many representations submitted by students and parents, people’s representatives and to avoid loss of an academic year, said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. “The students who had paid the examination fee and received their hall tickets, but were declared as failed because they were absent for one or more papers, will also be considered pass. Students will be awarded additional marks to reach the pass mark in each subject they failed,” said the Education Minister. Also, the 66 candidates booked for malpractice and were eligible to appear for the Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary Examinations (IPASE) in July would be issued pass certificates. They would be treated as ‘compartmental pass’ as the advanced supplementary examinations have been cancelled. In a statement, BIE Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the above-mentioned students could download their short marks memos from the Board’s official website bie.ap.gov.in from 2 p.m. of August 26 (Wednesday).
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRDC to develop skill colleges||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) has reached an understanding with the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) to set up innovation, incubation and production centres in the proposed skill colleges in the State. After many rounds of talks between the representatives of the APSSDC and NRDC, an online deal was sealed on Tuesday between NRDC officials and the corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy and MD and CEO Arja Srikanth. The NRDC is a leading technology transfer organisation in the country. The corporation officials said these centres would impart skill training to students to make them more employable. The NRDC would not only help pool funds for the startups selected by the corporation but also help develop the incubation centres.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP reminds Naidu of NTR’s expulsion letter||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sought to target Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu by posting a letter written by party founder president N. T. Rama Rao expelling him and four others from the party on August 25, 1995, on Twitter. Taking jibes at Mr. Naidu, BJP Andhra Pradesh affairs co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar tweeted, “Hope @ncbn recollects this day 25 yrs back when great leader & @JaiTDP founder NT Rama Rao Ji had expelled him from party for backstabbing.” Mr. Deodhar said Mr. Naidu later slandered BJP & Modi Ji too. “Now out of power, he’ll soon be out of political arena. After all, Karma catches up with betrayers,” he said. Mr. Deodhar’s tweets assume significance in the wake of recent developments. BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, recently, asserted that the BJP has to emerge as dominant force in the State by 2024, next general election year. BJP State president Somu Veerraju exuded confidence that the BJP-JSP combine would form government in the State in 2024. The TDP snapped ties with the BJP, a year before general elections in 2019. Mr. Deodhar has been asserting that Mr. Naidu had caused an irreparable damage to his party by taking a number of U-turns and his “repentance” on leaving the NDA would never be accepted.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revenue staff seek COVID insurance||The Andhra Pradesh Revenue Services Association (APRSA) has urged the State government to extend the COVID insurance scheme or give an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the families of the deceased revenue employees. In a memorandum submitted to the Principal Secretary (Revenue) on Tuesday, Boppana Venkateswarlu of the association said revenue employees were attending multifarious jobs day and night during the pandemic. They were coming in direct contact with patients and their family members while admitting them in isolation wards or to educating them on self-quarantine, he said. Since April many revenue employees contracted COVID-19 and 15 to 20 tahsildars and deputy tahsildars and revenue inspectors succumbed to the virus. Some Collectors sent reports to the government and the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) for sanction of ex gratia to the bereaved families while other Collectors were not doing so citing absence of such instructions. Hence the government was requested to extend the insurance coverage to revenue employees or give an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh, he said.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister reviews Nadu-Nedu from hospital||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday asked officials to replace suppliers of material being used to develop infrastructure in schools under Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu scheme, if the material did not reach in time. The Minister, who is undergoing treatment for illness, reviewed the scheme from the hospital. Taking to task the suppliers who have not been able to supply the material, he said he wanted 80 % of the equipment in place by September 1. He asked the officials to form teams and inspect the companies to ascertain the size of their respective businesses.
26 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu is shielding Ramesh Babu’||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) has alleged that Ramesh Hospitals Managing Director P. Ramesh Babu, an accused in the Swarna Palace fire mishap, is being sheltered by N. Chandrababu Naidu. Ten persons were killed and 21 patients injured in the incident which occurred in the city on August 9. “If the doctor is not at fault, why is he hiding for the last 15 days and not cooperating with investigating agencies? ” Mr. Rao asked. He had high connections and was making all efforts to wriggle out of the case, he added.
26 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 846 new cases, tally inches closer to 32,000 in the district||As many as 846 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district taking the tally to 31,973 here on Tuesday. It may be noted that 20,000 new cases were reported in August alone. On July 31, cases were 11,177. On August 25, the total stands at 31,973, which means 20,796 cases were reported in 25 days. Statistics say that almost 65 % of the total cases in the district were reported in August alone. On an average, over 830 new cases reported every day this month. Meanwhile, six more persons succumbed to the coronavirus, taking the death toll to 226. Of the total deaths, as many as 135 persons died in this month. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released, the number of active cases in the district is 5,303 and the number of discharged is 26,444. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters in the district is 67, while active clusters are 95. Similarly,dormant clusters are 576. It may be recalled that the District Collector has denotified as many as 171 clusters which did not report any case in the last 28 days.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malaria outbreak comes as a double whammy for tribals||A rapid increase in malaria cases has come as the latest source of worry for tribals in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district who are already at their wits’ end battling the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials of the Health Department said that 1,060 persons have been diagnosed with malaria in the 11 mandals of the Agency this year. Most of the cases were reported in May, June and July. During the same period last year, there were only around 700 cases. It is learnt that a number of people have also been suffering from viral fever in several mandals. Former Minister and senior Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, who was in Narsipatnam, alleged negligence of the Health Department and the district administration towards seasonal diseases. Claiming that malaria, typhoid, dengue and other diseases are on the rise in Agency hamlets, he urged the District Collector to address the issue at the earliest. Leela Prasad, Additional District Health and Medical Officer in Paderu, said that this year, only malaria cases have seen a rise, while all other seasonal diseases are under control. He said that though there was a rise in malaria cases in the last few months, cases began to decline in August. No deaths have been reported, he said. Dr. Leela Prasad said that most of the cases were reported from two Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the bordering areas of East Godavari and Visakhapatnam. Apart from malaria, the total number of dengue cases reported this year stood at seven. “Usually, fever cases are reported from the Agency during the rainy season. We have been monitoring the cases in the affected areas and are conducting tests to detect seasonal diseases. Apart from conducting anti-larval operations, a fever survey was also taken up,” he said. Meanwhile, cases of malaria, dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases have seen a drastic decline in the last four months in urban limits. Chief Medical and Officer of Health K.S.L.G. Sastry said that the number of malaria cases reported in the month of June and July stood at 10 and two respectively. Similarly, in June, two dengue cases and one chikungunya case were reported. No other cases were reported thereafter, he said. “Incidents of malaria, dengue and chikungunya this year are comparatively low. Preventive measures like spraying and fogging were conducted in the last three months in all urban areas. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, people are cautious regarding hygiene and are taking preventive measures,” Mr. Sastry said. He also advised citizens to be cautious now as this is the time of the year when the number of vector-borne cases generally see an uptick.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna faults decision to reopen schools on Sept. 5||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has criticised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for his decision to reopen schools in the State on September 5. In a video message to the Chief Minister, he advised Mr. Jagan not to go ahead with his decision and put the lives of children at risk in the pandemic situation. At a time, when the State has recorded 3.6 lakh corona positive cases and thousands were dying, it would be foolish to reopen schools, he said. The Chief Minister should own responsibility, if anything happens to the children, the TDP leader said. He wanted to know whether Mr. Jagan had spoken to parents, teachers and leaders of political parties before taking the decision. He said that many parents had spoken to him on the decision and said they would not send their children to school. The TDP leader also alleged that he had information that the decision was taken to distribute kits to the children for publicity. Online classes Referring to the conduct of online classes by private schools in the State, he said while online classes were alright to keep the children engaged in the pandemic situation, there were, however, complaints that some schools were charging Rs. 15,000 for three months for the online classes. Describing it as unfortunate, he said it was nothing but fleecing parents in the pandemic situation. Some parents cannot afford, while others were not even having smartphones, the TDP leader said. He suggested that the State government should give Rs. 15,000 to all white cardholders to enable their children to attend online classes, instead of wasting funds on other schemes.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M): govts. failed to provide proper medicare to people||CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao has alleged that the Central and State governments failed to provide better medical facilities to people in the pandemic situation. As part of the nationwide call given by the party, a protest was organised at the Gandhi statue here on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre has hastened the process of handing over public sector undertakings to corporate companies on a platter. The State government has failed to check fleecing of patients by private hospitals by not bringing COVID-19 treatment under Aarogyasri. He also alleged that doctors were not being provided PPE kits. He sought that the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) should be developed as multi-specialty hospital. The facilities at the hospital should be upgraded and doctors and staff appointed. He also sought provision of drugs to corona patients. Party city secretary B. Ganga Rao and leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar, B. Jagan, M. Subba Rao, G. Narayana Babu and R.P. Raju were among those present.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps taken to restore power in flood-hit villages: Discom CMD||Due to heavy rains and floods in the Godavari, the two districts of East and West Godavari, which come under the purview of AP EPDCL, are badly affected. A total of 110 villages in 22 mandals in East Godavari and 97 villages in five mandals in West Godavari are affected due to the floods, Chairman and Managing Director of AP EPDCL Nagalakshmi S, said in a statement on Tuesday. A total of four 33/11KV substations, twenty 11KV feeders, 2,607 distribution transformers, 4,087 agricultural services and 41,879 non-agricultural services are affected in East Godavari. Two 33/11KV substations, ten 11 KV feeders, 524 distribution transformers, 617 agricultural services and 14,380 non-agricultural services are affected in West Godavari. The total damage in both the districts has been estimated as Rs. 2.26 crore, so far, to the department. All the 33/11kv sub-stations, 33/11 kv feeders, 33/11kv poles, and 33/11kv lines were fully restored in both the districts. Out of 30 11kv feeders, 27 were restored, out of 2,376 11kv poles, 1,340 were restored, out of 117 km 11kv lines, 62 km lines were restored, out of 123 km LT lines, 91 km lines was restored, out of 2,509 LT poles, 1,845 were restored, out of 3,131 distribution transformers, 2,024 were restored, out of 4,704 agricultural services, 1,619 were restored and out of 56,259 non-agricultural services 48,021 were restored.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure welfare schemes reach people: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao asked the local political representatives to make sure all the government welfare schemes reach the beneficiaries in their constituencies. He also urged them to create more awareness about the government schemes and activities among people. He conducted a review meet with local MLAs and other leaders and discussed about COVID-19 measures, Aarogyasri, Nadu-Nedu, NREGS, YSR Cheyutha, functioning of rythu bharosa centres and a few others, at Circuit House here on Tuesday. He asked the MLAs to take all measures to fight vector-borne diseases, apart from taking measures over COVID-19. He also took stock of development activities in the constituencies. The Minister also asked the leaders to make sure the Nadu-Nedu works were completed before commencement of the classes. Pendurthy MLA Adeep Raj, Payakaraopeta MLA Golla Babu Rao, Narsipatnam MLA P. Uma Shankar Ganesh, Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi, Araku MP G. Madhavi and a few others were present.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated rain likely today and tomorrow||The low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood lies as a well-marked low pressure area over the same region. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level, tilting southwestwards with height. The north-south trough from Rayalaseema to south coastal Tamil Nadu runs from Rayalaseema to south Tamil Nadu and extends up to 0.9 km above the mean sea level, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam till Wednesday morning. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal AP and Yanam on August 26 and 27.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division organising ‘Fit India Freedom Run’||A ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ is being organised by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway from August 15 to October 2, all over the division. All the departments have been directed to organise a fitness run on a daily basis. During the run, all the protocols related to COVID-19, including social distancing, are being observed, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi said on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Radhashtami celebrations today||Sri Radhashtami celebrations are being organised by the Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, at Sri Sri NitaiGauranga Mandhiram, Seethammadara, here on Wednesday. The celebrations will start at 6 p.m. Devotees can watch the celebrations live on 'Hare Krishna Vizag' Youtube channel. Details can be had from Yadhuraja Dasa on the mobile no. 9010611108
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure voter lists ready by Jan. 25: CEO||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the voter enrolment programme has been going on smoothly in the district. He was speaking to Chief Electoral Officer (CEO K. Vijayanand in a video conference here on Tuesday. He said that the Assistant Electoral Officer posts will soon be filled. He also said that all the pending tasks will be taken up. Mr. Vijayanand said that the officials should ensure that voter lists are ready by January 25, 2021.
26 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development works begin||Officials from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) said that two development works have started in the Zone II on Tuesday. GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkeswara Rao said that the civic body has started laying of B.T Road with plastic waste by hotmix process from Ramalakshmi apartments to Pylon junction in ward no 7 at an estimated cost of Rs. 45 lakh. Meanwhile, improvement works of TTD kalayanamandapam in MVP Colony in ward no 8 has also started, he said in a note.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unhygienic conditions prevail in flood-hit villages||Unhygienic conditions were seen in many villages after the flood water partially receded from the low-lying areas in the Godavari bund areas on Tuesday. Stagnant water and slush was accumulated in many habitations and a nauseating smell was emanating in many hamlets as flood water stagnated for about a week. With an untidy atmosphere being witnessed in the flood-ravaged villages, officials continue the rehabilitation centres in the villages and are supplying essentials to the victims. According to the official sources, 113 villages in eight mandals were affected due to the Godavari floods and about 17,000 families were affected. Officials shifted 5,671 families to the rehabilitation centres in West Godavari district. In all, 46 medical camps were arranged and medical teams were moving in the villages and extending aid to the victims. At Bhadrachalam, flood level was recorded at 33 feet by 6 p.m. on Tuesday. The flood level was receding, the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials said. At Cofferdam, the flood level was at 25.900 metres and at Polavaram it was 11.94 metres. Boats were pressed into service in the flood-hit villages and no manual boat operations were allowed in the river, said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana. MLA’s visit Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, who visited the flood-ravaged villages in Velerupadu and Polavaram mandals, said that groceries, vegetables and other essentials would be supplied till the situation returns to normal. Steps were being taken to restore power supply, clear mud on roads and in the houses, the MLA said. “Instructions have been given to spray bleaching powder and take up anti-larva operations in the flood-hit villages to prevent the spread of diseases,” Mr. Balaraju added.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shifting sands||
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Here comes lunch||
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Academic calendar will be released on Sept. 5’||State Council of Educational Research and Technology (SCERT) Director B. Pratap Reddy has said that the government has not yet released the calendar for the new academic year. In a statement, he referred to the news related to the new academic calendar that doing the rounds on social media platforms and said it was fake. “The government swill officially release the academic calendar by September 5, the day on which schools will reopen,” the statement quoted Mr. Pratap Reddy as saying. Change in syllabus Mr. Pratap Reddy clarified that there was no truth in claims that the academic syllabus had been reduced. “The syllabus will remain the same. However, certain changes are being made, which will be made known an official statement soon,” added Mr. Pratap Reddy.
26 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||Over 637 kg of ganja was seized from two vehicles during a surprise check at Bhadrachalam on Tuesday. The value was estimated to be over Rs. 95.60 lakh. Police intercepted two vehicles at Ambedkar centre on Tuesday and unearthed the contraband. Four alleged peddlers of an inter-State ganja smuggling gang were arrested. The accused hail from Haryana and Rajasthan.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID-19 is mutating but no need for alarm’||COVID-19 sure is mutating but thus far none of the changes observed in the virus strains is “cause for any concern for the scientists involved in making the vaccines”, observed CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra. Any mutations that have been witnessed do not mean the disease is “more severe or harmful” and we are not too sure of the consequences as there is no evidence yet to show it as “bad or worse” with regard to the clinical strains, he said. Participating in a virtual discussion on RSTV along with AIIMS-Delhi’s Punit Mishra and Christian Medical College-Vellore’s Gangandeep Kang, the CCMB director pointed out that like any other RNA virus, the COVID-19 virus keeps mutating but “so far there has been no threat to vaccine-making”. However, the concern is raising the hopes of the people “too much” when the vaccine is months away and “we do not yet know if there is going to be one”. “For now, we have to manage the pandemic without drugs or vaccine. We do not yet fully understand how the virus affects the body but we do know how it spreads from person to person,” he explained. This, along with the fact the most patients are asymptomatic, is good enough for us to exercise caution and follow the time-tested and conventional methods of “wearing masks, personal hygiene of washing hands, cough etiquette and maintaining social distance”, he affirmed. Dr. Kang said the COVID-19 virus has just one strand of genomic mutation unlike influenza which has eight strands and the virus can swap pieces of genetic material and mutate more efficiently using that trick. The mutations are happening without changing the basic function of replicating and infecting the host cells. “We still do not have clarity on the functional consequences on the spread or severity of the disease on the human body,” she said. Since most of the vaccines under trial are targeted against the spike protein of the virus, the mutations are not a concern but “we need to continue to track the pathogen”. “It has been seven months since the pandemic hit us. We are doing alright. We are able to come up with counter-measures. What we are doing with vaccines is the best we can. We can surely prevent the spread,” maintained Dr. Kang. Dr. Mishra said that irrespective of the mutation, it is clear now COVID-19 asymptomatic patients too can spread the disease. “There is no need to panic. Vaccines in the making need not be 100% proven but the effective vaccines continue to be social distancing, masks and hand hygiene; we will win the war with these measures,” he added.
26 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Massive online student outreach from Sept. 1||The massive exercise of reaching out to about 28 lakh schoolchildren in the government sector through the digital medium will kick off on September 1 with the government deciding to engage students in the academic activity almost after a five-month gap. This will be the biggest academic effort through online platforms, using the reach of television but yet not all the targeted groups may be reached owing to technical handicaps. The guidelines issued by the government on the role of teachers lacks clarity. But the major question is whether the teachers and students are prepared for this exercise. “The big challenge is how prepared the stakeholders like students and teachers are and not much effort has gone into training the teachers on using the platforms, more so for government school teachers working in the rural and remote areas,” argues a head master, unwilling to be quoted. Despite the deficiencies and shortcomings in the system, majority of teachers seemed to welcome it. Chava Ravi, general secretary of TS-UTF, feels that somewhere the exercise has to begin. “Government school students are being felt left out as they have been away from academic activities for almost six months now. Such gap in learning is not good and students will lose out,” he says, adding that there are challenges, particularly in the rural and remote areas, that have to be overcome. Absence of broadband, lack of connectivity and affordability will haunt them apart from the absence of cable television network in the rural areas. Mr. Ravi reminds that the NCERT recent survey has revealed that only 27% have access to smart phones and Internet. The TSUTF survey in Telangana too has revealed almost a similar picture. Two channels However, the government has roped in the two channels of the Society for Telangana State Network (SoFTNET) — Vidya and Nipuna — apart from certain slots on Doordarshan. Though Vidya and Nipuna are available on cable TV and easily accessible, the absence of cable TV in a lot of rural areas and tribal areas may hamper the services a bit. “In backward areas people have DTH and not cable connections,” Mr. Ravi says. However, TSAT CEO R. Shailesh Reddy, says the channels can be accessed through its app as well. Those with smart phones can access both Vidya and Nipuna apart from other social media channels. They are live on Youtube, Facebook and T-SAT website. He says one hour streaming will consume about 50 MB and, considering that students have to attend not more than two to three hours, data consumption is quite affordable as telephone companies are offering minimum of 1 GB per day. In fact, the web channels support even 2G and 3G technology, so students may not face many issues is what the government’s argument is. Mr. Reddy said so far the Board of Intermediate has sought 14-hour slot, the School Education department has sought four hours while both the Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare institutions want four hours each. So, as of now 26 hours have been requested and both channels can easily fit the requests. “Most of the classes will be through recorded videos but if the departments want to go live TSAT has the technology.” School Education department officials say at least 80% of students will be covered by TSAT channels and Doordarshan and teachers have been asked to reach out to the unconnected involving local gram panchayats and taking the assistance of educated youth in the villages. Tuesday’s guidelines put the onus on teachers of monitoring students giving them assignments on WhatsApp or other forms.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR for action plan on unused land meant for industrial units||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has directed officials to evolve an action plan related to land allotted to industrial units but not used for the purpose in spite of time lapse. The officials concerned were directed to serve notices on the companies that were yet to start operations after being allotted the required land. “Notices should also be served on the firms that had completed processes and obtained clearances like change of land use, but were yet to start operations in the allotted land,” he said. The Minister reviewed the status of land allotted to different industrial units that were lying idle after considerable lapse of time with senior officials on Tuesday. He said the government had decided to allot land to industry as part of efforts to set up units and generate large-scale employment for the local youth. “It is for the companies to ensure that they fulfilled their assurances of setting up their units and creating a job potential within the stipulated time. Show-cause notices should be served to all such firms that did not commence operations in the stipulated time,” Mr. Rama Rao said. Blue book on industries He wanted the officials to focus on creating a ‘blue book’ containing complete data pertaining to all industrial units in the State. “The blue book should have comprehensive information about the companies and their operations so as to reflect the inclusive spirit. Such data will also be helpful for activities in other sectors,” he added. e-SFC launched The Minister launched e-SFC, the digital platform of the State Finance Corporation, and reviewed the activities taken up by the corporation. He wanted officials to take steps to widen the ambit of activities of the SFC assuring that the government was prepared to extend its cooperation in this direction. Mr. Rama Rao made several suggestions with respect to the State’s stand on bifurcation of assets and liabilities of the State Finance Corporation, which was yet to be completed.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs maximum rise in Kharif cultivation||Telangana State has achieved the distinction of registering the highest increase in the cultivation of Kharif (Vaanakalam) crops in the country with about 36.6% higher extent compared to the last year, although the sowing/transplantation operations are due in about 20% of the planned extent each in four districts and about 10% each in another seven districts. According to the statistics issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare for the week ending August 21, increase in the cultivation of Kharif crops in Telangana is 36.59% compared to the same period last year. Only three other States have registered over 30% increase in cultivation of crops in the first season of the 2020-21 agriculture year – Jharkhand (36.01%), Tamil Nadu (35.14%) and Karnataka (30.3%). Only four other States have over 10% increase in the extent so far this season with 18.47% increase in Manipur, 16.23% in Bihar, 12.68% in Andhra Pradesh and 10.88% in West Bengal. As on August 21, Vaanakalam crops have been sown/transplanted in 125.81 lakh acres against 92.14 lakh acres till the corresponding day last year, Agriculture Production Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy has said. As on Tuesday (August 25) cultivation of crops has reached 126.02 lakh acres against the planned extent of 125.45 lakh acres for the entire season. Coupled with horticultural crops, vegetables and short-duration fruits (non-plantation) taken up in another 8.68 lakh acres, the extent covered so far is 134.70 lakh acres this season. “With transplantation/sowing of crops remaining in about 20% of the planned extent each in four districts and up to 10% each in another seven districts, the total extent of Vaanakalam crops is expected to cross 140 lakh acres including vegetables”, a senior official in the Agriculture Department said. Cultivation of Vaanakalam crops as on Tuesday is 80% in Suryapet district, 81% in Wanaparthy and 88% each in Mulug and Peddapalli districts. Sowing/transplantation of Kharif crops in seven other district has also not reached the planned extent yet. The districts where it has not reached the planned extent include Jogulamba-Gadwal and Nirmal (91% each), Jayashankar-Bhupalapally (92%), Narayanpet and Karimnagar (93% each) and Kamareddy and Mancherial (94% each). Cultivation of planned extent has also been not reached in Nizamabad, Warangal Rural, Jagitial and Rajanna-Sircilla in smaller area. Vikarabad district tops the State in Kharif cultivation as it has covered 24% higher extent than planned area followed by 19% in Jangaon, 13% in Sangareddy, 9% in Rangareddy, 8% in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 7% in Mahabubnagar, 6% each in Nagarkurnool and Bhadradri-Kothagudem and 5% in Warangal Urban district. Cultivation has been 100% of the planned extent or little more in Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Adilabad, Khammam and Nalgonda districts.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At least 2 cases of re-infection in TS||Despite recovering from COVID-19, lingering doubts about re-infection bother some people who have successfully beaten the infection. Doubts gained strength after researchers at University of Hong Kong on Monday announced a first documented case of reinfection. A man from Hong Kong who recovered from COVID was detected with the infection again. In Telangana too, at least two cases of reinfection with coronavirus have come to the notice of State Health department officials. Citing research, senior health officials said the symptoms in the second bout are mild. Till August 25, 10,8760 cases of COVID were recorded in the State. The officials got to know about one such case among their colleague who was closely involved in COVID management work in the State Health campus, Koti. Another is a dean of a prominent central government hospital in Hyderabad. More such cases have come to the notice of the health officials. Infection status However, the State’s Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao expressed doubts about infection status of people who were asymptomatic in the first bout. He said that if a person who has reported re-infection did not have symptoms during 14-17 days of the first bout, he will rather take it as a false positive because both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests have certain limitations. “Even RT PCR gives false positives. Rapid Antigen Test gives less false positives,” Dr Rao said. Genome sequence analysis of the virus which caused the first and second bout of infection in Hong Kong man was carried out and it was found that there were differences in the two strains. When asked if the State Health department will coordinate with a research institute to carry out genome sequencing to establish if there is any cases of re-infection in Telangana too, Dr Rao said that they will compile information about cases of reinfection recorded here and share it with research institutes so that they can come out with some conclusions. Virus strains He added that since people from European Union, other countries have migrated to India, virus strains present there will be present in our country too. “There are some myths about herd immunity. We cannot assume that herd immunity will take care of people. This is a new virus and research into various aspects of the virus is on. It is better for people to continue maintaining all precautions, regardless of whether they got COVID and recovered, or not infected yet,” Dr Rao said on sidelines of the press conference held in State Health campus, Koti, on Tuesday. During the press conference, Director of Medical Education K Ramesh Reddy said that though people take vaccines for various diseases, some who get vaccinated might get infected with the disease again. “But its effect will be less when compared to the people who did not get vaccinated and got infected,” Dr Reddy said. He too stressed that people who have recovered have to continue maintaining precautions.  We cannot assume that herd immunity will take care of people. This is a new virus and research is on. G. Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fact-finding team blames it on systemic failure||A fact-finding report by the Women and Transgender Organisations’ JAC has blamed criminal negligence on the part of officials responsible and systemic failure for the death of the orphan girl who had been a victim of sexual assault at an orphanage at Ameenpur in Sangareddy district. Directing several questions at officials, a statement issued by the JAC on Tuesday demanded thorough investigation into the incident and severe punishment to the culprits. The child, staying in Maruthi Orphanage, was sent away to a relativess home on March 21, when she was sick. The repeated sexual assaults on the child came to light only on July 30, and the next day, a police complaint was lodged. Though it was known that the girl needed medical attention, she was admitted to Niloufer Hospital only a week later, thus losing precious time, the fact-finding report alleged. Inquiry should be conducted into why the girl had not been sent to hospital from Bharosa Centre on August 1, despite visible torture marks on her body. Holding the Child Welfare Committee of Rangareddy district too responsible, the report sought to know why the CWC which had recorded the girl’s statement on August 3, filed a case against her relatives only four days later. The girl’s aunt, Preethi, who, along with the JAC members, addressed a press conference on Tuesday, alleged that a statement had been extracted from her by the CWC, that she wished to hand over the girl to government shelter home, when all she sought was treatment for the child. The statement also alleged pressure by the CWC on the Jeedimetla police for arrest of the relatives under the POCSO Act, even while not mentioning the sexual assault at the orphanage and the related FIR in the complaint. While medical supervision was mentioned as reason for the girl being referred to the government shelter home in Nimboli Adda on August 3, the home officials had not bothered to admit the girl in hospital till four days later. ‘Tragic circumstances’ The girl died in tragic circumstances because her health condition had not been taken seriously by the systems entrusted with her protection, the statement said, demanding fair investigation and action against all the officials responsible, including those who delayed arrest of the accused. The JAC also demanded thorough inquiry into the credentials of all registered and unregistered homes and orphanages across the State. Future incidents should be precluded through transparency in monitoring. Child care institutions which did not adhere to the guidelines by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights and National Commission for Women, should be de-recognised, and government should take responsibility of children lodged in them. K. Sajaya, social activist, Sandhya of Progressive Organisation of Women, Sujatha Surepally of Dalit Women Collective, Khaleeda Parveen of Amoomat Society and K. Satyavathi of Bhumika Women’s Collective addressed the press meet.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor visits theme park under development||The GHMC is developing a ‘Multi Generation Theme Park’ in Mayuri Nagar Colony, Miyapur Division, which Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan visited on Tuesday, along with MLA Arekapudi Gandhi. The park is being developed on 3.5 acres of land with a cost of Rs. 2 crore, and encompasses activities for all age groups, including a test for enhancing memory, a press statement by GMC said. Further, the park includes artistic gazebo, Yoga areas, three play areas for different age groups, separate track for the disabled, laughing mirror area, picnic area, library, amphitheatre, silly maze, lawn bowling, and outdoor fitness areas with seating facilities. This is part of the 320 parks and 50 theme parks being developed by GHMC following instructions from Minister for Municipal Administration K.T.Rama Rao, the statement said. Of the 50, nine theme parks are being developed in Serilingampally zone alone. Thye Mayor also visited the Gurunadham Cheruvu and inspected water hyacinth removal and formation of walking track.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NEP aims at world class education, says Pokhriyal||The National Education Policy (NEP) is aimed at ensuring world class education in the country. Along with Atma Nirbhar Bharat, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has to play a key role in successful accomplishment of projects, being one of the Institutes of Eminence, said Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Tuesday. Inaugurating the annex building of the School of Humanities virtually, he stressed on ideas of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ and ‘Sarve Bhavantu Sukhena’ and highlighted the importance of ‘Gyan, Vigyan and Anusandhan’. Reiterating the importance of languages and language studies, the Minister said, “Languages like Sanskrit are a storehouse of knowledge. We need to know these languages to unearth the valuable knowledge of ancient times.” Union Minister of State (MoS) Sanjay Dhotre said that the NEP’s multi-disciplinary approach has to be acknowledged and through it, “We can achieve higher quality education rooted in Indianness.” He emphasised the role of the university in imparting world class education and taking the country’s name higher. He added, “Thereby, we will achieve ‘Ek Bharat, Shresht Bharat.” Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy hailed the NEP and urged the university to seize the opportunity to improve its research potential. He wished to see UoH in the list of top 100 universities in the world in the near future. UoH vice-chancellor Appa Rao Podile said the new building will accommodate the ‘Centre for English Language Studies’ and the ‘Department of Sanskrit Studies’ and other units, which did not have space until now. He also urged the Minister to lay down the foundation of the east campus of the university.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private hospitals to be looked at when govt. COVID beds are full||Fifty per cent beds in private hospitals will be brought under the control of State government if all COVID beds in government hospitals are filled, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. On August 13, Health Minister Eatala Rajender stated that managements of private or corporate hospitals have offered 50% of their bed capacity to the government. However, managements of the corporate hospitals said that the terms for offering the beds were yet to the discussed. Dr Rao said around two meetings were held with them thereafter and some changes in proposals were suggested. Answering a question during a press conference held at his office in State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday afternoon, he said that 50% beds will be taken over during unforeseen situations. “When all beds in our (government) hospitals are filled, we will create a system to admit patients in private hospitals,” he said. Asked about the cost of treatment for those 50% beds, Dr. Srinivasa Rao said that free treatment is provided only at government hospitals where high-end treatment is provided, senior doctors, technicians and nurses are available. He asked people to get admitted to government hospitals and not to spend huge amounts of money for COVID treatment. More ventilators Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said while 100% oxygen beds are available at some government hospitals, the same extent of facilities are not available in private hospitals. “We have over 1,300 ventilators. Such infrastructure is not available at all the private hospitals put together,” he said.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ready master plan for Pharma City: Minister||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has directed officials to prepare a comprehensive master plan for developing the upcoming Pharma City project as per international standards and make it pollution-free. “Officials of the Industries department had visited several industrial clusters within the country and abroad and studied their operations. Pharma City coming up near Hyderabad should also be of the same standards,” he said. The Minister reviewed the progress of Pharma City works with senior officials on Tuesday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, and secretaries of Finance, Industries, Municipal Administration and other departments, participated in the meeting. The officials briefed the Minister about the brisk pace at which the works relating to basic infrastructure in the Pharma City were progressing and informed that several companies, including MNCS, evinced keen interest in setting up their units there. He recalled that several aspects including wind flow had been taken into consideration for Pharma City and the master plan had incorporated the best practices that should be set up in the initiative. He wanted a centralised treatment facility in Pharma City so that treatment methods of international standards could be put in place so that there was no cause of concern in respect to environment issues. Steps were being taken to ensure that people working in Pharma City were provided housing and other facilities within the same area and this would in turn lead to setting up of high quality educational institutions around the project.  Officials had visited several industrial clusters within the country and abroad and studied their operations. Pharma City should also be of the same standards. K.T. Rama Rao
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR moves first fly-ash rake to ACC plant||South Central Railway is transporting the first fly-ash rake from Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) located near Jaipur mandal of Mancherial district, Telangana, to ACC premises at Wadi in Karnataka State. First loading of fly-ash commenced on Sunday and was completed on Monday with the rake being loaded towards Wadi, a distance of 430 km. The special freight train consists of 57 BCCW wagons and is to transport 3,876 metric tonnes of fly-ash, earning a revenue of Rs. 26,12,754. The initiative is likely to not only generate additional loading and revenue but is also an environmental friendly means of transporting fly ash as earlier it was done by road, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya. The newly set-up business development unit of Secunderabad division has played a key in bringing this new traffic, said a press release.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day after insurance clamour, govt. assures help to COVID warriors||Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said the government is working to ensure Rs. 50 lakh insurance benefit to healthcare professionals who have succumbed to COVID-19. Of the 80,000 to 1 lakh medical professionals in Telangana who have been rendering COVID-19 services, over 2,000 have contracted the infectious disease and at least 14 have died. At a press conference held at State Health Campus, Koti, on Tuesday afternoon, he displayed a document to show their work in this direction. He said that an officer has been appointed to process documentation work related to it. He, along with Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao, said that they always immediately respond when a healthcare worker contracts COVID-19. After the death of 35-year-old doctor G. Naresh Kumar, who contracted COVID-19 and died on August 7, the demand for ex-gratia and insurance policy for the professionals has increased. Dr Naresh was Deputy District Medical and Health Officer in Bhadradri-Kothagudem and headed the Manuguru-based quarantine centre. He succumbed to the virus after battling it for over a week. Associations comprising doctors and nurses requested the State government to extend financial help to Dr Kumar’s family. When there was no announcement in that regard for over 10 days, doctors and nurses decided to hold press conference on August 24 to raise the demand. The night before the press meet, Health Minister Eatala Rajender announced that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has given his assent to provide a gazetted job to Dr Kumar’s wife and that a decision was taken to announce ex-gratia too.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Big drop in complaints against private hospitals||The number of complaints lodged against private hospitals which offer COVID-19 treatment have dropped of late. Earlier, around 20 to 25 complaints were being received in a day. “Now, they have dropped to six to eight a day, including around four related to surplus billing,” said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. The Health department had announced a WhatsApp number (91541-70960) apart from ‘104’ to register grievances regarding surplus billing, lapses in treatment any other issue faced by patients and their families at private hospitals. Till date, around 2,000 complaints have been received. Most prominent among grievances is excess billing for COVID-19 treatment, in violation of ceiling prices announced by the State government on June 15. Other grievances include managements’ demand for clearing pending bills as a condition to hand over body, lapses in services and denying insurance policies. A team was formed to investigate the complaints. A few weeks ago, permission given to two private hospitals to treat COVID patients was revoked. Answering a question on why action was not taken against more private hospitals, he said “We might take action against a few more hospitals,” he said.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Greenko, NTPC tie up for various solutions||Greenko Energies and NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam (NVVN) have entered into a memorandum of understanding to explore possibility of development of renewable energy-based round-the-clock, flexible and despatchable power supply based on integration of RE sources and pumped storage projects. The value proposition of the potential offering will be to meet the evolving bespoke requirements of discoms and other power consumers in India in real-time. Affordable energy storage is critical to sustained growth of renewables, grid balancing and address limited generation flexibility in the Indian energy market, a release from Greenko on Tuesday said. Greenko is one of the largest RE developers in India, with a total asset base of 6.4 GW (operational and near-term portfolio), while NVVN is a wholly owned subsidiary of power generator NTPC. A leading power trading company with strong footprints in domestic and cross border market, NVVN holds the highest category trading license ‘I’ issued by CERC. It is currently expanding its portfolio into RE (solar and non-solar) and e-Mobility segments. Greenko said it was developing and building over 40 GWh of pumped hydro storage projects across 6 States.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC cleanliness drive in parks||The GHMC is going to take up a week-long cleanliness drive in all the city’s parks from August 28 to September 4. GHMC commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar issued directions to zonal commissioners, deputy commissioners, and deputy directors of the Urban Biodiversity wing, regarding an action-plan for the drive. They were asked to take stock of the open gyms, sports facilities and study rooms and submit a report. As part of the drive, repairs should be taken up to compound walls, footpaths, and toilets wherever they were damaged, besides cleaning up the surroundings. Repairs should also be carried out to children’s play equipment, and equipment in the open gyms. Betterment of these facilities should be conceptualised. Tree parks without maintenance and security should be cleaned up, and encroachments hindering development of new parks should be removed. Officials concerned should inspect all the parks in their respective purviews, and include corporators and other public representatives in the drive, the Commissioner directed.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||300 million world over can have their forests restored: study||A study by an international group of experts from various international universities and institutions estimates that close to 300 million people in tropics live in areas with high potential for forest restoration. Published in the journal ‘Nature Ecology & Evolution’, the research paper titled ‘Global forest restoration and the importance of prioritising local communities’, has been written by experts based at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, Dartmouth College and the University of Michigan, USA, University of Manchester and the University of Sheffield from the UK. This is one of the first comprehensive studies to examine to what extent tropical forest restoration overlaps with global populations and development, a statement by ISB said on Tuesday. ‘High potential’ The research estimates that 294.5 million people presently live in areas with high potential for forest restoration in the tropics, and that over one billion people live within 8 km of high-potential sites. In low-income countries, almost 12% of the population lives in areas considered important for forest restoration.The study said most forest restoration opportunity areas and their associated populations were found in countries with strong legal foundations for community forest ownership. Twenty two countries, including India, contain two-thirds of forest restoration opportunity areas. The team was led by James Erbaugh from Dartmouth College, and included Ashwini Chhatre, Public Policy expert from ISB as co-author.
26 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti to visit govt. hospitals in all districts||To understand the problems in government hospitals first hand, Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka is embarking on a 11-day tour of hospitals in Telangana from Wednesday, covering all the districts. During his tour that will kick off from the Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, he will speak to doctors, medical professionals and patients trying to understand the facilities available to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. On the first day he will cover Khammam and Mulugu districts. On the second day he will cover the area hospitals in Karimnagar, Peddapalli, Mancherial district before proceeding to Komaram Bheem Asifabad, Adilabad and Nirmal. The next day he will visit Nizamabad and Jagtial districts followed by hospitals in Sircilla, Kamareddy, Medak and Sangareddy.
26 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. seeks white paper||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasuer Gudur Narayana Reddy alleged that the TRS government was misleading the poor on the issue of promises of giving them double bed room houses and demanded a white paper on 2BHK houses covering 2.50 lakh 2BHK units sanctioned and the 20 lakh applications received. In a statement, the Congress leader said that as against the total sanctioned 2,80,616 2BHK houses, not even 5% houses hade been constructed and not even 1% of the houses had been given possession.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Critical COVID patient delivers pre-term baby||A COVID-positive pregnant woman in critical condition, under treatment for infertility and on ventilator support, successfully delivered a pre-term baby at Apollo Hospitals. Doctors at the Apollo Hospitals said that the mother and child, who are now healthy, were discharged. The patient, identified as Manjula, and her husband were married for seven years and longed for a child. Ms Manjula was in her seventh month of pregnancy and was being treated for a condition connected to infertility. She was infected with the novel coronavirus and was brought to the hospital on July 15, doctors said. After she was admitted, doctors observed that her condition had started to deteriorate which led them to decide that the patient should be given ventilator support. Doctors said that when expecting mothers are in need of ventilation, nearly 90% either succumb, or deliver stillborn pre-term babies. Doctors said they faced several challenges as they treated the patient. In due course of the treatment, the patient had stopped responding. As the chances of survival of the patient were grim, doctors then decided to save the baby, who too was found to be unresponsive to resuscitation. However, the baby began to recover and was discharged on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man arrested for ‘extorting’ from acquaintance||The Central Crime Station on Tuesday announced the arrest of a man, said to be in the explosives manufacturing business, for allegedly extorting from and cheating an acquaintance to the tune of Rs. 3.60 crore. According to the police, the accused is Kapil Rajendra Kumar Baheti. Police said when the complainant, A Vijay Kumar, also in the explosives business, and a resident of Hyderabad, was arrested last year for allegedly transporting 10 tonnes of Ammonia without permission, the accused allegedly tried to intervene and promised the complainant that he would secure his release after bribing police officials. Police said that the complainant believed the accused and paid him Rs. 60 lakh by means of a hawala agent. After this the accused told the complainant that Rs. 2 crore more was required for closing the case, after which the complainant paid Rs. 1.50 crore. However, the complainant was released on regular bail. Police said that the complainant transferred Rs. 35 lakh mor ethrough bank. Later, when the complainant’s godown was raided by the Special Operations Team and a case under the Explosives Act was registered, the accused demanded an additional Rs. 55 lakh which the complainant paid. It was only much later the complainant realised that the accused had not helped him in any way. When the complainant refused to pay any more money, the accused threatened him with action by the Bihar’s Anti-Terror Squad, police said. Police said a special team was formed to nab the accused and he was brought from Pune to CCS. He would be produced in a local court.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rich tributes paid to Suravaram||Rich tributes were paid to freedom fighter Suravaram Prathap Reddy on his 67th death anniversary at Wanaparthy on Tuesday. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy and Alampur legislator V.M. Abraham laid foundation stone for the installation of his bronze statue on September 9. Stating that Suravaram Prathap Reddy was the pride of Palamuru, combined Mahabubnagar district, through his social, cultural and literary movements although he was a legislator only for a brief period of 13 months, the Minister said that Suravaram’s efforts for the enlightenment of the society should be made known to present and future generations. He stated that the bronze statue would be unveiled on September 9 coinciding with the birth anniversary of Kaloji Narayana Rao and Telangana Language Day. Mr. Reddy said that Suravaram’s statue was being planned on the suggestions of literary lovers and Telangana supporters.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leaders console victim’s kin||Telangana BJP leaders led by party president Bandi Sanjay, on Tuesday, met the family members of the late Srinivas Goud, one of the senior engineers who died in the fire mishap at Srisailam hydel power plant, at Champapet and offered their condolences. Accompanied by city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao, general secretary G. Premanander Reddy and others, Mr. Sanjay recalled the supreme sacrifice made by the engineer in an effort to save the power plant from getting destroyed in the fire. “While any amount of money will not compensate for the loss of the bread-earning family member,” he urged the State government to sanction an ex gratia of Rs. 2 crore to the victims’ families. Union MoS for Home G. Kishan Reddy also spoke to the family over the phone.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dr. Reddy’s forays into hospital nutrition segment||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Tuesday said it is foraying into the hospital nutrition segment in India with nutrition drink, Celevida Maxx. The product, which contains a unique triple action formula of high protein and high omega-3 fatty acids, is designed to help manage nutritional needs of cancer, critical care and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients, a release said. Priced at Rs. 2,240 for 462 grams, Celevida Maxx is a prescription product and available at hospital chemists, chain pharmacies, pharmacies and e-commerce as well, it said.
26 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident||A man driving an autorickshaw succumbed to injuries in Abdullapurmet after he lost control of the vehicle and hit a divider on National Highway 65. According to the Abdullapurmet police, D Yadaiah (54), left home at Anajpur village late on Monday night and was driving towards the highway. As he proceeded towards the Abdullapurmet T-junction, he lost control and crashed into a road divider and was seriously injured. He died at a hospital on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||10-foot python found trapped in fishing net||A 10-foot-long python was rescued by Forest Department staff after it was found trapped in a fishing net at a local pond near Vandanam village in Chintakani mandal on Tuesday. Local fishermen spread out nets in the Vandanam cheruvu, which was filled to the brim under the impact of the recent spell of intense rains, on Tuesday morning, and were in for a shock when they found a huge python trapped in one of the fishing nets a little later. The incident caused a flutter in the area surrounding the pond. Alerted by panic-stricken locals, a team of Forest Department personnel reached the spot and rescued the python from the net. The staff shifted it to a forest area from where it was released into its natural habitat. The Forest officials suspect that the inflows from the upstream areas spread along the Velugumatla reserve forest area may have brought the huge python into the local pond. The timely rescue operation by the Forest staff on Tuesday earned them praise from locals.
26 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Council sessions as per COVID protocol’||Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy on Tuesday said the sixth session of the Legislative Assembly and the 16th session of the Council, which is scheduled to start on September 7, will be conducted with all safety measures in view of COVID-19. Speaking to mediapersons at his residence here on Tuesday, he said several arrangements were already in place as per COVID-19 protocol. “Physical distancing norms will be enforced, and every entrance and exit point will be equipped with automated thermal screening facility. There will be no room for any apprehensions,” he said.
26 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Land oustee ends life over debt burden||Unable to bear financial burden, a farmer who was a resident of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal, hanged himself on Monday. Gudatipally village would be submerged under the Gouravelli reservoir. Baddam Raji Reddy (25) was a graduate from Malla Reddy Engineering College. His last rites were performed on Tuesday. The victim was the elder son in the family. His father, Malla Reddy, met with an accident about an year ago, that made his left hand disabled. According to sources, they had to shell out over Rs. 10 lakh for his treatment. Raji Reddy’s younger brother Pavan Kalyan is mentally challenged. And it had already cost the family a fortune to get him treated. The family had about six acres but the entire land was taken over by the government for which they had received compensation. With that relief amount and some money lent from others, the family purchased some land near Akkannapet mandal headquarters. However, they were yet to get compensation for a house and Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package. The debts of the family added to over Rs. 15 lakh. Raji Reddy was hopeful of getting all the compensations on time to clear his debts. “The family had given consent for house compensation two years ago but were not paid off. Even on Monday, Malla Reddy met revenue officials for the same reason. He found his son hanging when he returned. Had the officials released the due Rs. 18 lakh, he would not have committed suicide,” B. Raji Reddy, sarpanch of the village, told The Hindu .
26 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||PIC BRF||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Fisheries Minister T. Srinivas Yadav said that Telangana is the only State releasing fish seed free of cost into all tanks. Both the ministers released fish seed at Kondapochammasagar at Markook mandal on Tuesday. Later speaking to the media, they said that prawns will also be released into tanks in the near future.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Capital’s air quality improves but still worst among big cities’||Throughout the COVID-19 lockdown — though air pollution in Delhi was less compared to 2019 — the air quality of the city was still worst among six large cities in different parameters, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), accessed by The Hindu . Among the six “mega cities” — Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangalore — other cities had better air quality than Delhi, in terms of PM2.5 levels, as per the analysis. Local meteorological events have also influenced the air quality of different cities. Except Delhi, the daily average PM2.5 (particulate matter) levels of none of the other five cities exceeded the safe value (60 micrograms per cubic metre) during the lockdown from March 25 to May 31, according to the study. But Delhi exceeded the safe limit after 14 days. PM2.5 is fine inhalable particles, which can get deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream and cause respiratory diseases. Also, among the cleanest days of these cities in the same period, Delhi had the highest value of PM2.5 and Kolkata had the lowest. A higher value of PM2.5 means more pollution. Worst performer “Among mega cities, Delhi is the worst performer. But if you include tier-1 cities also, then Lucknow and Patna are worse than Delhi,” said Avikal Somvanshi, a programme manager at CSE, who co-authored the analysis with Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of CSE. The daily average PM2.5 levels in Delhi had breached the safe value on 56 days between March 25 and May 31 in 2019 and it exceeded the safe limit on 14 days this year, which is 75% less, according to the analysis. But this year, none of the other five cities had breached the safe limit during the lockdown, the analysis said. Also, on 50 days, at least one station in the city exceeded the PM2.5 daily standard value, whereas Mumbai had no such days and Hyderabad has only one such day. Last year, the same value for Delhi was 67 and has seen about 25% reduction this year. But other cities recorded much higher reductions. “Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata had 91%, 88%, 91%, and 76% lesser number of days respectively, with at least one city station exceeding the daily standard,” the analysis said. Cleaner than monsoon? The researchers also compared average PM2.5 value for 54 days from March 25 to May 17, when the lockdown was stricter, to a rolling average of 54 days in 2019 and found that for Chennai and Kolkata, this year’s value was lesser than last year’s average of cleanest 54 days. The cleanest period is usually during monsoon and this essentially means that the PM2.5 levels of Chennai and Kolkata were better during the lockdown than last year’s monsoon, according to Mr. Somvanshi. In Bangalore and Delhi, the average air quality during 54 days of lockdown was only 20% worse than last year’s monsoon.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Drunk college students arrested for abusing police after accident||A 20-year-old mass communication student, his father, and his friend have been arrested for allegedly abusing and manhandling public and the police after the accused rammed a car in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park area, the police said on Tuesday. The two youth were heavily drunk at the time of the incident. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused have been identified as Rohan, a second-year mass communication student of a famous private college in Noida and a resident of Greater Kailash-1. His friend Anish Raghav is a resident of Sahibabad, and Rohan’s father Ajay Mahipal is a businessman. According to the police, information was received in the wee hours of Monday regarding an accident. It was revealed that the two youth rammed their vehicle into the luxury car owned by one Sukumar Roy, a resident of Kalkaji. When people gathered and questioned them, they allegedly abused them and also called Rohan’s father. When the officers tried to diffuse the situation, the accused started fighting with the police and also tore their uniform. Slapped an officer When Mr. Mahipal reached, his conduct was same as his son, the police said, adding that they were all taken to the police station. “The accused also slapped an officer inside the police station,” Mr. Thakur said, adding that four police officers were injured in the incident. A case under relevant sections of IPC has been registered and further investigation is under way, the police said.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Departmental inquiry against constable after video goes viral||A departmental inquiry has been initiated against a Delhi Police constable after a video of him thrashing a person in RK Puram went viral on the social media, police said on Tuesday. In the video, the policeman can be seen thrashing a pavement dweller with a stick. He is folding his hands and pleading with the constable to stop as another officer stands at a distance watching. DCP (South-West) Devender Arya said: “The beat staff patrolling near Ekta Vihar, JJ camp, saw four-five boys sitting around a public toilet. Since they were briefed about repeated concerns raised by women of nearby camps, who had been using the public toilet, the staffers asked the boys to leave the place immediately. However, during their second round, they saw the boys again and ‘chased them away’.”
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU can’t expect 70% attendance when classes not conducted throughout: HC||The High Court on Tuesday remarked that Delhi University cannot expect students to have 70% minimum attendance to sit for exams if it was not taking classes for the entire period prescribed for a course. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan told the varsity that it cannot ask students to have 70% minimum attendance while it teaches only 40% of the prescribed study period. The court’s observation came while hearing a plea of a law student who could not sit for his first semester exam last year on medical grounds. It issued notice to the Centre, Bar Council of India and the university seeking their stand on the student’s appeal. The student has challenged a decision of a Single Judge Bench of the High Court last November dismissing his plea seeking waiver of shortage of attendance and allowing him to sit for his first semester exam. During the hearing, the Bench said there should be some mechanism to take care of students like the petitioner. The students’ counsel said that representations were made to the varsity to allow the student to sit for the exam despite lack of attendance in view of his continuing illness. However, no response was received and later he was told that his name would be struck off from the varsity rolls.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students, teachers express concern over e-education||Students and teachers across universities in the city spoke about the problems they have been facing due to the pandemic at a discussion organised by the SFI on Tuesday. They spoke about how the open book examinations conducted by Delhi University was riddled with problems as it relied heavily on the Internet while in reality, students across the country did not have access to reliable Net connections. They also said that how the National Education Policy was relying overly on technology that was unrealistic. Abha Dev Habib, who teaches at Miranda House, said the exams have been difficult for teachers too and represent a zero sense of reality. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said the online exam and the current registration for the new semester in online mode was in a complete state of chaos and needed to be deferred.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Respond to plea by riot case accused’||The High Court on Tuesday asked Delhi Police to respond to a plea by an accused arrested in connection with north-east Delhi riots case, challenging a trial court’s order extending time granted to complete investigation in the case. Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice to Delhi Police on a plea of Khalid, a member of campaign group United Against Hate, who has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Mr. Khalid has sought to set aside the trial court’s August 13 order by which police was granted extension till September 17 to complete investigation against 10 people booked under the UAPA in the case. The court has now listed the case for further hearing on September 1.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||EOW arrests 2 for cheating investors||The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested CMD and Director of Amrapali Aadya Trading and Investment Private Limited (AATIPL) in a cheating and embezzlement case. The accused had cheated 124 people of approximately Rs. 100 crore. Joint CP (EOW), O P Mishra, said that the accused have been identified as Sanjeev Kumar Sinha and Narayan Thakur.
26 August 2020||Bhopal,||In festival season, pandemic breaks spirit of Bhopal idol makers||Every monsoon, Bharat Singh Prajapati’s workshop bustled with activity — workers from West Bengal moulding clay idols, his four children lending them a hand, and customers streaming in and out. But restrictions on public gatherings this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic have left a numbing impact on the potter of 25 years. Amid Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, the sight of tens of two-foot idols and scores of taller unfinished ones, some left half-coloured and others needing a final touch, at his makeshift workshop on a temple premises in New Market here piques him. “I wish I had kept my children away from our traditional occupation, so they could have pic-ked something else. The pandemic has stolen away our identity,” says Mr. Prajapati, tears rolling down his cheeks. Restrictions on gatherings, including religious ones, during the pandemic have gnawed away at the livelihoods of Bhopal’s nearly 800 potter families who make the most around Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja. Worse, the government has placed a cap of two feet on idol height too late, just a week ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, by when the potters had already taken orders, invested in raw material and even readied a few idols, now left to decay. The faded colours of a few finished taller idols, due to corrosion from moisture over days, resemble the grim prospects confronting Mr. Prajapati, who sits idle at the temple entrance gate, wondering how to repay Rs. 4 lakh loan that he has taken. Anticipating a normal season bringing in Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh profit, he had taken a loan of Rs. 1 lakh at 10% interest and even mortgaged his house and wife’s jewellery to buy raw material. “We have been able to sell just 10 of 120 idols we made. How will I repay the loan?” he asks. He cancelled another 50 orders, but the buyers, munificent enough, did not ask for the Rs. 20,000 adva-nce back. “Thousands took part in the BJP’s three-day membership drive in Gwalior-Chambal recently, but no one questioned them. Are COVID-19 safety norms meant only for the poor?” asks Mr. Prajapati, wondering why idol tents couldn’t be allowed with precautions and physical distancing. He now pins his hopes on the upcoming Durga Puja, and on selling diya s ahead of Diwali. Reduced demand In the Budhwara area, Mohan Lal Prajapati, among the city’s oldest potters, has sold just 35 of the 100 idols. “Home Minister Narottam Mishra told us two months ago that we could go ahead with making idols, even taller ones, but he later restricted them. This is a betrayal of sorts,” says Mr. Mohan, who has made just Rs. 70,000 this year so far instead of the usual Rs. 2 lakh-Rs. 2.5 lakh. Yet, Mr. Mohan is desperate to sell the remaining idols, even at a loss. With most customers this time preferring smaller and cheaper plaster of Paris (PoP) idols for their homes, he is compelled to sell the two-foot idols for Rs. 1,000 each, which is half the normal price. Transport restrictions have also made raw material costlier. Ajay Prajapati bought a trolley of clay for Rs. 6,500, twice the usual cost. “The irony is that while wine shops, malls and restaurants are open, public gatherings are being restricted,” says Mr. Ajay, a member of the Murtikar Matikala Sangh, a group of sculptors. He said potters would protest outside Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s residence soon, demanding compensation.
26 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR/ GURUGRAM,||Soren being shifted to Gurugram||Former Jharkhand Chief Minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha supremo Sibu Soren, who had tested positive for COVID-19, left for New Delhi by train to get admitted at Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, on Tuesday evening. The leader was admitted in Medanta Hospital, Ranchi. The decision to shift him to Gurugram was taken when inconsistencies in his oxygen level were observed.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Demands for relaxations surge, but Uddhav firm on going slow||While Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is firm on not pushing the State government’s Mission Begin Again, demands, ranging from concessions to single-screen theatre owners and opening gymnasiums to seeking relaxations from e-pass, are increasing every day. A delegation of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors’ Association of India on Tuesday held a meeting with Nationalist Congress Party MP Supriya Sule and submitted a list of demands, including concessions in electricity bills, exemption from property tax, and soft loans with minimum rates. “The single-screen theatre owners are under financial problems due to the pandemic. I appeal to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to consider their demands and find a way out,” she said. Last week, a delegation of gymnasium owners met Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, who had raised the demand to restart the gyms in the State. Following the Centre’s decision to allow vehicular movement without e-pass, the State government is under pressure to implement it in Maharashtra. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, however, said that the State will not cancel the e-pass system immediately. “An appropriate decision will soon be taken,” he said. Various representative bodies such as school bus owner representatives are seeking tax exemptions or financial aid from the State government. The hotel industry has also sought reopening of restaurants on the lines of other States. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is demanding opening up of temples. The party’s spiritual coordination front has announced to organise a ‘bell banging’ agitation on August 29. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the State government is not taking decisions on any front. “This government is confused. There is no coordination and nobody knows what is happening. Therefore, there are no decisions, and confusion prevails all over,” he said. While reviewing the COVID-19 situation in Thane district on Monday, Mr. Uddhav Thackeray said that he would not rush to take a decision on reopening. “It has been observed that many parts of the world witnessed a second wave of pandemic and therefore we have to go slowly,” he said. An official from the Finance Department said, “The government, especially the Finance Department, is flooded with requests for financial assistance from all sectors. We are considering all the demands and a decision will be taken.”
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra’s case tally crosses 7 lakh||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 10,425 fresh COVID-19 cases , taking the State’s case tally to 7,03,823, a State health official said. With this, cases in Maharashtra crossed the seven lakh mark. The death toll due to the pandemic in the State rose to 22,794 with 329 fatalities being reported during the day, the official said. There are 1,65,921 active cases in Maharashtra now. As many as 12,300 people were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, taking the number of recovered cases to 5,14,790. Mumbai reported 587 new cases and 35 deaths. The number of COVID-19 cases in the city thus rose to 1,37,683 and the death toll to 7,474. There are 17,938 active coronavirus cases in Mumbai now, the health official said. Pune city reported 1,228 new cases and 36 deaths. The total number of cases in Pune city is 91,485 and the death toll touches 2,381. So far, 37,24,911 tests have been carried out in the State. Of the 329 deaths reported in Maharashtra on Tuesday, 241 deaths had occurred in the last 48 hours while 44 deaths had occurred in the last one week.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||BJP, Cong. spar over banned Chinese app||The Maharashtra units of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday locked horns over the use of Chinese mobile application CamScanner, which was banned by the Central government last month following clashes at the border. Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant referred to a photo of the list, posted by the BJP’s OBC cell president Yogesh Tilekar, announcing the appointments of office-bearers. “China killed 20 of our soldiers. Instead of giving a befitting reply, the Indian government banned 59 Chinese mobile applications, including CamScanner. But the photo posted by the BJP on a social media site shows that the party is still using the app internally,” he said. Calling it the BJP’s fake patriotism, Mr. Sawant said it is the BJP which is raising slogans to boycott Chinese products. “The BJP’s fake patriotism and its strategy to capitalise on people’s anger for political gains have been exposed,” he said, adding that the party’s action is anti-national. As per the Congress claims, a Facebook post by the official webpage of the BJP announcing appointment of office-bearers to the OBC wing of the party showed that the PDF file was made using CamScanner. The BJP said that the Congress’ allegations are false and are based on incomplete information. “The BJP has not used any banned app. This is nothing but a publicity stunt,” BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said. Mr. Upadhye said Mr. Sawant belongs to a party whose president had to apologise for making false accusations in the Rafale case. “It seems the stunt was to divert attention from the ongoing comedy in the Congress over the president’s post,” he said.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Saw ground floor pillars breaking as I ran out’||Mustafa Chaphekar and his family members, all residents of the ill-fated building that collapsed in Raigad, had a narrow escape as they rushed out just before the structure came crashing down. They had barely reached the gate of the five-storey building when they saw some pillars of the ground floor breaking into pieces, Mr. Chaphekar said. The building, which had around 40 flats, collapsed on Monday evening. According to the police, a man, who was not a resident of the building, died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, and 19 people were still missing. Mr. Chaphekar said he was at home when he suddenly felt “tremors”, following which he ran out into the balcony of his flat and asked others what was happening. Some people asked him to come out as the building was on the verge of collapse, he said. Mr. Chaphekar then quickly rushed out along with his family members. Before leaving, he knocked the door of his neighbour and alerted him, he said. “As my family members and I left the building, I heard a loud sound. When I turned back, I saw two-three pillars of the ground floor breaking into pieces,” he said. Mr. Chaphekar said since he and his family came to live in the building in 2013-14, there were issues related to substandard work and incidents of falling of plaster. The problems increased in the next two years, following which the residents had a meeting with the builder, but he was reluctant to carry out repair work, he said. “The builder told us that he had constructed the building and given it to us, now it was up to us what to do with it,” he said.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC asks jail authorities to take Rakesh Wadhawan to hospital||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Arthur Road Jail authorities to take Rakesh Wadhawan, promoter-director of HDIL, to the civic-run KEM Hospital for colonoscopy and endoscopy. A Division Bench headed by Justice R.D. Dhanuka also sought a medical report from the hospital. Mr. Wadhawan (67) and his son Sarang are facing a case of alleged Rs. 4,000 crore money laundering in the PMC Bank scam, and have been in jail since October 2019. The sessions court had on August 18 directed the jail authorities to take Mr. Wadhawan to either KEM Hospital or Nair Hospital for tests. As the jail authorities failed to follow the order, Mr. Wadhawan approached the HC claiming that his health was deteriorating day by day. “We accordingly direct the jail authority to shift the petitioner to KEM Hospital within 48 hours from today for colonoscopy and endoscopy and any other treatment be made available that would be necessitated,” the court said.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||2-day monsoon session begins on September 7||The monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature, deferred a couple of times due to the COVID-19 outbreak, will now be held from September 7 with all precautions in place to curb the infection spread, an official said on Tuesday. It will be a brief session lasting for just two days. The decision to hold the two-day session was taken at a meeting of the business advisory committee of the legislature on Tuesday, the official said. All members of the Assembly and the Council will undergo RT-PCR test on September 6 and only legislators who test negative will be allowed to attend the session, the official said. There will be strict implementation of social distancing norms in the House as well as in the gallery.
26 August 2020||Nagpur,||Nagpur civic chief Mundhe tests positive||Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday said he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “I have tested positive for #COVID19. I am asymptomatic and have isolated myself as per the protocol & guidelines. Request everyone who have come in my contact for last 14 days to get tested,” Mr. Mundhe tweeted. The civic commissioner further said he is working from home to control the pandemic situation.
26 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||APMC yards across State shut over market fee||All APMC yards in State remained shut on Tuesday, in response to a call for strike by Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) and Federation of Associations of Traders of Pune last week. The strike amounted to a halt in the transaction of crores of rupees for a day. Traders voiced their concern over the APMC Act, which the Central government has amended but has not been implemented by the State yet. Due to this, traders operating from the market have to pay 1% market fee in all their trades. By an ordinance dated June 5, the Centre permitted the sale of agricultural produce from farmers to consumer without attracting APMC Act as a result of which, no market fee will be levied on the goods sold outside the market. This is to promote the concept of ‘one nation one market’. “The bandh call was given since no action was taken by State government to mitigate the grievances of APMC traders dealing form within the market yard. While the traders dealing in APMC commodities are exempted from market fee of 1% as per the notification of Govermment of India, the traders dealing with the APMC products inside the market are required to pay this fee since they are the license holder of APMC,” Mr. Gurnani said. CAMIT has requested NCP chief Sharad Pawar and the State government to exempt all traders from the market fee. “We have asked to provide level playing field to the APMC traders of market area,” Mr. Gurnani said.
26 August 2020||Pune,||Solapur school finds a unique way of teaching those without smartphones||With many poor students being unable to afford smartphones for online classes amid the COVID-19 pandemic, a school in Maharashtra’s Solapur city has found a new way of imparting education by painting walls of houses in the vicinity with lessons from textbooks. Around 300 outer walls of various houses in Nilamnagar of Solapur have been painted with simplified lessons from textbooks of various subjects of Classes 1 to 10. This makes it convenient for students to go and stand in front of a particular wall to revise the lessons while following the social distancing guidelines, Ram Gaikwad, a teacher from Asha Marathi Vidyalaya primary school in Nilamnagartold PTI . Nearly 1,700 students from nearby areas study in the primary school and its secondary section Shri Dharmanna Sadul Prashala. Mr. Gaikwad said these students come from poor families as their parents are labourers, mostly working in textile units of the district. “Online education is the new norm in the current COVID-19 situation for which a smartphone with good internet bandwidth is a must. But, the parents of majority of our students do not have smartphones or any other gadget, so online classes is a distant dream for them,” he said. Hence, the school came up with the idea of painting walls of the houses located near the educational institution with lessons from textbooks, he said.“We painted contents from textbooks on the walls of houses in Nilamnagar by making them simpler, comprehensible and interesting. Students, as per their convenience, now go and stand in front of the walls following all the social distancing norms and revise the lessons,” Mr. Gaikwad said. The lessons painted on the walls include introduction to letters, numbers, word and sentence formation, grammar, mathematical formulas, general knowledge, and lessons from various other subjects, he said.
26 August 2020||Moscow,||Kremlin slams German doctors||The Kremlin on Tuesday accused German doctors of being too hasty after they said tests on Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny indicated he had been poisoned. Mr. Navalny,44, who is one of the fiercest critics of President Vladimir Putin, is being treated at Berlin’s Charite hospital after falling ill on a flight in Siberia last Thursday. He was treated in a hospital in Siberia before being transferred to Germany. His supporters claim he was poisoned by something in his cup of tea at a Siberian airport before taking a flight to Moscow, pointing the finger of blame at Putin. The German clinic said on Monday that clinical tests “indicate poisoning with a substance from the group of cholinesterase inhibitors,” substances that are used in nerve agents as well as some medicines and insecticides. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov claimed that Russian medics had diagnosed Mr. Navalny’s condition in a similar way to German doctors but did not know what caused it. ‘Lot of other versions’ “The medical analysis of our doctors and the German ones absolutely matches. But the conclusions differ. We don’t understand why our German colleagues are in such a hurry. The substance hasn’t yet been established,” he told journalists. He cast doubt on the German government’s statement that it was “fairly likely” that Mr. Navalny was poisoned, saying there could be another cause for his illness.“We can only partially agree... There is a likelihood of something else too.” Asked whether he believed that Mr. Navalny had been poisoned for his political activities, Mr. Peskov said: “We can’t consider anything because we don’t know whether this was a poisoning.” He acknowledged this was a possibility, saying that poisoning “can be seen as one of the many versions.” Mr. Peskov said that until the substance that caused Mr. Navalny’s condition was identified, there were no grounds for opening a criminal investigation into the poisoning. He said Russian medics had detected a low level of the cholinesterase enzyme and treated him with the antidote atropine.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Republicans defend Trump’s record||Day One of the Republican National Convention kicked off on Monday, with the evening’s speeches dwelling on several common themes. The speeches and taped conversations sought to paint a different picture of U.S President Donald Trump’s handling of the pandemic thus far — a picture that contradicts the record of the U.S. being the worst-hit country globally, with more than 5.7 million cases and over 175,000 deaths. Other themes for the evening included the portrayal of the Democrats and their presidential nominee Joe Biden as radicals wanting to spread chaos and anarchy across the country and wanting to get rid of suburban communities and take away freedom from Americans. Several speakers, including those from minority communities, such as former U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., Indian American Nikki Haley, African American Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, African American footballer and Trump adviser Herschel Walker, defended Mr. Trump’s and the GOP’s record on race. Mr. Walker said it “hurts my soul” to hear Mr. Trump called names. “The worst one is ‘racist’. I take it as a personal insult that people would think I would have a 37-year friendship with a racist,” he said. “Our side is working on policy — while Joe Biden’s radical Democrats are trying to permanently transform what it means to be an American,” Mr. Scott, who has been known to criticise Mr. Trump’s comments, said. In his speech, Mr. Scott praised some of Mr. Trump’s policies, which he said had helped African Americans. Cultural revolution He also warned of a cultural revolution under the Democrats. “Make no mistake: Joe Biden and Kamala Harris want a cultural revolution. A fundamentally different America.” Mr. Scott also said the election was not solely about Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden but about “you and me” and the “promise of America.” The evening also featured a taped speech by Patricia and Mark McCloskey, the Missouri couple who had pointed their guns at peaceful protesters at the end of June, who, the couple had alleged, had trespassed onto their property. Ms. McCloskey made the unsubstantiated claim that Mr. Biden wanted to “abolish the suburbs”. Twenty-six-year-old activist, Charlie Kirk, an evangelical Christian who runs an organisation called Turning Point USA, called Mr. Trump “ the bodyguard of western civilization”. Mr. Kirk said he had come to “warn” people that “this election is a decision between preserving America as we know it and eliminating everything that we love”. The President’s son Donald Trump Jr. portrayed Mr. Biden as part of “the swamp” — a term Mr. Trump uses frequently for the Washington establishment. “Joe Biden is basically the Loch Ness monster of the swamp,” he said. “For the past half-century, he’s been lurking around in there. He sticks his head up every now and then to run for President, then he disappears and doesn’t do much in between.” Mr. Trump will make an appearance every night of the convention. In Monday evening’s session, he appeared in two pre-recorded videos, in one of which he was seen discussing the impact of COVID-19 group of essential workers whose lives had been particularly impacted by the pandemic. The evening involved a speech from a physician G.E. Ghali, who praised Mr. Trump’s handling of the pandemic. “I feel uniquely positioned to share how President Trump’s decisive leadership led to a rapid and efficient response to the coronavirus pandemic. I know this as a health professional, and as a COVID patient,” Mr. Ghali said. ‘Prompt response’ He talked about a “prompt response” from Mr. Trump with regard to regulatory processes: citing, among others, the fast tracked approval of drug remdesivir for therapeutic use. Amy Ford, a nurse, spoke of insurance cover to telehealth services as another Trump administration achievement. It is true that Mr. Trump did speed up or enact policies that enabled these actions, but his overall handling of the pandemic has been criticised for coming too late and being disorganised. His son, Donald Trump Jr., sought to portray his father’s response to the pandemic that was noticeably at odds with ground realities. “Fortunately, as the virus began to spread, the President acted quickly and ensured ventilators got to hospitals that needed them most. He delivered PPE to our brave frontline workers,” the younger Mr. Trump said. Even as late as the end of February, President Trump had claimed the pandemic was “very much under control” and spoke of the virus disappearing, “like a miracle”. Earlier in the day, the GOP formally nominated Mr. Trump after he had won the 1,276 delegate votes.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘President will bring our economy back’||Former U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Indian American Nikki Haley, made a strong pitch for U.S. President Donald Trump on the first night of the Republican National Convention (RNC). Ms. Haley, considered a possible candidate for a 2024 presidential run, sought to address two core vulnerabilities of Mr. Trump’s candidacy: an economy in distress due to COVID-19 and a deep unrest in race relations around the killing of African Americans by police officers. “The pandemic has set us back, but not for long. President Trump brought our economy back before, and he will bring it back again,” Ms. Haley said. Some 28 million people are currently unemployed. “...The President is the clear choice on jobs and the economy. He’s moved America forward, while Joe Biden held America back,” Ms. Haley said. Nevertheless, the unemployment rate has been falling since 2011, towards the end of former President Barack Obama’s first term, when Mr. Biden was Vice President. The economy has also been growing since 2009, after the impacts of the financial crisis started winding down. Ms. Haley spoke about her immigrant story and her record as Governor and sought to make a case for an alternative approach to resolving race issues in America. Not a racist country “America is not a racist country. This is personal for me. I am the proud daughter of Indian immigrants. They came to America and settled in a small southern town. My father wore a turban. My mother wore a sari. I was a brown girl in a black and white world,” she said. “We faced discrimination and hardship. But my parents never gave in to grievance and hate. My mom built a successful business. My dad taught 30 years at a historically black college. And the people of South Carolina chose me as their first minority and first female Governor,” Ms. Haley said, calling for America to build on progress made so far. “That’s why it’s tragic to see so much of the Democratic Party turn a blind eye toward riots and rage. The American people know we can do better. And of course, we know that every single black life is valuable,” she said. Ms. Haley spoke about black cops who had been shot in the line of duty, black business owners whose business have been burned and those who had been affected by the violence on the streets (a reference to the looting that had occurred after the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed black man). “Their lives matter too,” Ms. Haley said. Just on Sunday evening, Jacob Blake, an African American man, was hospitalised in a critical condition after being shot in the back by police officers in Kenshoa, Wisconsin, in front of his three children. The incident has sparked nationwide protests and the national guard has been activated in Wisconsin. In her speech, Ms. Haley appeared to play down a significant moment in her gubernatorial career — when the Confederate flag (considered by many as a symbol of racism) was taken down following the murder of nine African Americans in a Church by a white supremacist. “After that horrific tragedy, we didn’t turn against each other. We came together... Together, we made the hard choices needed to heal — and removed a divisive symbol, peacefully and respectfully.” Significantly, Ms. Haley’s action as Governor is not entirely consistent with Mr. Trump’s view of flying the Confederate flag. In June, he had said it was flown as a symbol of Southern pride not racism and he has repeatedly voiced support for the flag. On the UN, Ms. Haley said it was the “honour of a lifetime to serve” as Ambassador but criticised the U.N as a place that denounces America. “Now, the UN is not for the faint of heart. It’s a place where dictators-murderers-&-thieves denounce America… and then put their hands out and demand that we pay their bills,” she said. “Well, President Trump put an end to all that.”
26 August 2020||Mazar-i-Sharif,||3 killed as Taliban attacks Afghan base||A Taliban-claimed suicide attack killed at least three people in northern Afghanistan on Tuesday as neighbouring Pakistan pushed for delayed peace talks to begin. The suicide bomber detonated explosives in a truck near an Afghan army base in the restive northern province of Balkh, military spokesman for the region Hanif Rezayee said. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Twitter that the attack was revenge for a video circulating online that appeared to show Afghan troops desecrating the bodies of Taliban soldiers in the south. The Ministry of Defence has launched an investigation into the video, which surfaced earlier this month. The assault on Tuesday killed two civilians and a commando and wounded more than 40 others, Mr. Rezayee said.
26 August 2020||Minsk,||Peaceful revolution under way in Belarus: Opposition leader||Belarusians have risen up in a “peaceful revolution”, their exiled opposition leader said on Tuesday as authorities in the isolated ex-Soviet country crack down on protesters calling for new elections. Demonstrators have flooded the streets of Belarus demanding the resignation of authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko since he claimed a sixth term in disputed elections this month. The 65-year-old President, often dubbed “Europe’s last dictator”, dispatched his security services to disperse protesters following his claim to have won 80% of the vote, in a response condemned by rights groups and EU leaders. Leading opposition figure Svetlana Tikhanovskaya said in her address to the European Parliament that the country was witnessing its largest demonstrations in recent history following the vote. “Belarus has woken up. We are not the opposition any more. We are a majority now. A peaceful revolution is taking place,” she said, speaking in English via video link. Ms. Tikhanovskaya fled to neighbouring Lithuania after claiming victory in the August 9 ballot that went ahead without independent observers and was rejected by EU leaders.
26 August 2020||Bangkok,||Facebook vows to challenge forced removal of Thai group||Facebook said on Tuesday it would file a legal challenge against a Thai government order to take down a group where pro-democracy activists held discussions about the monarchy, a taboo subject in the country. A growing tide of youth-led protests has swept Thailand in recent weeks — buoyed by anger against what many regard as an illegitimate, military-aligned government and an overly powerful royal family. The private Facebook group, called “Royalist Marketplace”, was created in April and had more than a million members before it was taken down on Monday. ‘Compelled by government’ A Facebook spokesperson said the network had been “compelled” by the government to remove the group. “Requests like this are severe, contravene international human rights law, and have a chilling effect on people’s ability to express themselves,” the platform said. “We work to protect and defend the rights of all internet users and are preparing to legally challenge this request.” The company did not give details of the legal action, but warned that such requirements would undermine its ability to reliably invest in the country. Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha insisted his government’s actions had been completely above board. “We took action against this (Facebook) page under our laws. We haven’t done this as a dictatorship,” he told reporters on Tuesday. Hours before the restriction, Pavin Chachavalpongpun, a self-exiled academic and prominent critic of the monarchy, set up a new group with a similar name that has gained over half a million members in one day. “If you want to close it down again, then I’ll set up another group. To promote freedom of expression, I would do it,” Mr. Pavin said. The Thai monarchy has long been a taboo subject and is shielded by a harsh royal defamation law. King Maha Vajiralongkorn is hugely powerful, supported by the arch-royalist military and the country’s billionaire clans. Since ascending the throne, he has amassed direct control of the palace’s fortune, estimated to be worth up to $60 billion.
26 August 2020||Frankfurt,||Indian goes on trial over spying charges||An Indian national accused of spying on Sikh and Kashmiri communities in Germany for New Delhi’s secret services went on trial in Frankfurt on Tuesday. The suspect, identified as 54-year-old Balvir S., is accused of working for the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), from at least January 2015. Prosecutors said he “obtained information about figures in the Sikh opposition scene and the Kashmiri movement and their relatives in Germany, and passed this on to his handlers who were working at the Indian consulate general in Frankfurt”. A total of 10 hearings before the regional superior court are scheduled, with the trial due to conclude on October 29. The same Frankfurt court convicted an Indian couple for spying on the same communities last December. The husband was handed a suspended prison sentence of 18 months for acting as a foreign intelligence agent.
26 August 2020||The Hague,||The Hague, Aug 25, 2020 (AFP) -||Lawyers for Bosnian Serb military chief Ratko Mladic told a UN court on Tuesday he was at risk of a “miscarriage of justice” as he was not mentally fit to take part in the hearing against his conviction.AFP
26 August 2020||CAIRO,||Pompeo in Sudan, top US official to visit since uprising||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited Sudan on Tuesday to push the country to normalise ties with Israel, following the recent pact to establish relations between Israel and the UAE.AP
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The marginalisation of justice in public discourse||Two ideas appear to dominate our public discourse today. One, somewhat implicitly, self-interest. The second, far more explicitly, national glory. How the pursuit of material or cultural self-interest affects others does not seem to bother us. There is little acknowledgement that the pursuit of greed and narrow self-interest leads to severe inequalities, to an unequal division of social benefits. Also missing is the thought that the burden of realising national goals such as development must be shared equally by all. True, nothing of importance is achieved without sacrifice. But why should some people sacrifice virtually everything they have and others benefit without forgoing anything at all? Given the compulsion to advance our self-interest, this burden is easily passed on to those among us who are powerless to desist it. Isn’t it wrong that the least paid workers and peasants in our society are expected to offer the greatest sacrifices for building the nation? Why this grossly unfair division of social labour? Yet, concern for a fair distribution of benefits and burdens — the core issue of justice — is rare in mainstream public discourse.  Sharing benefits and burdens What is distributive justice and why does it matter? Almost two decades ago, my younger daughter startled me by asking, “What is justice, baba?” I happened then to have a bottle of water before me. So, I began explaining to her. “There are many things I can do with this bottle. I can grab it, even if I am not thirsty, keeping it solely for myself. Or, out of love, I can give it to you even if I am thirsty. Finally, I can give it to some other person not because I love her, but because I can see that she needs it most. This is justice.” A few days later, as we stopped our car at the traffic lights, a ‘beggar’ came expectantly towards us and we gave him a packet of biscuits. My daughter immediately said, “That’s justice, no? We gave something away to him even though we don’t love him.” My daughter hadn’t grasped the concept of justice just yet, but she was on the right track. At the very least, justice requires that we not be greedy and grab things; instead, we share them with those we don’t know or love. Simply put, a sense of justice is born when we begin sharing things with strangers. In fact, the idea of distributive justice presupposes not only a social condition marked by an absence of love or familiarity, but also others which the Scottish philosopher, David Hume, termed ‘the circumstances of justice’. For instance, a society where everything is abundantly available would not need justice. Each of us will have as much of everything we want. Without the necessity of sharing, justice becomes redundant. Equally, in a society with massive scarcity, justice is impossible. In order to survive, each person is compelled to grab whatever happens to be available. Justice, therefore, is possible and necessary in societies with moderate scarcity. Justice also presupposes that people are neither totally alone nor organically united with others. If one was Robinson Crusoe, there would be no one with who to share. And, if one was totally fused with others, with no distinction between self and other, then again, sharing will be unnecessary. Surely, one cannot share anything with oneself! To sum up, justice acquires value in societies with moderate scarcity, where people are forced to deal with those who they don’t love. It presupposes a moral psychology in which humans are neither wholly selfish nor entirely benevolent. Since most societies share these conditions, we may safely conclude that justice is a necessary social virtue and has great moral value. Giving persons their due But what is justice? The basic idea of justice is that ‘each person gets what is properly due to him or her’, that the benefits and burdens of society be distributed in a manner that gives each person his or her due. But this begs the question: what is meant by ‘a person’s due’? Here, a distinction must be made between hierarchical and egalitarian notions of justice. In hierarchical notions, what is due to a person is established by her or his place within a hierarchical system. For instance, by rank determined at birth. Certain groups are born privileged. Therefore, their members are entitled to a disproportionately large share of benefits, and a disproportionately small share of burdens. On this conception, justice requires that the benefits and burdens be unequally shared or distributed. To take just one example, in a society ridden with caste hierarchies, those born in high castes are entitled to a much greater share of wealth, power, cultural status and knowledge. Conversely, those born in ‘low castes’ get whatever is their proper due — very little, sometimes nothing. This conception of justice has rarely remained unchallenged. Innumerable examples can be cited in Indian history, where aspects of this hierarchical notion had been temporarily opposed — in the early teachings of the Buddha, passages in Indian epics, Bhakti poetry, and protest movements such as Veerashaivism. In our own times, however, this challenge has become robust, explicit and sustained. This is so because of the prevalence of the idea that each person, regardless of caste, class, colour, creed or gender, has equal moral worth. All have an equal, originary capacity of endowing the world with meaning and value because of which they possess moral worth or dignity. If so, we need a different conception of justice, of sharing or distributing, of giving people their due that is consistent with equal dignity. In societies still infested with live hierarchies, people must first struggle for recognition as equals, for what might be called basic social justice. Then, they must decide how to share all social benefits and burdens among equal persons — the essence of egalitarian distributive justice. Needs and Desert Two main contenders exist for interpreting what is due to persons of equal moral worth. For the first need-based principle,what is due to a person is what she really needs, i.e., whatever is necessary for general human well-being. Since our basic needs are identical, justice requires their fulfilment in every single person. Beyond this basic threshold, our needs usually vary, and therefore justice further requires the fulfilment of different needs — say, the specific needs of a scholar, as well as the very different needs of a mountaineer. Second, the principle of desert for which what is due to a person is what he or she deserves, determined not by birth or tradition but by a person’s own qualities, for instance ‘natural’ talent or productive effort. In short, though we start as equals, those who are talented or work hard should be rewarded with more benefits and be less burdened. Conversely, those contributing unequally to the creation of wealth or cultural assets, don’t deserve the same benefits yielded by them. This underpins the idea of equal opportunity to all, albeit with justified inequalities of outcome. Break the deafening silence Most reasonable egalitarian conceptions of justice try to find a balance between need and desert. They try to ensure a distribution of goods and abilities (benefits) that satisfies everyone’s needs, and a fair distribution of social burdens or sacrifices required for fulfilling them. After this, rewards are permissible to those who by virtue of natural gift, social learning and personal effort, deserve more. Our society is afflicted by deep material, cultural and knowledge-related inequalities. Worse, these inequalities are growing by the day. Sometimes they are accompanied by blatant assertions of unequal moral worth, though today, a deafening silence on social and distributive justice is more common. It is therefore imperative to ask where we stand in relation to different forms of egalitarian justice mentioned in our Preamble. Alas, we are falling way short of standards of social and distributive justice. When will this trend be reversed? Putting justice back into public discourse should be our priority. Or else, the dreams of our nation will never turn into reality. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of Sunni Messianism||In January, the Turkish media reported the sudden resignation of Adnan Tanriverdi, a close adviser to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and member of the Presidency’s Security and Foreign Policy Committee. Mr. Tanriverdi was facing a backlash for his messianic prognostications about the impending advent of the mahdi (divine redeemer), and the announcement that his private security company, the SADAT International Defence Consultancy, was preparing “a suitable environment” for the mahdi to establish Pan-Islamic unity. This development could have been ignored as an inconsequential occurrence in Turkish politics had Hagia Sophia not been converted into a mosque or had Mr. Tanriverdi not revealed his plans for the creation of a “Confederal Republic” of Muslim-majority countries which were announced in November 2017 during the first International Islamic Union Congress held in Istanbul under the aegis of SADAT’s sister organisation, the Association of Justice Defenders Strategic Studies Center (ASSAM). A single political entity The ASSAM Congress is an annual event which seeks to unify 61 Muslim nations in a single political entity called ASRICA (from Asia-Africa) and bring them under the leadership of Turkey without altering their “national borders and structures”. Constitutionally, ASRICA will have a Shariah-based presidential form of government with Istanbul as its capital. On assuming office the Asrican President shall swear “before the great Quran” that he will “safeguard the Islamic Unity”, “remain loyal to Qur’an and Sunnas”, and introduce only such laws that are deemed suitable by a supreme religious body called the High Council of Religious Affairs. But more worrying is the fact that the confederation is underpinned by an objectionable new neo-Ottomanism which benchmarks it against a romanticised notion of the Ottoman Empire and imagines a civilisational clash for political supremacy between the Christian West and the Islamic East. Put differently, Asrica’s raison d’être is the fear that western nations, taking advantage of the Muslims’ loss of authority after the collapse of the Ottoman Caliphate, intend “to take over the Islamic geography” through asymmetrical wars using “terrorist organisations under their control”. It is in the backdrop of these portentous developments that Mr. Tanriverdi’s mahdism assumes significance. In Sunni apocalyptic literature, the mahdi is a divinely guided saviour who will appear shortly before the end of the world to save it from evil. Although Mr. Tanriverdi did not claim to see a mahdi in Mr. Erdogan, the allusion was unmistakable. Mr. Erdogan himself has for long been harbouring hopes of being recognised as the rightful potentate of an Ottomanic Republic which in his view is solely capable of leading the Muslim world. For him, the reconversion of Hagia Sophia into a mosque is not just a reversal of a Kemalist decree, but a watershed in Islamic history foretokening the establishment of a powerful league of Muslim nations to take on the West. Indeed, conservation architect Pinar Aikac’s research reveals that not long ago four other Hagia Sophias were converted into mosques in different parts of Turkey, not to mention last week’s mosquification of the Church of the Holy Saviour in Chora. Mr. Erdogan’s address to the nation on July 10 provides a stunning insight into this grand narrative of Muslim redemptionism. In this atavistic speech, delivered on the day he signed a decree annulling Hagia Sophia’s status as a museum, Mr. Erdogan can be seen panegyrising the 1453 conquest of Constantinople and the seizure of Hagia Sophia as being among “the most glorious chapters in Turkish history”. He likened himself, with megalomaniacal relish, to “the Fatih” (Sultan Mehmed) and termed the reconversion of Hagia Sophia as the “second conquest” and a “new resurrection” that symbolises “the re-rise of our [Muslim] civilisation’s sun” and heralds the liberation of Al Aqsa mosque. Delusions of grandeur For two reasons it would be unwise to see this vulgar display of triumphalism merely as Mr. Erdogan’s desperate attempt to hold on to power. First, even if a smaller Asrican alliance comes into existence, say with just 20 countries, it will polarise the Muslim world into opposing camps and pit the confederacy against countries that have not joined it. Second, if as proposed a full 61-member theocratic bloc really does emerge (despite the bad blood the UAE-Israel deal has caused) it will keep the Muslims in a state of permanent conflict with the rest of the world, especially the West. An indication of it is Mr. Erdogan’s provocative promise to liberate the Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem which appears to have been made in the full knowledge that Semitic religions see Jerusalem as the eschatological theatre of Armageddon, a climactic confrontation between good and evil. In Jewish apocalyptism, Armageddon is preluded by the arrival of a redemptive moshiach (messiah) who will restore the Davidic kingship, rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem and herald a Messianic Age of universal peace. With equal zeal Christian Chiliasm awaits the second coming of Jesus on Mount Olivet in Jerusalem to inaugurate and lead a 1000-year rule of “priests of God and of Christ”. Sunni Muslims too are expecting a mahdi to appear just before the descent of prophet Jesus on a Damascene minaret and help him establish Islamic rule worldwide. It is this cataclysmic intersection of theologically volatile narratives that Turkey’s pan-Islamists seek to exploit. However, Muslims must realise that eschatological prophesies attributed to the Prophet have been part of their messianic mythos since the Second Fitna (680-692 CE), the armed struggle against the early Umayyad Caliphate. Their authenticity is suspect because the Prophet had already been made to say: “I do not know what will be done with me or with you” (Quran 46:9). Besides, Islam teaches that humans lack divinatory powers and only God knows the unseen  ( ghaib ). According to researchers Wilferd Madelung and Mehdy Shaddel, apocalyptic traditions were ex post facto compositions fabricated to justify the claim of rival claimants to the Caliphate during Umayyad times. The celebrated historian, Ibn Khaldun, rejected all hadiths on mahdi and the second coming of Christ. He was backed by the philosopher-poet, Muhammad Iqbal, whose iconoclastic couplet found in his unpublished work, Baaqiyaat-e-sher-e-Iqbal advised Muslims: Meenaar-e-dil pe apne khuda ka nuzool dekh / Yeh intizaar-e-mahdi-o-eesa bhi chod de (Witness the descent of God on the minaret of your heart / Give up this wait for mahdi and Jesus). Given this reality, if the global Muslim community allows itself to be manipulated by Mr. Erdogan’s chimeric ambitions and delusions of grandeur it may unwittingly end up participating in its own political downfall. A. Faizur Rahman is an independent researcher and Secretary General of Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought. Email: email.faiz@gmail.com
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Living with the earth in Kerala||Natural disasters have by now come to be accepted as a feature of the annual monsoon season in Kerala. In the past two years there has been flooding on an unprecedented scale along with landslides. Last year, 59 people lost their lives in a landslide at Kavalappara in Malappuram district. This year we have seen one at Pettimudi in Idukki district where a hill collapsed, submerging the houses of estate workers while they slept. The estimated death toll had reached 65 some days ago, with persons still missing. On top of the landslides, we have had to bear witness to a spectacular plane crash at Kozhikode airport, again accompanied with a loss of lives. While we try to wrench ourselves away from our memories of these fateful events by recalling the valiant effort made by the pilots to save lives and of the selfless act of local youths who arrived immediately to take the survivors to hospitals, the crash serves as a reminder that further hardship awaits us if we do not jettison the development model that has come to characterise the State. It’s plunder everywhere The fact that Kerala has received wide acclaim for having achieved social indicators associated with high human development has meant that a crucial underlying dynamic has been ignored. This dynamic is one of an unrelenting attack on the foundation of human survival, natural capital. Everywhere in Kerala the earth has been violated. The rivers are polluted when they are not dry, the valleys are filled with garbage and the hills gouged out to accommodate residences and religious houses when they have not been dynamited for quarrying. It is quite extraordinary that this has all taken place in a State that has been hailed by a section of the intelligentsia as representing the gold standard of development. For anyone willing to read the signs, such a decimation of natural capital, with its attendant consequences of flooding and landslides, bodes ill for the future of a whole people. The natural disasters recurring year after year and the recent plane crash both represent the outcome of the hubris that we can consume as if the earth does not matter. As natural capital, such as year-round water availability and the nutrient content of the soil, has diminished, not only has it impacted sectors of the economy such as agriculture but we have now seen that the way we treat the earth matters also for our very security. At the core is politics Kerala’s future is inextricably linked to how it conserves its natural capital. With consumption defined broadly to include land use, it is apparent that the conservation of the State’s natural resources is crucially dependent upon a restraint on consumption. Politics is central to this issue, not in the sense of what political parties do in the normal course but whether citizens decide to alter the course of development by their action. This response cannot end with minimising one’s own consumption but must extend to calling out instances of the depletion of natural capital by vested interests. Kerala’s vested interests are not only economic, which are visible, but also cultural, which are less so. It is difficult to imagine that politics as usual, as defined by the two political fronts that have ruled Kerala for decades by now, will lead the State to a place where conservation of nature will guide our actions. Actually, the state of natural capital in the State reflects an absence of governance. Political parties everywhere are reluctant to dampen the aspiration for greater consumption for fear that it affects their electoral prospects, but Kerala’s two fronts set a high example of indulging the appetite for increasing consumption, an extreme example of this being the proposal for an airport serving Sabarimala, which if it were to fructify would be the fifth in this small State. Though the plane crash at Kozhikode cannot so easily be construed as resulting in the destruction of natural capital, it can be seen as trying to extend the limits it imposes, with consequences for our security. While tabletop runways are by no means peculiar to Kerala, airports on India’s southwest coast have to face the challenge of the monsoon which produces hazardous conditions for landing. Also, Kozhikode sees much greater traffic than say Kathmandu or Shimla, thus increasing the possibility of a mishap. Ever since the crash of a flight in Mangaluru, an airport with similar characteristics, in 2010, it has been apparent that flights to Kozhikode are vulnerable. The answer would not have been to end flights but to avoid the height of the monsoon and to take wide-bodied aircraft off the menu. Experts on air safety have spoken publicly of how they had raised concerns about Kozhikode soon after Mangaluru. While this appears to have been over-ruled by a political process, we the people are no less culpable by nurturing consumption aspirations unmindful of the contours of the earth. Past and present It is useful to recall the belief that Kerala was named for its geography. For centuries, its people demonstrated a genius for conserving natural resources by restraining their consumption. This was soon lost as its economy globalised and domestic consumption came to be fuelled by wealth generated offshore. Building local infrastructure to support this consumption has become a threat to life. For the State to have a future, consumption has to be limited so that the State’s natural capital is not irretrievably lost. In the 1990s, as mobile telephony was spreading, someone had triumphantly coined the slogan “Geography is history”. We now see that at least some of our history will be shaped by geography. Pulapre Balakrishnan is Professor of Economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Magnets for manufacturing||Many think that in the aftermath of the pandemic, several manufacturing companies operating from China will relocate their businesses to other destinations, including India. Many American, Japanese, and South Korean companies based in China have initiated discussions with the Indian government to relocate their plants to India. Companies are expected to exit China due to three primary reasons. The first is the realisation that relying heavily on China for building capacities and sourcing manufacturing goods is not an ideal business strategy due to supply chain disruptions in the country caused by COVID-19. The second is the fear of Chinese dominance over the supply of essential industrial goods. The third is the growing risk and uncertainty involved in operating from or dealing with China in the light of geopolitical and trade conflicts between China and other countries, particularly the U.S. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on using the COVID-19 crisis as an opportunity to pursue the goal of a self-reliant India must be viewed against this background. Can India succeed in attracting manufacturing firms and jobs from China? India’s position India lags far behind China in manufacturing prowess. China ranks first in contribution to world manufacturing output, while India ranks sixth. Against India’s target of pulling up the share of manufacturing in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to 25% by 2022, its share stood at 15% in 2018, only half of China’s figure. Industry value added grew at an average annual rate of 10.68% since China opened up its economy in 1978. In contrast, against the target of 12%, the manufacturing sector has grown at 7% after India opened up its economy. Next to the European Union, China was the largest exporter of manufactured goods in 2018, with an 18% world share. India is not part of the top 10 exporters who accounted for 83% of world manufacturing exports in 2018. This contrasting trend is not surprising because compared to China, India faces numerous constraints in promoting the manufacturing sector. They chiefly include infrastructure constraints, a disadvantageous tax policy environment, a non-conducive regulatory environment, high cost of industrial credit, poor quality of the workforce, rigid labour laws, restrictive trade policies, low R&D expenditure, delays and constraints in land acquisition, and the inability to attract large-scale foreign direct investment into the manufacturing sector. Unless these challenges are addressed, the dream of making India a manufacturing powerhouse rivalling China would be difficult to realise. Role of states Since India follows a federal government system, a lasting solution to these constraints cannot be possible without the active participation of State governments and effective policy coordination between the Centre and the States. Currently, manufacturing growth in India has been powered majorly by Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. An important requirement for the development of the manufacturing sector is the availability of land area. This could be one of the reasons why manufacturing activity is mainly concentrated in these five States which cover a substantial portion of India’s geographical area. However, what is of concern is that some States that also have large land area contribute disproportionately little in manufacturing GSDP. These include Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, and West Bengal. The reasons for less manufacturing activity in these States have to be carefully examined, and based on this, State-specific industrialisation strategies need to be devised and implemented in a mission mode with active hand-holding by the Central government. Strong and carefully designed policy actions on the part of individual States would improve India’s overall investment climate, thereby boosting investments, jobs, and economic growth. In addition to its initiatives aimed at attracting manufacturing companies looking to relocate their plants to India from China, the Centre has urged the States to evolve their plans. However, such a strategy would be more effective if the policy actions of the Centre and the States are well coordinated. In this context, a suggestion put forth by Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad is worth attempting. To promote electronic manufacturing, he suggested forming a Strategy Group consisting of representatives from the Central and State governments along with top industry executives. The purpose is to instil teamwork and leverage ideas through sharing the best practices of the Centre and States. A similar approach is needed for developing the whole manufacturing sector. Sthanu R Nair teaches Economics and Public Policy at IIM-Kozhikode. Views are personal
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A chance to donate desktops||One of the unintended but welcome consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic is the massive shift that companies are making from desktops to laptops. Not just technology companies, but companies across industries are moving to laptops in large numbers to give their employees the flexibility to work from anywhere and deliver business outcomes. Large technology companies — among the biggest users of desktops in India — have publicly stated that about two-thirds of their workforce was using desktops before the pandemic. Most of them have already shifted to laptops or are in the process of doing so. In fact, just after the first nationwide lockdown was announced, these companies procured tens of thousands of laptops and flew them into the country, besides raiding electronic retail stores to procure consumer-grade laptops that could be used as ‘bring your own devices’.  Does this massive shift signal the death of desktops? Not really. Companies will continue to use desktops for a variety of reasons: client mandates, hardware and system dependencies, security considerations, longer shelf life, lower cost of maintenance, larger display, and so on. But what one cannot dispute is that this pandemic has significantly accelerated the shift to laptops and other smart mobile devices. A conservative, back-of-the-envelope calculation indicates that more than a million desktops have already been replaced by laptops in the past few months and the transition is far from over. Bridging the digital divide The moot question then is: Can India Inc. use this opportunity to “donate” these desktops to schools that cater to the underprivileged sections of society and are struggling to impart basic online education and digital literacy? One of the biggest downsides of online learning brought on by the pandemic is that it has not only bared but also further widened the divide between the digital haves and have-nots. Donating desktops can be a small but worthy step towards bridging that divide and catalysing the Digital India we have envisioned. With the New Education Policy outlining the need for using digital channels for increasing equity, quality, and reach of education, this donation can be a big boon for these schools. For doing something of this nature at the scale it warrants, multiple government departments, industry bodies, corporate houses and NGOs need to come together. From making changes to the asset depreciation policy to obtaining clearances from government bodies such as SEZ and the Software Technology Parks of India for de-bonding, formatting and refurbishing these machines, installing a new Operating System and basic software, identifying deserving institutions and providing continued maintenance support, a coordinated effort is needed. Funding could be a bottleneck for such programmes. But in this case, companies can dip into their CSR outlay to get things going.  Donating many devices While the pandemic has brought desktops into sharp focus, the initiative can be expanded to donating many other used devices, including tablets, iPads and smartphones, to not just schools, but also shelter homes and orphanages, and that too on an ongoing basis. While the typical cycle time for replacing used desktops would be three to four years, it would be much less for smartphones. This means millions of devices can be donated every year. Can the best entrepreneurial minds look at building an end-to-end digital platform to bring together all participants in a well-oiled supply chain and convert the idea into a big business opportunity with significant social impact? Just like the used car market is bigger than that for new cars, the refurbished smart devices market is getting bigger by the day. And if we do not act in unison, these devices with years of useful life ahead of them could get prematurely consigned to bonded warehouses or end up being e-waste. That would be a colossal disservice to our dream of a Digital India. Ramkumar Ramamoorthy is former Chairman and Managing Director, Cognizant India
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sound and fury||The sound and fury at the seven-hour long virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday signified a lot. The orchestrated tirade by CWC members against party colleagues who raised valid concerns regarding the functioning of the party lent credence to a charge the Congress often faces — that it exists for the Gandhi family. A letter signed by several senior leaders had demanded an “active, full-time and visible” leadership. Their intent, timing and motivation were questioned by Rahul Gandhi, who continues to influence decisions in the party though he resigned as president last year. While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh shored up support for Mr. Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, who holds charge as interim president of the party, another senior leader, A.K. Antony, termed the letter “cruel”. Swinging between the senile and the juvenile, arguments at the CWC appear to be an attempt to gloss over the substance of the letter — the entire text of which, incidentally, is not public yet — and vilify its signatories. In seeking to deflect the issue by questioning the character and loyalty of those who raised it, the Congress did exactly what it often accuses its principal opponent, the BJP, of doing. The signatories to the letter might include opportunists too, but many of them such as Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor have been staunch defenders of the party. There was no reason to hastily conclude, as many at the CWC did, that the letter was leaked to the media by its senders and not its recipients. The degenerative affliction crippling the Congress party is a concern not only for its members but for all who are invested in India’s democracy. The Gandhi family that commands the loyalty of the entire party has a special duty to ensure that this cry for reform within the party is not reduced to a question about itself. The Gandhis have expressed their desire to remain active without leading the party. Such a role will be seen as a disingenuous scheme to exercise authority without accountability — something that Mr. Gandhi claims to deeply detest. He is fortunate, and must be thankful, that the Congress party in its entirety still supports him and even the reformists, mislabelled rebels by his self-styled loyalists, are not questioning his authority. They have only expressed frustration over his selective interest. It was Ms. Gandhi’s remarkable accommodative skills and magnanimity that paved the way for the creation of the United Progressive Alliance that lasted in government for two full terms between 2004 and 2014. Ms. Gandhi’s legacy faces a serious threat — not only from her political opponents but also from within the household. If Mr. Gandhi is unwilling to give up his obduracy and overcome his bitterness towards colleagues, the responsibility falls on Ms. Gandhi to ensure a transparent election to find a successor along with a new CWC and a parliamentary board.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Down, but not out||The UN counterterrorism chief’s statement to the Security Council on the continuing presence of Islamic State (IS) terrorists in West Asia, Africa and elsewhere should be seen as a serious warning by the countries in these regions. Two years after the Sunni jihadist group was declared defeated, more than 10,000 IS fighters remain active in Iraq and Syria, said Vladimir Voronkov. IS-driven terror attacks are on the rise. Besides these two countries, where the IS had established a proto-state in 2014 — destroyed by multilateral war efforts that lasted four years — the terror outfit has a “province” in West Africa with nearly 3,000 fighters, according to the UN. In war-torn Afghanistan, it continues to stage attacks, targeting ethnic and religious minorities. The IS may no longer control any big city, but its rise from a breakaway faction of al-Qaeda in Iraq to one of the world’s most potent terrorist groups should be a lesson for all stakeholders. Ever since they lost territories, IS fighters withdrew from the front lines and started operating in cells in the deserts, mountains and hinterlands of conflict-ridden countries. Iraq and Syria are particularly vulnerable to the IS’s resurgence as these countries are yet to be fully stabilised after the wars. In Syria, the Bashar al-Assad government has practically won the civil war. But Syria is now a divided country. While the government controls most of the territories, a coalition of jihadists and rebels is running the Idlib province. In the northeast, the Kurdish rebels have declared autonomy. On the Syrian-Turkish border, Turkey, backed by pro-Turkish rebels, has carved out a buffer and has been in permanent conflict with the Kurds. Though there is an uneasy quiet in Syria, the situation is inflammable. Iraq, after months of protests and instability, has finally got a government. But Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi is torn between the U.S. and Iran. Pro-Iran Shia militias continue to target U.S. troops inside Iraq, which could turn the country into a battlefield between Washington and Tehran. The story is not very different in Africa. Libya has two governments, which were fighting each other till last week’s ceasefire. The Libyan conflict has spilled over into Mali and Burkina Faso, where jihadists have established a solid presence. Chaos breeds militancy, and as the main group here is the IS, it would remain active as long as these countries remain unstable. The IS has its roots in the U.S. invasion of Iraq. It started growing by exploiting the civil war in Syria. The regional governments as well as their international backers (and rivals) should be mindful of this fact. If they fail to address the regional fault-lines and continue to fight each other, the jihadists could emerge winners once again.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Inadequate road development (From an editorial)||The handicaps from which road development plans suffer are well-known. Projections of growth of traffic are need-based. But Plan schemes are resources-based. The Fourth Plan has estimated that goods traffic is expected to leap from 40 billion tonne-kilometres in 1968-69 to 84 billion in 1973-74 and passenger traffic from 92 billion passenger kilometres to 140 billion. The proposed outlay of Rs. 829 crores is half of what is considered the minimum required for a satisfactory road network to serve the economy. This lends itself to the complaint that there is no fairness in investment on roads in relation to the revenues accruing from road transport. Turning down the request for a road budget, the Union Minister for Shipping and Transport adduced the argument that roads largely come under States’ jurisdiction and “it would not be possible to bring under one national authority the various taxes imposed on the road users.” While both Central and State authorities are tight-fisted regarding expenditure on roads, the idea that the road transport industry will put up with any amount of fleecing seems to get strengthened in proportion to the pinch they feel in their resources position.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Student life in Britain and India||At the inaugural meeting of the Literary Society of the Hindu Theological High School, George Town, Mr. S. Satyamurthy delivered a lecture on student life in Great Britain and in India under the Chairmanship of Mr. S. Kasturi Ranga Iyengar. The lecturer delivered a most inspiring and instructive lecture for over an hour. He said that almost the first phenomenon which struck any Indian visitor to Great Britain was the presence of Indian students in Britain. They accorded enthusiastic welcome to any Indian visitor, especially to politicians. They discussed current political questions with great enthusiasm and originality which might well be copied by their elders in India. It was his great privilege to hear two Mahomedan students and two Madras non-Brahmins expressing sentiments against communal electorates and communal representation, and they rejected the presumptuous idea that these communities could not take care of themselves and that a benign bureaucracy must provide crutches for them by this communal representation.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Centre may consider a second stimulus once infections abate’||The government may look at introducing a second set of fiscal stimulus measures once the COVID-19 infections abate and the psychological fears in people’s minds ebb, a top Finance Ministry official said on Tuesday. The government has also observed that 40% of the cash transfers directly into the beneficiaries’ accounts recently have been saved and not spent, leading to a feeling that there are limitations of the stimuli measures and hence, making timing the most important factor, Union Expenditure Secretary T. V. Somanathan said. The government’s first round of fiscal stimulus was announced in late March. The RBI delivered two deep rate cuts before surprising all with a pause this month, leading some analysts to opine the government will have to do the heavy lifting now. Mr. Somanathan said normal economic activity is in ‘abeyance’ right now and it has nothing to do with what the government has done or not done, but attributed the same to fears among the people. “Right now, the evidence is the problem is not susceptible of stimulation by fiscal or government measures. It’s not as if people are waiting for something to be done by the government and then they are ready to go out and resume normal economic activity,” he noted. He also said the health situation remains ‘very vulnerable’ in many parts and services activity beyond finance and insurance, like cinema halls, malls and restaurants had been severely impacted. “The revival will really come when the psychology of the pandemic begins to ebb,” he said.
26 August 2020||Mumbai,||Wide-ranging reforms must for sustainable growth: RBI||Cautioning that India’s potential output may undergo a structural downshift following the pandemic, the Reserve Bank on Tuesday made a strong case for deep-seated and wide-ranging reforms to regain losses and return to the path of sustainable economic growth. The pandemic will inflict deep disfiguration on the world economy and the shape of the future will be heavily contingent upon the evolving intensity, spread and duration of COVID-19 and the discovery of a vaccine, the RBI said in its ‘assessment and prospects’ which forms part of the central bank’s Annual Report for the year 2019-20. Post-COVID-19, the overwhelming sense is that the world will not be the same again and a new normal could emerge, it said. ‘Global competitiveness’ “In a post-pandemic scenario, deep-seated and wide-ranging structural reforms in factor and product markets, the financial sector, legal architecture, and in international competitiveness would be needed to regain potential output losses and return the economy to a path of strong and sustainable growth with macroeconomic and financial stability,” the RBI said. “India’s potential output can undergo a structural downshift as the recovery driven by stimulus and regulatory easing gets unwound in a post-pandemic scenario,” it noted. The 2008 global financial crisis occurred after years of robust growth with macroeconomic stability; by contrast, COVID-19 hit the economy after consecutive quarters of slowdown, the central bank added.
26 August 2020||CHENNAI,||China floats BRICS 5G base as India mulls ban||China has proposed the creation of what it calls a ‘BRICS innovation base’ to take forward 5G and Artificial Intelligence (AI) cooperation among the five countries, as their industry ministers met virtually on Monday. China’s Minister of Industry and Information Technology Xiao Yaqing “urged fellow nations, including India, to boost cooperation in areas including 5G and AI”, Chinese media reported, adding that China was “actively considering the establishment of a BRICS innovation base in China, in order to strengthen practical cooperation with the BRICS”. The move could pose an awkward question for India, which is the only country in the grouping that is leaning towards excluding Chinese participation in the roll-out of its national 5G network. Russia has said it would work with China on 5G, with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov saying this month they were open to working with Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei, which has been largely banned by the United States. South Africa, Brazil In South Africa, Huawei is providing services to three of its telecom operators in the roll-out of their 5G networks. Brazil has allowed participation in trials but is yet to take a final call, although Vice President Hamilton Mourao indicated they would likely allow Huawei considering that “more than a third” of Brazil’s 4G network operators use Huawei equipment. “Huawei has capacity above its competitors and we do not yet see U.S. companies capable of defeating international competition,” he said. India is unlikely to allow Chinese participation in 5G, particularly in the wake of recent moves to tighten investment from China and to ban 59 Chinese apps, citing national security concerns. The ban, which followed the June clash in Galwan Valley, cited a “threat to the sovereignty and integrity of India” posed by the apps. Possible military ties Indian intelligence assessments have also expressed concerns on the possible direct or indirect links of several Chinese companies, including Huawei, with the Chinese military. India has made clear a return to normalcy cannot be possible while tensions along the Line of Actual Control remain unresolved.
26 August 2020||NEW DElHI,||Two-wheelers neither luxury nor sin goods: FM||Two-wheelers are neither a luxury nor sin goods and so, merit a GST rate revision, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at an industry interaction on Tuesday. According to a statement issued by CII, which was also issued by the Finance Ministry’s spokesperson, Ms. Sitharaman said a rate revision proposal would be taken up by the GST Council. Two-wheelers currently attract 28% GST. “Responding to a question about the need for lowering GST rates on two-wheelers, she assured that this was indeed a good suggestion as this category is neither a luxury nor a sin good and hence merits a rate revision,” the statements said. This “will be taken up with the GST Council”, the statements quoted Ms. Sitharaman as saying. Last year, the country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp had urged the government to consider a phase-wise reduction in GST on the segment, starting with bringing bikes up to 150 cc into the 18% slab.
26 August 2020||MUMBAI,||ICICI to use satellites for farm credit||ICICI Bank has announced the introduction of usage of satellite data-imagery from earth observation satellites—to assess credit worthiness of its customers belonging to the farm sector. The bank, the first in India and among a few globally to do so, will use the data to measure an array of parameters related to the land, irrigation and crop patterns and in combination with demographic and financial parameters to make faster lending decisions for farmers, it said. “Use of technology helps farmers with existing credit to enhance their eligibility, while new-to-credit farmers can now get better access to credit,” it added. Since land verification is done in a contactless manner, credit assessments take only a few days as against the industry practice of up to 15 days.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||HMD Global unveils 4 new Nokia phones||With the festive season coming up, HMD Global, the maker of Nokia mobile phones, has announced four new devices priced between Rs. 1,999 and Rs. 15,499. “Our aim is to bring great smartphone experiences to as many fans across the world as possible, at accessible price points,” said Juho Sarvikas, chief product officer, HMD Global. “Our launches of Nokia C3, Nokia 5.3, Nokia 125 and Nokia 150 in India today are a testimony to this goal, ahead of the festive season,” he added. “There is a Nokia phone for everyone this festive season.” While Nokia C3 and Nokia 5.3 are smartphones, the Nokia 125 and Nokia 150 are feature phones. All phones support dual SIM. Sanmeet Singh, vice-president, HMD Global, added that the Nokia C3 is ‘Made for India’ and for those who are ready to switch to a smartphone, whether for work, taking online classes, expanding business, or for entertainment any time, anywhere. Two variants Nokia C3 will be available in two RAM/ROM variants — 2GB/16GB for Rs. 7,499 and 3GB/32GB for Rs. 8,999, beginning September 17. The Nokia 5.3 is priced at Rs. 13,999 for 4GB/64GB variant and Rs. 15,999 for 6GB/64GB option. Nokia 150 and Nokia 125 are priced at Rs. 2,299 and Rs. 1,999, respectively.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. open to tweaks in credit guarantee scheme’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the government is open to further tweaking the Rs. 3-lakh crore credit guarantee scheme for providing collateral-free loans to small businesses. According to industry association CII, with which the Minister had a closed-door meeting, she also said that domestic revenue generation is a concern as sectors like tourism, real estate, hospitality and airlines have been affected “disproportionately” by COVID-19. Ms. Sitharaman said structural reform is a key priority for the government and it will move fast on the Cabinet-cleared disinvestment proposals. “The Rs. 3-lakh-crore scheme is open for professionals now and the government is open to more tweaking, changes, if required,” CII tweeted her as saying.
26 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||Centre frees up coverall, mask exports||Manufacturers of masks, except N95 and FFP2, and medical coveralls can now export these without any restriction. In a notification dated August 25, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said that medical coveralls, including gowns and aprons, can be exported without any restriction. Two-ply and three-ply surgical masks, except N95/FFP2 types, can be exported without quantitative restriction. N95 and FFP2 masks are now in restricted category and 50 lakh units a month are permitted for exports. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said AEPC expects personal protective equipment exports to cross Rs. 1,000 crore in the next 3 months.
26 August 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI to buy, sell Rs. 20,000-crore securities||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday said it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs. 20,000 crore in two tranches. The auction will be in held in two tranches of Rs. 10,000 crore each and conducted on August 27 and September 3, the RBI said.PTI
26 August 2020||Chennai,||VA Tech gets Rs.120 cr funding||The board of VA Tech Wabag Ltd. has approved a proposal for capital infusion of Rs. 120 crore received from marquee and high networth investors to meet its growth plans and new business opportunities. On July 31, 2020, the board had informed the exchanges that it had approved a proposal to raise up to Rs. 400 crore. The firm has now scaled down its enabling resolution to Rs. 280 crore.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||MakeMyTrip to give offline travel agents access to portal||MakeMyTrip said its new B2B platform will give offline travel agents access to the travel portal’s online content and inventory, aiding them in offering a seamless booking experience for travellers. “Through our ‘MyPartner’ offering, we give access of rich content and inventory of domestic and international hotels at best prices to travel agents,” said Rajesh Magow, Group CEO, MakeMyTrip.
26 August 2020||Southampton,||Anderson lights up final day with 600th Test wicket||England paceman James Anderson cemented his place in cricket history by taking his 600th Test wicket when he dismissed Pakistan captain Azhar Ali in the rain-marred third and final Test, which ended in a draw on Tuesday. The tourists reached 187 for four in their second innings at the close on the short final day, still 123 runs short of England’s massive 583 for eight declared. The host claimed the series 1-0, thanks to winning the first Test in Manchester by three wickets. Fresh downpours meant play did not get underway on the last day until 4.15 p.m. local time. But the 38-year-old Anderson struck with his 14th ball of the day. Defying a docile pitch, he produced a rising delivery that moved away from first-innings century-maker Azhar on 31, with England skipper Joe Root holding a head-high catch at first slip. There was applause and cheers from Anderson’s teammates, with the nick off the shoulder of Azhar’s bat clearly audible at an empty Ageas Bowl. Fourth bowler Anderson is only the fourth bowler — and first paceman — to claim 600 Test wickets. The only men ahead of him in the all-time Test list are retired spinners Sri Lanka’s Muttiah Muralitharan (800), Australia’s Shane Warne (708) and India’s Anil Kumble (619). “Congratulations @jimmy9 on your 600 wickets! Massive effort from a great fast bowler. Welcome to the club” tweeted Kumble after the landmark was reached.
26 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Abu Dhabi uncertainty delays match scheduling||Confusion over the availability of Abu Dhabi as a venue has resulted in the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) delaying the announcement of the fixtures of the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition. Despite all eight teams having arrived in the United Arab Emirates for the IPL, to be played in Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi from September 19 to November 10, the schedule is yet to be made public. With the recent spike in COVID-19 cases, Abu Dhabi’s regional authorities have made a rapid test mandatory at entry point. The teams, broadcast crew and IPL operations executives, a majority of whom will be based in Dubai, may incur additional costs (AED 50 per test) as a result. The BCCI, in consultation with the Emirates Cricket Board, has been trying to find a way out. While murmurs of the likelihood of excluding Abu Dhabi as a venue were doing the rounds earlier in the day, late on Tuesday it emerged that the BCCI will likely restrict the number of games and movement of teams in Abu Dhabi. “It could be a case of two teams playing home and away games back to back, similar to 2011 ,” said an IPL insider. “As of now, Abu Dhabi could host a few matches only in the first half.” At the moment, six of the eight teams are based in Dubai while Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders are stationed in Abu Dhabi. The teams in Dubai — especially Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab, among the first to arrive in the UAE — may start training at Sharjah and the ICC Academy in Dubai from Thursday. All members of the Royals and Kings who arrived on August 20 took their mandatory third test on the penultimate day of the seven-day quarantine and await clearance to begin practising. IPL junket unlikely for State associations Meanwhile, BCCI secretary Jay Shah has informed State associations that the BCCI will break with convention and not invite their representatives to the IPL opening ceremony. “... we would not be able to have our annual gathering, at least at the beginning of the tournament,” Shah wrote in an email to State associations on Tuesday. “… I am hopeful that till (sic) the time we reach the playoff week, we would have more relaxations on travel and interactions, which would allow us to have you all travel to the UAE.”
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Captains suggest a (legal) bet on things changing||Three India captains — Sourav Ganguly, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, and Virat Kohli — are brand ambassadors for fantasy sport and Esport apps. One of the unintended consequences of this might be the legalising of sports betting in the country. Or at least, a discussion on it without its moral or cultural baggage. Two distinguished judges charged with cleaning up the Board of Control for Cricket in India — Justice Mukul Mudgal and Justice Rajendra Mal Lodha — both recommended to the Supreme Court that sports betting be legalised in India. This was following the spot-fixing scandal in the IPL in 2013. That year, according to a KPMG report, the size of India’s underground gambling market was worth $90.2 billion. Indians who bet on sporting events (except horse racing, where betting is legal) have to do so either illegally in the country, or online on sites outside. In either case, the government loses out. The Public Gambling Act — under which such matters are decided — was established in 1867, well before the birth of the Internet, or indeed international sport in India. The law as it stands makes a distinction between games of chance and games of skill, so the matter is basically one of definition and interpretation. Fantasy cricket is a game of skill. That is what the Punjab & Haryana High Court (2017) and the Bombay High Court (2019) have ruled, a ruling upheld by the Supreme Court. Individuals might protest, but that is the legal position. In a short time, things have come a full circle as far as fantasy sport in India is concerned. Dream11 was founded in 2008, the year the IPL was first played, and now it is the title sponsor of that tournament. According to its website, it has 80 million users, with some winning as much as two-and-a-half million rupees. These are either very skillful people or very lucky, depending on your point of view. After all, chance is an element in sports too; consider a dropped catch, a freekick hitting the goalpost or a player stepping on a ball and twisting his ankle. No legal definition As often in such matters, the law is yet to catch up with reality. The “preponderantly” (to use the court’s language) skill games include the card game rummy, chess, carrom and, of course, horse racing. Esports can be seen as games of skill too, but in India there is no legal definition yet. Since both sets could involve putting your money where your mouth (or skill) is, an argument can be made that these involve betting too. Then “preponderantly” comes into play, and the courts have to decide the proportion of skill and chance involved. Is playing the stock market a game of chance or skill? Are the selectors who pick the national side going purely by their skill or is there an element of potential too (which means they are taking a chance)? Once the Supreme Court ruled, fantasy leagues have been emphasizing the skill portion of the challenge, which is understandable. But such things would not matter if betting on sports were to be accepted. Indians, like human beings everywhere, love a flutter (let us accept that neither fantasy leagues nor Esports is strictly about gambling). In my early days as a journalist, I met someone who would give you odds on which cloud mass would go past a specific point from among a bunch in the sky! But there was always a moral issue. Cultural too. The dice game in the Mahabharata which led to the loss of a kingdom and a war is narrated to us at an early age. Yet, when we have wanted to legalise betting (as in horse racing, and now fantasy sport), we have invested it with such virtues as skill, judgement, research, talent, all “preponderantly” worthwhile attributes to possess. There is an ambiguity here that legalising sports betting will eliminate. It won’t matter what percentage of skill and what percentage of chance is involved so long as the system is regulated sensibly. When the Law Commission of India recommended that sports betting be legalised in 2018, it said the move would end money laundering and tax evasion, the bane of the unregulated market, while boosting tax collections. Two years earlier, the Lodha Commission had made this recommendation, arguing that it was a multimillion-dollar industry, and calling for the government to enact laws to regularise it while restricting it to licensed betting houses and ensuring that players or officials do not participate. Now, four years later, the three captains of India would seem to have – unwittingly – brought the subject into public consciousness. What they are endorsing may be skill-based, but what they are setting off in the minds of viewers is the idea of betting on sports. Sometimes the tangential can convert into something substantial.
26 August 2020||DUBAI,||‘I just have to go out there and carry out Anil bhai’s plans’||K.L Rahul expects head coach Anil Kumble to do bulk of the planning, which he feels will help him immensely in his debut as captain of Kings XI Punjab in the IPL, beginning on September 19. “To have someone like Anil Bhai around helps me immensely this season. I share a very good relationship with him off the field, coming from the same State,” Rahul told the IPL website. “I think he (Kumble) will make my life as captain very easy. I know that he would be doing most of the planning and I just have to go out there and carry out the plans,” said the 28-year-old. Rahul was in superb form the past two seasons scoring 659 and 593 and in 2018 and 2019 respectively.  Glenn Maxwell’s return has boosted the middle-order and the skipper stressed on his importance to the team. “Maxi has been with Kings XI before and has had a successful run with the team. He was one player we were very clear we needed going into the auction. “On a given day, he will take down any bowling attack and we’ve felt that the last couple of seasons we have missed that impact player in the middle order,” said Rahul. Speaking about his opening partner Chris Gayle, Rahul said “I have played for several years with him and share a great friendship. He will be part of our core group and with the kind of experience he has, he will definitely be somebody that wins a lot of games for us. “It’s not like a usual IPL season and is going to be very different. I hope we can make this season count and win a lot of games for the team,” he added.
26 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Poulomi Ghatak calls it a day||Poulomi Ghatak, one of India’s most successful women’s table tennis players, has quietly brought the curtain down on a career that saw her win the National crown a stupendous seven times. The 37-year-old was the biggest name in the women’s game in the country over the last couple of decades and was chasing Indu Puri’s record of eight National titles. But she took a break to give birth to her son and did not attempt a comeback. Olympic dream “I was always looking to equal Indu Puri’s record, but injuries and the need to attend to my infant son stopped me from getting back to the table,” Poulomi said. “I am now focusing on fulfilling my dream of getting an Olympic medal through my students as I intend to start coaching very soon.” Poulomi, who represented India at the Sydney Olympics as a 17-year-old, said, “Being a part of the Indian team meant that I had to travel for the greater part of the year and that meant missing the growing-up period of my son. So I decided to be with him and took a break from the sport. “I thought of returning to the table, but I somehow could not motivate myself to make a comeback. “I have represented the country in every tournament and at every level, but now I feel it is time to use my experience and knowledge to train youngsters who will bring bigger laurels for the country.” Poulomi has joined forces with her husband, former National champion Soumyadeep Roy, to turn their academy into a centre of excellence.
26 August 2020||Bengaluru,||A huge honour: Trupti||Trupti Murgunde, Pradeep Gandhe and para-shuttler Satyaprakash Tiwari are among the three former badminton players to be conferred with the Dhyan Chand Award this year. Trupti, the 2009 women’s singles National champion and two-time South Asian Games singles gold medalist, is over the moon. “This is a huge honour,” said Trupti. Born in Pune, Trupti took the important step of moving to Bengaluru as a teenager to train at the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA). The Indian Oil Corporation employee has since made the city her home. Trupti picked the National championship and 2006 Commonwealth Games team event bronze as the highlights of her playing career. Incidentally, in the third round of the Nationals, Trupti edged out P.V. Sindhu, then an immensely talented 16-year-old sub-junior National champion.  After her playing career came to an end, she stayed connected to sports in various avatars. Trupti has served as a National coach and selector, and as a television commentator for events like the 2016 Rio Olympics, 2018 Asian Games and international badminton tournaments. The Dhyan Chand award — given to sportspersons for their contributions both as a player and after retirement — has motivated Trupti a great deal. “This is a new beginning for me. From a young age, I have always wanted to do something to help junior players from smaller towns. This award has inspired me to work for this cause,” said the 38-year-old.
26 August 2020||New York,||Ailing Djokovic holds his ground, progresses||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic battled through neck pain on the way to a 7-6(2), 6-4 victory on Monday over Ricardas Berankis at the Western & Southern Open, where second seed Dominic Thiem crashed out. Djokovic, who pulled out of doubles with a sore neck on Sunday, made it through to the round of 16 despite the ailment, for which he received treatment on court. The upset of the day was at the opposite end of the men's draw, as 32nd-ranked Filip Krajinovic of Serbia toppled Austria's Thiem 6-2, 6-1. Andy Murray also notched up an upset, surprising World No. 7 Alexander Zverev 6-3, 3-6, 7-5 for his first win over a top-10 player in more than three years. In women’s action, third-seeded Serena Williams bucked the upset trend that saw top seed Karolina Pliskova and number two Sofia Kenin ousted on Sunday. The 23-time Grand Slam champion battled back from the brink against Dutch qualifier Arantxa Rus, dominating a third-set tiebreaker to win 7-6(6), 3-6, 7-6(0).  Important results: Men: Second round: Novak Djokovic bt Ricardas Berankis 7-6(2), 6-4; Tennys Sandgren bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-7(4), 6-2, 7-6(5); Jan-Lennard Struff bt Denis Shapovalov 7-6(4), 3-6, 6-4; Daniil Medvedev bt Marcos Giron 6-4, 6-4; Roberto Bautista bt Richard Gasquet 7-5, 6-1; Andy Murray bt Alexander Zverev 6-3, 3-6, 7-5; Milos Raonic bt Daniel Evans 6-3, 7-5; Marton Fucsovics bt Grigor Dimitrov 7-5, 4-6, 6-2; Filip Krajinovic bt Dominic Thiem 6-2, 6-1.   Women: Second round: Elise Mertens bt Kristina Mladenovic 6-1, 6-7(5), 6-3; Aryna Sabalenka bt Catherine Bellis 6-7(1), 6-4, 7-5; Naomi Osaka bt Karolina Muchova 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-2; Dayana Yastremska bt Bernarda Pera 7-6(5), 4-6, 6-3; Anett Kontaveit bt Jil Teichmann 6-3, 6-4; Marie Bouzkova bt Petra Kvitova 2-6, 7-5, 6-2; Johanna Konta bt Kirsten Flipkens 6-2, 6-0; Serena Williams bt Arantxa Rus 7-6(6), 3-6, 7-6(0); Victoria Azarenka bt Caroline Garcia 6-2, 7-6(8).
26 August 2020||BARCELONA,||Messi tells Barcelona he wants to leave||Lionel Messi has told Barcelona he wants to leave the club after nearly two decades with the Spanish giant. The club confirmed on Tuesday that the Argentina great sent a document expressing his desire to leave. The announcement comes 11 days after Barcelona’s humiliating 8-2 loss to Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarterfinals, one of the worst defeats in the player’s career and the club’s history. Barcelona went without a title for the first time since 2007-08.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||Health issues delay Ciriello’s return||Things are not going well for the Indian men’s hockey team. After High Performance Director David John resigned amidst speculation, analytical coach Chris Ciriello is unsure of resuming duty owing to health reasons, adding to Hockey India’s concerns. While Ciriello left last month with his wife Heide due to visa issues, it is now learnt he has sought medical advice for a serious health condition that will delay his return. In fact, he is expected to consult doctors back home about the possible course of treatment and will only then decide on rejoining the Indian team. His visa issues, though, have been worked out. SAI accepts resignation Meanwhile, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) on Tuesday confirmed it had accepted John’s resignation. HI said it would actively look for John’s replacement once SAI gives the go-ahead.
26 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Poulomi retires||Poulomi Ghatak, one of the most successful names in women’s table tennis in India, brought the curtains down on a career that saw her win seven National titles, one short of Indu Puri’s record. The 37-year-old Poulomi is planning to become a coach.
26 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ryan Harris is Delhi Capitals’ bowling coach||Former Australian fast bowler Ryan Harris has been roped in as the bowling coach by Delhi Capitals for the upcoming season of the Indian Premier League. Harris replaces compatriot James Hopes, who opted out of travelling this year due to personal reasons. The 40-year-old Harris will be joining the side, already in UAE and in mandatory quarantine, and is expected to focus solely on the pacers in the side including Ishant Sharma, Kagiso Rabada, Mohit Sharma and Marcus Stoinis. The Delhi Capitals’ coaching staff already includes Ricky Ponting, Mohammad Kaif, Vijay Dahiya and Samuel Badree. Harris, who has 113 wickets in Tests, 44 in ODIs and 4 in T20Is, was part of the victorious Deccan Chargers side in 2009 before retiring in 2015. He had earlier been a coach with Kings XI Punjab and Brisbane Heat in the Big Bash League. “I am delighted to be back in the IPL. This is a huge opportunity to contribute to the franchise’s ambitions of lifting the coveted trophy. The Delhi Capitals side has an impressive bowling line up and I can’t wait to start working with them all,” Harris said in a statement.
26 August 2020||KOCHI,||KSVA’s lifetime award for T.D. Joseph||The Kerala State Volleyball Association has decided to posthumously confer its lifetime achievement award to T.D. Joseph ‘Pappan’, one of India’s greatest players, along with a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh. This was decided at the KSVA’s online general body meeting. The general body, presided over by president Charley Jacob, also decided to move the Volleyball Federation of India to recommend Joseph for the Dhyan Chand Award and take steps to conduct online training programmes for young volleyball players who are unable to train owing to the coronavirus pandemic.
26 August 2020||PARIS,||F1 adds four races, cuts Chinese GP||Four races — Turkey, Bahrain (two) and Abu Dhabi — have been added to the 2020 Formula One calendar, it was announced on Tuesday. The Chinese GP will, however, not be run in 2020, bringing the total number of races to 17 for the season.AFP
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 07:36 IST,||Sudoku - August 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||In a class of its own||Mahindra’s Thar evokes emotions like few other cars can; it embodies the spirit of the original Jeep and the 75-year-old legacy of India’s original SUV maker. The new Thar is noticeably bigger than its predecessor, and debuts Mahindra’s state-of-the art all-aluminium engines: a 152hp, 2.0-litre direct-injection turbo-petrol and a 132hp, 2.2-litre diesel. So just how much has the new Thar improved? The new model is pleasing on the eye, its proportions are wider and the edges have been softened. The classic look is retained in part due to the massive 255/65 R18 tyres that gives it a 226mm ground clearance. The SUV uses Mahindra’s ‘hydroformed’ Gen-3 body-on-frame chassis. It has a new suspension with a coil-sprung, independent double-wishbone at the front and a coil-sprung, multi-link live axle at the rear. The turning circle, too, is not as tight as the previous model. The cabin is more comfortable and modern; the dash design, general fit and finish feel light years ahead although the new instrument panel does look ordinary compared to the previous Thar’s hooded dials. The Thar is ergonomically well executed — even the seats are large and come with good side bolstering. However, the cushioning felt inconsistent. Access to the rear is not easy and many will find accessing it easier from between the front seats. The two forward-facing rear seats, a first for the Thar, are not hugely comfortable either. Legroom is decent, but the low seat height compromises comfort. The new Thar is available with a hard-top, or a removable soft-top. The soft-top gets noisy past 60kph; the hard-top cuts road and wind noise effectively and is a better option for highway drives. A torrential downpour gave the soft top a good soaking, but apart from a few drops, we stayed dry. Complete package The new Thar will be sold in AX and LX versions. The AX is geared towards the hardcore off-roader while the LX (seen here) gets creature comforts, such as an eight-way adjustable driver’s seat, a 7.0-inch touchscreen, 18-inch alloy wheels and more. Mahindra’s all-new 2.0-litre ‘mStallion’ turbo-petrol engine is the biggest surprise here; it responds immediately to throttle inputs. On part throttle, the 152hp petrol Thar feels remarkably sprightly. It is only when you floor it that there is some hesitation before the turbo kicks in. The mid-range is strong too and there is no let-up till the 5,500rpm rev limit. The 6-speed Aisin automatic works in tandem with the engine. There is a bit of hesitation under full throttle, but once you have got your foot in there, it upshifts smoothly. It is not a particularly quick-reacting gearbox and there is a slight delay in downshifting when you stomp on the accelerator. The diesel engine is all-new and kicks off the next generation of diesels from Mahindra. The engine has a wide torque spread and pulls from around 1,000rpm in a smooth and linear way. There is no sudden spike of power, just a consistent, even shove up to the 4,700rpm rev limit. The engine is rather refined and is quite inaudible at low revs. The 6-speed manual gearbox has a light shift though the long throw does not encourage quick shifts. The ample torque lets you shift gears lazily. True to its DNA, both, the petrol and diesel versions of the Thar have 4x4 with a low-ratio transfer gearbox. On the road, the high unsprung mass and beefed-up suspension have made low-speed rides quite lumpy. The ride is not flat or settled like a soft-roader, but it is not uncomfortable for everyday use either. A big issue was the brakes on the petrol-auto. They grab suddenly, and you need to mash the pedal for them to bite. The diesel-manual had a more linear and effective brake pedal feel. The Thar has matured from a no-frills off-roader to a more complete package designed to double as an everyday car, without diluting its core appeal. Prices will be announced on October 2, and you can expect it to be substantially more than the outgoing Thar. The new Thar is a lifestyle vehicle now, one that has no competition because there isn’t anything quite like it.  Specifications   Length3985mm   Width1855mm   Height1844mm (hard top)   Wheelbase2450mm   Ground clearance226mm   Tyre size255/65 R18   Engine2184cc, 4-cyls, turbo-diesel 1997cc, 4-cyls, turbo-petrol   Power132hp at 3750rpm 152hp at 5000rpm   Torque300Nm at 1600-2800rpm 320Nm at 1500-3000rpm  Gearbox6-speed MT 6-speed AT
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||Weekly market in Bhogal fails to enforce social distancing norms||With scant regard for social distancing norms, the weekly market in south Delhi’s Bhogal reopened on a trial basis after five months on Tuesday. The vendors, who have been out of work for several months, were keen on the markets being reopened. Following the orders of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, weekly markets in different parts of the city have been reopened until September 30. Markets have been allowed to open, one per day in each zone, with various guidelines laid out in regards to social distancing. Congested on first day Though there were designated spots for vendors, the market was highly congested on the opening day. Vendors set up stores on a small road due to which many permanent shopkeepers complained that it was a bad idea to reopen the markets. Area municipal officials were seen trying to dissuade vendors from allowing too many customers but admitted that social distancing was very difficult to maintain here. Sukhbir Singh, who runs a meat store, said he didn’t want to sour his relationship with fellow shopkeepers but it was a bad idea to reopen the markets. He said the disease would now spread with more crowds. Yogesh Arora, who runs a clothing store, was upset with the development. “You can’t imagine the crowd that gathers at this market...it makes no sense,” he said. He said he won’t allow vendors to set up stores outside his shop. Another store owner said the people following social distancing norms stayed home while those in the markets, do not care about such norms. “How will you control them?” he asked. Vendors speak Vendors such as Ashok Kumar said markets were opening everywhere in the city. “As Kejriwal [Chief Minister] said, we will have to live with corona,” said Kumar, who sets up store at various weekly markets here. Ranbir Singh, a vendor, said he had to take loans, use savings and depend on free food to make ends meet during the lockdown. Other vendors echoed his sentiment, appealing for all markets in Delhi to be reopened. For business to resume, he said it would take some time to get customers. Many unaware of move Most people who came to the market on Tuesday said they did not know that it would reopen today. Hargun Kaur, 36, said she was passing thrpugh the area when she saw the market functioning. Others such as Rekha Tawa and her mother from New Friends Colony had come to see if the market had reopened. “We have been coming here for many years now to buy clothes and other small items...,” Ms. Tawar said.   Area municipal officials were seen trying to dissuade vendors from allowing too many customers but admitted that social distancing was very difficult to maintain here
26 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Congress to raise farm ordinances, various ‘scams’ in Haryana House||All set to corner the ruling coalition of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jannayak Janta Party during the monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly beginning on Wednesday, the Congress plans to bring adjournment motions on three agricultural ordinances and to demand a discussion on the scams, besides raising the issue of “constantly deteriorating law and order system in the State”. Led by former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the Congress in its meeting at Chandigarh also unanimously passed a vote of thanks to party president Sonia Gandhi for her decision to continue leading the party. The session, however, will be held under the shadow of COVID-19 with Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta found infected with the virus. On Tuesday, State Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma also tested positive. The Speaker had mandated a COVID-19 test for all MLAs, Assembly staff and officials ahead of the session. Three more MLAs and six Assembly staff members have also reportedly tested positive. Holding the meeting, Mr. Hooda said the adjournment motion would be brought to discuss the three agricultural ordinances brought by the Centre. The ordinances have created confusion about the future of the MSP regime that provides income security to the farmers. He also stated that answers would be sought from the government on scams in the State. “The Congress demands that the investigation of the liquor scam be conducted by a sitting High Court judge or any central agency,” he said. Mr. Hooda added than an adjournment motion would also be brought to demand discussion on the paddy, registry and liquor scams. He said the government would also have to answer about the constantly deteriorating law system of the State. ‘Voice of farmers’ He said the Congress would raise the voice of farmers, youth, businessmen, government employees, the poor and wage labourers in the Vidhan Sabha. “The government has failed on every front. Instead of providing relief and facilities to the people, the government is busy in scams,” alleged Mr. Hooda.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Offers galore at Kannankandy||Onam is as usual at Kannankandy. As our showrooms are covid-safe certified stores by the union ministry, customers can enjoy shopping without any apprehension. The showrooms conform to all safety guidelines prescribed by the health department. Customer contact areas inside the showrooms are sanitised frequently and social distancing is maintained. Because we are more concerned about your health. Kannankandy is ready to welcome you with incredible onam offers. Besides awesome discounts, gifts, additional warranty etc, you could win 25 sovereigns of gold. Attractive exchange facilities and finance options are also made available at the showrooms. To know more about what we have in store for you this onam, visit our facebook page 'kannankandy estore'. Fore more details, call us on 9072277002, 9072277003. Aza Diagnostic Centre, a sister concern of Kannankandy Group, is the first standalone laboratory in the Malabar region which has secured ICMR approval for COVID-19 test in real-time PCR category apart from the prestigious NABL accreditation. The latest Quant Studio 5 (Open system for Quantitative PCR Assay) of Thermo Fisher Scientific is used here for molecular laboratory examinations. Dr. Ramitha Rabeendran, a PhD holder in Microbiology, heads its Molecular Department. The lab is equipped with facilities to conduct 300 COVID-19 tests a day apart from the arrangements to collect 96 samples simultaneously using the automated extraction system. These features also promise a quick delivery of results. Chief Operation Officer Javed Islam says it is also the first lab in the Northern Kerala with facilities to test over 64 allergens. The lab is located in front of Sabha School on the Stadium-Puthiyara Road. Ph: 0495-2971188, 8943557711.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala Dinesh||Kerala Dinesh is on the path of diversification today. In 1997 the company started three food processing units under the brand name of ‘Dinesh Foods’. A curry powder manufacturing unit at Kanhira in Kannur, a fruit processing unit at Thottada, Tea processing unit at Chalat etc were these initiatives. All the food products has been accorded Agmark. With 72 workers on board, the company achieved a turnover of more than 4 crores. In the year 1999, Dinesh opened a window to the IT world by incepting Dinesh Information Technology Systems(DITS). DITS mainly offers software solutions for co-operative banks, Core banking solutions, Computer education, data services etc. Around 40 engineers work here and the company’s current turnover is 2 crores. In 2000, the society forayed into umbrella manufacturing. The facility which is spread over Kannur, Chalad, Thalassery and Payyannur now, gives permanent job to 60 workers. With an initial production of 5000 umbrellas, the company showed a robust growth with manufacturing capacity of 1.5 lakhs units today. With the commencement of the fourth unit at Palayat, the company could register 30% growth in terms of production, leading to an annual turnover of rupees 3 crores. In 2007, the society incepted an apparels manufacturing unit with branches at Thana, Chala, and Cheruvathur engaging a labour force of more than 200. 90% of the production is exported to various countries, making an annual turnover of rupees 5 crores. As part of diversification, Dinesh is all set to launch coconut chocolate and coconut milk ice cream, besides setting up Dinesh cafe & restaurant.
26 August 2020||August 26 2020 00:00 IST,||EXCEL Public School, Mahe||Anew school having classes from LKG to Higher Secondary commenced from the academic year 2014-15 and now has grown in stature as a Centre of Excellence in Malabar with a strength of around 2000 students studying here. The school has all modern infrastructure for good and comfortable learning. All class rooms are smart class room enabled. Special block for kids. Bus facilities to all routes. Modern kitchen and Dining hall. With every passing year the students have registered glittering performance in the SSLC and Higher Secondary Board Examinations. As in all previous years this year also the SSLC batch had 100% success and 40 students secured Full A+ in all subjects. Highlights of Higher Secondary Results 2020 Full A+ 42 students,Full marks 660/660 for 11 students. Full marks scored in sublects 200/200 are Physics 1, Mathematics 6, Language 47,Chemistry 5, Biology 5 and Computer Science 3. Commerce stream was started in the last academic year and in the first batch in the first year results we have 100% success. Our aim is to make this one of the best commerce divisions of Malabar in the years to come.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees highest spike since July 16||Delhi recorded 1,544 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday — the highest single-day spike since July 16, when 1,652 cases were reported.  As per the health bulletin released by the government, the total number of cases now stands at 1,64,071. Seventeen deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 4,330. Of the total cases, 1,47,743 people have recovered and there are 11,998 active cases. The number of new cases crossed the 1,500 mark after almost 40 days.    Active cases rising The number of active cases in the city on Tuesday is also the highest in over a month. The last time there were more such cases was on July 25 when there were 12,657 cases. Active cases, which reached 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 on August 4. Since then, however, it has remained above that mark. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, only 5,380 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 19,841 tests done in a single day, 72.8% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of containment zones in the city was 654 as on Tuesday.
26 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal to seek 6th Schedule status||The Bharatiya Janata Party government in Arunachal Pradesh has decided to appeal to the Centre for bringing the State under the purview of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution towards protecting the rights of its indigenous peoples. The decision to approach the Centre was taken at a Cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Monday, Home Minister Bamang Felix said. The Sixth Schedule consists of provisions for the administration of tribal areas in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. Consensus decision “The Cabinet discussed the report of a consultative meeting held on August 19, following which a consensus decision to reach out to the Centre regarding the inclusion of Arunachal Pradesh under the Sixth Schedule was taken,” Mr. Felix said on Tuesday. A resolution would be moved and discussed in the monsoon session of the Assembly from August 27 and would be submitted to the Centre, he said. The State government had a fortnight ago formed a Consultative Committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein to hold a meeting with the community-based organisations for discussing issues related to constitutional safeguards for the indigenous peoples. The demand for the creation of two autonomous councils — Mon Autonomous Region in the western part and Patkai Autonomous Council in the eastern part — had led to the creation of the committee. The Cabinet discussed the report the committee submitted after a meeting with the CBOs and students’ organisations on August 19. “No government had sought Sixth Schedule status since Arunachal became a State more than three decades ago. From the suggestions from the Consultative Committee, community leaders and advocates, we have come to understand that we were living under the wrong expression of being protected by the Inner Line Permit,” Mr. Felix said. The ILP, warranted by the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Act of 1873, is an official travel document issued by the State government concerned to let in an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. Mr. Felix also said the provisions of Article 371(H) for Arunachal Pradesh do not ensure full protection to the State’s people. “We may have our land, air and water, but we don’t have its ownership.”
26 August 2020||Lucknow,||Land row behind journalist’s murder: police||The family of a TV journalist who was shot dead in Ballia late on Monday questioned the police narrative that the murder took place over a land dispute, with the immediate cause being a confrontation over storing straw. Journalist Ratan Singh, who worked with Hindi news channel Sahara Samay, was shot dead inside the campus of the local gram pradhan’s residence in Phephna, said Ballia SP Devendra Nath. The police said a long-running land dispute between the two, and personal animosity were the reasons behind the incident. The murder had nothing to do with the deceased’s journalistic work, Ballia police said. The Inspector in-charge of Phephna was suspended for negligence and not taking measures to resolve the dispute. Azamgarh Deputy Inspector General of Police Subhash Chandra Dubey said the confrontation was triggered off after the family of the journalist kept straw on the disputed land. The accused side dumped wheat chaff on the land. An altercation and “ ladai jhagra ” ensued, said the officer. Mr. Singh was then hit with lathis and shot dead, said Ballia police. However, Ratan’s father Vinod Singh refuted the police statement saying there had been no quarrel over keeping straw on the day. He accused the police of “lying” and even questioned the role of the local police in-charge. He said the accused had lured his son to the spot through deceit. Ballia police said six of the ten accused had been arrested. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh. The Samajwadi Party said the murder was an example of the “jungle raj” in U.P. State Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said that while the State government was oppressing journalists, criminals were murdering them without fear. Mr. Lallu and party workers were stopped in Rae Bareli by the police while they were on their way to meet the family of the deceased.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP may name new office-bearers for State unit by end of the week||BJP National Secretary Arun Singh chaired a meeting for the reorganisation of the party's State unit on Tuesday. Insiders said that new teams are likely to be announced later this week. Meeting with RSS The meeting follows discussions between the party’s senior State leadership and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) in relation to the exercise — twice over the last fortnight. The new office-bearers are expected to be announced by the end of this week, said sources. The national unit has appointed Mr. Singh and Mahila Morcha president Vijaya Rahatkar as observers for the organisational restructuring of State unit. Several rounds of meetings and consultations have taken place with final touches and the RSS’ final nod for individuals for various posts scheduled over the coming days, according to sources. As per party sources, claims of being “connected to the ground” made by potential candidates for various party posts in the State unit are being verified and recommended candidates are not being entertained. The maximum age of block presidents, according to party sources, has been fixed at 45 years. The appointment of block presidents will be followed by appointment of district presidents; then by appointment of office-bearers.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP launches scheme to fight dengue||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Tuesday launched the ‘Dengue, Malaria and Chikungunya free Maha Abhiyan’ to be run by all three municipal corporations. Mr. Gupta flagged off a power spray tanker, fogging machine and three-wheeler mounted with PA system for the Abhiyan and did fogging for protection from mosquito-borne diseases in the west Patel Nagar Ward of North Municipal Corporation “Municipal Corporations work round-the-clock, not 10 minutes. Employees of the Municipal Health Department will go door-to-door to get all the information about the circumstances there through an assessment form in writing,” Mr. Gupta said. “Councillors along with RWA will conduct an awareness campaign and inform residents about dengue, chikungunya and malaria prevention. Delhi BJP together with Delhi Municipal Corporation is committed to keeping the people of Delhi healthy and safe,” he added.
26 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram bus service ridership up by 30%||The ridership of city bus service — Gurugaman — run by Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited has steadily gone up by 30% since the buses started running on full capacity from August 15. During the week beginning after August 15, 20,309 passengers travelled on Gurugaman buses till August 17. Similarly, the passenger count was 18,733 the next day. However, passenger mobility was affected on August 19 and 20 due to rain. On August 21, passenger count rebounded with 19,638 passengers travelling on the six routes now operational. The number further increased to 20, 684 for Monday. The routes which are witnessing more passengers are Route 212: Basai Chowk to Basai (Mudrika), Route 134D: Iffco Chowk to IMT Manesar and Route 218: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sohna. In the first fortnight of this month, 45, 430 passengers travelled on route 134D buses. On Route 212, during in this period, 45,723 passengers had travelled. On Route 218, the number of passengers who had travelled was 36,068 for this period. With 50 % seating capacity, Gurugaman saw 15,880 passengers travelling on August 14, 2020.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Notice to FB officials soon’||A Delhi Assembly committee on Peace and Harmony on Tuesday recorded statements of journalists and an activist as expert witnesses on the Facebook controversy and decided to issue notices to top officials of the social media platform to examine them on record. “The committee will soon issue notices to top officials of Facebook with a view to examine them on record. The committee aims at redressing the issue at the earliest therefore the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion,” an official statement said. ‘Hateful content’ The committee held the meeting on alleged “deliberate and intentional” inaction by Facebook to contain “hateful content”. Journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa and others were called as expert witnesses on Tuesday by the committee.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC orders Centre, govt. to clear dues of advocates||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and Delhi government to clear dues of professional fees of advocates on government's Standing Counsels, Additional Standing Counsels and other panel lawyers whose bills have been received by it till February 1 2020, within four weeks. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also observed that the government will not keep pending the payment of lawyers so long. The court's order came on petition filed by advocate Piyush Gupta, Co-Chairman of Bar Council of Delhi, claiming that the professional fee bills of empanelled lawyers are not being paid in time. Advocate Gupta said Centre and Delhi government are not following court orders.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||CM holds talks with weekly market bodies||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday met with members of the weekly market associations of Delhi to discuss measures to revive the sector. He said all stakeholders will have to work together to strengthen Delhi's economy. The meeting comes days after a decision was made to allow weekly markets to open on a trial basis. The representatives of the associations thanked Mr. Kejriwal, who said the government will develop a system for revamping the weekly markets so that they can be converted into popular tourist spots. “There is no source of tax revenue for the government. We have managed the subsidies so they do not stop. We could have stopped the subsidies on water and electricity, but we decided to keep the subsidies for the people, including free bus rides for women because this is the need of the hour,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Mr. Kejriwal also requested the associations to maintain social distancing in the markets. “This is important so that the opening of markets on a trial basis is soon converted into a permanent plan by the Lieutenant-Governor,” he added.
26 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP buying anti-dengue medicines at higher price’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday accused the Delhi BJP chief, Adesh Gupta, for buying anti-dengue medicine — used for fogging by the municipal corporations— at a “higher price” and termed it a “scam”. “These allegations are completely baseless and untrue,” said a BJP spokesperson, adding that the party would issue a detailed response on the allegation in the coming days. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday said the Delhi BJP’s anti-dengue campaign is a huge drama and an opportunity to do corruption. He said the BJP-led civic bodies bought anti-dengue medicine at Rs. 3,256.80/kg whereas the same was bought by Bhopal Municipal Corporation at Rs. 2,500/ kg. “Significantly, we need to note that the Deputy Chief Accountant of the BJP-led civic bodies raised objection against this purchase. The person concerned said when Bhopal Municipal Corporation can buy this same product at such a lower price then why should the BJP-led civic bodies buy this product at such a higher price. The civic bodies did not listen to the objection,” he said. He added that recently Mr. Gupta had launched a campaign against dengue in Delhi. “This is a drama. We believe that through these campaigns, the BJP leaders earn a lot of corrupt money,” said Mr. Pathak.
