26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Neighbourhood, standalone shops can open in urban areas||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday clarified that all shops in rural areas, except those in malls, could open. In urban areas, all standalone and neighbourhood shops and those in residential complexes are allowed to open but not those in markets, market complexes and shopping malls. The MHA said all restaurants, salons and barber shops would remain closed as they “render services” and the relaxation was granted only to shops selling items. In a statement, the MHA added that liquor shops continued to be prohibited and e-commerce platforms could only be used for the sale of essential items. Several officials of the State governments said they would stick to the ongoing restrictions and would not immediately implement the order. An official said the final decision on the opening of shops would have to be taken by the States. Manoj Parida, adviser to the Administrator of the Union Territory of Chandigarh, said on Twitter that in the city, a containment zone, “the opening of neighbourhood non-essential shops will not happen till May 3”. Piyush Singla, Deputy Commissioner of Udhampur district in Jammu and Kashmir, said queries poured in about the opening of shops and “it is clarified that the present ongoing set-up shall continue till any further communication. Anyone violating the directives shall be booked as per law”. Assam’s Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said that no further relaxation, like the opening of shops and beauty parlours, had been decided by the State and a decision would be taken only on April 27. Sudhanshu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack, said the Odisha government would take a decision based on the local situation and requirements and till then, “shops, except for those already exempted, will remain closed.”
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Private hospitals can have own testing facilities: CM||Private hospitals in the State can be allowed to have their own testing facilities for COVID-19 and to test patients that they might suspect to be having the disease, strictly within the stipulations of the Health Department, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Private hospitals would have to ensure that they followed the testing guidelines of the Health Department. However, priority should be to give the required treatment to patients, the Chief Minister said while briefing mediapersons here on Saturday. Hospitals in the State, both public and private ones, had started resuming their normal functioning and the footfall had increased, he said. ‘Surgeries can resume’ Elective surgeries are being resumed by most hospitals. All hospitals should, however, ensure that precautions for preventing disease transmission, including wearing of masks and use of personal protection equipment, were followed not just by doctors but also by all hospital staff, Mr. Vijayan said. Private hospitals have been very cooperative with the government so far. There were complaints that many private hospitals had not put in place the necessary arrangements required to ensure the safety of patients and visitors to prevent cross-infections and that there were not adequate PPE (personal protective equipment) kits supplied to the clinical staff. These should be addressed, the Chief Minister said. He said that it was a matter of concern that people illegally coming into the State from neighbouring districts continued to trigger new patient clusters in border districts. Seven more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State on Saturday. Three cases each were reported from Kollam and Kottayam districts and one from Kannur. One of the cases reported from Kollam is that of a field-level health worker. Two of these persons had come from Sharjah, one from Maharashtra, while three cases are cases of local transmission, wherein the persons had contracted their disease from other imported cases. Seven recover Seven persons also got on the recovery list on Saturday. So far, Kerala has reported 457 cases, of which 338 persons have recovered from their disease. At present, 116 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. The number of persons under surveillance is 21,004, of which 464 are in isolation in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. So far, 22,360 samples have been sent for testing, of which 21,457 samples returned a negative result, the Chief Minister said.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Chaos and panic buying in T.N. cities before lockdown||Chaotic scenes prevailed at markets and shops on Saturday in major cities in Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, as people scrambled to stock up on essentials ahead of the four-day “complete lockdown” beginning at 6 a.m on Sunday. Physical distancing norms were compromised and the mandate of wearing masks ignored in the rush even as 66 more persons in the State, including 43 in Chennai, tested positive for COVID-19. With one more fatality, the death toll rose to 23 in the State. So far, 1,821 confirmed cases have been recorded. Limited time With only a day to stock up and a 1 p.m. deadline for shops to close, the people in the three major cities thronged the shops from early in the morning. The situation was equally bad in Tiruppur that will be shut for three days, but in Salem, another city where severe restrictions would be imposed till Tuesday, shops remained closed. Facing a barrage of criticism from the Opposition that described the “complete lockdown” as an “ill-conceived idea”, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami later allowed shops to remain open till 3 p.m. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and the Chennai Corporation added to the confusion by announcing that vegetable and fruit shops would remain open during the “complete lockdown”. However, in the evening, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash clarified that only sale of vegetables and fruits in wholesale markets, on push carts and mobile vehicles would be allowed, as announced by the government earlier. Chaos at Koyambedu All roads leading to the Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai witnessed heavy traffic, with nearly 50,000 people visiting the complex within a couple of hours of its opening. Saturday’s sales were 30%-40% higher than the usual, said S. Chandran of the Koyambedu Vegetable Wholesale Merchants Association.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases in Karnataka touch 500||With 26 new COVID-19 positive cases detected on Saturday, the total number of cases in the State has now reached 500. As many as 13 cases have been reported in Bengaluru Urban and of them, nine are from the labour colony at Hongasandra ward and the contacts of P-419 [a 54-year-old migrant labourer from the same colony who tested positive earlier this week]. The total number of positive cases in that cluster alone now stands at 30. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has now sealed the area.  A journalist of a Kannada television channel also tested positive on Saturday. He had visited one of the containment zones marked by the BBMP. Following this, 27 journalists, who are his primary contacts, have been quarantined in a hotel. “Although most of them have undergone tests for COVID-19, we will conduct another test on the 12th day of their quarantine,” said a Health Department official. Saturday also saw nine cases from Belagavi, and one each from Dakshina Kannada, Chickballapur, Mandya, and Mysuru. The department believes that the lockdown has helped contain the number of cases. “The number of tests we are conducting is also increasing and we want to ensure that we detect all the positive cases and take suitable measures to prevent the transmission,” said the official. The State on Saturday also kick-started trials for convalescent plasma therapy, where plasma from patients who have recovered from COVID-19 is infused in those who have tested positive for the infection and are in a critical condition.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two months on, kin await burial of loved ones||Over two months after they were killed allegedly in two brutal assaults that took place during the north-east Delhi riots in late February, the families of Anwar Kassar and Mohammad Shahbaz still await their mortal remains — a foot and some parts of a human skull attached to traces of a spine — to be handed over to them. Though the DNA reports have confirmed that the foot belongs to 60-year-old Kassar and the skull and spine to 22-year-old Shahbaz, the remains lie in evidence bags in police custody, complained the family members. Investigators have cited movement restrictions due to the lockdown as the reason for the delay in handing over the remains, say Kassar’s daughter Gulshan Bano and Shahbaz’s elder brother Maltub Alam. These restrictions have, however, not affected the investigators’ action against alleged culprits from the area who continue to be detained or placed under arrest. “I had called to ask about the DNA report of my father’s foot on April 16. They told me it had matched and the remains were lying at the police station. They said it was just a foot that was left and I could take it after the lockdown,” said Gulshan, a resident of Pilkhuwa in U.P. Kassar, a resident of Shiv Vihar, was allegedly pulled out of his residence, thrown into a fire and shot multiple times as his body burnt on February 25. “Whatever remains of him should be handed over to us. Isn’t this the government’s responsibility?” she asked. Shahbaz, a welder, had gone to the Guru Nanak Eye Centre on February 25. The remains of his body, fished out of a drain in Shiv Vihar, were deposited at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital mortuary. His brother identified the remains on the basis of traces of clothes found with the skull and spine. “The DNA report came a few days before the first lockdown. I was told the remains would be given to us after the lockdown ended. Now they are saying some other test needs to be conducted. I don’t even know where his remains are,” said Maltub Alam. A senior police officer said there were many cases in which DNA test was required to establish the identity of the deceased. The samples were sent to FSL and reports of many samples have arrived.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only 15% of poor households received pulses||Only 15% of poor households have received the 1 kg of pulses promised for April under the Centre’s COVID-19 welfare package, according to an analysis of government agency data. Of the 1.96 lakh tonnes of pulses that should have been given to over 19 crore households this month, only 30,000 tonnes have been distributed so far, according to the Consumer Affairs Department. Distribution is likely to speed up by the first week of May, with delays caused by the fact that the government only stores unmilled pulses in its godowns, and has had to start a massive milling operation before delivering them to ration shops. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced extra ration allocations from April to June as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, said to be worth Rs. 1.7 lakh crore. All 80 crore National Food Security Act beneficiaries were to get an extra 5 kg of rice or wheat each month, while each household was to get 1 kg of pulses. Several hurdles Given that all States already distribute rice and wheat through a well-established Public Distribution System, with grain provided from a network of Food Corporation of India warehouses, distribution of the extra grain began early in April. However, distribution to more than 19 crore families was stalled by several hurdles. The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation is the nodal agency which procures and stores a buffer stock of pulses. To provide the necessary 5.88 lakh tonnes of cleaned and milled pulses under the scheme, NAFED pressed over 100 mills into service to process 8.5 lakh tonnes of unmilled pulses lying in about 165 godowns. “The scale of this operation is massive and far more complex than foodgrain movement,” according to a Consumer Affairs Department statement.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID cases breach 1,000-mark in State||About 45 days after detecting the first COVID-19 positive case, the State on Saturday breached the 1,000-mark by reporting 61 new cases and two more deaths in the past 24 hours. The positive cases tally went up to 1,016 and the toll mounted to 31 with one death each in Krishna and Kurnool districts. Srikakulam, for the first time, reported three cases and Krishna, the worst-hit after Kurnool and Guntur, registered 25 new cases, the highest among districts. It was followed by Kurnool (14 cases), Anantapur (5), Kadapa and Nellore (4 each) , and East Godavari and Guntur (3 each). Meanwhile, 26 patients — 11 from Prakasam, four each from East Godavari and Krishna, three from Kurnool and two each from Anantapur and Nellore — recovered and were discharged. For the 1,016 cases detected till date, the death rate has been 3.05% and the recovery rate 16.8%. As many as 814 active patients are under treatment. As of Saturday, Kurnool’s tally has gone up to 275 and Guntur reported a total of 209 cases. They are followed by Krishna (127), Chittoor (73), Nellore (72), Kadapa (55), Prakasam (53), Anantapur (51), West and East Godavari (39 & 37), Visakhapatnam (22) and Srikakulam (3). Meanwhile, Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the rate of positivity was only 1.66, which was low compared given the huge number of tests being conducted.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Single-digit cases in Telangana after 8 days||After eight days, the number of COVID-19 cases recorded in Telangana on Saturday was a single digit — seven —, while 16 persons were discharged. Of the new cases, six were detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, and one was in Warangal Urban. The total number of cases reached 990, which is 10 short of hitting the 1,000 mark. The day saw no deaths. It was on April 15 that six cases were reported in the State. However, the number went up the next day to 50. The high number of cases continued till April 21. It dropped to 13 on Friday, and to seven on Saturday. Of the 990 cases, 658 were active cases, 307 were discharged, and 25 persons suffering from the infectious disease died. Doctors at Gandhi Hospital said that people who had recovered and were discharged were ready to donate plasma for clinical trials on convalescent plasma therapy.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||1,429 new cases, 56 deaths in 24 hours||India posted 1,429 new cases of COVID-19 since Friday. This brings the number of confirmed cases to 24,942, according to an update from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. At least 56 more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll nationwide to 779, according to the Health Ministry figures. The country’s death rate, according to the Ministry, was around 3.1% and the recovery rate more than 20%, which, it claimed, was “comparatively better” than most other countries. The average doubling rate of cases was 9.1 days. Though fresh cases were reported from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, among others, the government said the daily growth rate had dipped to 6%. Maharashtra tops the tally with more than 6,800 cases, followed by 3,061 in Gujarat and 2,034 in Rajasthan. Reports from State Health Departments, however, put the nationwide toll at 800, with 19 fatalities since Friday. The number of positive cases was 25,252, with 18,742 active cases.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Homeward-bound||
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Anganwadi worker tests positive||Belagavi on Saturday saw an Anganwadi worker testing positive for COVID-19, underlining the need for protective gear for frontline workers. She had surveyed 94 houses, including the house of P-128, in the course of medical surveillance duty. Bagalkot has had four police constables who were on COVID-19 duty testing positive.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC to suggest academic calendar this week||Panels set up by the University Grants Commission (UGC) have submitted recommendations on the revised academic calendar and suggestions for holding examinations at a time when the country is under lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Commission’s members are likely to discuss the recommendations via video-conferencing on Monday and issue advisory guidelines for institutions of higher education by the middle of next week, according to UGC officials. Meanwhile, Press Trust of India reported that a panel headed by Central University of Haryana Vice-Chancellor R.C. Kuhad had recommended that the new academic year begin in September, instead of July. Another recommendation was that universities conduct their year-end examinations online if they had the resources to do so. If not, they should wait until the lockdown is lifted to set a date for the hand-written examinations. No semester exams yet Most colleges and universities have not yet held their semester examinations to close the current academic year. Apart from Dr. Kuhad’s panel, another panel headed by Indira Gandhi National Open University Vice- Chancellor Nageshwar Rao also submitted its report on improving online education in the midst of the lockdown.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Destitute man dies a week after being rescued||A week after being rescued from near Kashmere Gate, a destitute man died at a city hospital, said Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social worker who had rescued him on April 15. Mr. Aledia had spotted the man near Kudesia Ghat and informed the authorities.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||One death, 111 new cases reported in the Capital||One death and 111 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total deaths to 54 and the total cases to 2,625. The chairman of the Delhi government’s committee on COVID-19 said the lockdown might have to be extended till mid-May.
26 April 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Delhi should arrange for stay of Haryana staff’||The Haryana government on Saturday appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to make arrangements for stay of Haryana residents who are employed with the Delhi government, saying their movement increases the risk of COVID-19 spread.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Tablighi members shunted from ward to ward||Enforcement agencies are under fire after five foreign nationals, who were reportedly part of Tablighi Jamaat, were shifted to various places after local MLAs, councillors and residents staged protests at every ward.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Working hours in industries to go up?||The State government is considering sanctioning additional working hours for the manufacturing sector. While the discussion is to add two working hours to the current eight-hour shift, a decision on it is likely to be taken post April 28.
26 April 2020||Belagavi,||‘No evidence to show transmission from dead’||Scientists at ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) have clarified that there is no evidence to prove that COVID-19 can spread from the dead. NITM director Debprasad Chattopadhyaya said that it is highly unlikely.
26 April 2020||MYSURU,||Forest worker drowns in Kabini backwaters||A Forest Department worker on patrol duty died while confronting nearly a dozen miscreants engaged in illegal fishing in the Kabini backwaters, bordering the Bandipur-Nagarahole belt, on Saturday.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre passing the buck to States, says Congress||The Centre should have a national plan to tackle the coronavirus pandemic under the Disaster Management Act rather than delegating all the responsibility to the State governments, the Congress party said on Saturday. “You can’t have a lockdown of people and a lockout of the economy. That’s not the way to formulate a policy. We are not criticising. We are only saying it is time to rethink. We are with the government. This is constructive criticism,” Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal told reporters as he addressed an online media conference. The lockdown was imposed without consulting the State governments and the migrant workers were left to fend for themselves, Mr. Sibal added. As per the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Union government was duty bound to formulate a national plan to deal with COVID-19. However, the Home Secretary, presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the Act, is issuing directions to State governments to deal with the situation as best as they can, Mr. Sibal said. “Why were detailed plans not made within seven weeks of the WHO declaration when on March 24, the Prime Minister announced a national lockdown? We are in the fourth week of April, yet there is no plan in place even now,” Mr. Sibal said. Minimum standards He said the Prime Minister should inform the people about the minimum standards of relief that are required to be provided to persons affected by the disaster. Instead of discharging its “solemn responsibilities to provide succour to the poor and helpless stranded migrants”, the Union government has chosen to shift the onus to state governments to do what they can without a plan and without guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief, the senior Congress leader alleged. “It is unfortunate that even till date, there is no plan. We are all aware that the provisions in shelters are pathetic without adequate sanitation, medical cover, food and clean drinking water. States are not able to make available adequate food supplies to those affected,” he said. “Section 10(2) of the Act authorises the NEC headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs to assist the National Disaster Management Authority in the discharge of its responsibilities under the Act. What the MHA failed to mention is that the NEC under Section 10(2)(b) is to prepare the plan to be approved by the NDMA and lay down guidelines for preparing disaster management plans by different ministries. The NEC is also to monitor implementation of plans prepared by the Ministries,” Mr Sibal said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s limited role seems to be addressing the nation from time to time.  (With inputs from PTI)
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No new cases after May 16, says study||On Friday, V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member and head of a key government empowered committee on medical management, presented a study to suggest that the lockdown had slowed the rate of transmission and increased the doubling time, the period it took for cases to double, to about 10 days. Though India continues to show a rising trend in cases, his projection also showed a forecast that says new cases would cease by May 16. From May 3, India would hit its peak in adding daily new cases at a little above 1,500 and this would drop to 1,000 cases by May 12, and down to zero by May 16. In all, this would mean that no more than 35,000 cases would be added between Saturday and the first fortnight of May. Independent experts, and one of the members of that committee, who didn’t want to be identified said this was “highly unlikely”. For a decline in the national average, there would have to be declines that lasted over two weeks in key States such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal that were fuelling the rise in numbers. “So far there is no such evidence of a decline. So I don’t know the basis of that forecast. We are planning, in terms of keeping ventilators, beds, ICU facilities ready on the assumption that this will last much longer,” the member told The Hindu . This week, the Indian Council of Medical Research also published a research strategy detailing how it was planning to ramp up testing far beyond April. Though this paper was prepared based on an assessment of resources at hand on the March 31, it projected 2.1 million RNA test kits, the gold standard in detecting the infection, in May and 2.8 million kits in June. In April, it expected at least a million kits. On average, one kit corresponds to one sample. So far, the ICMR has tested 5.4 million samples though this includes repeat tests on the same individuals. In other words, it expects to be testing more people not less in coming months. This also doesn’t include the antibody test kits to be used for community surveillance to gauge the spread, though the use of these kits has now been put on hold because of concerns of accuracy. The ICMR’s 200-odd labs now test around 40,000 samples a day. This study, Strategic planning to augment the testing capacity for COVID-19 in India, is co-authored by scientists at the National Institute of Epidemiology, an ICMR body, and the ICMR’s headquarters in Delhi as well as WHO representatives. Text messages sent to Dr. Paul requesting a clarification on the basis for decline weren’t answered. An independent epidemiologist, who advises State governments and didn’t want to be identified, also felt that such a decline was unlikely. “To bend the curve or reduce down from the peak, the R0 (a number that shows how many a single person can infect) must stabilise around one for flattening and then go below one to bend it. West Bengal and Gujarat are peaking just now but case detection rates are rising. There are many hidden cases in West Bengal.”
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||Care denied to non-COVID-19 patients||At 2 a.m. on Thursday, a young media professional diagnosed with malaria, experienced a sudden spike in fever. But the closest hospital near her Mahim home said told her she should not come in for a consultation till she had a COVID-19 negative report in hand. Scarred by COVID-19 patient encounters that have infected many healthcare workers and have forced some hospitals to shut down, many medical institutions have made it a norm to demand proof of a patient being COVID-19 negative before treatment. This has left patients with other health ailments at the risk of deteriorating conditions and running from one hospital to another. The doctor at the emergency department of SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim where the media person first sought help, said she would not be taken in for any treatment until she had a COVID-19 negative report. When told that her condition was serious, he said he could not break the hospital’s protocol. The woman then checked with the Hinduja Hospital also in Mahim where the doctor on duty said she could come down only if she did not reside in any of the containment zones. “At Hinduja, they checked my vital parameters outside the hospital premises, asked for my residential proof to confirm I was not from a containment area and then took me into the emergency department where I was put on an intravenous drip,” said the woman, whose fever had spiked to 104F. “I was delirious, giddy and on the verge of collapsing,” she recalled. A check by The Hindu with a few other hospitals in the city revealed that the demand for a COVID-19 report had become the norm. At Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital, a doctor at the COVID-19 screening area told this reporter to first go to a local physician, get a prescription for a COVID-19 test and then call a private laboratory for home collection of the sample. “Meanwhile, give paracetamol to the patient thrice a day and sponge from head to toe except for the chest area,” the doctor said. Even if a patient does adhere to the hospitals’ demand for a certification, private laboratories currently take three to four days to give COVID-19 reports.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengal families stranded in Bengaluru||Several families who travelled to Bengaluru from West Bengal last month seeking medical treatment find themselves stranded in hotels and paying guest accommodations due to the lockdown. With money running out, they are finding it tough to make ends meet. While the city police are ready to issue passes to enable them to return home by road, the cost of hiring private transport — including in some cases, necessarily, only ambulances — is too steep for most to afford. Arnab Kumar Ghosh, a Ph.D student and a resident of Malda district, came with his family on March 13 for his father’s cancer treatment and has been stuck here ever since. “We are living in a hotel, paying a daily rent of Rs. 800. We are also forced to buy food. Money is running out, and the situation is grim,” he told The Hindu . Aktar Mondal, a resident of Bongaon, came here with four members of his family for treatment on March 18 and was scheduled to return on March 25. “I had booked the ticket, but a lockdown was announced the previous night. Again I booked tickets when the first phase was supposed to end, but again I lost money as the lockdown was extended,” he said. “Police said they would facilitate our return if we arranged for transport, which we cannot afford now,” he said. ‘Money running out’ Bimal Kashyap from Darjeeling, who came to Bangaluru for getting medical attention for his father-in-law’s cancer, said, “Some of them [other families that have come for treatment] are in a pretty bad condition, stranded here with no money.” This group of five families, stuck in a hotel near Narayana Health City, even approached the city police for help. While the police reasoned with the hotel management and even succeeded in getting them a rebate on the room rent, the hotel, however, rolled it back after a few days, making it a very brief relief. The State government has issued orders to the police to book cases against landlords if they harass or evict tenants during the lockdown. However, the order covers only residences and paying guest accommodation and not hotels. Police have booked cases against landlords of guest houses and PG accommodations. Tapan Chowdhary, a native of Bardhaman, came to the city on March 18 for a family member’s treatment and was staying at a guest house when he ran out of money. When the landlord insisted on the rent and warned that failure to pay would require him to vacate, he approached the police. The Kadugodi police booked a case and arrested two members of the management of the guest house. There are over six cases registered in the Whitefield division alone, but all against guest houses and PG accommodations, not hotels. ‘Costs involved’ “We also have to keep the establishment running and that involves costs,” said a local hotelier, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “We are not able to manage if the occupants do not pay up,” he added. Sagar Chowdhary, also from West Bengal, came on March 18 for availing treatment for his father’s renal failure and has been stranded ever since. He ran out of money to even buy rations and is now dependent on relief from the government and NGOs. “Since we stay in hotels, relief workers assume we are well off and we do not figure on their priority list. But a kilo of puffed rice is sold for Rs. 120 here. How can we afford it?”
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Tripura started screening airports and checkposts as early as January’||Tripura saw the discharge of its second and last COVID-19 patient this weekend; with that there are no active cases in the State. Chief Minister Biplab Deb discusses the unique challenges faced by the border State. Excerpts:  The actual load of cases in Tripura has been low, with both positive cases having recovered. Yet the State has been put under lockdown. Why? Our State has become coronavirus-free with the blessings of Mata Tripura Sundari and by properly following the guidelines prescribed by Honourable Prime Minister Shri Naredra Modi ji. We are thankful to the citizens of Tripura for extending their cooperation and support by obeying the social distancing norms and other guidelines. I also congratulate all the health professionals and other frontline warriors for rendering their dedicated service during the pandemic. The government of Tripura had taken preventive measures, including announcement of lockdown, well before the other States. Our government had declared the lockdown on March 23 along with curfew. We had started screening in airports and integrated checkposts since January 29. We are the first State in the country to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.P.C on March 16. The goal behind this advance step was to ensure social distancing for preventing transmission of the novel coronavirus and definitely, the plan worked to a great extent. We are fortunate that only two positive cases have been reported and both the patients have already recovered making the State coronavirus-free. We are continuing with the lockdown since the country-wide lockdown is in force as it been most effective in combating COVID-19 so far. Though we have given relaxation in some sectors in compliance with Central guidelines, I request everyone to maintain social distancing and follow government guidelines till May 3. I have also urged the citizens, especially those on borders, to keep a close watch to ensure zero infiltration from Bangladesh. I have also urged people residing in bordering villages to cooperate with security agencies to ensure no influx. I must add that we have eased some restrictions for industry, small-time traders, shops dealing with essential commodities and work in construction sites in compliance with advisory of the Central government. Tripura, like other States in the northeastern region, depends on connectivity with the rest of the country for a lot of supplies. Has that been a challenge with the suspension of flights? Tripura is getting essential supplies through cargo flights. There is no dearth of essential supplies in the State. Cargo flights have been landing in Agartala. The essential food items are being distributed to families in need and daily wagers. All departments are providing essential services as mentioned in the consolidated guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Other essential public services are being provided at full strength. These departments include health, power, drinking water, municipal services, police, home guards, civil defence, fire services, prisons, revenue & relief, agriculture & allied activities, fisheries, forest, industry & commerce, labour, rural development & panchayat, food & civil supplies, district administration & treasury, social welfare & education, among others. So there is no such problem. The State borders Bangladesh and has an active land port there. What is the situation for trade, etc.? The State government has allowed trade facilities as per MHA guidelines. We have allowed operation in industrial establishments, involved in manufacturing essential commodities. We have allowed necessary trade activities with social distancing and other hygiene measures. We have already declared that industrial establishments are exempt from the lockdown and can continue to operate. We have allowed manufacturing units of essential commodities and also production units that require continuous process. Despite the challenges and concerns about public health, we are working to ensure that our unavoidable obligations to neighbours are fully met. The lockdown period has also been used by States to build capacity for quarantine, hospital beds and ventilators. What is the status in Tripura? The State government is very concerned regarding this core area of medical supply and arrangements. We have been procuring ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) and alcohol-based hand sanitisers in good capacity. To boost the morale of medical professionals, we have committed to provide jobs to families of doctors, nurses and health staff, if they die in the line of duty while dealing with coronavirus patients. We have earlier announced a Rs. 4 lakh life insurance cover for the frontline workers. I have asked people to carry the ‘jal gamcha’ (towel) on their shoulders at all times during the lockdown. We all have the ‘jal gamcha’ in our homes. Masks are a must for the doctors, health and paramedical staff. Also, it is not possible to provide masks to 40 lakh people in the State. Tripura has 126 isolation beds, 11 ventilators and 457 quarantine facilities with beds. To deal with any eventuality, the State government has prepared a dedicated 40-bed COVID-19 treatment centre in GBP Hospital and Agartala Government Medical College. Besides, another 30-bed COVID-19 health centre has been set up in IGM Hospital.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||More than 6.3-cr. MSMEs are on the brink: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi has requested his urgent intervention to pull the micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSME) back from the brink that they have been pushed to due to the lockdown. Ms. Gandhi wrote that if this economic concern is ignored it has the potential to have a devastating and expansive ripple effect on economy. She said the sector contributes one-third of the GDP and accounts for 50% of exports. Huge losses “At this moment, without appropriate support, more than 6.3 crore MSME stand on the verge of economic ruin,” she said. Every single day of the lockdown comes at a cost of Rs. 30,000 crore to the sector with declining sale orders and a complete cessation of work. “The government needs to introduce a series of measures to meet this crisis head on or risk a much large economic crisis down the road,” Ms. Gandhi said. She has recommended a five-step measure to help the sector. First, she asked Mr. Modi to establish an MSME wage protection package of Rs. 1 lakh crore. “This would go a long way in shoring up these jobs, boosting morale as well as greatly alleviating the predicted economic spiral,” she wrote. She has also urged the government to introduce a credit guarantee fund of Rs. 1 lakh crore to provide liquidity and ensure adequate capital is available when they need the most. She also asked for the RBI’s intervention to prompt the banks to ensure adequate, easy and timely credit supply. ‘Extend moratorium’ “The RBI moratorium on loans should be extended beyond the stipulated three months period. The government should also explore a waiver/reduction of taxes and other sector specific measures.” High collateral security is leading to denial of credit and the limits on margin money are extremely high. These factors combine to ensure a lack of access to avail credit and must be addressed. “The government has acknowledged the MSMEs to be the backbone of our economy. It is time it takes measures to ensure the revival and strengthening of that backbone. Timely and decisive action can make all the difference,” Ms. Gandhi wrote.
26 April 2020||Bhopal,||After Indore, three nearby districts see surge in deaths||Three neighbouring districts of Indore — which reported the most COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh — are fast emerging as the new hotspots. Three out of four patients to die of the illness in the State come from the four districts combined. The alarming trend is prompting health experts to enquire into why 85% of the 99 deaths owing to COVID-19 have occurred in just four of the 52 districts. After Indore, the country’s cleanest city, Ujjain, Khargone and Dewas recorded the most number of fatalities in the State. As of April 25, in Dewas district, having a population of just 15.6 lakh, as many as six, or 27.2% of all patients have died of the illness, registering one of the highest case fatality rates in the country. District’s Chief Medical and Health Officer R.K. Saxena said: “One of the recovered patients was a frequent traveller to a hotspot in Indore.” He unknowingly brought the virus upon seven members of his family, of which three have died. The other three deaths were hastened by co-morbidities. In Khargone district, six or 10% of all patients have died so far. Whereas in Ujjain, 15 of 103, or 14.5% of patients who tested positive have died. The infection has inflicted the worst toll on Indore, where 57, or 5.25% of all patients have died. Hospitals stretched In the absence of enough government-run tertiary care centres in west Madhya Pradesh, patients from 14 districts are used to seeking treatment in Indore, whose own infrastructure is under stress now. “Our hospitals, both private and government, are overflowing,” said a professor at the government-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMMC), Indore, requesting anonymity. The virus’s spread could majorly be contained by restricting mobility, including that of patients, said Salil Sakalle, associate professor, Community Medicine department at the college. “Shifting every coronavirus patient elsewhere for treatment increases the probability of infecting another 20-25 people, as they are accompanied by attendants too. Therefore patients from neighbouring districts are now being mostly treated there itself unless serious,” he said. Health experts were considering whether carriers had taken the virus from the hotspots of Indore to other districts, said Lokendra Dave, member of the State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. “The virus may have been carried by those violating the lockdown and are travelling,” he said. Moreover, he said, many patients were presenting themselves late at hospitals. “Around 60 of the 80 initial deaths can be attributed to late reporting. People still do not take cold, cough and fever good enough a reason to see a doctor,” said Dr. Dave. In addition, the MGMMC, on advice of the State government, is sending samples collected from the four districts, including Indore, to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to ascertain whether a mutated, more virulent form of the virus is causing more deaths in the region.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Most of RS time spent on issues of public importance’||The Upper House spends 24% of its time in deliberating and passing laws, an analysis by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has revealed. Most of its functional time is spent on deliberating issues of public importance. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu had directed the Secretariat to carry out this analysis to blunt the Opposition criticism that the Council of the States spends far too much time in government business (legislating) instead of debating the issues raised by them. Data from 1978 onwards was analysed. During 1978-2018, the RS held 3,022 sittings and transacted business for 13,946 hours as against the available 18,132 hours. This comes to 76.91% productivity while 23.09% of the available time was lost due to disruptions. The analysis revealed that 40.20% of time is spent in deliberating issues of national importance followed by 32.22% in asking questions and holding the government accountable. Only 24.05% of its functional time is spent on making laws. And an additional 3.52% is spent on Private members Bills, which are stand alone legislation drafted by individual members. These have rarely translated into laws though. The time spent on the Government Bills ranged from 10.87% of the time in 2015 to 40.09% in 2002. It has touched a record high of 45.90% during the historic 250th session last year. A record 15 Bills were passed with the House spending 49.08 hours of the session time of 107.05 hours. Deliberative functions like debating electoral reforms or recent discussion on law and order in parts of Delhi take up the largest chunk of time. The oversight function — which is to hold the government accountable by way of asking questions — calling attention motions and so on takes about 32.22% of time with portion of time reserved for the daily question hour. Another interesting outcome of the analysis is how the functioning of the Rajya Sabha has severely deteriorated post 2010. During 1978-2018, the actual functional time excluding disruptions ranged from 139 to 580 hours per year. All instances of working for above 500 hours per year were during 1978-1988 with an evident slide afterwards.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rohtang Pass opened 3 weeks in advance||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on Saturday opened the Rohtang Pass, three weeks in advance, for transporting essential supplies and relief materials to the Lahaul and Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh amid the lockdown, the Army said. The pass is at 13,058 feet on the eastern Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas. “Dr. Ram Lal Markanda, Agriculture Minister of Himachal Pradesh, led the first convoy of vehicles, carrying essential supplies and approximately 150 farmers, to the Lahual Valley..., thus officially opening the Rohtang Pass this year,” the Army said in a statement. The operation to clear snow is carried out every year as the pass remains snow-bound for almost six months, from mid-November to mid-May, isolating Lahaul and Spiti districts from the rest of the country. “Last year, the Rohtang Pass was kept open till December 12. The valley depends on air traffic for external logistics and supplies during winters,” the statement said. On April 11, the Himachal Pradesh government approached the Director-General, BRO, to speed up snow clearance to help farmers return to start cultivation and transport essential supplies and relief materials in the wake of COVID-19. The Army said blizzards, freezing temperatures and avalanches delayed the operation, but teams worked round the clock.
26 April 2020||Srinagar,||J&K sees highest one-day spike of 42 cases, one death||Jammu & Kashmir witnessed the highest single-day rise of 42 cases of the novel coronavirus on Saturday and recorded the sixth death since the outbreak. J&K government spokesman Rohit Kansal attributed the sudden spike in cases to increased testing. “J&K breaks the 1,000 test barrier as 1,071 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. But that also means more positives. One death was also reported,” Mr. Kansal said. All positive cases were reported from the Kashmir Valley, with Anantnag accounting for the highest number of 23 cases and the hotspot Bandipora district recording seven cases, taking the total there to 116 cases. The total number of cases in the State had reached 496, an official said. Alarm bells South Kashmir’s Anantnag district, which reported only a few cases of coronavirus, now has 37 positive cases, triggering alarm bells. A 72-year-old patient from north Kashmir’s Tangmarg area in Baramulla district died of COVID-19 at the SKIMS Medical College and Hospital Bemina, Srinagar. “The patient was suffering from hypertension and other illnesses,” its medical superintendent said. The Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Saturday appealed to recovered patients to donate plasma for treating serious cases. “They can save lives by donating plasma,” DAK president Dr. Nisar-ul-Hassan said.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Post-lockdown, Indians in Gulf will be the first to return||A week before the current phase of nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic ends, the government has begun preparations for the return of Indians stranded or needing to return from various countries, beginning with countries in the Gulf region. On Saturday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting of all nodal Ministries, including Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and all the Chief Secretaries of States and Union Territories, on the issue of repatriating Indians after travel restrictions are lifted. Also attending the meeting were Home Secretary, Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Secretary, Economic Affairs, and Secretary, Labour & Employment. Officials took stock of preparations in various States, most notably Kerala, for the return of an estimated 2,00,000 expatriates and other travellers, sources told The Hindu . According to plans by the government, the first commercial flights from the Gulf region could be started after May 3, if the lockdown restrictions are not extended. Indians stranded in the U.K., other parts of Europe, and the United States will be considered after that. Once the government’s plans are finalised, the MEA will contact diplomatic missions in Delhi and the DGCA will give clearance to specific airlines to begin advertising flights from the Gulf, sources said. The government is making a separate assessment about places from where it will need to operate special flights, due to the large numbers of Indians needing to return, many of whom will be unable to afford tickets at present. Many of these countries have contacted Indian missions in the last few weeks, pressing the urgency of ensuring that Indians are allowed to return. More than eight million Indians live and work in the Gulf region.   (With inputs from G. Anand in Thiruvananthapuram)
26 April 2020||Srinagar,||3 killed in Pulwama encounter||Two unidentified militants and an “associate” were killed in an operation of security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Saturday. A police spokesman said two unidentified terrorists and one hardcore associate of terrorists were killed in a pre-dawn operation at Goripora in Awantipora area. The police sources said the militants were encircled after a specific tip-off about presence of militants in an orchard. “A underground hideout was busted during the operation,” sources said. The police neither disclosed the identity of the outfit nor the militants killed in the operation. It’s second such operation of security forces in south Kashmir in the past 24 hours. Two militants were killed in an ambush in Anantnag on Friday evening, hours after they abducted a policeman.
26 April 2020||Jaipur,||Laying bare his arguments before judge||A lawyer arguing a bail application in the Rajasthan High Court appeared in a vest during the hearing conducted through video- conference, drawing the ire of the judge who admonished him and adjourned the hearing. The court had switched over to videoconference for litigation during the COVID-19 lockdown. When the advocate wearing a vest started arguments seeking bail for his client in a criminal matter on Friday, Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma of the High Court’s Jaipur Bench took umbrage at his “inappropriate attire” and told him that lawyers must appear in proper uniform even during video-conference. “Even in the video -conferencing, the decorum of the court is required to be maintained. The Advocates Act provides for lawyers to wear their uniform while pleading the case for their clients,” the judge observed in his brief order. Justice Sharma said he had earlier directed that lawyers must appear in uniform during the lockdown, when in-person hearing had been replaced with videoconference. Another advocate had appeared from his home in his innerwear during a hearing in the same court earlier this month.  Public Prosecutor Sumer Singh Ola, who appeared on behalf of the State government in the case, said the court’s cause list had clearly mentioned that the lawyers must appear in their uniform.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||T.N. cities see chaos and panic buying||“Normally, 20% of the daily arrivals would remain after the sales. But, on Saturday, most traders sold both the day’s arrivals and the previous day’s stocks,” he said. In many parts of Chennai, anxious residents were either crowding or standing in long queues to buy groceries and vegetables. In Coimbatore, police and civic officials struggled to ensure distancing at the temporary vegetable markets. In Salem, there was confusion as the Collector on Friday declared district-wide lockdown for the weekend though the Chief Minister had announced it for three days beginning Sunday. In Madurai, too, most grocery shops saw long queues and crowding.  (With inputs from Coimbatore and Madurai bureaus)
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||1,429 new cases, 56 deaths in 24 hours||On Saturday, a high level meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took stock of the number of cases, and the country's preparedness. As on date, more than one lakh units of personal protective equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks were being manufactured everyday in the country, a PIB release said. There are at present 104 domestic manufactures of PPE and three making N95 masks in the country. In addition, production of ventilators by domestic manufacturers has also started and orders have been placed for more than 59,000 units through nine manufacturers, the statement added. There were 92,000 non-governmental organisations, Self Help Groups and civil society organisations involved in providing food to the migrant workers across various States/UTs. National database The GoM was also informed that a national level meta-data of health workers, NSS, NYK, NCC, doctors etc., has been prepared and shared to all the States, Districts and other officials, to mobilise the resources/volunteers (COVID warriors) to much needed locations. The government claimed that it had prepared a database of 1.24 crore doctors, healthworkers and volunteers from volunteer organisations. “This is not only their fight, but our collective effort. They are our frontline warriors and as a nation, let us not only respect their contribution but ensure that their safety and dignity are protected too,” Dr. Harsh Vardhan stated.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Only 15% of poor households got pulses||“Each kg of pulse goes through at least three [in many cases four] trips by truck and as many cycles of loading and unloading. While for long distances, transport is being done through goods train, in most cases transportation is by road through trucks.” Over four weeks, the operation involves about two lakh truck trips, a challenging target during the lockdown as many godowns and mills lie in hotspot areas. Availability of trucks and labour for loading and unloading has been a major problem in these areas, said the department. Of the 1.96 lakh tonnes needed for April, about 1.45 lakh tonnes have been offered to States already. Only a few States have dal mills within their own jurisdiction and they have been asked to lift the milled pulses themselves to speed up the process. So far, States have picked up only a third of the month’s requirement, with 17 States and Union Territories having begun distribution. Others intend to distribute the first instalment in the first week of May, along with that month’s foodgrain ration. In a number of States, efforts are being made to distribute the pulse ration for all three months in May itself.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Standalone shops can open in urban areas’||The district magistrates of Lucknow and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh said there would be no relaxation in the existing lockdown measures. The Rajasthan and Gujarat governments were yet to take a decision. In an order issued late on Friday, the MHA made amendments to the April 15 consolidated revised guidelines on lockdown measures, issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to allow the States to decide on the additional public activities to be allowed from April 20 in non-hotspot zones. “In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets/market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open. It is clarified that sale by e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only,” the Ministry specified on Saturday. After the MHA issued the order late on Friday, it had to issue two subsequent clarifications on Saturday as people were confused as to what it implied. The sale of liquor and other items remained prohibited. The shops would not be permitted to open in areas, whether rural or urban, which are declared as containment zones by the States or Union Territories concerned, the Ministry added. The country has been placed under the lockdown till May 3. On April 15, the MHA issued an order allowing additional activities in non-hotspot or red zones.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Manmohan flays DA cut||Opposing the government’s decision to cut back on hike in dearness allowance (DA) for government employees and pensioners, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said he did not think that at “this stage” such cuts were “necessary”. In a two-minute video clip released by the Congress, showing the meeting of the party’s consultative group via video-conference, the party slammed the Centre for continuing with construction of “vanity projects” such as the new Parliament building and the Central Vista. “I sincerely believe that it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardship on the government servants and the Armed Forces personnel,” Mr. Singh said.
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports a record 811 cases in a day||With 811 new COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day surge on Saturday. The State also recorded 22 deaths taking the death toll to 323. Since the SARS CoV-2 hit the State on March 9, the total number of cases has touched 7,628. Nearly 66% of the State’s cases and 59% of the deaths were from Mumbai alone, making the financial capital a major hotspot for the infection. 3 districts in green zone Saturday’s tally surpassed the State’s last highest single-day jump of 778 cases on April 23. The 22 deaths on Saturday was also the second-highest daily toll recorded by the State. On April 9, the State recorded 25 deaths. Of the 35 districts in the State, only three — Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli — remain in the green zone now. Chandrapur was also in the green zone but a couple who returned from Indonesia tested positive in Nagpur. The two cases have been counted under Chandrapur due to their residential address.  Of the 22 deaths recorded on Saturday, 13 were from Mumbai, six from Pune and one each from Malegaon, Dhule and Solapur. The recovery rate in the State stands at 14% with nearly 1,076 patients discharged from hospitals to date. On Saturday, 119 patients were discharged across the State.
26 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Family of five, including 2 minors, found dead in U.P.||The police in Uttar Pradesh’s Western district of Etah launched a probe after five members of a family, including two minors, were found dead inside their locked house on Saturday. The dead were identified as Rajeshwar Prasad Pachauri, 75, a retired health department staff, his daughter-in-law Divya Pachauri, 33, her two sons, aged 10 and one, and her sister Bulbul, 23. On an alert from neighbours, police found Bulbul, Pachauri and the two minor boys dead on their beds, said Senior Superintendent of Police Sunil Kumar Singh. Divya was on a cot outside the house. There was no clear evidence of entry into the house as the main door and the roof were locked from the inside, the police said. It seems like there was “no forced entry,” Mr. Singh said, adding that all items in the house were in their place. Police have formed five teams to dig up CCTV footage and call details to investigate the deaths.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre should act now on Franklin Templeton issue’||Congress leader P. Chidambaram has urged the government to act swiftly, before the markets reopen on Monday, to resolve the situation created by Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s decision to wind up six debt schemes. He offered the example of his experience in a similar situation while Finance Minister when the RBI had announced measures to deal with the problem. The fund has cited a liquidity crisis in the bond markets and an unprecedented level of redemptions following the COVID-19 outbreak as reasons for its decision. Noting that the situation is “a matter of grave concern to the investors, mutual fund industry and the financial markets”, Mr. Chidambaram recalled his actions in October 2008 when mutual funds faced liquidity stress due to the global financial crisis. The Congress government had immediately consulted the RBI, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the Indian Banks’ Association, and the Association of Mutual Funds in India. “An urgent meeting of the [Financial Stability and Development Council] FSDC was convened and a solution was found by the end of the day,” said the Rajya Sabha member. “The next morning, officers of RBI and SEBI met at 8 am, and RBI announced a 14-day special repo facility and allowed an additional 0.5% of NDTL [Net Demand and Time Liability].” With the markets being closed for two days, Mr. Chidambram urged the government to “act promptly and resolve the situation quickly”.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||UGC to suggest academic calendar this week||While UGC secretary Rajnish Jain would not confirm these reports, he noted that any guidelines on these matters issued by the Commission would “not be binding, but only advisory in nature”. “The situation in every State is different, including the rate of COVID-19 infections. Also, some universities may be small and be able to provide online facilities to all students. Others have thousands of students and fewer resources. We cannot mandate one standard solution for all. There will be flexibility in the guidelines,” said Dr. Jain. The vice chancellors of State universities also felt that the decisions of State governments would play a key role in decisions regarding a revised academic calendar. “The role of UGC is only as a facilitator,” said the vice chancellor of a law university, speaking on the condition of anonymity. “It may have more control over central universities. Most States have set up their own advisory panels similar to UGC’s panel, which will make their own recommendations,” the vice chancellor added. “Supposing a university is located in a hotspot area, which still has high infection rates late in the year... Ultimately, each university will have to make its own decisions based on the needs of its students.” Another vice chancellor, who was consulted by the Kuhad panel, agreed that each institution would have to make its own decisions, but felt that the UGC guidelines would provide a valuable indicator. ( With PTI inputs )
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Return to open court after lockdown, lawyers urge CJI||The Supreme Court Bar Association wrote to the Chief Justice of India and other judges of the court on Saturday that hearing of cases through videoconference should not become the “new normal” and replace the open court system even after the lockdown was lifted. “Once the lockdown is lifted and once the Ministry of Health permits, open court hearings should commence with social distancing norms and crowd management measures made mandatory on the court premises,” a resolution said.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to study lessons learnt from Spanish Flu||Universities and research institutes across the country have been asked by the Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry to delve into their archives and other means to study how India handled the 1918 H1N1 (commonly referred to as Spanish Flu) pandemic and what measures were taken to boost the economy after the pandemic had run its course, leaving more than 12-17 million people dead in the country. The letter, written by B.V.R.C Purushottam (IAS officer currently private secretary and chief of staff to Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”), also tells university departments to set up research teams and study the levels of awareness of COVID-19 in villages near university campuses. The Indian government extended the all-India lockdown on April 14 by another three weeks but has been talking about a staggered exit and searching for the optimum balance between saving lives and saving businesses. Lakhs of migrant workers too have been left high and dry due to the lockdown and the peculiar requirements of the pandemic, in which close contact has led to virulent rates of infection and spread. The Union Home Ministry has allowed shops (not in malls) registered under the Shops and Establishment Act to open in non-municipal areas in an order on Friday and for harvesting and sowing operations in rural India to proceed. But a huge question mark still remains on the granular details of just how an exit from the lockdown can be effected without any cure for COVID-19 in sight. Case studies “The letter is basically to ask for a non-bureaucratic view on how to effect an exit from the lockdown. Most old universities have, in their archives, much material on how the 1918 pandemic was handled in terms of public health and the economy. That needs to be made into case studies and solutions are needed which are tailored to local areas, and also broad brushstrokes. Bureaucratic solutions can be blinkered,” said a source in the HRD Ministry to The Hindu . According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as of Saturday morning, India had 24,508 cases of COVID-19.  The letter is basically to ask for a non-bureaucratic view on how to effect an exit from the lockdown
26 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot seeks clarity on aid for workers||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday demanded that the Centre clarify its stand on devising a strategy for the smooth movement of migrant workers stranded across the country during the COVID-19 lockdown. He pushed for a common policy for all States and a unified command structure of communication with the State governments. “In the fight against COVID-19, the whole nation stands united. The Central government should show the same unity when it comes to issuing guidelines for the States irrespective of the party in power there,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. “Instead of unofficial communication by different officers in the Home Ministry and the Cabinet Secretariat to different States, a planned strategy with unified command structure of communication can be more fruitful,” he said, calling for special trains for the migrant workers.
26 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||12 new cases in Haryana, 10 in Punjab||Ten fresh cases of COVID-19 surfaced in Punjab on Saturday, taking the tally to 308, according to government statement. The Health Department said six patients tested positive from Patiala district, three from Jalandhar and one from Pathankot. In Haryana, 12 fresh cases surfaced taking the count to 287, according to a government statement. Till now, Haryana has seen three pandemic-related deaths, while 191 patients have been cured of the deadly virus, it added.
26 April 2020||Lucknow,||Uttar Pradesh starts bringing back workers||The Uttar Pradesh government has started bringing back workers hailing from the State who were stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown and as many as 2,224 labourers have returned in the first phase, a senior official said on Saturday. Briefing reporters here, additional chief secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said the first batch of workers was brought back in 82 buses from Haryana on Saturday, and 11,000 workers would return by Sunday. They will be kept under a 14-day quarantine. Orders have been issued to prepare shelter homes in the State so that the returnees can be quarantined there. Once the quarantine ends, preparations should be made to provide them employment near their village, Mr. Awasthi said.
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||M.P. writes to Maharashtra on migrants||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday wrote to the Maharashtra government requesting assistance for the return of nearly 4.5 lakh migrant workers stuck in different parts of the State. The Maharashtra government has put its disaster management teams on alert in case arrangements have to be made but is yet to take a final call on how the return journey will be facilitated, officials said.
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||Students to return from Rajasthan||Maharashtra government on Saturday initiated the process to bring back over 2,000 students from the State stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, due to the nationwide lockdown. Abhay Yawalkar, Director, Disaster Management, Maharashtra, wrote to the authorities in Rajasthan requesting them to inform institutes in Kota about the scheduled transport. Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh governments will be informed about the travel via these States.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||MHA nod to bring back mortal remains of Indians||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order on Saturday permitting the arrival of mortal remains of Indian nationals and Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) from foreign countries subject to submission of an NOC from the Ministries of Health and External Affairs and “strict adherence to government guidelines regarding management of COVID-19.”
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||NIA court rejects Teltumbde’s bail plea||Mumbai The special NIA lockdown court on Saturday rejected the temporary bail plea filed by Dalit scholar and academic Anand Teltumbde in a case pertaining to the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence, and remanded him to judicial custody till May 8. He had sought bail on health grounds in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court orders govt to pay Rs. 1 lakh compensation to ex-RAW officer||The Supreme Court has ordered the government to pay Rs. 1 lakh as compensation to a former woman Intelligence officer with the Research and Analysis Wing, who attempted suicide outside the Prime Minister’s Office in 2008 after her sexual harassment complaint, filed against her seniors in August 2007, was casually dealt with.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State police receive 2,963 calls on domestic violence in April||The Tamil Nadu police have received 2,963 domestic violence calls this month alone, amid the COVID-19 lockdown. A majority of the complaints were reported in Ramanathapuram district, followed by Kancheepuram and Chennai. The authorities of the State police master control room noted that physical and verbal abuse over trivial issues were a common cause of complaints. In dozens of cases, withdrawal symptoms due to non-availability of liquor were said to have contributed to the harassment of women by their spouses at home. However, most of the complainants chose not to pursue a criminal case, and instead requested the police to warn the accused and ask them to give a written undertaking that they will not repeat the offence. The complaints received by the master control room were forwarded to the respective city/district police units, and the follow-up action was closely monitored by the State police headquarters. Job insecurity Sharing chores at home, monitoring children’s activities, the constant use of mobile phones and the quality of food were among the factors that led to heated arguments or verbal/physical abuse. Many office-goers, particularly those working in small private companies, were under stress due to job insecurity. “A woman police officer is the first respondent for every complaint, and calls the victim over the phone. Then, a team visits the complainant’s house for a preliminary inquiry. In many cases, we found that men addicted to liquor were showing withdrawal symptoms due to the non-availability of liquor during the lockdown period. They show their frustration on women and children at home,” Additional Director-General of Police (Crime against Women and Children) M. Ravi told The Hindu on Saturday. In some cases, neighbours or relatives lodged complaints on behalf of the affected women. Two women officers in the rank of Superintendent of Police, V. Jayashree and A. Kayalvizhi, were monitoring the action taken by the local police on complaints of domestic violence. Personality change Senior psychiatrist and State nodal officer (police well-being) Dr. C. Ramasubramanian said that one of the major withdrawal symptoms among several alcoholics was a change in personality. Besides health issues including a loss of memory, trembling hands and poor functioning of vital organs, such persons would have a high level of frustration or irritation, driven by a strong urge to consume alcohol at any cost. “In the process, they tend to show their anger on family members. Alcoholism affects the family more than the individual consuming liquor. Be it a physical or a psychological withdrawal, the person has abnormal thoughts and [displays] weird behaviour. This could result in verbal/physical abuse or domestic violence. Addiction to alcohol is completely curable through timely intervention and support from family/friends,” Dr. Ramasubramanian said.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Recovery rate up; T.N. records one death||With 960 persons discharged after treatment for COVID-19 till now, Tamil Nadu’s recovery rate has increased to 52%. The number of persons being discharged from hospitals is on the rise when compared to persons testing positive for COVID-19, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. On Saturday, the State reported another 66 cases (38 men and 28 women) of COVID-19, taking its total tally of positive cases to 1,821*. A 34-year-old man, a resident of Kundrathur, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at the Chromepet Government Hospital, at 10.15 p.m. on Friday. Taking his age into account, the Department has ordered that an autopsy be conducted, he told reporters. With this, the State has reported a total of 23 deaths. There are 835 active cases as on date. A total of 94 persons were discharged from various hospitals during the day. This included six postgraduates and a staff nurse who had tested positive for COVID-19, at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), and two PGs at the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital. “The six PGs and a staff nurse of RGGGH have given their consent to donate plasma for treating critically-ill patients,” he said. Among those discharged, 22 were from the Karur Medical College Hospital, 17 from the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, and 14 each from the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital and the Theni Medical College Hospital. None of the patients discharged till now have reported symptoms of COVID-19 again. “We have told them to contact us in case of need. We are continuously monitoring all 960 persons,” he said. Chennai sees surge Of the 66 new cases, Chennai accounted for 43 patients. With this, the total number of cases in the city has increased to 495. “The population of Chennai and its surrounding areas is 1.5 crore. The population density is high. So the disease transmits easily and quickly,” the Minister said. To bring the situation under control in the city, the government has deployed additional officials, more number of doctors, nurses and health inspectors, he said. “The Chief Minister is directly monitoring the activities in the city. By this four-day full lockdown, we will get an opportunity to break the chain of transmission. People should extend their cooperation,” he added. Apart from Chennai, there were seven cases in Kancheepuram, five in Tenkasi, four in Madurai, two each in Perambalur and Virudhunagar, and one each in Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram. Officials said that the new cases included two front line workers and 17 contacts of already positive front line workers. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross notified to other states and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
26 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Veggie shops to stay shut for four days||Starting Sunday, all shops selling vegetables and fruits will remain closed for four days owing to the intensified lockdown announced by the State government in congested cities, including Chennai. This revokes an earlier instruction to allow shops to remain open. Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Saturday issued a correction in the press release on the four-day lockdown. “No shops will be allowed even for vegetables and fruits. Only pushcarts and mobile units allowed for selling fruits and vegetables,” he said. In a bid to support the Corporation, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority has mobilised traders at the Koyambedu wholesale market to help residents get vegetables and fruits. CMDA Member Secretary D. Karthikeyan said that officials had been directed to help residents' associations get vegetables and fruits at affordable prices. “Residents’ associations have said they want to order in bulk. Once an order is placed online, vegetables and fruits will be delivered the same day at the doorstep of gated communities,” said Mr. Karthikeyan. The Koyambedu wholesale market will remain open on all four days.  The lockdown will be in force from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on Wednesday. All employees of IT companies and private companies will have to work from home. Banks and Central government offices will operate with 33% employees. Essential services such as the electricity, ration shops, Metrowater and Corporation offices will remain open. But registration offices will remain closed. Media organisations will continue operations. Hospitals, laboratories and pharmacies will be allowed. Amma Canteens and community kitchens will continue to offer services. Petrol and diesel will be sold from 8 a.m. to noon. ATMs will not be closed in any part of the city.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team begins five-day stock-taking visit to Chennai||A five-member team of Central government officials on Saturday began a five-day visit to Chennai to take stock of the situation, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Led by Additional Secretary of the National Disaster Management Authority, V. Thiruppugazh, the team had a preliminary meeting with Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam at the Secretariat, after which it went to the Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), where it had a discussion with senior officials of the State government. The team included Anita Khokar, professor of community medicine at the Vardman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi; Surya Prakash, professor, National Institute of Disaster Management; Lokender Singh, chief general manager of the Food Corporation of India and V. Vijayan of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Among those present were Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue Administration & Disaster Management) Atulya Misra; Principal Secretary/Commissioner of Revenue Administration J. Radhakrishnan; Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan; nodal officers and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority Member Secretary and Commissioner of Municipal Administration, D. Karthikeyan and K. Baskaran, and Commissioner of Chennai Corporation G. Prakash. Later, the team went to the Communicable Diseases Hospital, Tondiarpet. The members interacted with select migrant workers at Kannappar Thidal in Periamet. The team also visited a community hall in Alwarpet and met residents of containment zones such as Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Mannady and Egmore. The official added that in the next four days, the team would visit all three government medical colleges in the city, among other places. In the meantime, the Chief Minister announced the release of Rs. 1,000 each to 21,770 workers of 1,778 matchbox units, who have registered themselves under the ESI scheme.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to protect children during lockdown||The Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch (TNCRW) has submitted a set of recommendations to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to protect the rights of the children during COVID-19 lockdown. Over 100 child rights’ activists are part of the TNCRW. Recently they discussed issues that affect children and their parents and came up with some recommendations. “Many children and their mothers may be subject to violence by the men in the family due to withdrawal symptoms as Tasmac shops have been closed. But these children may be suffering silently as there is no one to access or support them. The State should extend and popularise the mental health support to the alcoholic dependants to face the withdrawal symptoms and lead to de-addiction,” said M. Andrew Sesuraj, State convener, TNCRW. Besides, the TNCRW also wanted government schoolteachers to interact with the parents and children over phone at regular intervals and keep them engaged. The majority of parents were unaware of how to handle their children throughout the day, he said The group sought a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the private schools did not force parents to pay fees during lockdown. “The children who had access to mid-day meals should be given dry rations. Free nutrition packs for children should be distributed through the PDS shops even without ration cards. Children below three years should be provided free milk,” added Mr. Sesuraj. He said children with special needs should be given priority. “Therapy and support mechanisms should be made available to children with special needs. The health and psychological needs of children of frontline health workersshould be addressed,” he elaborated. Another recommendation was to ensure that schools were not converted into Covid-19 quarantine facilities. The recommendations also included livelihood issues of parents. “The Childline 1098 and Child Protection Systems in the districts should be made fully functional to address lockdown related child rights violations. We are preparing an action plan to tackle the child abuse and marriage cases that may increase post-lockdown due to economic issues,” Mr. Sesuraj said.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,200 migrant workers left in the lurch||At least 1,200 migrant workers, employed by firms supplying various components to a major automobile company and residing in villages surrounding the Sriperumbudur taluk in Kancheepuram district, have been left high and dry without sufficient food, rations and wages during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. “We have to test our luck every day when [representatives of] private companies or NGOs visit our area to distribute food packets. This is because they come here with 500 packets, whereas we number 1,200. Our employers have not paid our salaries in full,” said Mukesh Kumar Singh (name changed), who lives in Palnellur. Mr. Singh, who is in his 20s, said the workers were primarily employed in four to five companies and hailed from Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. “They (employers) are neither letting us return to our home towns nor providing us sufficient food,” he lamented. He said that the workers in neighbouring villages like Selaiyanur, Araneri, Maambakkam, Vallam and Kandigai were also in the same boat. His friend Rajesh Das said, “The contractor is avoiding us and not attending our calls. They should either give us food and salary or allow us to return to our native places.” J. Vinayagam, Inspector of the Sriperumbudur police station, confirmed that he had received an oral complaint, adding that after he followed it up, the contractor released 75% of the salary. “He has promised to pay the remaining [amount] in two or three days,” he said. Human rights’ activist Henri Tiphagne, whose staff from People’s Watch have been coordinating with the workers to get relief delivered to them, said, “If migrant workers living so close to the State capital are going through this, it speaks volumes about the prevailing scenario across the State. Like the Health Secretary, the Labour Secretary should hold a daily press meet to elaborate on how relief is being distributed to migrant workers.” Kancheepuram Collector P. Ponniah told The Hindu   that the district administration had identified over 38,000 migrant workers living in 163 places in the State. “We found that they were living in congested areas, and decided to help them. We have provided accommodation to 490 of them.”
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Testing centre strength goes up from 34 facilities to 41||Tamil Nadu now has a total of 41 certified COVID-19 testing facilities. In a few days, the State’s testing capacity for COVID-19 will be increased to 10,000 samples a day, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “The number of testing facilities has increased from 34 to 41 in the State. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of testing facilities in the government sector in the country,” he told reporters on Saturday. Seven new laboratories have been added in the government sector — National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai; Rajah Muthiah Medical College, Chidambaram; government medical colleges in Karur, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu and Pudukottai and Dr. ALM PG Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chennai. With this, there are 30 testing facilities in the government and 11 in the private sector. On Saturday, 7,707 samples were tested, he said, adding: “From testing 200 to 400 samples a day, we have increased the capacity to 7,700 samples now. The State’s testing percentage is double than the average testing percentage of the country.” He said, “The Chief Minister has advised us to increase our capacity to 10,000 samples a day this week.” Noting that the Centre has put on hold testing using rapid test kits, he said that the State has always maintained that RT-PCR was the confirmatory test that provides results within 24 hours. Till date, 80,110 samples have been tested in the State, while 72,965 individuals, including 7,131 today, have been tested. Funds allotted The government has allotted Rs. 3.5 crore for manufacturing of kabasura kudineer, an herbal concoction that consists of 14 ingredients. A team has been formed to ensure that fake products are not sold, and TAMPCOL (Tamil Nadu Medical Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation Limited) is manufacturing it.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Front line staff’s safety a concern||Front line workers, particularly healthcare providers/workers, testing positive for COVID-19 has once again raised safety concerns in Tamil Nadu. In the past few weeks, many front line workers, including government and private doctors and paramedical personnel and police personnel, have tested positive for COVID-19. According to officials, 62 healthcare providers/workers and 14 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 till April 24. Besides, 38 mediapersons have tested positive. Many contacts of affected front line workers have also tested positive. Chennai, in specific, had two groups of COVID-19 patients — the cardiology department of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and mediapersons. A senior doctor said that the cardiology department had about 20 persons, including nine postgraduates, who had tested positive for COVID-19. “According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 80% of COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic. In such a situation, we will not know who is infected. So providing personal protective equipment (PPE) only to those on duty in COVID-19 wards is not enough,” said A. Ramalingam, State organising secretary of the Service Doctors and PG Association. “All medical and paramedical staff in regular outpatient departments, those handling emergency cases and those performing interventional procedures should be given safety gear,” he said. Doctors, staff nurses, laboratory technicians, CT/X-ray technicians, ward staff and hospital workers should have safety gear. All patients walking into a hospital should be considered a potential COVID-19 patient, and all healthcare providers should be tested for COVID-19, he said. K. Senthil, president, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said that the government should concentrate on the quality of PPEs and N95 masks provided to healthcare providers. Another doctor said the goggles were small and doctors, who wore spectacles, were unable to use them. P. Pakalavan, Deputy Commissioner of Police- Adyar, said: “Our men are at the front line, and we are taking utmost care of their safety,” he said. ‘Govt.’s priority’ Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the safety of front line workers was a priority of the government. “We have recommended kabasura kudineer and nilavembu kudineer as prophylaxis for them. As per allopathy, they will be given zinc tablets, along with multivitamin or vitamin-C tablets,” he said. The Health Department, in a circular, recommended drug and herbal powder to the police and healthcare workers on COVID-19 duty.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK govt. has imposed a debt of Rs. 4.56 lakh crore on State: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday accused the AIADMK government of imposing an unprecedented debt of Rs. 4.56 lakh crore on the people of Tamil Nadu and failing to uphold the State’s rights in relation to its share of taxes. In a statement, he criticised the contention of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam that the efforts of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had led to the Union Finance Commission recommending the allotment of Rs. 32,849 crore as Tamil Nadu’s share.  ‘Contrary to Budget’ “His argument runs contrary to the Budget he had presented in the Assembly on February 14. Mr. Panneerselvam had said that Tamil Nadu had sought an adequate share of taxes from the Centre, and the State government would bring pressure to bear on the Union government to allot the amount,” Mr. Stalin said. Recalling Mr. Panneerselvam’s statement that the Centre had not sanctioned the revenue deficit grant, Mr. Stalin said the Finance Minister had ‘shamelessly’ claimed that the State had received the first instalment. “Mr. Panneerselvam has criticised me just to divert the people’s attention from the Centre’s betrayal of Tamil Nadu,” he claimed.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown robs Akshaya Tritiya of its sparkle||T. Nagar, a prominent jewellery hub in the city, wore a deserted look a day before Akshaya Tritiya. “Last year, around this time, jewellery shops were crowded and people had to wait for hours to pick their gold. But this year, the lockdown has hampered our business,” said a jeweller on North Usman Road. While most jewellers decided to stay shut on the auspicious day this year, a handful took the online route. Those who went online called it an e-Akshaya Tritiya. GRT Jewellers sent out an SMS to all its customers, urging them to buy gift vouchers online. “Any reduction in price at the time of purchase at a GRT showroom, post-lockdown, will be refunded,” the jeweller assured. Tanishq, a jewellery brand from the house of Tata, has said that consumers can shop from its e-commerce platform and once services resume, they can either opt to go to the store and pick up their jewellery or get it delivered at their doorstep. Tanishq has also introduced a video-calling feature and a live assisted chat on its website. Kalyan Jewellers has come out with a Gold Ownership Certificate that can be purchased on the company website on or before Akshaya Tritiya. Though there is noise on social media about e-Akshaya Tritiya, old-timers pointed out that the formula would not work. A prominent jeweller said that the Tamil Nadu market was different. “For people here, gold has an emotional connect...it has to be purchased on a particular date and time. I’m sceptical about this online trend,” he said. A.Sugahasini, a regular buyer during Akshaya Tritiya, said she was staying away from gold this year. “My husband has got only 60% of his salary. So priorities have changed,” she added.
26 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Extension of lockdown on the cards||Chennai, its neighbouring areas and Madurai may face yet another extension of the lockdown beyond May 3 if the COVID-19 graph keeps climbing, according to a senior government official. One of the obvious reasons for the authorities to contemplate such a move is that all these areas fall under ‘red’ zones. After the first phase of lockdown between March 25 and April 15, the second is now in progress. It is scheduled to end on May 3. In the meantime, the authorities have decided to enforce “total lockdown” in Chennai, parts of the neighbouring three districts — Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur (forming part of the Chennai Metropolitan Area), Madurai and Coimbatore from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on April 29. In Salem and Tiruppur, it is from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on Tuesday (April 28). The rationale behind the complete lockdown is that only if there is “more curfew” is there a likelihood of “less social interaction”.  Going mobile In Chennai, residents will be served by at least 3,000 mobile vegetable units besides 4,949 pushcarts. On Saturday alone, over 5,000 tonnes of produce was sold through mobile units. In the last month, nearly 80,000 tonnes of vegetables and fruits was sold across the State.
26 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. rejects request for reburial of doctor||The Chennai Corporation has rejected therequest for reburialof the mortal remains of Dr. Simon Hercules, who was interred at Velangadu,following protests by residentsagainst burial of the body in their neighbourhood. In a press release on Saturday, the Corporation said that a committee of public health experts had advised it not to permit reburial of the body to minimise risk to public health. According to the release, Dr. Simon Hercules (55) was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on April 4 with fever and his test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on April 7. He was offered the best medical treatment. However, he died on April 19 at 6 p.m. After the death was reported to the family, they requested officials to make arrangements to bury the body in a private cemetery in Kilpauk. Corporation officials reportedly contacted the private cemetery authorities to permit them to bury the body at night. After the authorities of the Kilpauk cemetery said they could not permit burial at night, the civic officials decided to bury the body in the Chennai Corporation Christian Cemetery in the same area and requested the police for protection. When the civic officials started making arrangements to bury the body, more than 400 residents opposed the move. The police and civic officials then decided to bury the body at Velangadu.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC apprised of steps taken to protect victims||The Social Welfare Department informed the Madras High Court that its one-stop centres, spread across the State, handled as many as 65 cases related to women in distress ever since the Centre clamped a nationwide lockdown, from March 25, to fight COVID-19. In a counter affidavit filed before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar, the Social Welfare Secretary S. Madhumathi said, her department had hired vehicles to rescue the women in distress, rendered counselling to them and referred the issues to the police. The issues were also referred to the Protection Officers under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act of 2005 in addition to being monitored by the District Social Welfare Officers, the Secretary told the court. The counter was filed in response to a PIL petition filed by advocate Sudha Ramalingam complaining about most of the Protection Officers in the State being inaccessible and not having transport facilities to rescue victims. The litigation was necessitated due to increase in domestic violence during lockdown.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,300 nurses hired; retiring staff to stay on||As many as 1,323 nurses have been chosen by the Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB), according to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The chosen candidates are being issued appointment orders. On receipt of the orders, they have been advised to join duty immediately. This is part of the government’s efforts to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. The State government had already recruited 530 doctors, 1,000 nurses and 1,508 laboratory technicians. Besides, doctors, nurses and medical technicians who will reach the age of superannuation on April 30 will be re-employed, on a contract basis, for two months, the Chief Minister said. A similar arrangement was made with respect to those who reached the age of superannuation in March, Mr. Palaniswami added.
26 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Youth bolts, only to check into RGGGH||A 26-year-old youth who tested positive for COVID-19 has run away from the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Omandurar Estate. He later got re-admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). The 26-year-old youth is from Ritchie Street, Chintadripet, and had mild fever and breathing difficulty. He came on his own to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital at 4 p.m on Friday. He underwent tests, including for COVID-19, and was admitted. The results came back positive, but he went missing from the hospital. Sources said that he walked out from the ward, as there was no immediate medical care for at least four hours. On Saturday morning, he walked into RGGGH and readmitted himself at the special ward for COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, another 60-year-old patient from Triplicane walked out of RGGGH after he tested positive.
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 3 lakh booked for violations||Over 3 lakh persons have been arrested so far for violating prohibitory orders in the month-long lockdown period across State. They were all released immediately on bail by police personnel. As on Saturday morning, there were 2,94,809 violations reported from all over state and over 3,12,282 persons were arrested. As many as 2,65,756 vehicles were seized from the violators and total fine of Rs. 3.13 crore collected from them, police sources said. In Chennai, the city police booked 2,408 cases against violators from Friday evening to Saturday morning. Over 1,907 vehicles were seized from the violators.
26 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||People rush to markets a day ahead of four-day complete shutdown||Hundreds of city residents poured into the make-shift markets to buy vegetables on Saturday, ahead of the State Government’s four-day complete shutdown starting Sunday. The Government had announced complete shutdown in Coimbatore Corporation limit from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on Wednesday to contain the spread of coronavirus. While farmers and traders saw very brisk sales, the overcrowding of the markets meant that personal distancing norm was given a go-by. At the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand, where the Corporation has shifted 80-odd traders from the T.K. Market, customers continued buying vegetables well past 11 a.m. “We, the traders, sold all our stock within the first few hours – by 7.30 a.m. or 8 a.m. What you see now is the replenishment that has come,” says V. Manikandan, a vegetable vendor. A police constable at the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand says that though the Corporation staff and they have been regulating the crowd, only a few followed the personal distancing norms. At the make-shift vegetable market at T.A. Ramalingam Chettiar Hr. Sec. School on Alagesan Road, Saibaba Colony, the crowd was so huge that that traders sold twice the quantity they had been selling in the past few days. “I usually sell 2,000 to 2,500 kg a day. But today [Saturday] I sold 5,000 kg,” says tomato trader S. Krishnamuthy. Twice the usual customers resulted in late comers returning home empty handed or going in search of nearby shops. The Singanallur Bus Stand too saw a good turn out of people . A Corporation officer says customers turned up at least half-an-hour early on Saturday, by 5.30 a.m. or so even as farmers were getting ready for the day’s business. And, within by 7.30 a.m. the farmers had wound up. The farmers’ market on Trichy Road is functioning out of the bus stand since the lockdown. The Corporation officials say the civic body sprayed disinfectants before the start of the market and after the farmers had left the place. The wholesale grocery market on R.G. Street also saw good rush. Retail buyers and grocery store owners were standing in queues from the southern end of the street at Big Bazaar Street Junction to the northern end of the street at Edayar Street Junction.  Wholesale market to remain shut In a related development, wholesale vegetable merchants at the M.G.R. Wholesale Vegetable Market on Mettupalayam have decided to shut shop for the next four days – till Wednesday night. A wholesale trader confirmed the news saying this was to abide by the Government’s decision to enforce total shutdown in Coimbatore city. A few traders, on condition of anonymity, said they were wondering what to do with the goods that were on their way from Maharashtra, Karnataka and other states as the lorries would reach well past midnight Saturday.
26 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nine persons discharged from two hospitals in Coimbatore||With the discharge of nine persons from two hospitals in the city on Saturday, the total number of recovered persons from Coimbatore touched 121. While five persons were discharged from PSG Hospitals, four including two postgraduate students of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. Ten persons from Tiruppur were also discharged from ESI Hospital. Among the five persons who were discharged from PSG Hospitals, a 51-year-old person with diabetes was treated in the intensive care unit , said doctors Murali and Karthikeyan, lead consultants of the COVID-19 task force at the hospital. They added that the hospital was waiting for the approval of Indian Council of Medical for convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 management. As on Saturday, 20 COVID-19 patients were in hospitals, as 121 out of 141 persons who tested positive in the district had recovered. On Saturday, Coimbatore did not have any fresh case of COVID-19.
26 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kuniyamuthur, Podanur police function from marriage halls||The Kuniyamuthur police operated from a marriage hall on Saturday as the police station was shut for fumigation after a police man tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Operations of the station were temporarily shifted to Sri Kumaran Mahal in the locality. A policeman attached to the station, who was discharging duty as writer, was one of the six police personnel who tested positive for the disease on Friday. Operations of Podanur police station was shifted to Senthur Mahal near Vellalore on Friday. Four police personnel attached to the station, including two women, tested positive for the disease. A policewoman attached to the Armed Reserve of city police was the sixth person who contracted the disease. Coimbatore city police commissioner Sumit Sharan said that both the police stations were expected to be open on Monday after repeated fumigation that started from Friday. According to him, swab samples were collected from nearly 150 police personnel who were on lock down duty in containment zones in the city as on Saturday. Health Department sources said that swab samples of the family members and close contacts of the police personnel who tested positive were collected. They were home quarantined.
26 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls witness heavy crowd||Meat stalls witnessed heavy rush on Saturday ahead of the four-day complete lockdown in Coimbatore Corporation limits that starts on Sunday. According to traders, majority of the buyers purchased meat in large quantities to stock up for the four days. People who used to buy meat only on Saturdays and Sundays were also among those who thronged in front of chicken, mutton, beef and pork stalls in the city. A trader from Peelamedu said that people bought varied quantities of chicken ranging from one kg to five kg from his stall. Another trader from Puliyakulam said that the beginning of Ramadan fasting was also a reason behind the rush. With large number of people thronging the meat stalls, traders had a hard time in ensuring personal distancing norm. Teams of officials from Coimbatore Corporation and the police advised people to maintain distance while waiting to buy meat. Traders warned They also warned several meat traders of action if customers waiting in queue did not follow personal distancing.
26 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Cooperate with officials to fight COVID-19’||Giving away face masks and hand sanitisers to the needy people, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday appealed to the public to cooperate with the health officials in fighting the COVID-19 effectively. Speaking at a function organised to hand over face masks and hand sanitisers among other materials, all worth about Rs. 45 lakh, he said that while the State government had been doing its best to fight the virus, he urged the people also to wholeheartedly support the efforts made by the officials at field level. Citing instances of several front line workers who stood by the challenge, Mr. Panneerselvam said that the doctors, para-medical teams, revenue, rural development, transport, police, and fire and rescue service personnel were working tirelessly round the clock. They were ably supported by hundreds of volunteers. Collectors were holding review meetings on the surveillance arrangements being made. For the benefit of the residents, the government had arranged mobile vehicles to deliver vegetables at fair price. Only by social distancing the COVID-19 pandemic can be checked by the people and hence he appealed to the people to stay indoors and not to venture out unnecessarily during the curfew period. The containment zones and buffer zones, including in Bodi, Theni, Chinnamannur, Cumbum and Uthamapalayam, had been meticulously kept on vigil by the officials and ground level staff from different departments to ensure that the pandemic had been contained well, he said. Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, who was also present, handed over a new vehicle which could spray disinfectant liquid to the Periyakulam municipal authorities. The officials said that the vehicle can carry up to 600 litres of liquid at a time and spray effectively on buildings and other places through six nostrils. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided. Superintendent of Police E Sai Charan Tejaswi, Sub-Collector D. Sneha, Special DRO (National Highways) Thiagarajan, DD (Health) Sendilkumar, Municipal Commissioners R. Ashok Kumar and Nagarajan and other officials participated. In a press release, Ms. Pallavi Baldev said that while out of 43 COVID-19 positive patients, 34 had been discharged so far after successful treatment, and a woman patient had died. All the discharged persons would be under home quarantine for 14 days from the date of discharge from the Theni Government Medical College Hospital. The district had sent samples for swab tests and 657 tested negative, and results of 116 were awaited. Meanwhile, the district administration had arranged medical camps at the Collectorate and at all the municipal level for the staff members. On the first day (on Friday), 418 revenue staff benefitted and about 25 media persons also were screened. In another statement, Mr. Tejaswi said the police department had issued face masks, hand sanitisers and liquid soaps to nearly 2000 personnel in the district. Distributing to the policemen in Bodi sub-division, the SP appealed to them to be vigil and also protect themselves from the COVID-19 virus. The district police had arranged to screen the police personnel for the COVID-19 virus in batches by adopting social distancing.
26 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for group clash||In a clash between two groups, eight persons from two villages - Sirangampatti and Ayyappati near Natham- were arrested on Saturday. Police said that following a wordy altercation at a grocery shop, there was a fight between two persons. Immediately, villagers gathered in front of the shop and started attacking each other.
26 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Accommodated workers give facelift to Erode school||The lockdown is not a holiday for 42 workers staying at the Corporation Primary School at Veerapampalayam in Erode, where they are provided temporary accommodation. Work completed The workers, who are all from different districts in Tamil Nadu and were employed as painters or construction workers in Erode, decided to make use of the time that they have to paint the school where they were accommodated. They completed the job in 15 to 20 days. The workers are used to working for more than 12 hours a day and found it difficult to sit idle. Hence, they volunteered to paint the school. Following the announcement of the nationwide lockdown, NGOs and volunteers have been providing food to homeless people and alm-seekers who continue to take shelter on roadsides. Many of the unorganised sector workers from other districts also could not return home and an NGO, Thaimai Trust, accommodated 70 persons at two corporation schools (Veerapampalayam and Thindal) and provides food for them. “We cannot sit idle all through the day. Hence, we decided to do something for the school,” said Selvam from Palani in Dindigul district who is working at a construction unit in Erode. He shared the idea to paint the school with a volunteer with the NGO, which immediately provided them with paint and cleaning tools. While 10 painters re-painted the classrooms and the premises, others were involved in cleaning the premises and planting saplings. “It’s a small contribution to our temporary house”, said Selvam, who was happy with the work as it was a joint effort by all. P. Manimegalai, founder and president of the trust, M. Madhu, secretary and K. Bhuvanesh Kumar, treasurer, said that their activity involves not only providing food to all. Counselling  The trust has also extended counselling and organised activities for the workers too. The trust had provided television in the school, conducted yoga classes, arranges games for them and also special sessions to encourage many to quit smoking. “Many have changed their habits and are looking forward for a new life after the lockdown ends”, said Mr. Bhuvanesh Kumar.
26 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Motorists screened at inter-district borders||Motorists entering the district are being screened at the inter-district borders, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said here on Saturday. Addressing media persons, he said that health workers were screening truck drivers and other motorists who entered the district or crossed through the district using a thermometer gun and only after confirming that they had no fever, they were allowed to proceed. He said that migrant workers passing through the district were also screened. Mr. Sakthi Ganesan said that six Thailand nationals were kept in a separate ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and permission has been sought for sending them to camps.
26 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Decision on opening containment zones in Erode to be taken later||With 56 persons from the Corporation limits recovering from COVID-19 and three under treatment, officials said that unlocking of containment zones would be decided only after the end of 14-day home quarantine of the discharged persons and after considering various other factors. Of the total 70 positive cases reported in the district, 59 were from Kollampalayam Housing Unit, Sultanpet, Meera Moideen Street, Mosikeeranar Street, Railway Colony, B.P. Agraharam, Manickampalayam, Marapalam, Karungalpalayam and Kallukadaimedu. They were admitted to the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and 56 persons were discharged in batches after recovery. Three persons from the city limits continue to undergo treatment and they are expected to be discharged in another three days. A total of 6,200 families comprising 27,432 persons continue to be in home quarantine in 10 areas in the city. Though no positive cases were reported in the past 11 days in the city, all the streets in the containment areas continue to be under lockdown and no relaxation was given. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that discharged persons would be monitored for 14 days from the date of their discharge.
26 April 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||BSNL contract workers left in the lurch without wages for months||Even as the Prime Minister “appealed” to the industry to ensure labour wages were paid during the lockdown, BSNL, the government-owned telecom operator has left its contract workers in the lurch without paying their salaries for over nine months, long before the COVID-19 lockdown. The result has been some 300 contract workforce in Dharmapuri division are left with pending salaries since August 2019. Their penury has only been exacerbated by the lockdown. Nandakumar, secretary of Contract Workers Association, last received his salary in July. He like 300 other contract workers of BSNL’s Dharmapuri division that includes Krishnagiri, Hosur, Palacodde, Harur, and Dharmapuri have been running from pillar to post since then. “We are contracted to BSNL by Alert Security Services, a Coimbatore-based contractor. They said, we will be paid, when BSNL releases the salaries,” says Mr. Nandakumar. According to the contractor, the work diary was sent to the telecom company, but they were told there was inadequate funds, he says. “The hardships we have faced is inexplicable,” says Mr. Nandakumar, who started as a contract worker for BSNL 20 years ago for a pay of Rs. 900. Today, at 44, he is paid Rs. 10,000, with a wife, and two children, eight-year-old son and one-year-old daughter, to support. “The workers have accumulated debts just to run the family, pay their rents, school fees,” says Mr. Nandakumar. Last week, the salary of August 2019 was released. “We do not know, when the remaining salaries will be cleared.” The plight of the contract workers of Hosur is unique because they came and settled two decades ago, dependent only upon this job. They found rental places, married, built families around this job and place, says Aadhavan Deetchanya, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artists Association and also a former BSNL employee. “Today, contract workers, many with adolescent children are faced with expenses towards school and college education. Even to buy college applications online, they need money on their debit card,” says Mr. Deetchanya, who has been coordinating distribution of rations for the contract workers since the lockdown. According to him, BSNL’s regular office cadre were minimal. The field work, and customer-related works were carried out by the contract workers. They offered a range of services that included office systems and file management, cash collection, SIM card sales, equipment room management, water distribution for the exchange quarters, housekeeping, security services, and carried out outdoor line works. Their numbers have increased since January, when a bulk of employees were offered voluntary retirement scheme, says Mr. Deetchanya. “Over 78,000 of us took VRS. Most of those jobs are carried out by the contract workers across the country.” Mr. Deetchanya himself took voluntary retirement this January. There were contract workers, and those others in precarious works assisting the line worker with repairs works dependent on tips from customers. The entire workforce was rendered hapless for the last 10 months, long before the lockdown. On April 11, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had tweeted out the plight of the 5,000-odd BSNL contract workers in Kerala urging the government’s telecom operator to pay them. “This is just one division. Compare the numbers across the country,” says Mr. Deetchanya, who has had a deep engagement with the trade unions since the 80s.
26 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds throng shops ahead of 4-day lockdown||Hundreds waited in line and several flouted physical distancing rules at various grocery stores, ahead of the four-day complete lockdown, in Madurai on Sunday. Buyers lined up as early as 6 a.m. at shops to buy groceries. S. Gunalan, a resident of K.K. Nagar, who was waiting to buy groceries, said that since the government permitted vegetable sales on mobile carts, it was the grocery items that everybody was after. Since there will not be any shops for the next four days, we have no choice but to come early,” he said. Many small-scale vegetable vendors with push carts were seen selling on the streets. “Those who can hire these push carts can ensure that they earn some money during these times,” said S. Muniyasamy, one such vendor. S. Deva, a shopkeeper, said his family members were assisting him so as to manage the crowd. “Despite repeated instructions, people do not care to stand in queue or ensure physical distancing. While on some days, it is manageable, days like today are difficult as we need to ensure that people maintain at least three feet gap. If not police or corporation authorities might notice and ask me to shut the shop,” he said. He added that since the announcement of the complete lockdown came late in the afternoon, much of Friday was spent in planning the inventory and logistics for the Saturday’s sale. Collector T. G. Vinay on Friday night said that nobody must unnecessarily leave home. The intensified lockdown was meant only for the Corporation limits. With fewer number of cases in rural areas, MGNREGA activities would start and the lockdown rules will stand relaxed, he said. As of Friday, there were 56 COVID-19 positive cases and two deaths in Madurai district.
26 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||You can count on this social worker for the last rites||On April 13, V. P. Manikandan, a social worker in Madurai, received a call from Chennai. The relative of a person who died here, could not make it to Madurai due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “I asked for a consent letter and a confirmatory voice note from a member of the family. They immediately sent it and I began making the arrangements for the last rites,” he said. Mr. Manikandan, 44, who worked as a marketing executive, took to social work in 2012 to ensure that bodies of people who were either abandoned by their families or orphaned were given a decent burial or cremation. In the wake of the lockdown, he is helping families who have settled in different parts of the world to ensure that the last rites of their kin are satisfactorily completed. He is in touch with old age homes, shelters and hospices for the last eight years. “Since the lockdown, I’ve been calling contacts every two days to check if they are in need of any supplies. When a death occurs at an odd hour, I am sure to get a call,” he says. Mr. Manikandan says he will usually call in advance and inform authorities at the crematoriums and burial grounds about when the ritual is likely to take place. Usually, the bodies are wrapped in new clothes. They also have a garland and a packet of ellu pori, he says. “Now, however, it is getting increasingly difficult to ensure that we can provide new saris for the women or find garlands. Some good Samaritans, through word of mouth, come and help us during these times, but it is hard work,” he says. He adds that instead of the traditional ellu pori, he now provides a small packet of rice instead, which he takes from home. To ensure safety, Mr. Manikandan wears a mask and gloves. He also says that he requires explicit documents regarding the cause of death and the time, to be provided by the old age home or shelter. Physical distancing is also strictly followed, he says. “My father used to tell me that serving the dead is one of the greatest virtues. I have been trying to do my part,” he says.
26 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Majority of counselling seekers are men: DLSA||Members of District Legal Services Authority, who recently introduced a counselling facility through phone to help people in distress, said that a majority of the 30 or so calls received in the five days were from men. Most of them sought assistance regarding family issues, money matters and employment. The counselling facility via phone was launched last Sunday following a direction from the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority. The helpline numbers were introduced to meet the need for psychological and legal assistance, particularly to women, children and the elderly during the national lockdown imposed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have been receiving a number of complaints on family issues not only from women but also from men. We’ve been able to resolve the issues through counselling provided by experts. No police complaints were lodged,” said DLSA secretary V. Deepa. She said that apart from mental health and family issues, DLSA also received calls from places like Vadipatti and Melur, from poor families seeking groceries for their families. DLSA volunteers met the families and gave them the assistance, she said. Counselling is provided by DLSA members along with officials of the Child Welfare Committee, District Social Welfare Officer, and Inspectors of All Women Police Stations in the city. “A WhatsApp group comprising the officials was created as suggested by the Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu so that the members can keep track of the progress,” she said. The State Legal Services Authority is also monitoring the progress. People can contact 94882 37478/ 94862 29149/ 99426 56138/ 8300 009991/ 83000 71495 or 83000 06625 for assistance, she said.
26 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Central market shops to be shifted to five places||Following crowding of customers and repeated violation of physical distancing norms at wholesale shops at the central vegetable market at Mattuthavani, Madurai Corporation has announced that the shops will be temporarily shifted to five locations across the city. According to a press release from the civic body, the wholesale shops will be shifted to MGR Race Course stadium vicinity, Agricultural College and Research Institute ground, Yadava College ground on New Natham Road, parking lot at Mattuthavani and Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College on T.P.K. Road. These wholesale shops will function between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. Buyers must wear face masks and maintain personal distancing of at least one metre. An official from the revenue wing of the Corporation said the decision to shift the shops was taken at a meeting by Collector and Corporation Commissioner. “During the lockdown period so far, we have ordered closure of eight shops where personal distancing among customers was not followed,” the official said. K.R. Bhaskaran, a wholesale vendor at the central vegetable market, said despite repeated warnings, crowds thronged the market every night and physical distancing was absent. Currently, retailers from Central vegetable market and Thayir market on East Marret Street are selling vegetables at makeshift markets set up at 35 locations in the city.
26 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Festivities will be confined to Alagarkoil||Members of the Sundararaja Perumal Temple administration in Alagarkoil announced that Lord Kallazhagar will not be descending down the Alagarkoil hills and entering the Vaigai river. In a press statement, the temple administration said that although lakhs of people from different parts of the State come together to witness the festivities every Chithirai festival, it would not be possible to have Kallazhagar entering the Vaigai this year due to COVID-19 pandemic. “Instead, the enactment of the lifting of Manduga Maharishi’s curse at Thenoor Mandapam, will take place inside the temple in Alagarkoil on May 8. The decision was taken after consulting with the temple priests. It will be webcast on the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department's official website, YouTube and Facebook,” the statement said.
26 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four persons test positive||Four people, including two police personnel who worked in the containment zone in Kuppu Pillai Thoppu, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. This takes the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 60 in Madurai district. The policemen are residents of Perungudi and Palanganatham. The two others are from Sellur and West Masi Street. None of them had any travel history or symptoms. Collector T.G. Vinay said that people must not leave their houses unless in case of emergencies during the complete lockdown. With grocery shops and vegetable shops closed, there would not be any reason to go out. “Even if people go to the terrace or portico, they must wear mask,” the Collector said.
26 April 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur Fire Station closed as fireman tests positive||The Perambalur headquarters Fire Station at Thuraimangalam in the town has been sanitised and sealed temporarily after a fireman tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. All personnel serving at the station have been home quarantined, officials said. U. Thamotharan, District Fire Officer, and 16 other officers have all been asked to be home quarantined after one of their men tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. All 16 Fire and Rescue personnel, along with two drivers and two other workers at the office were asked to undergo testing as a precautionary measure after a policeman in the district tested positive last week. When they were all tested, a fireman tested positive, Mr. Thamotharan said. As a preventive measure, all 16 men and their families have been home quarantined for two weeks while the 33-year-old fireman who tested positive has been admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi for treatment, he said. Officials of the Health Department have lifted samples from all the family members of the Fire and Rescue personnel including the patient’s family who reside in the quarters next to the fire station. Perambalur Fire Station has been shut and sealed for a period of five days, he added. Municipal workers have been asked to sanitise the station. Meanwhile, temporary arrangements have been made to ensure firemen are on standby in case of emergencies. “Personnel from nearby Veppur Fire Station will attend to emergency calls which will all be routed to them,” Mr. Thamotharan said. Another positive A 19-year-old college student also tested positive in the district. Both patients did not have any travel or contact history to anyone who has tested positive for COVID-19. However, a detailed investigation, including contact tracing is on with respect to both patients, official sources said. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district is seven, of which one patient has recovered and has been discharged.
26 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Standalone shops will be allowed to open in Puducherry||The government has decided to allow standalone shops, outlets in neighbourhood and residential complexes to function during the lockdown period as envisaged by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs through its revised guidelines issued on Friday, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said. The Chief Minister in an audio message on Saturday said the District Collector would issue a fresh order allowing these outlets to remain open though with strict norms to be followed. Exclusion list The relaxation was not applicable to shops in markets, market complexes, shopping malls and liquor outlets. These establishments will to remain closed during the lockdown period, the Chief Minister said.
26 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more tests positive in Puducherry||An 18-year-old boy, the son of a COVID-19 patient admitted at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute, tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the Union Territory to four. The boy has been shifted to the college for treatment.
26 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘102’ and ‘108’ ambulance services come to the aid of patients requiring dialysis||With bus services and movement of private cabs completely suspended due to the prohibitory orders in place, the ‘102’ and ‘108’ ambulance services in the district have come to the aid of those with renal problem by taking them to hospital for dialysis and treatment. Besides picking up such patients from their doorstep to hospitals within Pudukottai district, the ‘102’ and ‘108’ ambulances have also ferried them to neighbouring districts where they undergo medical treatment. Pudukottai district has three ‘102’ ambulances with a couple of them deployed in Pudukottai and one at Aranthangi. In the case of ‘108’ service, it has a fleet of 23 ambulances deployed across the district. Ever since prohibitory orders was clamped late last month to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, movement of buses, rail and other private taxis and vans were completely suspended. The suspension of road and rail services due to the lockdown caused concern among those patients with renal problems as they had to undergo dialysis. Realising the problem faced by patients requiring dialysis and further treatment, their transportation was arranged through the ‘102’ and ‘108’ ambulance services by the district administration and the Health Department since not many of them had own vehicles to visit the hospital. A vast majority of those ferried by these ambulances were those suffering from renal problem requiring dialysis and treatment, says the Joint Director- Health, Pudukottai, M. Chandrasekaran. Such patients could not be put off dialysis on the specified days as it could impact their health condition, he further said. The ‘102’ ambulance service had taken patients to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital besides others within the district and some to neighbouring districts, says Dr. Chandrasekaran. The Health Department has in its possession a list of such patients requiring dialysis through the Chief Minister’s Insurance Scheme. Patients are informed in advance about their transportation to the hospital concerned by the ambulance service. They are then picked up at their doorstep and dropped back home after completion of dialysis, Dr. Chandrasekaran said. Help for cancer patients The ‘102’ ambulance has also taken 17 cancer patients from the district to Thanjavur and even to Chennai. In one such instance recently, a ‘108’ ambulance took a 42-year-old man from Pudukottai who underwent renal transplant at JIPMER Puducherry to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai since the medicines were not available in Pudukottai. The objective of arranging the ‘102’ and ‘108’ ambulances is to help such patients and ensure that the treatment is not broken midway, says Dr. Chandrasekaran.
26 April 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Lack of social distancing during distribution of relief draws flak||Distribution of groceries and vegetables as part of birthday celebration of an industrialist K.T.R. Raja, popularly known as Kuwait Raja, at the old bus stand where social distancing measures failed in the presence of police personnel, has kicked up a controversy, on Friday. The old bus stand had been part of the containment zone under Rajapalayam municipal limits till a few days back after four persons in the town reported positive for coronavirus infection. Though the containment zone was later confined to only four wards, flouting of norms has invited criticism. The temporary market was shifted in the old bus stand to pave way for a pandal.“Though the government has asked people not to make public name of the political party or organisation while distributing relief materials, a huge banner with the photograph of the industrialist was put up there,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) town secretary B. Mariappan. However, social worker P. Kathirvel, who was present at the event, said that request was made to the traders to help them distribute the assistance. Mr. Mariappan also alleged that the relief materials were carried in the trucks of Tamil Nadu Special Police 12th Battalion and its Commandant also took part in the event. Mr. Marippan, in a petition addressed to the Chief Minister, wondered how the police allowed such an event in their presence. However, Mr. Kuwait Raja said that the distribution of assistance was split at two places to avoid crowd. “We had invited Collector and Superintendent of Police. But, they could not attend.” he said. Stating that all measures were taken to ensure social distancing at the event to help the poorest of the poor, he added that there was some confusion as some more people who were not given tokens joined the crowd. Still we ensured that everyone got the relief,” he added. Complaining that some people, with ulterior motives, tried to portray as if everything had gone wrong, he said, “We did not have any celebration, but only distribution of essential goods to the needy,” he said. Such unhealthy criticism would discourage people from helping the poor, he rued. A few years back, a helicopter shower petals at his birthday function.
26 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Complete lockdown: vehicle movement reduces in Salem||The complete lockdown announced over the weekend by the district administration has reduced vehicle movement in the district. District Collector S.A. Raman, on Friday, said that while complete lockdown would be in force in the district on Saturday and Sunday, the Salem Corporation limits would be under complete lockdown till April 28, as per State government’s order. While pharmacies remained open on Saturday, all other shops, vegetable markets, petrol bunks, and restaurants remained closed. The district administration has arranged about 200 vehicles for door delivery of essential items. However, a few people ventured out to get essentials in the morning and action was taken against them. Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) P. Thangadurai said that stern action would be taken against violators and strict checking was being carried out at 32 checkpoints and one inter-district check post. Those coming out for getting medicines should carry prescriptions, he said. He said that about 2,600 cases has been registered till date for violation of prohibitory orders and 1,600 vehicles have been seized. Mr.Thangadurai said that necessary safety gadgets were provided for police personnel posted at hospitals and containment zones. Deputy Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) S.Senthil said a facility was being arranged were persons violating lockdown order would be quarantined for a few days and they would be made to undergo tests for COVID-19. Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger said only essential services were allowed in district limits during complete lockdown.
26 April 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||38 positive in Tenkasi; 35 from Puliyangudi||Five persons, including a couple, have tested positive for COVID-19 to take the district’s total tally to 38. Of the 38 positive patients now, 35 are from Puliyangudi. As the number of positive patients from Puliyangudi has increased menacingly, the health department officials are screening the primary contacts of these patients that led to the detection of five more persons. All of them have been admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. “After a woman from Puliyangudi tested positive, her son left for his mother-in-law’s house at Sivagiri, along with his wife and five-month-old daughter. While the couple too tested positive, the baby fortunately tested negative. Following this development, disinfection is being done in Sivagiri and the primary contacts of the couple are being screened,” sources in the Department of Public Health said.
26 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||10 discharged from hospital in Thanjavur||Ten persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 infection were discharged on Saturday after getting treated at the Thanjavur Medical College (TMC) Hospital. According to official sources, out of the ten patients six hailed from Adhiramapattinam, two from Thanjavur and one each from Kumbakonam and Orathanadu. With the discharge of ten patients today the number of persons discharged after treatment at the TMC hospital rose to 18. Ariyalur A total of 578 people who were home quarantined and asked to self-isolate, 2,236 migrant labourers and 528 people from other States are being monitored by the Health Department at various locations across the district. Five people are currently under observation at the isolation ward at the District Headquarters Hospital in the district. Throat swabs and blood samples have been lifted for the five patients and 24 others. Results are awaited for 29 samples.
26 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Staff deployed in COVID-19 prevention exercise to undergo swab tests||The staff deployed in the COVID-19 prevention exercise will undergo swab tests to screen them for the virus. A direction in this regard was issued by the Zonal Officer, COVID-19 virus spreading prevention exercise and the Commissioner, State Archaeological Department, M. S. Shanmugam at a review meeting held at the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital here on Friday. Chairing the review meeting, Mr. Shanmugam wanted the staff deployed in the COVID-19 virus spreading prevention exercise to get tested for the infection. For this purpose, a senior official from each department involved in the exercise should be deputed and that officer should ensure that all staff deployed for duty from his/her department had been tested for COVID-19 virus infection, he said. He also urged the Health Department to expedite the swab tests on the first-level contacts of the infected persons and the second-level of the contacts of infected persons’ contacts.  Robot donated The Zonal Officer lauded SASTRA, a Deemed University, for extending its support to the District Administration in the fight against coronavirus by donating a robot. The Zonal Officer, in a press release, has said that the robot designed by the students and manufactured by the institution would be pressed into service at the COVID-19 special ward at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital. The machine which could carry a load of 25 kilograms would be used to serve food and medicines to the patients at the ward. Since the machine had been designed in such a manner that it could be operated from a distance of one kilometer, it would help avoid the staff from moving close to the patients for serving food or medicines.  Further, Mr.Shanmugham said it was being contemplated to create audio and video facilities at the Special Ward to help the patients relieve their stress caused by the monotonous environment. It had also been proposed to provide newspapers to the patients.
26 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Relaxation in EPF guidelines sought||The Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI), Thanjavur, has sought relaxations in the existing Employees Provident Fund guidelines and an increase in the cap of employment for EPF registration in the wake of anticipated slowdown in the industry/business due to COVID-19 impact on the economy. In a statement, signed jointly by the president, N. T. Balasundaram and secretary, C. Anandhan, the CCI has pointed out that in the absence of cash flow it would be difficult for the industries/business houses to comply with the existing guideline where the employers have to contribute an equal amount of EPF contribution from the employees. Further, any delayed remittance also attracts interest. Thus, the Union Government should find some ways and means to expand its offer to contribute the employees share towards EPF attached to the industries/business houses having less than 100 employees in the payroll with the condition that the EPF accounts were linked with the Aadhaar number of the employees, to all establishments. Reintroduction of 3-year grace period and increasing the number of employees required for EPF registration substantially would be of immense help to new industries and start-up ventures commencing their operations at this hour of crisis, the chamber members said.  Meanwhile, in a memorandum addressed to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, the chairman, Hotel Parisutham (Private) Limited and Parisutham Institute of Technology and Science, Thanjavur, S.P.Anthonisamy had sought some relaxations and waivers with respect to the billing of High Tension power consumption during the lockdown period.
26 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Health condition of elephants and camels inspected||The Wildlife Department personnel inspected the health condition of elephants and camels reared at places of worship and privately at Kumbakonam on Friday. The team of officials headed by the District Forest Officer, Gurusamy, visited the places where the elephants and camels were kept and checked their health condition with the help of veterinarians. After inspecting the animals, the District Forest Officer said that all the animals were in good health and the rearers have been advised to follow the guidelines issued by the government on how to avoid contracting the novel coronavirus infection without fail.
26 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman dies||A fisherman died in a suspicious manner. Police said Benziger, 29, of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Lourdhammalpuram on Thoothukudi outskirts, and three others had set out for fishing in a country boat in the early hours of Friday. Even as they were fishing 15 nautical miles off Terespuram coast, the fishnet reportedly got entangled in a rock and Benziger and his colleague Syed dived into the sea to release the fishnet. Though the duo returned to the boat, Benziger complained of severe pain in limbs on boarding the boat. Immediately he was rushed to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital where he died on Friday night. Police, who filed a case of unnatural death, suspect they might have dived for harvesting conches or sea cucumber using gas cylinders.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shift temporary wholesale vegetable market: activists||A day after the authorities decided to continue the functioning of temporary wholesale vegetable market along Tiruchi-Chennai By-pass Road owing to traders’ resistance to shift it elsewhere, a group of civic activists and youth have publicly flagged concerns over poor social distancing norms followed there and have demanded its shifting. Social media and messaging platforms were abuzz with posts on the matter on Saturday as a group of youth and activists launched a hashtag #SaveTrichy to push for the shifting of the market. The Citizen’s Forum, whose volunteers are involved in crowd regulation in public places, threatened to pull out its volunteers in view of apprehensions over possible spread of the coronavirus from the temporary wholesale market. The issue snowballed into a controversy after traders associations of Gandhi Market threatened to go on a strike on Thursday in protest against a reported move by officials to shift the temporary wholesale market to Samayapuram as personal distancing was not followed at the market. They withdrew the stir plan after talks with Tourism Minister Vellamandi N.Natarajan on Friday as they were apparently assured that the temporary market will be allowed to function at the present location. The decision triggered widespread criticism in the social media. “A single infected person could spread the novel coronavirus to many due to failure to adopt personal distancing norms at the wholesale market where 20,000 people gather. In an attempt to mount pressure on the authorities and politicians, we Tiruchi youth and social activists have launched the hashtag #SaveTrichy. Support this initiative by using the hashtag while posting any information on the novel coronavirus and help save the people,” said one of the Facebook posts on the issue. The post was shared in many other social media posts and groups. Memes expressing concern over the situation were widely shared. The Citizen’s Forum, in a communication to the City Police Commissioner, threatened to withdraw its volunteers deployed for regulating crowd in various places in the city. “All safety norms have been violated at the market. Traders, labourers and their families could be the first to get infected and spread the virus to the entire city along with the vegetables sold there,” observed M. Sekaran, chairman of forum. “We will be forced to withdraw our volunteers if the market continues to function without any safety measures,” Mr. Sekaran said in the communication, pressing for its shifting. “Fifty-seven of our volunteers are working with policemen in regulating crowd at the temporary vegetable retail markets, ration shops and Amma canteens. We do not want put our volunteers at risk. It is pointless for us to continue, if one section does not follow safety norms,” Mr.Sekaran told The Hindu . He pointed out that the service lane offered just about 30 feet of width for the scores of platform shops. “Lorries, vans and push carts obstruct free movement. The heavy crowd of buyers only worsened the situation,” he observed.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Little scope to complete portions in a truncated academic year||School teachers of the State Board have their fingers crossed saying they are confronting a situation of having to complete portions within a truncated academic year, due to COVID-19 lockdown. Teachers say that unlike previous years when the Tamil Nadu Text Book Society was in a position to supply books from April-May, there is now no indication that the task of printing of textbooks would be completed in time before the start of the next academic year. The School Education Department is in an unenviable situation of having to conduct public exams for X Standard and the left out papers of XI and XII, a headmaster said. As the top priority of the government would be to prevent community transmission of the novel coronavirus, there is no certainty that there will be a decisive announcement on re-opening of schools and colleges, he said. Even in the event of the government deciding to lift the lockdown next month, at least 10 days will be required for conducting the exams. The valuation of papers has to begin subsequently, and the results have to be published thereafter, a senior post-graduate teacher said. According to sources, the School Education Department is in the process of analysing the ameliorative effect of the alternative academic calendar announced by the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for students in CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) pattern. The CBSE is exploring the scope for rationalising the syllabus for classes IX to XII, in proportion to the loss of teaching-learning days. A similar step is all the more important for State Board schools since the Assembly elections are due in April-May 2021, and all the public exams would have to be completed in time, another teacher said. Much would depend on the promptness of the Tamil Nadu Text Book Society in completing the printing work and ensuring reach of the text books to the students at least by June-July, the teachers said. A senior official of the School Education Department said the Tamil Nadu Textbook Society has already issued instructions for keeping the godowns ready for supply of text books.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Construction of regulator across the Kollidam resumes||Construction of a new regulator across the Kollidam at Mukkombu has resumed after a month. The project has been undertaken at an estimate of Rs. 387.50 crore, and the new regulator is being constructed 75 metres away from the damaged structure on the downstream of the riverbed. Larson & Tubro, the contractor, had began the construction work in 2019 June. All works including pile foundation, piers construction and on-site fabrication were suspended on March 24 following the imposition of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19 virus. While a few site engineers managed to return home, a group of 190 strong skilled and unskilled migrant workers, mostly from northern States, stayed put in the accommodation provided at Mukkombu as they could not return to their native places due to sudden stoppage of trains. However, arrangements were made to ensure supply of food to all of them without any hitch. With the Centre and State governments easing the curbs on construction of dams and irrigation related projects, the contracting company has resumed the construction works. The availability of workers at the site has enabled resumption of work. The engineers, who were involved in the construction work, have also returned to the site. “There are some constraints regarding mobilising men and materials due to movement restrictions. However, we have managed to resume the work on a full scale,” R. Baskar, Executive Engineer, River Conservation Division, Public Works Department official told The Hindu . He said that it was originally planned to complete all below ground level works during the summer, which offered an excellent window for construction of reservoir or dams. But, about a month of the crucial period has been lost. However, it has been planned to offset the loss by deploying more men and machinery. But, much would depend on the lifting of curfew and other restrictions. Mr. Baskar said that nearly 30% pile foundation work was still pending. and about 35% of work had been completed overall. PWD had stepped up supervision at the site to expedite the work.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Children do their bit by acting in awareness videos||Officials of the District Social Welfare office have come out with videos of children from Tiruchi and Perambalur districts conveying awareness messages on COVID-19. In the video, the children are dressed as doctors, police personnel and request the people to stay home and stay safe. Addressing herself as Dr. Jiya, seven-year-old K. Jiya from Perambalur dressed like a doctor, complete with a stethoscope, seeks to inform the people how to avoid contracting the novel coronavirus. She speaks in English and Tamil on how the people must appreciate the service of the frontline workers. “They have left behind their children, families, even forgotten about food and sleep to work for our well-being. The only thing we need to do is stay home,” she says in the video. Ms. Jiya also urges people not to touch their face and eyes and to cover their nose and mouth while sneezing with a tissue or even with the elbow. In another video, R. Jovin who introduces himself as a social worker asks people to thank doctors, nurses and sanitary workers in this critical time, he said. Another child dressed as a policeman says“self-isolation is the best defence against the infection," and requests the public to cooperate with the officials to ensure their safety and good health. Speaking about the initiative, A. Thameemunisa, District Social Welfare Officer, said that it was a combined effort to create awareness both for children and adults. “For children, it might be engaging to listen to someone their own age inform them about the infection. For adults, the message might be conveyed better. At a time when awareness is important, we are trying to do our bit,” she said.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Survivor donates to CM’s relief fund||As a token of appreciation for the care given to him at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), COVID-19 survivor M. Sheik Mohamed has donated a sum of Rs. 20,000 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund on Saturday. “I am really thankful for the priceless service rendered by the district administration and the hospital authorities when I was admitted in the isolation ward from April 1-16. This is a small contribution from my side to enable the government to coordinate efforts to fight the viral disease,” said Mr. Mohamed, who is now under self-quarantine at his Khaja Nagar residence. The academic said he had also written to the Chief Minister, offering to donate plasma samples for COVID-19 therapy trials from himself and others from the group of patients who had been cured at the Government Hospital. “We hope that the sample collection will be done through the right channels, and in a safe manner,” he said. The 68-year-old had tested positive for the disease upon returning from Delhi, where he was one among 100 people from Tiruchi district who attended a conference held by the Muslim organisation Tablighi Jamaat.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||With repair shops shut, two-wheeler owners in a fix||Closure of two-wheeler repair shops and shops selling spare parts amid the lockdown have put residents in a spot of bother, especially since these vehicles are the most affordable mode of transport for many. The district administration has also ordered residents to travel within a two-km radius and only on two-wheelers once a week. With such stringent measures being taken, residents are dependent on their vehicles to transport a week’s worth of vegetables and other necessities. For instance, when a city resident, R. Muthu found his two-wheeler had a flat tyre last week, he was in a fix. Mr. Muthu called up three different mechanics who refused to help him out. “They said that they were afraid the police would take action. One of them works out of a garage of his house. Even he refused,” he said. “I purchase vegetables every week for my family of six. None of them venture out. However, since the vehicle was punctured we are depending upon our neighbour to buy us some necessities and I walk down to the nearby shop to buy necessities. At a time when contact with others is risky, I have to depend on others for food,” he says. Meanwhile, some mechanic shops are open but are only able to provide basic services such as filling air or tightening some parts. “We are unable to source spare parts. I have at least five to six bikes parked outside my shop, some with minor repairs but our hands are tied till the end of the lockdown,” M. Asif, a mechanic near Chathram Bus Stand said. Some appealed to the district administration to allow them to function. “Vehicles require maintenance. Even those which are parked and kept in houses require regular maintenance,” Mr. Asif said. “Vehicles owned by doctors, policemen and even those ferrying essentials could have problems. What will they do?” he wondered.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police carry out special drive||A total of 71 cases have been filed in Tiruchi (rural) district on charges of selling face masks, dhal and other essential commodities at exorbitant rates. Superintendent of Police Ziahul Haq said on Saturday that special teams had carried out a special drive in different parts of the district from April 18 to 25. The drive was based on the complaints that several essential commodities were being sold at prices higher than the maximum retail price. During the drive, it was found that 23 medical stores had sold face masks at exorbitant rates. Similarly, 48 grocery stores sold cooking oil and dal more than the stipulated prices. Cases were filed against the offenders.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Distributing kabasura kudineer||Kabasura kudineer powder for making the herbal concoction considered an immunity booster is being distributed to residents across Tiruchi district. The initiative, which began earlier this month by the district AYUSH clinic was given an impetus by the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami who launched the ‘Arogyam’ scheme in the State on Thursday to distribute nilavembu kudineer and kabasura kudineer.  Speaking to The Hindu , S. Kamaraj, District Siddha Medical Officer, Tiruchi, said that a team of doctors have been distributing the powder door-to-door. “At least 10,000 households have received the powder so far,” he said. On Friday, packets were distributed to vendors and customers at the temporary Uzhavar Sandhai at Central Bus Stand by District Collector S. Sivarasu and by doctors at the temporary market at Bishop Heber College grounds. Dr. Kamaraj stressed that the powder was in no way a cure for COVID-19 and is only being provided as an immunity booster. “One person must consume one glass of the kudineer daily on an empty stomach. About 100 ml for adults and 60 ml for children,” he said.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale dealers for Aavin on the cards||The Tiruchi District Milk Producers’ Union (Aavin) has decided to appoint wholesale dealers at taluk level in Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. In a statement, its Chairman C. Karthikeyan said on Saturday that several private dairies had scaled down their operations due to various factors during the lockdown. However, Aavin had not reduced the milk procurement. It was procuring milk from the farmers, who were so far attached to private dairies. Moreover, it had not increased the price of milk while many of the private dairies hiked the prices recently. He said that Aavin would continue to ensure adequate supply of milk to its customers during the lockdown. It had also planned to scale up its sale. Hence, it had decided to appoint wholesale dealers for each and every taluk in Tiruchi, Ariyalurr and Perambalur districts. Similarly, more agents would be appointed in different areas.
26 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Five held for bid to steal cash from ATM||The Thuvakudi Police on Thursday arrested five persons after they allegedly attempted to steal cash from an Automated Teller Machine belonging to a private bank at BHEL Nagar on the city's outskirts recently. The crime was committed in the early hours on April 15 at the ATM by a gang which left the place after they failed to ir attempt proved futile as they could not open the machine, said police sources. Based on inquiries, the Thuvakudi Police arrested Kannan, Ajitkumar, Ramkumar, Manikandan and Stalin on the charge of committing the offence. A case has been registered against the accused.
26 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Panic buying in markets||All markets in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai witnessed huge crowd on Saturday ahead of the total lockdown on Sunday. As Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has clamped total lockdown in areas falling within the corporation, residents came out in large numbers to complete their shopping as early as possible as they feared that essentials might be sold out soon. The makeshift meat and fish stalls on Bell Grounds opposite District Court Complex on Tiruchendur Road witnessed a huge crowd since 6 a.m. Even meat shops in other parts of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai registered around 150 % sale on Saturday as residents rushed to buy mutton, chicken or fishes meant for Sunday also. Sensing a sudden rise in demand, butchers having roadside shops in Palayamkottai increased the mutton price to Rs. 800 per kg. Vegetable markets including ‘Uzhavar Sandhais’ and makeshift markets, created in various places, including Exhibition Ground, VOC Grounds, Omni Bus-Stand, Police Quarters Ground and other places, were overflowing with huge crowd of consumers. Prices of all vegetables too witnessed a minimum of 50% increase. Those manning grocery shops in Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai and Tirunelveli Town had tough time due to sudden surge of customers. Since there was no police to regulate the crowd, physical distancing went for a toss. Tenkasi Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan too announced total lockdown in areas within Tenkasi municipality on Sunday. Though he has given exemptions for meat shops, which will remain open on Sunday up to 9 a.m., unusual movement of people could be seen on Saturday along all roads of Tenkasi.
26 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||400 police personnel deployed at Tiruppur markets to manage crowd||The Tiruppur City Police deployed 400 police personnel at the temporary daily markets here on Saturday, a day before the enforcement of the complete lockdown, to manage the huge crowd. “Crowd was on the higher side today at daily markets. However we had anticipated the same and deployed 400 police personnel to manage them,” V. Badri Narayanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, told The Hindu . The police were deployed at the seven temporary vegetable markets at Thennampalayam Market (Palladam Road), Old Bus Terminus, New Bus Terminus, Nanjappa School premises, Cotton Market complex, private land opposite Thennampalayam market and LRG Women’s College premises. All departmental stores were also monitored and the crowd was under control in the city, he said. Door-to-door services  Meanwhile, in a series of tweets, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan assured the public that door-to-door delivery of vegetables, meat, milk and newspapers would continue uninterrupted during the complete lockdown and requested them to not indulge in panic buying.
26 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Home delivery of meat in Tiruppur||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Saturday that home delivery of meat will be ensured by the district administration during the complete lockdown from April 26 to 28 in the city. Public shall order broiler chicken, country chicken and mutton either online at www.nonvegr.com or by calling 90877 90177. For orders taken on Saturday, the delivery will be on Sunday. Orders will be taken on Sunday from 6 am, he said. Tiruppur is among the five cities in the State that will see a complete lockdown from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on Tuesday.
26 April 2020||Tiruvarur/Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown in delta districts today||A 24-hour total lockdown would be enforced in core delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam on Sunday. Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair said here on Saturday that the lockdown would come into effect from 6 a.m. on Sunday and all shops, except pharmacies, will remain closed. Tiruvarur Collector T. Anand said that all essential services excluding health services and pharmacies would not be available on Sunday. Hence the people are requested to cooperate with the District Administration in the fight against coronavirus. Any violation of the total lockdown order would be dealt with severely, he added. Meanwhile, officials in Thanjavur district reminded the residents that April 26 would be the second total lockdown Sunday in the district as announced earlier. Hence the residents were requested to cooperate with the administration in the COVID-19 virus spreading prevention exercise.
26 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||All entries to Virudhunagar district to be sealed as man tests positive||After a man, who came from Tiruvallur district with a transit pass on false medical ground, tested positive on Saturday, district administration have planned to seal all entries to the district. Two male members were found positive in the district on Saturday. “One of them, a mason, had come from Tiruvallur district with a pass on medical ground with five others. It looks like they made a false medical claim and sought to go to Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi district but has come to Chettiyakurichi near Aruppukottai,” Collector R. Kannan said. Other person is from Kumarapuram. As the source of virus infection in Kumarapuram has not been traced so far where a college girl, a 11-year-old boy and two others have been reported so far, the Collector said a second test on all 120-odd persons in the village would be conducted within a week. Meanwhile, the district administration has planned to completely seal all the district entries to ensure that no one enters into the district without any proper medical check up. “We are going to provide quarantine facility in Virudhunagar, Sattur, Rajapalayam, Aviyur and Pandalgudi. Anyone coming to the district or passing through the district would have to undergo mandatory swab test and remain in the quarantine places for one day. If only their results turn negative, they would be allowed to leave,” Mr. Kannan said. Meanwhile, the district administration has procured 10,000 face shield for frontline officials and workers. “It will be an additional safety gear, other than masks and gloves, for health officials, police personnel and also for ration shop workers, who meet people face to face every day,” he added. In the next phase, all the sanitary workers would be given such shields. Doctors and paramedical staff working in the isolation ward in Virudhunagar Medical College hospital would be given one week off duty. “Since they cannot go home as a precautionary measure, we have hired a lodge in Virudhunagar and all of them would be provided with good accommodation and food,” he said. Doctors and paramedical staff from other parts of the district would be on duty in the isolation ward, he added.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free bread loaves for the needy||In a bid to help the needy while ensuring physical distancing in the wake of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, a bakery owner in Koodal Nagar in Madurai has kept a carton of bread loaves outside the shop, so that those in need can pick it up. A.R.M. Ramasamy, the owner of A.R.M. Bakery and Sweets, says every morning fresh bread loaves are kept inside the cardboard box and they are replenished once it gets empty. “Every day around 50 persons come and pick up the bread loaves, when the shop is openbetween 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.,” Mr. Ramasamy said. He started this practice a week back and he says it will continue till May 3. Other bakery products are sold inside the shop. “Due to the current crisis, it is disheartening to see many children, elderly and homeless people starving. So we thought we will contribute our bit by offering bread loaves for free, as a loaf of bread can substitute for a meal. But, at the same time, we want to ensure that there is no physical contact and hence we fill up the carton with bread loaves,” he says. Customers gesture Mr. Ramasamy says, as a show of kind gesture, few customers bought bread loaves from his shop and placed them inside the box.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 and the nervous system||In the last few weeks several articles have appeared from various specialists pointing out how the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) can affect their respective specialties. SARS-CoV-2, the scientific name given to the virus, appears to be truly omnipresent. Its signature appears in many parts of the human body directly or indirectly. Initially, it was believed that SARS CoV-2 was not neurotropic or it has no preference to hitch on to nerve cells, the nervous system is at a lesser risk than other organs. Now, researchers are not sure. Neurological manifestations Papers published in the most respected peer reviewed international journals from April 14 onwards indicate that primary and secondary involvement of the nervous system is gradually coming to light. A study of 214 COVID-19 patients from Wuhan, China, revealed that 36.4% had neurological involvement. Symptoms included seizures, unsteadiness, stroke, dizziness, impaired consciousness, confusion, agitation, cognitive impairment and localised neuralgia. Loss of smell and taste (temporary or permanent ) is being increasingly recognised. The last could occur early or late. Some patients did not initially have the classic diagnostic triad of fever, cough, cold and breathing difficulty. More research is required. The damaging effects of COVID-19 may extend beyond the lungs to our brains and minds, scientists are warning. In studies on mice, the SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to enter the brain from the nose through the olfactory system, said Avindra Nath, clinical director of the U.S. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and chief of the section of infections of the nervous system. In some countries where the pandemic is spreading clinicians are being advised to consider SARS-CoV-2 infection as a causative factor in the differential diagnosis, even for primary neurological presentations. This is to avoid delayed diagnosis, misdiagnosis and prevention of transmission. Hopefully this will not apply to India. Important repercussions It is essential that serious neurological disorders are not over shadowed by the COVID-19 crisis. Patients with critical head injuries and stroke, normally accommodated in ICUs, may now have to be transferred elsewhere. Interestingly, worldwide, as per just published literature, there is a perception that less number of patients with stroke and brain haemorrhage (non-COVID-19) are coming to hospitals. The significant reduction in head injuries can, of course, be directly attributed to the lockdown. COVID-19 patients operated on for neurosurgical problems had pulmonary complications more than expected. Objective criteria are being drawn to prioritise patients with brain tumours, whose surgery is being delayed. No doctor likes to play God. Now, limited resources have to be judiciously used. Unfortunately, in the real world, “all are equal, but some are more equal than others”. The tendency of super specialists to know more and more about less and less will now change as COVID-19 will make everyone view things holistically. It is no longer only about technical competence to manage a brain tumour. The new norm, more than ever before, will have to factor in COVID-19 for each and every management decision. Forty-five years ago, the concept of treating tumours in the base of the skull , without opening the skull, was introduced. Operating pituitary tumours through the nose became the accepted norm. Last month, the British Society of Neurosurgeons suggested that, as the viral load is high in the nose, this route may have to be avoided. We are indeed coming a full circle. The world is turning upside down.  (The author is a former Secretary and past President of Neurological Society of India)
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two local contacts of Indonesian nationals remanded||The Salem City police on Friday remanded two persons in relation with a case registered against 18 persons, including Indonesian nationals, for violating visa norms. The city police arrested two local contacts of the Indonesian group on Friday after their home quarantine period was completed and they were taken to Puzhal Prison for remand. The two were under home quarantine. Already 16 of the 18 people were arrested and remanded. This included 11 Indonesian nationals. Case registered The Salem City police on April 7 registered case against 18 persons, including 11 Indonesian nationals, their guide from Chennai, and six local contacts under various sections of Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and the National Disaster Act for violating visa norms. In the group, four Indonesians and the Chennai guide were undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here for COVID-19 disease. Among the local contacts of the group, four were quarantined at the hospital and two were advised home quarantine. Following the recovery of those who had tested positive, all have been remanded.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmer found hanging on transmission tower||An elderly farmer was found hanging on a transmission tower in Kangeyam, Tiruppur district in the early hours of Saturday. Police said that Ramasami (72) allegedly committed suicide due to dispute within his family at Ramapattinam village near Sivanmalai in Kangeyam taluk. About two years ago, the deceased received a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh for laying of high-tension power lines and construction of transmission tower on his eight-acre land, police said. His two sons have been allegedly forcing him to withdraw the money from the cooperative bank for the past six months, as a result of which he committed suicide, police said. Kangeyam police registered a case. Farmers’ associations such as CPI(M)-affiliated Tamil Nadu Farmers Association claimed that Ramasami committed suicide due to lack of compensation from the district administration. However, both the Kangeyam police as well as a senior officer from Tiruppur District Police denied the claim.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers hoist black flags atop houses seeking relief||Urging the State Government to provide COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 10,000 to small and marginal farmers and Rs. 5,000 to poor families, members of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association hoisted black flags atop houses in a few villages in Gobichettipalayam block on Saturday. Farmers in Suriyampalayam and Gobipalayam in Kavindapadi and Anthiyur said that lockdown had affected the livelihood of workers, common people and those involved in farming activities and the Madras High Court had recommended providing assistance to them. They said the State government had already sought relief fund from the Centre and is yet to receive it.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Truck operators told to take precautionary measures||The Namakkal district administration and officials of COVID-19 special task teams held discussions with truck operators here on Friday and advised lorry drivers to take necessary precautionary measures. Besides zonal officers, C. Munianathan, Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, and Abhay Kumar Singh, Additional Director General of Police, IW CID held discussions with truck operators. The officials advised them to practise necessary hygiene measures.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID UPDATE||No. of persons in hospitals: 250 (Male -105, Male child – 6, Female – 131, Female child – 8) Government hospitals – 173 Private hospitals – 77 Positive cases– 141 (No new case on Saturday) Recovered cases - 121 (Nine on Saturday)    House quarantine cases: 872 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 13 Positive cases: 110 (No new case on Saturday) Negative: 2,525 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 58 Samples lifted: 2,801 Results declared: 2,635 Results awaited: 166
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||KOYAMBEDU MARKET, Chennai||
26 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||There’s no evidence to show COVID-19 can spread from the dead: NITM scientists||Scientists at ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) have clarified that there is no evidence to prove that COVID-19 can spread from the dead. Reacting to apprehensions among people about the infection spreading from the dead in some places, NITM director Debprasad Chattopadhyaya said that it is highly unlikely. “A dead man does not sneeze or cough. The dead cannot infect others unless the latter touch droplets on the body and touch their faces later. This can easily be avoided. A body that is buried has zero chances of infecting anyone,” he said. “The virus is completely destroyed in the body of a person who is cured of the disease. A cured person can no longer infect others,” he said. In an informal meeting with The Hindu , senior scientists, apart from Dr. Chattopadhyaya, S.L. Hoti and Harsha Hegde, cleared doubts in the minds of the common man. Dr. Chattopadhyaya rejected the theory that COVID-19 was created in a laboratory. “It’s a myth. It is humanly impossible to create a virus that obeys your command and destroys someone’s life. No one could do it,” he said. “It is a positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus that can mutate on its own. It’s not material to play with,” he said. That the virus has no cure is another myth, said Dr. Hoti. “Scientists have developed a drug for HIV. Work is on for devising cures for other viruses,” Dr. Hoti said. “The virus does not transmit through currency notes, newspapers or vegetables. It needs a live human being to survive and reproduce. It spreads through water droplets and aerosol (aero-solution) floating in the air. They can only travel between six feet and nine feet in air. If this can be avoided, the spread can be halted,” he said. “As a precaution, however, vegetables can be kept over night and used the next day,” he said. Vegetables can also be washed in hot water or salt water to disinfect them, Dr. Hoti added. “The virus does not survive on hot surfaces. The lipid on the virus is denatured at 75-80 degrees centigrade and the RNA gets denatured at 40-42 degrees centigrade. Since most Indian cooking involves heating or boiling material at above 100 degrees centigrade, we should not worry about food cooked this way,” Dr. Chattopadhyaya said. “COVID-19 can be easily defeated by simple measures such as maintaining safe distance, washing hands and resisting from touching your face often,” the scientists assured.
26 April 2020||Belagavi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anganwadi worker tests positive||The issue of lack of safety equipment for field staff on COVID-19 duty has come to the fore with an anganwadi worker on medical surveillance duty testing positive in Belagavi district. Rakesh Singh, Additional Chief Secretary of the Department of Women and Child Development, confirmed that the anganwadi worker was among those who tested positive on Saturday. The worker had surveyed 94 houses, including the house of Patient 128. These workers have been visiting containment zones and buffer zones, identifying and testing persons for traces of infection. However, the government has not provided them with Personal Protection Equipment, N95 mask, head gear, or gloves. “We have information that our anganwadi worker on COVID-19 duty has contracted the virus as she was working without proper safety equipment,” said Gaibu Jainekhan, convener of the District Angandwadi and ASHA Workers’ Union. He said that the union had appealed to the government to provide safety kits, masks, gloves, and head gear to all workers. “We have also demanded that anganwadi and ASHA workers be provided with the Rs. 50 lakh insurance that the government has announced for doctors on duty,” he said. 4 policemen affected A similar issue haunts the police personnel as four of them have tested positive in Bagalkot. One of them contracted the virus while on duty. He was quarantined in a guesthouse along with some other staff from his station. It has now spread to three others. They are all isolated in the district designated hospital and are responding to treatment. Shamanna Bavagi, president of Anyaya Viruddha Horata Samiti and Police Naukarara Kalyan Sangha, has urged the government to provide PPE kits for police on COVID duty. Inspector-General of Police (Northern Tange) Raghavendra Suhas said that safety equipment like masks and gloves had been given to all personnel on COVID-19 duty. “However, they may not be using them properly. They may also be not using in areas which they think are not infected like a non-containment zone or areas near their house. They may not be using at all times, or they may not be changing the masks often. These could have led to the problem,” he said.  We have demanded that anganwadi and ASHA workers be provided with the Rs. 50 lakh insurance that the government has announced for doctors on duty.Gaibu JainekhanConvener of the District Angandwadi and ASHA Workers’ Union
26 April 2020||Belagavi/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine new cases reported in Belagavi district||Nine persons, including an eight-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi district on Saturday, pushing the district tally to 55. All are secondary contacts of patient number 128 from Hire Bagewadi. They are all in the district designated hospital and are responding to treatment. They include four men and five women. Doctors say most cases have been asymptomatic. “Only one of the 55 persons detected till now had symptoms. The 81-year-old woman who died had cough and cold. She died before her results came. The rest don’t have symptoms,” a doctor said. As many as four of the affected patients have been discharged from the designated hospital after they were cured. New case in DK The 33-year-old woman from Kasba village of Bantwal found positive for COVID-19 on Saturday is closely related to the 67-year old woman, who is positive and is undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit of the Government Wenlock Hospital. The new case was among people from the village who were in institutional quarantine after the 67-year-old with severe acute respiratory illness tested positive on April 21. The 67-year-old woman is the neighbour of the 50-year-old woman and her 75-year-old mother-in-law, who died on April 19 and April 24 respectively. The 33-year-old woman is now undergoing treatment at the Wenlock Hospital. In all, four persons were undergoing treatment, while two died in Dakshina Kannada. According to a bulletin released by Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, 49 persons were in quarantine in the National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, and all 10 quarantined at ESI hospital have been discharged. As many as 16 cases of SARI were reported and 42 were under observation on Saturday. Reports of 584 throat and nasal swab samples are awaited. Construction permit Those wanting to continue with construction activity that was stalled should apply for online permit on bit.ly/dkdpermit. The labourers should be at the workplace where social distancing should be followed. A project manager should be appointed to ensure compliance of safety norms. The district administration has arranged to send labourers from different parts of the State, who were in relief camps, to their native places, the bulletin said.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tablighi Jamaat members being shunted from ward to ward||Enforcement agencies are under fire after five foreign nationals, who were reportedly part of Tablighi Jamaat, were shifted - first from the hotel they were being quarantined in at Yelahanka to a service apartment in Banaswadi and then back to Haj Bhavan - after local MLAs, councillors and residents staged protests at every ward. The five people, shunted from location to location, are part of the group of 32 foreigners who had been arrested for violating visa norms and were originally quarantined at Haj Bhavan. Some of them had been shifted from Haj Bhavan to hotels on Ballari Road in Yelahanka that had been identified as quarantine centres. According to officials, this was done to accommodate more cases. “However, on Friday night, Yelahanka constituency MLA S.R. Vishwanath and other locals staged a protest over their presence at the hotel in Yelahanka and demanded that they be shifted out,” said a senior officer. The group were then taken to a service apartment in Kacharakanahalli ward, Banaswadi. However when word spread, hundreds started protesting. On Saturday morning, Kacharakanahalli councillor Padmanabha Reddy and local residents staged a protest in front of the Banaswadi police station, and demanded that they be taken back to the Haj Bhavan. “The attendees, most of whom are foreign nationals, were earlier quarantined in Haj Bhavan. They were suddenly shifted to a service apartment in a purely residential colony in Banaswadi. The residents were afraid of contracting COVID-19,” said Mr. Reddy. Protesters alleged that the area is densely populated and the presence of the five people would increase their chances of getting infected. “We withdrew the protest only after assurance from BBMP that they would be shifted from there. They were taken away from the service apartment in two vans around 3 p.m. on Saturday,” Mr. Reddy added. Senior police officials have written a letter to the Foreigner’s Regional Registration Officer on Saturday. They further requested the FRRO to issue the instructions to jurisdictional Ramamurthy Nagar police station to provide security/protection to these foreign national Tablighi Jamaat members. As of Saturday night, they were back at Haj Bhavan.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘477 calls on domestic violence received’||As many as 477 complaints about domestic violence have been received from across Karnataka by two helplines since the imposition of the COVID-19 lockdown, according to the State government. While 315 complaints were received by the 193 ‘Santhwana’ centres, which function 24x7 at taluk and district levels, the remaining162 calls were received by the 24x7 national women’s helpline for Karnataka on domestic abuse, the government told the High Court, in its response to the court’s query on the facilities available to handle cases of domestic violence during the lockdown. Depending on the need of the caller, counselling and legal aid were provided through the counsellors of the Santhwana centres and, wherever required, rescue services were provided with the help of the jurisdictional police in Bengaluru city, the government said. However, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna observed that the government’s statement was not clear on whether, after receiving the calls, protection officers were informed to take action. Meanwhile, the Bench was informed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) Sthat one-stop centres with two women lawyers had been set up by all the District Legal Services Authorities across the State to provide legal assistance to women and children during the lockdown. The names of female lawyers, with their contact details and e-mail IDs, have been sent to the Director, Department of Women and Child Development, the KSLSA told the Bench. Doctor’s assistance Noting that the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) had taken steps on mental illnesses suffered by citizens owing to the lockdown, the Bench asked Naveen Kumar of NIMHANS to participate in the proceedings through videoconference facility on April 28 to assist the court.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State too mulls over increasing working hours in industries||The State government is considering sanctioning additional working hours for the manufacturing sector on the lines of what has already been done in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab. While the discussion is to add two working hours to the current eight-hour shift, a decision on it is likely to be taken post April 28. While trade unions have said that such a move was anti-labour, employers have insisted that additional working hours without overtime or additional pay is required to revive and recover industries from the current crisis. Earlier this week, a tripartite meeting convened by the Labour Minister and attended by nine trade unions and representatives of industry bodies — FKCCI, KASSIA, and CII — failed with both sides sticking to their stand. A senior Labour Department official said: “A decision is yet to be arrived at as discussions are still continuing on the issue. Our trade unions have opposed it.” Speaking to The Hindu , Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar said: “The issue is to be discussed with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as it involves financial matters. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has also been kept in the loop. I have sent the proceedings of the meeting to the Chief Minister and Industries Minister. It will be discussed after April 28.” An estimate shows Karnataka has about 6.5 lakh industries in small scale, medium and large sectors, accounting to about seven million labour force — 80 % of which are in small-scale sector. Reasoning their opposition to the extended working hours, AITUC general secretary D.A. Vijayabhaskar said: “We believe that by increasing working hours of one shift to improve production, the second shift will be cancelled. This will lead to unemployment and reduced consumption with spending coming down in the post COVID-19 time.” However, FKCCI president C.R. Janardhan said: “The industry bodies have assured that termination will not be resorted to. In fact, there will not be enough work for one shift when the industries open. Even before the COVID-19 scare, most industries were working on skeletal work and one shift. The situation would be far worse.”
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL resumes Namma Metro work after almost a month||Don’t be surprised if the quiet of the night is broken by the drilling and noise of heavy machinery as Namma Metro worksites come to life. After almost a month, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has resumed Phase II of Namma Metro work at 45 locations in the city. On Friday night, nearly 1,350 construction workers reported back to work. Metro workers wearing masks were seen doing various works such as track linking, viaduct launching and shuttering work on the elevated line between IIM-B and Hulimavu metro station. The demolition of Jayadeva flyover and work in casting yards has also begun. “Our people have also started preliminary works of assembling tunnel boring machines recently imported from China. No works have been taken in any work sites that come under containment zones declared by the BBMP,” said a BMRCL official. Like other agencies in the city, after the lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19, BMRCL had stopped construction and other related work, but is probably the first agency in the city to resume work before restrictions are lifted on May 3. Managing Director Ajay Seth said that measures have been put in place on the sites to ensure that people working there can maintain physical distance from each other. This also includes mandatory temperature checks. “Wherever it is convenient to resume the work, we have done that,” said Mr. Seth. Ensuring that precautionary measures are being followed is not the only challenge that the metro rail corporation is facing. “We are also facing certain limitations such as the supply chains for cement, steel and other raw materials are not fully operational. We have taken these factors into consideration,” he added. Another 7,000 workers are on standby. “We may need a couple more days to put everything in place, after which the required number of people will be deployed at the sites.” The year 2020 is crucial for the BMRCL as it has a deadline to commission commercial operations of extended metro lines on Kanakapura Road (August 15) and Mysuru Road (November1). The BMRCL is hoping to make up for lost time. When asked whether the pandemic would affect deadlines, a senior BMRCL official said it was too early to comment on whether the lockdown would affect deadlines for the completion of the underground line and other elevated lines. “We have resumed work now by taking a lot of precautions. It will take some to assess how they will progress, after which we can draw some conclusions on deadlines, but not now,” said the official. Flyover demolition during the day The demolition of Jayadeva flyover resumed on Friday night. The agency is planning to carry out demolition work during the day as well to advance completion. The flyover is being demolished to make way for the construction of a road-cum-metro flyover and an interchange metro station.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||People in distress turning to helplines||On any given day, one number that most people can remember when they need help, report a crime, or even if they don’t exactly know who to approach is the police helpline ‘100’. During these unprecedented times too, it is the same number that is becoming the go-to option for help. The Bengaluru City Police (BCP) say the number of calls to 100 has doubled, and the nature of calls too has seen a shift towards COVID-19, much like their work. “We are getting calls from people who say groceries or milk in their house is over. Some call to say they are out of medicines. Recently, a Hoysala [patrolling team] helped a person get to a hospital, but that person wanted the police vehicle to wait till their check-up was over — like a taxi,” said a police official. There are some humorous instances too. In one case, a couple went to a hospital. But when the woman spotted a Hoysala outside the hospital, she asked her husband to go ahead in their two-wheeler as she wanted to travel in a police vehicle. Police personnel have become a lifeline for those in emergencies during the lockdown. Isha Pant, DCP, Command Centre, said a lot of emergency calls are from the elderly. “Work-wise, the number of calls have doubled. But we are equipped with enough lines and personnel to handle them,” she said. Despite many obstacles, faceless teams behind helpline machineries are making the lockdown a little more bearable for citizens in need. With the elderly being touted as a particularly vulnerable group during the pandemic, the elders’ helpline (1090) is busy. Swati Bhandary, associate director of Nightingales Medical Trust, which runs the helpline with the city police, said the staff is working in shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., after which the police takes over the helpline. “There is pick up and drop arrangement for some of the staff memebrs from the police and the trust. At any time, there are four counsellors and police personnel manning the helpline,” she said. The staff is mindful of maintaining distance and ensuring they do not come in contact with their family immediately after reaching home. The helpline is getting around 35 calls every day from elders asking help with medicines, groceries, gas cylinder booking, and even about power cuts during rain. The counsellors and the police either help them out with phone numbers and other information, connect with Hoysalas in the area or local police stations, and also with local volunteers for groceries and other requirements. “We have a database of those verified by the police because it is seniors. We have to be doubly careful,” she said. The hunger helpline is seeing in excess of 14,000 inbound and outbound calls a day from the hungry and needy. Working out of the DIPR office along with a private vendor in Rajajinagar, officials and teams of volunteers are managing everything — from taking calls to delivering food to the needy. Samudyata Kadur Shivaram, one of the volunteers coordinating the effort, said staffing was a huge problem as nobody wanted to work outside their homes during these times. “We also need people who speak different languages — not just Kannada or Hindi — because a lot of those in need are migrant workers from different States,” she said. “Each one is a distress call; they are crying for food. Volunteers should know how to calm them down. For smooth functioning, a different technology team is working, and we are looking at data-driven decisions,” she said, adding that capturing the address of a caller is also a challenge as they are on the move.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Social distancing becoming part of local lexicon||Early Saturday morning, nearly 3,500 people gathered on either side of Siddaganga School Road leading to Housing Minister V. Somanna’s office in Chandra Layout. Clear lines had been drawn on the road to ensure that everyone maintained a physical distance from each other, and around 150 volunteers were on the spot to ensure that the rules were followed. The Minister distributed foodgrain kits to beneficiaries from economically weaker sections of society who hail from Nagarabhavi and Nayandahalli wards. The attempt to ensure that everything went off in order is a far cry from the initial days of the lockdown where officials, politicians, and non-government organisations distributing essential items were often overwhelmed by the large crowds. Most elected representatives are involved in distribution of relief measures in their respective constituencies/wards. For Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy, hunger and starvation take precedence over the pandemic. “The government has failed to ensure that relief reaches the true beneficiaries. Every day, my father (MLA for BTM Layout Ramalinga Reddy) and I go out to distribute cooked food and ration kits. People just fall over each other to get them. It is a disheartening and gut-wrenching scene,” she said. Social distancing is increasingly becoming part of the local lexicon. Basavanagudi councillor and former Mayor B.S. Sathyanarayana said volunteers in his ward ensure that people maintain distance. “We were the first in the city to shift the vegetable and fruit vendors to APS College grounds, demarcate spots so that vendors and buyers can follow social distancing measures,” he said. Kacharakanahalli councillor Padmanabha Reddy stressed on field-level party workers and volunteers to ensure that relief reaches the beneficiaries in accordance to social distancing norms while Gurappanapalya councillor Mohammad Rizwan Nawab said his team had been ensuring that relief materials are handed over to beneficiaries at their homes. Many councillors, however, said distribution of milk packets for free was a challenge. Speaking to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, they said that even middle-class families are demanding free milk packets. “People start crowding the minute the milk packets get dropped off at the ward. It is better if the free milk scheme is dropped altogether,” a senior councillor said.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura incident: Report raises questions||Why were Bapujinagar and Padarayanapura wards sealed off without putting into place the appropriate infrastructure, including appointment of Incident Commander and Incident Command Centre? Once sealed off, what steps did BBMP taken to ensure provision of essential services? These are among seven questions asked by the Swaraj Abhiyan and All India People’s Forum to the State government after violence erupted at Padarayanapura recently over quarantine, leading to a series of controversial events since. The ‘Report on Vandalism at Padarayanapura’ also seeks to know if the need for institutional quarantine was clearly established and communicated to all residents, and why FIRs have been registered stating that the police were injured when the Police Commissioner had “unambiguously stated that no police person, no doctors, no health workers have been injured in this incident”. The report states that the wards — both densely populated and with poor infrastructure — are socially and economically backward areas with a large number of daily wage workers and a significantly large percentage of Muslim population. “While many wards in Bengaluru have a significant number of cases, only these two were sealed. The lack of information on why they were sealed, the communalisation that has happened post the Tablighi Jamaat event, and lack of essential supplies had succeeded in creating a volatile situation,” it said. Apart from asking for an independent inquiry into the incident and the seal down and ensuring the issue is not communalised, the report recommended better communication, protection to ASHA workers, ensured supply of essentials, and consideration of residents’ psychological needs.
26 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three families under home quarantine||Three families, who had returned to their residences in Basavanagudi from their hometown near Tirupattur in Tamil Nadu, have been asked to remain under home quarantine for 28 days. Despite the lockdown, the families, including six adults and four children, reportedly made their way back into the city in a tempo traveller. Alerted by locals, councillor B.S. Sathyanarayana immediately informed health officials, who visited the families. They were also taken to the fever clinic in Vidyapeeta Circle nearby, where they underwent testing. “None of them has any fever or other symptoms that are worrisome. They have been asked to be under home quarantine for 28 days. We have also alerted the local police station,” the councillor said.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Issue over wages||The industry bodies and trade unions are at loggerheads on another important issue of wages. While the industries have urged the government to pay salary of workers from ESI and PF funds, the unions have opposed digging into it. FKCCI president C.R. Janardhan said: “We have proposed salary cuts based on the slabs. A worker getting less than Rs. 15,000 will get full salary. Small-scale industries work on a meagre 6% to 8 % profit margin. They will not be in a position to pay salaries in the current situation. None of the bailout packages announced by the governments so far has brought any benefit to small-scale sector. When the government does not come to our rescue, how can it insist on paying salaries?”
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rice for poor diverted to black market: Cong.||The State Congress on Friday alleged that 1,879 quintals of rice supplied to Karnataka from Haryana for distribution to the poor and migrants under the public distribution system was diverted to the black market and demanded a judicial probe into it. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar told presspersons that rice bags have been illegally stored in a godown at Sarjapur in Bengaluru city for selling in the black market to a trader in Tamil Nadu. He alleged that some BJP activists and a leader were involved in the rice scam and they had illegally stored rice bags in the godown belonging to a BJP activist without permission from officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department and the tahsildar. Rice meant for the poor was being sold in the black market at Rs. 30-40 a kg, he claimed. He claimed the Congress workers unearthed this alleged scam after verifying godown stocks with officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department and authorities concerned. Officials denied granting permission to store rice bags in the godown, Mr. Shivakumar said.
26 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||NAAC initiates digital platforms||The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), to address concerns of higher educational institutions, has initiated several digital platforms. In a release, it said it had conducted a series of online meetings, webinars, programmes concerning assessment and accred- itation, and many more were in the pipeline. Visit www.naac.gov.in or call 080-23005222.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Varsity unveils affordable ventilator model||REVA University and its chancellor P. Shyama Raju on Saturday unveiled Jeeva Setu, an affordable model of a medical ventilator, put together by its faculty members. This is part of the university’s efforts in the fight against the pandemic. “The launch of Jeeva Setu goes to prove the strength of the university and its capacity for innovation in a short span of time,” it said in a press release. The release went on to note that sanitisers were prepared in house and supplied for free to community workers, housekeepers, and their families, among others. REVA Nest, a technology business incubation centre, established on the university campus, prepared face shields, masks, and supported the community.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||137 buses to ferry stranded migrant labourers||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), on Saturday, provided 137 buses to the district administration as chartered services. This comes a day after the state government directed the Deputy Commissioners to arrange transportation facilities for stranded migrant labourers and daily wage workers. A KSRTC official said that buses were provided in Tumakuru, Hassan, Mangaluru, Puttur and Shivamogga. Each bus has a capacity of 56 seats but only 21 people will be allowed to board each bus so that social distancing norms are maintained.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former State convener of Bajrang Dal passes away||Mahendra Kumar, former State convener of Bajrang Dal who had later distanced himself from the organisation and its ideology, died of heart attack on Saturday at a private hospital in Bengaluru. Mr. Kumar, 47, was shifted to the hospital after he complained of chest pain, but passed away early in the morning, according go sources. After quitting Bajrang Dal, Mr. Kumar was involved in social service and had turned a bitter critic of his older ideological position and set up an NGO. He was briefly associated with Janata Dal (Secular) after moving away from Bajrang Dal. He had actively participated in anti-CAA and NRC agitations recently. He is survived by wife and two children. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has expressed condolences over Mr. Kumar’s death. Former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D Kumaraswamy too have condoled his passing away.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA seeks State’s help for SMEs to bounce back||The COVID-19 pandemic has thrown small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) into a deep crisis in the State and they need support by way of payroll, electricity and interest payment subsidies as well as suitable reduction of GST rates and compliance requirements, a statement from Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) on Saturday said. No substantive relief has been offered either by the Centre or the State, and the minor concessions offered do not trickle down, said the statement. As a result, over 30% of SMEs, the backbone of the economy, will fold up and throw lakhs out of job, it said. KASSIA has flagged issues of labour, energy, GST and finance and asked the Chief Minister to convene a meeting of senior officials concerned, under his chairmanship, to discuss these. On the labour front, KASSIA has sought waiver of ESI and PF contribution for six months. It has also asked for permission to increase the working hours to 10 hours. KASSIA has recommended that employees be paid 70% of salary through ESIC or welfare fund. It wants no wage increase/revision for three years and suspension of bonuses for three years.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hike salaries of frontline staff’||Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to hike salary of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), nurses and doctors who worked as frontline warriors during the battle against COVID-19. He demanded the government to extend protection of ASHAs, nurses, and anganwadi workers involved in the fight. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Kateel demanded the government to book Chamarajpet Congress MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed under the Goonda Act for “conspiring” violence in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru.
26 April 2020||BENGALURU/MYSURU,KARNATAKA||One month on, source of infection remains a mystery||Even though a month has passed since the first COVID-19 positive case was reported from the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud near here, health officials and the police remain clueless about the source of infection, which has given Mysuru the dubious distinction of a COVID-19 hotspot. The State government’s order issued on Friday, directing senior IPS officer Harsh Gupta to probe if the pharmaceutical company (Jubilant Generics Ltd.) had any role in the spread of COVID-19 among the people, comes after weeks of investigation by the police and health officials into the source of infection. Out of the 89 persons, who had tested positive in Mysuru, 73, including 58 residents of Nanjangud and 15 residents of Mysuru city, were connected to the company – they were either employees or their contacts. Though a formal FIR has not been lodged against the company, the police have studied the travel history and call records of the employees who tested positive, but to little avail. The sample of the raw material imported by the company from China was sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, but it tested negative. More than 1,450 persons linked to the pharmaceutical company have so far been tested. Health officials said the efforts to identify the source of infection required a multi-centric approach and hoped the interrogation of the employees, who had tested positive, after their discharge from quarantine will throw more light. “Though we have spoken to them and asked for details of persons they had come in contact with, we have not been able to identify the source of infection. We can’t even say they are suppressing facts. They may not remember,” said a senior police official. Meanwhile, Mr. Gupta, who has been designated as the nodal officer for COVID-19 containment in Mysuru district, has been directed to probe not only the source of infection, but also inquire if the company or anybody else had any role in the matter. Ever since P 52, the 35-year-old employee of the company, tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26, more than 1,550 employees of the company have been quarantined. A total of 242 primary contacts of P-52 and 2,011 secondary contacts too had been quarantined so far. Given extensive testing, Minister in charge Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said he was optimistic that the number of persons testing positive in Mysuru is unlikely to rise dramatically.
26 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||2,184 under observation in Dharwad district||A total of 2,184 persons are under observation in Dharwad district in Saturday, according to the health bulletin issued on Saturday. While the process of screening and testing for the infection has continued in the district, 1,430 persons have been home quarantined and nine persons have been quarantined in hospital. A total of 58 persons have completed their 14-day quarantine period, while 687 persons have completed 28-day quarantine. Out of the 1,661 throat swabs sent for testing, 1,367 have tested negative and the results of 287 are awaited. So far, nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district of which two have been discharged from hospital. At present, the district has seven active cases.
26 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Testing begins at DIMHANS||Collecting throat swabs and testing them for SARS COV-2 infection has begun at the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (DIMHANS) in Dharwad. After Hubballi and Belagavi, Dharwad has become the third testing centre in the North Karnataka region. On Friday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar formally inaugurated the facility and said that throat swabs from the districts of Haveri, Gadag and Koppal would be tested in Dharwad. According to authorities, manual testing is being done at DIMHANS and the institute is likely to receive RNA Extract Device in another week’s time. The DIMHANS staff have been trained at Bengaluru for carrying out the tests. After the arrival of RNA Extract device, it will speed up testing as 200 samples can be tested a day, authorities said.
26 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Police use drones to check for violations||To check crowding in towns and villages and for the strict enforcement of social distancing guidelines, the Dharwad district police have now tightened surveillance with the use of drones. The police have procured two drones now and the same are being used to check crowding, in sensitive villages. According to Superintendent Police of Dharwad district Vartika Katiyar, they began using the drones from Friday and these were being used to keep an eye on villages particularly to prevent crowding in public places. The drones are used to check distancing norms before fair price shops and grocery stores and also before prayer halls. Ms. Vartika Katiyar has been visiting check-posts iun the night in order to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown orders.
26 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Infosys donates food kits||As many as 2,800 food kits given by Infosys Foundation were distributed to frontline workers in Hubballi on Saturday. Workers like pourakarmikas, auto tipper drivers and helpers, tractor drivers, loaders, and jetting machine staff working under the jurisdiction of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation were given the food kits. At the HDMC headquarters, Amol Kulkarni of the foundation handed over the kits to municipal commissioner Suresh Itnal.
26 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||FIR against JD(S) MLC, son for assaulting scribes in Mandya||The Mandya West police registered a First Information Report against Janata Dal (Secular) MLC K.T. Srikante Gowda here on Saturday for allegedly assaulting journalists who were waiting to undergo COVID-19 tests. The incident occurred near Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan in Subhash Nagar of Mandya town at around 11.45 a.m., and was recorded by mediapersons as well onlookers through cameras/cellphones. Chaos gripped the area for a while after Mr. Gowda’s son Krishik, claiming himself to be a contractor, misbehaved with the journalists. The Department of Information and Public Relations had organised the tests for journalists at the Bhavan, which is located near the MLC’s residence. While 17 had attended the camp on Friday, as many as 21 had arrived to undergo the test on Saturday. Mr. Gowda, along with his son and supporters, visited the spot prior to the completion of the tests. He strongly opposed conducting health check-ups of journalists at the Bhavan. While the MLC criticised the district administration, his son hit a journalist besides abusing the scribes in filthy language. Their acts were recorded by the people gathered there. Later, the police took away the MLC’s son in their vehicle for questioning. Complaint H.S. Mahesh, a video journalist with a private Kannada satellite channel, has filed a complaint with the police. He has named Mr. Gowda, his son Krishik, and three others — M.B. Chandrakalavathi, Jagadish, and Raju alias Pilley — as accused persons in the complaint.  Mandya Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh, who visited the spot later, said the district administration would look into the matter. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Journalists Union (KJU) has condemned the incident and urged the State government to initiate action against Mr. Gowda, his son and their supporters. The government should take action against the accused, demanded B.T. Mohankumar, president, KJU, Mandya district. Meanwhile, all the accused were released on bail on Saturday evening.
26 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Thundershowers provide respite to Mangalureans||Rains that had been evading Mangaluru for long finally arrived as thundershowers on Friday night. While most parts of the rest of Karnataka had been receiving summer showers, Mangaluru was left alone, with temperatures ranging up to 36 degree Celsius. Even at 10 p.m., the temperature soared up to at 31-40 degree Celsius. On Saturday too The night showers continued for sometime on Saturday morning and brought much needed relief to residents. Those who ventured out during the lockdown had to use umbrellas even as some enjoyed the rains without any cover.
26 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forest worker drowns in Kabini backwaters; another missing||A Forest Department worker on patrol duty died while confronting nearly a dozen miscreants engaged in illegal fishing in the Kabini backwaters, bordering the Bandipur-Nagarahole belt, in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased was identified as Mahesh, 26. Another forest worker, Shivakumar, 33, is missing. The two were part of a patrolling squad that came under attack during an operation to remove nets cast for illegal fishing in the Gundre range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. T. Balachandra, Conservator of Forests and Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that the field staff received information late on Friday night about illegal fishing in the Kabini backwaters. A team comprising Deputy Range Forest Officer Kumaraswamy, forest guard Mahadev, forest watcher Manju, caretaker Mahesh, Shivakumar, and a few outsourced employees reached the spot and encircled the area. They discovered fishing nets laid in the backwaters and, after determining that the area was secure, began to dismantle them. The patrolling squad was taken unawares when more than a dozen persons, who were hiding on the other side of the river bank, suddenly appeared using coracles and attacked the forest guards. Heavily outnumbered, the forest staff retreated and four of the guards got on to another coracle to withdraw from the scene. But in the melee, the coracle capsized even as the miscreants, who fired in the air to scare the patrolling team, escaped under the cover of darkness. Of the four guards on the coracle, Mahadev swam to safety. A reinforcement team was sent from D.B. Kuppe range and it rescued one of the others, Bomma, who was stranded on the opposite side of the river bank. A search operation was launched to trace the other two, and the body of Mahesh was recovered in the process. Officials said Mahesh was a good swimmer but got entangled in a net. But despite pressing expert divers and swimmers into service, there was no trace of Shivakumar till Saturday evening, when the search was called off for the day. Mr. Balachandra said the search would resume on Sunday morning.
26 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||13 lakh persons covered under health survey, says Shivamogga DC||Deputy Commissioner K.B. Sivakumar has said that more than 13 lakh people in the district have been covered in the ongoing health survey undertaken as part of the surveillance initiative to prevent the spread of COVID-19. During the survey, swab samples of symptomatic persons were collected and sent for testing. So far, no positive case of COVID-19 has been reported in the district, he said at a press conference on Saturday. Mr. Sivakumar said that, during the survey, the comprehensive information on the health condition of pregnant women, senior citizens, HIV positive persons, and those with diabetes were collected. The health checkup would be conducted for these persons once in three days. The private health establishments have been directed to daily update the Department of Health and Family Welfare with information on fever, respiratory problems, cough and cold cases treated by them, he said.  Permit for some Clarifying that permission had been sanctioned for select economic activities during lockdown and restrictions imposed on movement of people and vehicles stands unaltered, he said that prohibitory order enforced under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code to avoid large gatherings in public places and unnecessary movement to maintain social distancing remains in vogue. During the lockdown period, pillion riders on two-wheelers will not be permitted and only two persons including the driver can travel in a four-wheeler, he said, cautioning of stern action against violators. Mr. Sivakumar said that, in urban areas, outlets selling juice, ice-cream, agriculture inputs and implements have been allowed to operate. Plumbers and electricians, and service stations of agriculture implements and tools would be allowed to service. Also, agriculture-based industries in rural areas have been permitted to function, he said.
26 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||567 migrant workers leave Udupi for North Karnataka in KSRTC buses||As many as 567 migrant workers were sent to their native places in the districts of North Karnataka through Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses from 12 migrant workers camps in Udupi district on Saturday. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, told The Hindu that these workers wanted to return to their native places so that they could participate in the agricultural activities in their fields. He had directed the tahsildars to check if there were other migrant workers who wanted to return. Some migrant workers wanted to stay here as some economic activities had started in the district. “If there is any demand from other migrant workers for returning to their native places, we will consider it,” Mr. Jagadeesha said. Uday Shetty, KSRTC depot manager, Udupi, said 20 buses were sent to pick up migrant workers from the 12 camps in places such as Udupi, Kaup, Koteshwar, Byndoor, Kundapur, Barkur, and Adiudupi between 7 a.m. and 11.30 p.m. They boarded the buses after undergoing medical check-up at the camps. The buses had left for places, including Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Koppal, Ron, and Ilkal. These workers had completed 28-day stay at these camps, he said. The administration had informed the KSRTC to arrange for buses to transport these migrant workers on April 24. They had also been provided with food packets, he said. Disappointment in Mangaluru  Mangaluru Special Correspondent reports: However in Mangaluru, several workers who came to the city centre, in the hope of reaching their native places, had to return disappointed. Several migrant workers lined up near Town Hall since Saturday morning with their belongings. But to their dismay they found that the district administration had not made any arrangements for their transport. Many were sent back while a few stayed back around Town Hall where the administration made arrangements for their food. But an evening bulletin by Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that many migrant workers housed in government-run camps were sent back to their places by buses as per the government directive. When asked about those assembled near Town Hall, Ms. Rupesh said they were not in camps. They will be shifted to hostels, she said, adding that the district administration needed clarification from the government on the issue.
26 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Ten inmates of Vijayapura prison busy making masks||As many as 10 inmates of Vijayapura Central Prison are stitching masks eight hours a day, doing their bit to prevent the spreading of COVID-19. They make around 250 masks a day. “Several prisons have started making masks with the help of their inmates. We also joined the league by asking our inmates to make masks which are in high demand today,” said I.J. Myageri, Jail Superintendent. He said that the masks have been distributed among 439 inmates of the prison and the prison staff. “The remaining have been given to various government departments after they were sought by the district administration, Police Department, judiciary etc.” He said that since the prison has only 10 sewing machines, only 10 inmates are involved. The inmates are trained tailors who normally stitch uniforms based on the need. They are being paid Rs. 75/day as per the norms. The prison would prepare masks so long as there is a requirement from various departments, he said.
26 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Three persons booked for jumping home quarantine||Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil has said that three persons have been booked for jumping home quarantine. Addressing presspersons on Saturday, he said around 179 persons who were in institutional quarantine have been released and instructed to remain at home for the next 14 days. “As per the government order, we are using their mobile phones for geofencing to ensure that they don’t go out of the restricted area. Besides this, we have also deployed officials to watch over them,” he said. He said those who have been sent home have been given ration that would last a month. He said the first positive patient in the district would be released from hospital on Monday. “All other 38 patients are also fine,” he said.
26 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||MLA distributes food packets to the needy||Congress MLA from Shahapur, Sharanabasappa Gowda Darshanapur, provided around 60,000 food packets to needy persons in the city. The packets contained rice, dal, upma, and sweet huggi. Mr. Darshanapur has entrusted five persons to cook and distribute the food. “Being an elected representative, it’s my duty to help those in distress. Most of the labourer families have no jobs since the lockdown,” he told The Hindu.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two new cases of KFD||Two persons have been diagnosed with Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), known as monkey fever, in the district on Friday. The blood samples of a 45-year-old woman from Biluve village in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive for KFD on Friday. She was suffering from fever and pain in joints since April 20. Another positive case was reported from Hasige village in Sagar taluk on Friday. The 35-year-old male had been admitted to a private hospital in Manipal in Udupi district for treatment. With this, the total number of KFD positive cases in the district since January 1 has touched 163, including 127 cases from Tirthahalli taluk and 36 cases from Sagar taluk.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Uncertain times||
26 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Minister warns vendors encroaching on roads||Stringent action will be taken against traders who encroach upon roads and conduct business in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was speaking at a COVID-19 review meeting at the Collectorate here on Saturday. “Action will be taken against traders who do business encroaching upon the National and State Highways under the Disaster Management and National Highways Acts. Their actions will result in overcrowding of people and vehicles in some places,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The Minister directed District Police Chief James Joseph to initiate action against vendors who violated restrictions at Kalarcode and other places.  ‘Remain vigilant’ Mr. Sudhakaran said the number of people in home quarantine had seen a decrease in the district. But there was a need to remain vigilant, he said. “Steps have been taken to quarantine people coming from foreign countries and other States after the end of the lockdown period. As many as 1,756 bath-attached rooms in 68 hotels and homestays have been taken over for the purpose. Besides, 495 rooms in 180 houseboats have been taken over. Apart from that, 1,650 bath-attached rooms have been identified. Another 5,800 rooms without bathroom facilities have been identified at various places in the district,” the Minister said. No fresh case of the disease was reported in the district on Saturday. The district has so far witnessed five COVID-19 cases and all of them have been fully cured of the disease. Officials said 103 people had been released after the completion of the mandatory quarantine period. However, 76 persons were newly put in home quarantine, taking the number to 1,300.  District panchayat president G. Venugopal and District Collector M. Anjana attended the meeting, among others.
26 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Strict curbs in three panchayats in Idukki||District Collector H. Dinesan has imposed restrictions till May 3 on three grama panchayats that were declared hotspots after four COVID-19 cases emerged from there on April 23. The grama panchayats are Nedumkandam, Elappara, and Vazhathoppe. Officials have asked the public not to move out of their residences except for emergencies. The details of those who move out of their residences will have to be given to the authorities and roads except those monitored by the police will be closed. Shops, including those selling essentials, have been asked to remain closed. Instead, secretaries of the grama panchayats have been empowered to ask volunteers to carry out doorstep delivery of essential items. The authorities have been asked to inform the public of the details of volunteers in each ward. Vehicles carrying essential items have been given concession in the hotspots. Medical shops and petrol pumps have been allowed to function. A complete lockdown has been announced in Wards 1,2 and 3 of Karunapuram and Ward 4 of Pampadumpara, near Thookupalam, in Nedumkandam grama panchyat. Partial concession is allowed in Cheruthoni town and Painavu, where the civil station is located, in Vazhathoppe grama panchyat. Medical shops and petrol pumps are allowed to function for 24 hours and shops selling essential items from 7 a.m to 5 p.m. Those travelling to and fro to the panchayats should be monitored by the police and if found violating norms, legal action should be taken. More care centres More corona care centres will be opened in the Thodupuzha and Elamdesam block panchayat limits in the wake of increased number of those under observation there. An official says more buildings in the public and private sectors will be acquired for opening corona care centres. Two persons, just back from Odisha where they had gone with the body of a resident of that State, have been put under quarantine in the corona care centre at Muttom. The four persons found positive on April 23 have also been admitted at the Muttom centre.
26 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Intruders will face stringent action, says Minister||Stringent action would be taken against those who enter Wayanad district from the neighbouring districts in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu by violating lockdown restrictions, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. Speaking after a review meeting here on Saturday, Mr. Saseendran said the arrival of people from other States by violating lockdown norms was a major concern of the district administration as posed a major threat to the epidemic containment strategy of the district. As such persons entered the district through unpoliced byways, forest trails, illegal crossing points, and rural roads, residents in the border areas should be vigilant, Mr. Saseendran said, adding that the movement of people from other States posed the threat of COVID-19 spread. “Directions have been issued to officials to step up surveillance in hotspot areas identified by the Health Department against Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD or Monkey Fever) in the wake of the spread of the disease in the district,” Mr. Saseendran said. The second phase of the vaccination drive against KFD would be intensified in the hotspot areas, the Minister said. Action would be taken against people who refused vaccination, Mr. Saseendran said. District Collector Adeela Abdulla, District Police Chief R. Ilango, senior officials of various departments and people’s representatives attended the meeting.
26 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||One more recovers in Wayanad||One more person who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and underwent treatment at the District Hospital at Mananthavady in Wayanad recovered on Saturday. He is the third to be cured of the disease in the district. According to hospital sources, the 28-year-old from Muppainad grama panchayat had returned from Dubai. He had been in isolation for 28 days. He has now been advised to remain in home quarantine for another 28 days. As many as 1,088 persons are under observation in the district, Health Department sources said.
26 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Youth tests positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur||A 20-year-old man a resident of Peringathur, who was in home quarantine, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in Kannur on Saturday. He contracted the disease from an infected person. With the addition of one more case, the total number of people affected by COVID-19 in the district has reached 112. As many as 2,711 persons suspected to have the disease are under observation. They include 2,591 in home quarantine, 62 at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, six at the Thalassery General Hospital, 22 at the District Hospital, and 30 at the COVID Treatment Centre. Two more who were undergoing treatment at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital were discharged. A resident of Madayi who had returned from Nizamuddin, and a woman who had been infected through contact with him, left the hospital. With this, the number of discharged persons has gone up to 56. So far, samples of 2,762 people have been sent for testing, and the results of 2,501 have been received, of which 2,335 are negative. District Collector T.V. Subhash said the swab tests of those who had returned from abroad and their primary contacts in the district had been completed. Simultaneous phase II testing for the virus was launched on Friday to determined if there was any community spread of the disease. Twenty persons from selected groups were tested on Friday. In the second stage, swab tests will be conducted for those who are at risk of spreading the virus. Randomised test will be conducted in areas where health workers, police personnel, journalists, home delivery volunteers, and others have worked. Mother, child discharged Meanwhile, a 20-year-old woman who delivered a baby after recovering from COVID-19, was discharged from the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Nine-month pregnant Fathima, a resident of Kasaragod, was admitted to the hospital on March 20. She contracted the disease from her husband who was also being treated at the hospital. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, in a message, congratulated the doctors on providing the best possible treatment at the hospital.
26 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rural and experiential tourism hold the key||With tourism activities unlikely to resume any time soon in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, experts foresee a shift from mass tourism to rural and responsible tourism destinations. The post-COVID situation will see a marked change in preference of tourists worldwide, says K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator of Responsible Tourism Mission (RTM). “The emphasis on hygiene and social distancing will result in tourists preferring experiential and rural tourism to mass destinations such as beaches. They will want to experience village life to stay away from crowded places.” Project To cater to this demand, the RTM has set in motion a project to compile videos which will take viewers through stories related to Kerala’s ethnic art forms and stories of different regions. They will help travellers from different districts within the State to get to know, among other things, local folklores, art forms, and cuisines. Tourism stakeholders will have to woo these travellers to local destinations as tourists from other States and countries will take longer to come, Mr. Kumar says. The RTM has in the meanwhile requested the government to issue a directive to departments to encourage officials who avail themselves of leave travel benefits and students going on picnics to visit locales within Kerala. E.M. Najeeb, member, Tourism Advisory Committee, Government of India, says tourism stakeholders are readying initiatives to cater to travellers from within the State as both inbound and outbound tourism would remain affected for up to a year due to visa curbs, mandatory quarantine, and apprehensions on travel. Unlike most other destinations, Kerala would stand out even during the post-COVID period due to the containment measures which won global acclaim, he says adding that it would help resume tourism activities in the State. Strategy “People who remain homebound during the lockdown, which also coincides with the summer vacation, want to visit tourist locales. All District Tourism Promotion Councils are expected to collectively roll out a strategy to woo visitors,” says S. Vijayakumar, secretary of Ernakulam DTPC
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Concessions will hit revenues of ports: employees||Concessions being offered to port users in the wake of the lockdown will result in a loss of around Rs. 100 crore for the Cochin Port Trust (CPT), bringing the institution to its knees in the process, according to employees. They feel that the leniency being ordered to be extended to the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT) operator is not logical. The employees have called for a review of the order in view of the financial condition of the port and sought leniency from the Union government with regard to an outstanding loan repayment. The Shipping Ministry has ordered major ports to offer exemptions and remission of charges to port users, including those using port facilities under Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects like ICTT. The order from the Ministry said the lockdown had resulted in disruption of business. Shippers of all hues — exporters, importers, and auxiliary trade and transport — had been affected by the lockdown. According to the Ministry, concessions like deferred payments in storage charges and lease rentals should be offered. Besides, the government has called for free additional storage, if required. However, port and dock workers’ federations under the aegis of the Cochin Port Joint Trade Union Forum has written to the Union government, questioning the order. While the Centre wants CPT to accept deferred payment from the ICTT operator, the employees said there was no minimum throughput guarantee from the operator. So, there was no logic in deferring the payment of revenue share to the port trust. E. Nandakumar and P.M. Mohammed Haneef, representing port and dock workers, said the government should also consider a few concessions to CPT. The port has been running on loss for a decade. During 2017-18, it made a little profit and was set to do so in the last financial year. However, the Centre has insisted on a payment of Rs. 56 crore a year over the next decade in lieu of capital expenditure loans availed by the port in the past.
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree to resume food delivery through apps||The Kudumbashree Mission in Ernakulam district has plans to restart door delivery of food products prepared by its women entrepreneurs through online food delivery apps after lockdown restrictions are eased. The discussions for resuming the services were active when the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. “We were almost ready to resume operations when the restrictions came into effect. Plans are ready to resume door delivery of food items after the situation turns normal,” said T.P. Geevarghese, district co-ordinator of the Mission. The delivery service through online food delivery aggregators was launched by the Mission on an experimental basis in November last year. However, it was stopped after two weeks following a dip in orders and certain technical issues. “We were competing with leading food outlets available on online platforms. The sales were good in the initial days, but it went down after two weeks. We learnt the need to scale up marketing and launch campaigns to popularise the service among customers,” he said. Centralised units Food was prepared from three centralised units under the Mission at Vyttila, Infopark and Kalamassery. The menu included two breakfast items, meals and biryani for lunch, and chapatti with curry for dinner. Mr. Geevarghese said the Mission planned to expand the menu and there would be changes in the packing and listing of food items.
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Social media reach out to Theyyam artistes||A WhatsApp-based charity group has come to the aid of Theyyam artistes who have been stripped of their income with the pandemic wiping out their annual peak performance season. The group, Theyyakaazhchakal Charity, was formed in March 2019 with the explicit goal of helping Theyyam artistes in physical and financial distress. Though there were only a few members at first, the number has now hit the 100 mark. Initially, the group used to give Rs. 7,500 to a needy artiste every month, mobilised through contributions from its members, before the assistance was increased to Rs. 10,000 from this January. For 25 artistes “As the pandemic spread, one member contributed Rs. 25,000 and combined with the Rs. 17,000 we mobilised through monthly contributions, we transferred assistance varying between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 to the bank accounts of 25 Theyyam artistes,” said K.K. Reghunathan, an avid Theyyam aficionado and an admin of the group, who became paraplegic following an accident in December 1992. He is now associated with a Web portal that maps sacred groves across the State and brings out an annual calendar of Theyyam performances. To assist more The group plans to reach out to the maximum number of Theyyam artistes next month as well. The peak season for Theyyam, an art form performed mainly around sacred groves, stretches from January to May. “The income earned by the artistes during this period lasts them for the rest of the year. The season has been largely washed out by the pandemic. They are facing immense hardships since most of them do not have an alternative livelihood,” said Reghunathan. The group has also been handing out aid in lump sum to needy artistes and their families. An assistance of Rs. 80,000 was given to the family of a young artiste from Kasaragod who died prematurely while about to stage a performance last year.
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Promotion for judicial officers||Ten Sub-Judges and Chief Judicial Magistrates (CJM) have been promoted as District and Sessions Judges in the State. Those who have been appointed as District and Sessions Judges are Saleena V.G. Nair, secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Ernakulam; T. P. Anil, CJM, Palakkad; V. Satheeshkumar, Deputy Registrar, Kerala Lok Ayukta, Thiruvananthapuram; T. P. Prabhash Lal, CJM, Thiruvananthapuram; Titty George, secretary, DLSA, Kottayam; K. P. Anilkumar, CJM, Manjeri; K.N. Harikumar, CJM, Pathanamthitta; P. P. Priya Chand, CJM, Ernakulam; M. Thushar, secretary, DLSA, Palakkad; and M.P. Shibu, Principal Sub Judge, Ernakulam.
26 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Arrangements being made to accommodate returnees||Arrangements are being made in the district to receive non-resident Keralites who might return to the State when permitted. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar said on Saturday that 7,000 rooms had been readied to provide temporary accommodation to them. All necessary arrangements will be made by Monday. As many as 6,000 flats and houses have been identified as stay options. A total of 4,701 houses have been identified in various panchayats in the district. In municipalities and the Kochi Corporation, places will be identified by Monday.
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swabs sent for test||After the death of a 44-year-old who visited two hospitals near Manjummel complaining of breathlessness on Friday night, his swabs have been sent for COVID-19 test. “The test is only a precautionary measure. The patient has no travel or contact history,” said Ernakulam Additional District Medical Officer Dr. S. Sreedevi. After he passed away at the second hospital he visited, the body was shifted to the Ernakulam Government Medical College, Kalamassery, for tests. The body will be released to the family once the test results have been obtained.
26 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Markets under scrutiny after Kottayam incident||The case of a worker at the Kottayam main provisions and vegetable market contracting COVID-19 early this week has forced the district administration to restrict market operations in Ernakulam. Restrictions on wayside and footpath sales will be immediately felt, and social distancing will be monitored with the help of the police and business owners. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of trade representatives with Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar here on Saturday. As a first step, unloading of supplies will be done at the main market between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. to avoid crowding and contact between local market operators and lorry crew. The new schedule will come into effect on Monday.
26 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in 3 Kollam grama panchayats||District Collector B. Abdul Nasar imposed prohibitory orders on Chathannur, Sasthamcotta and Poruvazhil grama panchayats after three more persons, including a seven-year-old girl, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Kollam has reported three positive cases in a single day for the first time. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has reached nine. A 51-year-old from Kulathupuzha contracted the infection through contact while the other patient is a 47-year-old ASHA worker from Chathannur. Girl from Sasthamcotta The seven-year-old from Sasthamcotta had arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport in an Air Arabia flight (G9442) on March 19. The girl travelled to Sasthamcotta in a private vehicle and was in strict home quarantine till April 15. She had visited the Thrikkovilvattom primary health centre in a relative’s scooter on April 20 for quarantine completion certificate. She also went to a relative’s house at Bharanikkavu and her swab was collected on April 23 after she developed fever. She tested positive on the 35th day after returning from Sharjah. The Health Department has traced 63 primary and 12 secondary contacts of the girl. The Kulathupuzha patient, who lives behind the Ambalakkadavu forest quarters, had regular contact with the person who first tested positive from the area on Tuesday. His routine included frequent visits to Mathilakom Colony and Ambalakkadavu to meet friends. The Health Department has traced his 18 primary and 22 secondary contacts. The ASHA worker’s sample was one of the 15 random ones collected by the sentinel surveillance team formed by the district administration to identify and prevent community spread. The authorities are investigating her epidemiological link and tracing her contacts. The three patients were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, and the child’s parents are in medical isolation. All the secondary contacts of the patients are also under observation at corona care centres.
26 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three test positive in Kottayam||Three more persons, including a 55-year-old woman, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam, taking the number of patients in the district to six. The latest to turn positive included a 50-year-old inter-State truck driver from Manarcad, a 55-year-old woman in Samkranthi who returned from Sharjah, and the 60-year-old mother of the infected male nurse in Panachikkad. The driver, who reached home on March 25 after completing his trip to Maharashtra, had completed the quarantine period of 28 days. Meanwhile, the Samkranthi native had been staying in Sharjah with her husband and came back about one-and-a-half months ago. The woman, who had earlier spent 14 days in home quarantine, reportedly visited various places, including a private hospital in Thellakom and a relative’s house in Kidangoor later. Taking this into consideration, the authorities have started steps to collect details of the persons in contact with the affected persons. Meanwhile, authorities here have put over 500 persons in home quarantine based on the contact list of the headload worker and the health worker who had tested positive for the infection. While 111 persons had come into primary contact with the headload worker, the male nurse had made direct contact with 21 persons. Apart from these 132 persons, 232 secondary contacts of the affected persons were also put in home isolation. Workers shifted The authorities have shifted 25 headload workers, who made direct contact with the virus-infected headload worker, to a corona care centre in Kottayam in the absence of space for isolation at their respective houses. While 14 of them tested negative for the disease, 11 swab samples were rejected earlier. The samples of these persons have been collected again. As with the patient from Panchikkad, six primary contacts of the male nurse, including his sister, father, and others, were tested negative. More areas of the district, including Manarcad panchayat, have been declared as containment zones.
26 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Health officials struggle to trace the origin of infection||As Kottayam swings back to the list of COVID-19-affected districts after a brief interval, the inability to trace the source of infections has confounded the health authorities here. For instance, the infection for a headload worker, confirmed three days ago, was initially attributed to a truck driver from Tamil Nadu. Officials, however, were in for a shock to find this purported source to be tested negative later. Another loose end is that the patient, while at his workplace, had come into close contact with drivers of inter-State freight carriers over the last couple of weeks. “He is reported to have interacted closely with a truck driver from Maharashtra a few days ago. The truck has since left the State and we have been unable to confirm this source,” said a Health Department official. The officials are now racing against time to find the persons he had interacted with and directed over 200 persons to go into home quarantine. Easier route map The officials are also yet to zero in on the exact source of infection for the 31-year-old male nurse who tested positive. It, however, was rather easy for the authorities to prepare the route map of the patient who had stayed at home for 31 days since March 24. They have directed the hospital where the patient had been employed to quarantine those who were on duty with him, besides his parents, and the driver who had transported the patient to his residence in Kottayam. Strict restrictions have been imposed on the operation of wholesale markets in Kottayam—a potential hotspot of the disease. Vendors have been directed to unload vegetables from 4 a.m. and groceries from 6 a.m. All truck employees, headload workers, and traders have been directed to wear masks while sanitisers should be kept in all shops. The shop owners should provide adequate food packets to lorry workers. Once the load is unloaded, the trucks must exit the market. The truck employees should be provided space for rest. Cleaning instructions should also be displayed in front of these rooms.
26 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Actor Ravi Vallathol passes away at 67||Ravi Vallathol, 67, who died in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday, may not have made it big as an actor in cinema, but he showed his skills in the few opportunities that came his way. Only a few directors such as Adoor Gopalakrishnan exploited the true potential of Ravi. In Oru Pennum Randaanum , the actor gave one of his best performances (in the segment Pankiyamma ). He appeared in about 50 films, but was more busy on television. He appeared in popular and well-made serials in the early days of Doordarshan such as Vaitharani , which was directed by P. Bhaskaran and scripted by his father and playwright T.N. Gopinathan Nair. Legends His father was not the only legend in Ravi's family, his granduncle was Vallathol Narayana Menon, one of the greatest poets in Malayalam. Not surprisingly, he dabbled in letters too, though without much success. He had written the story of the 1986 film Revathikkoru Pavakkutty , which is still remembered for the fine performance by Bharat Gopi. Ten years before that, he had penned a song ( Thazhvarayil manju peythu... ) for the film Madhuram Thirumadhuram.  But, it was as an actor in serials such as American Dreams , Vasundhara Medicals and Parijatham that he made a name for himself. He was passionate about acting from a young age. Once Jagathy Sreekumar had said about the numerous stages he had shared with Ravi while they were studying at Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram. “Ravi was quite talented and was particularly good at playing female roles those days,” Jagathy had said. “He looked beautiful as a woman and played as my wife, lover, sister and mother in plays.” Manoj K. Jayan, who had acted with him in films such as Oru Pennum Randaanum , said Ravi did not get his due as an actor in cinema. “Ravi was a fine actor, but his personality was such that he did not go after opportunities. He had become a star on television when I started doing serials. Malayalam cinema should have used his talent better,” Manoj said.  Only a few directors such as Adoor Gopalakrishnan exploited the true potential of Ravi
26 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||84-year-old recovers in Kozhikode||Three persons, including an 84-year-old from Kannur, recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the two others belong to a family from Edachery whose five members were earlier tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Kannur native hails from Koothuparamba and had other issues such as kidney failure and pneumonia. He had suffered a stroke last year. The senior citizen had been admitted to a private hospital in Kannur after he suffered a fracture in his leg and was shifted to another private hospital in Kozhikode after his condition deteriorated. He was shifted to the medical college after COVID-19 was confirmed. He faced cardiac problems too. Around 60 persons, including staff of Social Justice Department, police officers, and a group of volunteers, have been asked to be in quarantine after a 67-year-old Tamil Nadu native was tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The senior citizen had been put up at a temporary shelter for destitute persons here and the above-mentioned had been visiting the place to attend to their needs. It has been reported that he reached Kozhikode from Chennai and was shifted to the shelter on April 2. He was taken to the Medical College Hospital on April 20. He returned the same day. He was shifted to the isolation ward the next day. At present, 13 persons from Kozhikode and five from other districts have recovered here. Ten persons from the district and a Tamil Nadu native are undergoing treatment.
26 April 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Madrasa teacher uses lockdown time to dig well||While people are engaged in various activities staying at home during the lockdown period, a madrasa teacher at Urangattiri near Areekode made use of his time by digging up a well all alone. Sayed Muthukoya Thangal said he made the best of the lockdown period by digging up the well that he had postponed for long because of lack of money. Mr. Thangal said he did not have the resources to hire workers to dig the well as he was making a living with the scanty wages he earned by teaching at a madrasa. His friends with the SYS, including Sayed Pookoya Thangal and Sayed Hashim Koya Thangal, came forward to help him finish the well. It took two weeks for Mr. Thangal and his friends to complete the work.
26 April 2020||NAGERCOIL,KERALA||Youth held for sexual harassment, extortion||The Kottar police have arrested an unemployed youth who had sexually harassed women and extorted money from them. All-Women police here said Kasi alias Suji, 26, son of Thangapandi of Ganesapuram Main Road in Nagercoil, befriended women from affluent families through social media. Introducing himself as an entrepreneur, a trainee pilot or a lawyer, he had uploaded his edited photographs and videos taken during gym workouts. Kasi was in touch with the women through video calls. He had allegedly established physical intimacy with them and took their photos in objectionable manner without their knowledge. “When the victims sent their personal photos or made video calls, Kasi either saved the photos or took screenshots of videos, which he later used to blackmail them,” said Superintendent of Police N. Sreenath who initiated an inquiry on getting an online complaint from a Chennai-based victim, a medico. He had extorted several lakhs of rupees from more than 100 victims, including doctors from Chennai. When they refused to give money and did not attend his phone calls, Kasi had blackmailed them that he would upload their nude photos and videos on the net. “The complainant alone had lost more than Rs. 7 lakh to Kasi,” the police said. The police raided his house and seized his mobile phone, computer hard disks, pen drives and compact discs. Mr. Sreenath said the victims may file their complaints online or call him directly on 94981 11103. Their identity would be closely guarded. He had targeted ordinary girls from Kanniyakumari district while his high-profile targets were from Chennai over the past six years. Since the police have recovered evidences that Kasi had orchestrated his crime with the help of his friends, a hunt is on to nab them.  When victims sent personal photos or made video calls, Kasi either saved the photos or took screenshots, which he later used for blackmail N. Sreenath Superintendent of Police
26 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||299 held for violating lockdown norms in Pathanamthitta||The police arrested 299 persons and registered 289 cases at various police stations in the district for violating lockdown norms in the past 24 hours that ended at 2 p.m. on Saturday, according to District Police Chief K.G. Simon. Mr. Simon said the police had also seized 222 vehicles. No new case Meanwhile, a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Saturday evening said that no new COVID-19 case has been reported from any part of the district for the 12th consecutive day on Saturday. A total of nine persons, including three patients, remain in the isolation wards of two major government hospitals in the district as on Saturday afternoon. Six of them are at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry and the other three patients are at the General Hospital in Pathanamthitta, the bulletin said.  Meanwhile, the 144 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department have screened a total of 6,183 people for fever and other symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection at 14 border points in the district on Saturday. Arrested Meanwhile, the police have arrested five senior Congress leaders, including Anto Antony, MP, for violating the lockdown norms by staging a satyagraha in the town on Saturday protesting against the alleged indifference on the part of the Union and State governments towards Non-Resident Keralites and other Indians who have been stranded in different parts of the world following the COVID-19 crisis. A case has also been registered against the Congress leaders, invoking provisions in the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.
26 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Salary deduction: Govt. mulls ways for payback||The State government is exploring different options to repay the salary to be deducted from employees and teachers in the wake of the COVID-19-induced financial crisis. The decision to defer six days’ salary will help fetch only Rs. 500 crore and that would not help to reduce the stress for mopping up Rs. 2,450 crore needed for meeting the salary bill every month. The tax revenue collection this month is below Rs. 500 crore. Exploring options The government may either transfer the deferred salary to the Provident Fund (PF) account in full or disburse the allowances in cash and the basic salary alone to the account. Such options would be considered only after the fiscal situation improves. The given circumstances do not offer any clue about an economic revival for at least the next six months. Which means that the repayment of deferred salary would be taken up once the State’s own tax and non-tax revenue collection bounces back to normalcy. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac reiterated here on Saturday that the government would not yield to pressure from service organisations and rescind the order to deduct the salary as scheduled. Compared to other States, Kerala had been much liberal and never opted for a pay cut. This is being contrasted with the Centre’s decision to freeze the sanctioned dearness allowance of its employees, arrears and two more tranches that are due in the coming months. Flays protest The protest by a section of employees by burning copies of the order to defer the salary had drawn flak. Such protests are being staged at a time when legions of labourers in the organised and unorganised sectors are left in abject penury. Dr. Isaac and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took strong exception to the protest. The government will have to borrow heavily to pay the salary in May. It has only limited options. If the situation fails to improve by June, all calculations may go awry and salary and pension disbursal may grind to a halt, sources said.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to prioritise return of NoRKs||The State government will quickly prioritise the category of non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) that need to return home at the earliest, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Saturday. The government is waiting for the Centre to issue guidelines regarding the same. Those aspiring to come back should register their names on the website of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs. So should students from Kerala stranded in other parts of the country and the world.  Priority list Officials said pregnant women, senior citizens, ailing persons, Keralites amnestied from prisons, students, citizens who had gone on visit visas, individuals whose visa period had expired, would get precedence. Kerala expects a significant number of COVID-19 displaced blue-collar workers in high-risk localities in the Gulf to return in the next two months. Mr Vijayan did not hazard a guess on their numbers but had indicated that it could be in lakhs. The remittances of expatriates have propped up Kerala for long. Their inrush would strain the State’s economy further and impact lakhs of households. He sought a special package from the Centre for their rehabilitation. The government has put in place a protocol to screen arrivals for COVID-19 symptoms at air and seaports. Those with flu-like symptoms would be immediately hospitalised. Others who warrant observation would be moved to government facilities. The government and the Congress-led Opposition have repeatedly raised the emotive subject of getting NoRKs back home with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennitala had written separate letters. The Congress staged a dharna in front of Raj Bhavan here Saturday to press the demand.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree continues Nutrimix production||The State’s women empowerment mission Kudumbashree has ensured manufacture of Amrutham Nutrimix, food supplement for anganwadi children, by its units without any disruption despite the month-long lockdown. Children between the ages of six months and three years in all local self-government institutions get the supplement through anganwadis with the support of the Women and Child Development Department as part of the Union government’s Take Home Ration Strategy. The Kudumbashree network’s 241 Nutrimix units across the 14 districts have been manufacturing adequate quantity of the nutritious supplement for the children in 33,115 anganwadis in the State despite the restrictions. As much as 1,583 tonnes of the supplement has been manufactured from the beginning of the month till April 24. Distribution too has been made effective, a statement here said. The anganwadis have been closed since the lockdown began. Unhindered process However, Nutrimix production has continued unhindered in all the districts. Nearly, 1,600 women have been manufacturing the supplement while maintaining social distancing norms. In all units, the shift system is in force, with only half the members engaged in manufacture and related jobs. Representatives of the district mission work with the units to monitor the production process. Later, the food supplement is supplied to the anganwadis and the helpers take it to each child’s home.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nod sought to alter lockdown curbs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday announced provisional measures to reopen shops shuttered abruptly by the COVID-19 lockdown. He said the action was in lockstep with the Centre’s decision on April 25 to allow some stores to receive customers in reduced numbers in relatively less densely populated localities outside municipal and Corporation limits. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had decreed that retail outlets registered under the Shops and Commercial Establishments Act could open fully in suburban localities. Retail outlets in markets and residential complexes could also open up for business in such areas. Neighbourhood stores, standalone shops, and shops in residential complexes in municipal and Corporation limits can open for business. However, the easing of restrictions did not apply to curbside shops and stalls in urban localities. With restrictions Mr. Vijayan said the relaxed rules did not apply to multi-brand and single-brand shops and malls. The shops allowed to open for trade should only employ 50% of the staff at a time. The management should ensure social distancing norms and other recommendations of epidemiologists. They should employ workers in personal protection gear to check visitors for temperature or flu-like symptoms at the entrance. Customers and staff should wear a face mask. The police would monitor opened shops. Mr. Vijayan said the State had asked the Centre to allow it to alter the MHA directions to suit regional requirements. Kerala is an urban continuity where towns, cities, habitation centres, and wilderness often overlap. Hence, the Centre should allow it to frame a different set of restart rules that reflect the ground situation.  Masks mandatory The Chief Minister said close family members could ride pillion on two-wheelers, and up to three persons could travel in the same private car. However, face masks were mandatory. The relaxation would not apply to Red zone districts and hotspots. In a bid to prevent new flare-ups, the government would impose a stringent triple lockdown at such places. Senior officers would enforce the regulations and citizens in such localities would have an only exit and entry point. The police would block all other ingress and egress points. The Chief Minister said traders should spend Sunday for cleaning and sanitising their establishments before receiving customers.
26 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tighter curbs at Ambalathara, Kalippankulam||The city witnessed a considerable increase in road traffic on Saturday when restrictions were eased in most parts of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, except in the Ambalathara and Kalippankulam wards that were designated COVID-19 hotspots. As part of enforcing restrictions in the two wards, the City police have begun screening at the Attakulangara junction and Thiruvallam that will serve as the only access points for the areas. All other entry/exit points that pass by the area, including Kadiapattanam lane, Sreenagar–1, 2, 3, Attukal driving school road, Karthika Nagar, Kuthukalumoodu junction, Chettivilakom, Konjiravila-Enakutti junction, Velanvila-Kallattumukku, Nilama junction, Kalladimukham, Ambalathara-Milma junction, Anjaneya Temple road, Al Arif Hospital road, point opposite Muthumariamman Temple, National College road, Kallattumukku Mosque road, Grand Bakery road, Payattikuppa road, Valiyapally road, and Kadiapattanam byroad, have been sealed.  Lockdown violation continued unabated in the markets of Puthiyathura where hundreds of people congregated at Gothambu Road without wearing mask.  154 cases The City police registered 154 cases and arrested 158 people for violating lockdown norms and seized 86 vehicles. Seventy people were also booked for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 619 cases, arrested 623 people, and seized 431 vehicles.  The district administration placed 410 people under quarantine, thereby increasing the number of people under surveillance in Thiruvananthapuram to 1,920. As many as 1,798 remained quarantined in their homes. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will convene a meeting of representatives of headload workers’ unions on Sunday. The discussion will focus on the resumption of business after lockdown ends.
26 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poachers targeting birds at Vellayani||Poachers have started targeting birds such as parrots and purple moorhens in the biodiversity-rich Vellayani lake region taking advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown. The Nemom police have launched an investigation into the incident following a complaint lodged by the Forest Department. Local residents had brought the poaching to the notice of the Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) of the Kalliyoor panchayat, which in turn alerted the Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) and the Forest Department. In an April 15 letter to the two agencies, Joseph Biju, Kalliyoor panchayat secretary, had requested urgent action to prevent the poaching. According to Mr. Biju, local people had noticed individuals trapping parrots and purple moorhen using nets on April 13 and April 14.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RCC to resume all cancer surgeries||The Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) here will resume all cancer surgeries as most of these are of an emergency nature and cannot be postponed. To ensure that cancer patients who are already immunocompromised are not put to further peril and to ensure that doctors and health-care personnel are protected, those patients who undergo cancer surgeries will be tested for COVID-19 prior to the surgery, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. Testing at MCH COVID-19 testing for these patients will be done at the COVID lab at the Government Medical College Hospital here till the lab in the RCC secures Indian Council of Medical Research’s nod to perform COVID-19 tests. Cancer patients who are covered by the Karunya Aarogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP) can seek RCC’s help is getting their medications which are not available in district hospitals. Those not covered by KASP and who have any difficulty in accessing their drugs can also inform the RCC or send all details to the Fire and Rescue Services, which will help in reaching the drugs.  Patients who undergo surgeries will be tested for COVID-19 prior to operation
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State police scheme to help the elderly||The State police will implement a scheme, Prashanti, to help senior citizens who are living alone during the lockdown, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. Most of the elderly feel alone and alienated and are quite anxious about the COVID-19 threat. They are also troubled by their age-related frailties and other comorbidities. The State police will arrange a 24-hour call centre under the scheme, wherein senior citizens can reach out for any assistance.  Role for Crime Branch Mr. Vijayan said the police were successfully carrying out tasks such as reaching medications and emergency patients to hospitals and that the Crime Branch had been tasked with the coordination of all such activities in the State. He appealed to senior citizens to stay at home and not expose themselves to the possibility of an infection
26 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel wants varsities to tread the digital path||The committee constituted by the Higher Education Department to suggest steps to salvage the current academic year has mooted expanding the ambit of the IT@School project to the higher education sector. Suggesting that the government initiative be renamed IT@Education, the panel, led by State Planning Board member B. Ekbal, has advised steps to replicate the digitisation efforts undertaken in the general education sector. Universities should actively endorse digital learning and examination valuation methods. The panel has called for roping in the services of the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) for introducing digital reforms in the higher education sector. There existed a digital divide and teachers and students need to be trained in utilising online learning facilities. The committee has been asked to recommend ways to expedite the examination process. On valuation While the government has mooted home valuation of answer sheets, the committee has recommended centralised valuation wherever possible, especially in the case of final-year students. Suggesting that each university evolve crisis management plans to overcome the crisis, the panel has emphasised that it is not feasible to facilitate answer sheet valuation through digital means at short notice with the universities not equipped with the necessary infrastructure. Besides, it raised caution on entrusting an external agency with the task, since confidentiality could be at stake.
26 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||199 PG medical seats sanctioned||A governing council meeting of the Kerala University of Health Sciences has decided to sanction 199 new medical postgraduate seats. The meeting through videoconferencing was chaired by Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal. Students who have completed MBBS can get admission to the newly sanctioned seats. The governing council has also approved the degrees of 9,458 students under the university. Due to the ongoing lockdown, their certificates will be sent to their homes. The 155 existing colleges have also got approval for continued functioning. It has also been decided to include humanities as part of all courses.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DA freeze flayed (State brfly)||The State committee of the Confederation of Central Government Employees and Workers has protested against the freezing of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief to Central government employees and pensioners respectively from January this year to June 2021, saying it will put them to much hardship.
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Labour Commissioner visits camps (For State brfly.)||Labour Commissioner Pranab Jyotinath visited migrant workers’ camps in various districts on Saturday. He visited camps in Ernakulam, Angamaly, Muvattupuzha, Perumbavoor, Kuttanellor in Thrissur, Madakathara, Sobha City, Pattambi in Palakkad, and Kanjikode, inspected the arrangements there, and interacted with the workers.
26 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Sanitiser Kunjappan’ to disinfect COVID-19 wards||At a time when COVID-19 threatens to affect health workers who work closely with patients, ‘Sanitiser Kunjappan’, a robot, could help disinfect hospital wards and distribute food and medicines to patients. The robot has been developed by the Fab Lab of Government Engineering College, Thrissur, at a production cost of Rs. 12,000. Led by Ajay James, assistant professor, computer science department, students V.S. Saurav, Aswin Kumar, Pranav Balakrishnan, and Cheriyan Francis developed the robot. The service of the robot was inaugurated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, by Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen on Saturday. The robot that can disinfect the entire COVID-19 ward without human help. It has a nozzle that can spray sanitiser to a distance of two metres. The sanitiser tank has a capacity of six litres and can be used for 20 to 25 minutes. As the robot can carry a weight of up to 27 kg, it can be used for distributing medicines and food.
26 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Stale fish seized||In a joint raid, Fisheries and Food Safety Departments seized 71.5 kg of stale fish from 15 fish stalls between Azhikode and Kaipamangalam on Saturday. The raids would continue in the coming days, said Fisheries Deputy Director K. Sugandha Kumari.
26 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Amendment to Abkari Act: MP to move court||T.N. Prathapan, MP, will move the High Court against the amendment to the Abkari Act by the State government. The amendment, which gives permission for distribution of liquor through Bevco warehouses in emergency situation when the retail outlets are closed, is illegal. It should be withdrawn immediately, he said.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Take your peck||
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All in a day’s work||
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kits ready||
26 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police ready to meet greater COVID-19 challenges: DGP||The police is qualitatively competent to handle any situation arising out of the fast spread of COVID-19 in some pockets of the State and can take up greater challenges with the existing manpower, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang said here on Saturday. Some persons indulging in petty politics in this time of national emergency must stop it and should not blame a particular group or community for anything, he remarked. Asked, at a press conference here after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the district, if the force was prepared to meet the exigencies in case there was a faster community spread, Mr. Sawang said it was not the number of personnel but the quality of policing work that would determine the efficiency. He said there would be no special concessions in any areas other than those already given till May 3. “Agriculture and related activities have been allowed since April 20 in the green zones of rural areas, hence no further relaxations are likely till the Centre and State governments decide based on situation,” he added. People’s cooperation was key to effective implementation of lockdown, the DGP said and urged public to limit themselves to their homes till the Central government announced the next phase of action. The State government had released Rs. 2.96 crore for the PPEs and other safety equipment for police, he said. Aid given away Mr. Sawang handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh to former Parigi assistant sub-inspector Habibullah’s brother Rahmatullah. He talked to Habibullah’s family, under treatment in a COVID hospital, over video-conference. Habibullah, hailing from Hindupur, died last week and later tested positive for COVID-19.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka begins trial for plasma therapy||The clinical trial for convalescent plasma therapy began on Saturday, where plasma from patients who have recovered from COVID-19 would be infused in patients who are tested positive for the infection and in critical condition. Phase 1 A press release by the medical team, led by doctors at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) and HCG Hospital, is among three approved for Phase 1 clinical trials for assessment of convalescent plasma usage as treatment for the COVID-19 infection along with Chicago University (U.S.) and China. B. Sriramulu, Minister of Health and Family Welfare, and K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister, spoke to the first donor and thanked him for extending his support for the cause. Although doctors are not supposed to reveal details of the patients involved in the trials, the team said that the patient who had recovered willingly chose to interact with the Ministers. The plasma of the donor will be infused in the patient who is in a serious condition, in the next two or three days. The Ministers made an appeal to all patients who have recovered to come forward and donate their samples. 158 discharged Out of 500 patients who have tested positive for COVID-19, 158 have recovered and discharged.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram/Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala widens testing, six cases registered in Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh’s COVID-19 case tally crossed the 1,000 mark on Saturday. The State reported two deaths and 61 fresh cases. Karnataka recorded 26 new cases, many of the new ones centred around a Bengaluru labour colony. With its new COVID-19 positive cases Karnataka tally touched 500. Bengaluru’s labour colony at Hongasandra ward was the focus, where nine of 13 cases in Bengaluru Urban area were reported. Those found in the colony were contacts of a 54-year-old migrant labourer. The number of positive cases in that cluster stood at 30. A journalist of a Kannada television channel also tested positive on Saturday. He had visited a containment zone marked by the BBMP. Following this, 27 journalists, his primary contacts, were quarantined in a hotel. Nine cases from Belagavi, and one each from Dakshina Kannada, Chickballapur, Mandya and Mysuru were reported on Saturday. Karnataka also started trials for convalescent plasma therapy for critical patients. Krishna, Kurnool deaths Andhra Pradesh now has 1,016 cases, about 45 days after detecting the first positive case. The toll mounted to 31 with one death each in Krishna and Kurnool districts. Srikakulam district, for the first time reported three cases and Krishna district, the worst-hit after Kurnool and Guntur, continued to report more cases. On Saturday, it had 25 new cases, the highest. For the 1,016 cases detected, the death rate stood at 3.05% and recovery rate 16.8%. The number of active patients under treatment at State and district COVID hospitals was 814. As many as 6,928 samples were tested in a day, of the cumulative 61,266 samples. This came to 147 tests per million population. As of Saturday, the tally was: Kurnool 275, Guntur 209, Krishna (127), Chittoor (73), Nellore (72), Kadapa (55), Prakasam (53), Anantapur (51), West Godavari (39), East Godavari (37), Visakhapatnam (22) and Srikakulam (3). Vizianagaram had no positive cases. 66 new cases in T.N. With 960 persons discharged after treatment for COVID-19 till now, Tamil Nadu’s recovery rate has increased to 52%. The number of persons being discharged from hospitals is on the rise when compared to persons testing positive for COVID-19, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. On Saturday, the State reported another 66 cases (38 men and 28 women) of COVID-19, taking its total tally of positive cases to 1,821. A 34-year-old man, a resident of Kundrathur, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at the Chromepet Government Hospital, at 10.15 p.m. on Friday. With this, the State has reported a total of 23 deaths. There are 835 active cases as on date. A total of 94 persons were discharged from hospitals during the day. This included six postgraduates and a staff nurse who had tested positive for COVID-19, at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), and two PGs at the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital. “The six PGs and a staff nurse of RGGGH have given their consent to donate plasma for treating critically ill patients,” he said. Among those discharged, 22 were from the Karur Medical College Hospital, 17 from the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, and 14 each from the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital and the Theni Medical College Hospital. None of the patients discharged till now have reported symptoms of COVID-19 again. Of the 66 new cases, Chennai accounted for 43 patients. The total number of cases in the city has increased to 495. Apart from Chennai, there were seven cases in Kancheepuram, five in Tenkasi, four in Madurai, two each in Perambalur and Virudhunagar, and one each in Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said private hospitals could have their own testing facilities for COVID-19, within the stipulations of the Health deartment. Hospitals, both public and private, had begun resuming normal functioning and received patients, he observed. Elective surgeries were being resumed by most hospitals, but they should act as per protocol to prevent disease transmission, Mr. Vijayan said.  6 cases in Hyderabad After eight days, the number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana on Saturday stood at seven, while 16 persons were discharged. Of the new cases, six were in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, and one in Warangal Urban. The total number of cases was 990.
26 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medicines for BP, diabetes patients at doorstep||Special Officer of COVID-19 Task Force (Nagari) P. Ravi Raju recently launched the distribution of medicines to diabetes and hypertension patients at their doorstep in Narayanavanam mandal. ASHA workers and paramedical staff would undertake the distribution all over the mandal. Speaking to the media at Narayanavanam, Dr. Raju claimed that distribution of medicines to people at their doorsteps was unique and first of its kind in the country. “There are about 2,000 people with diabetes and hypertension in various villages of Narayanavanam mandal, attached to the primary health centre here,” he said. He said as most of the patients were elderly, they were not able to visit the health centre to collect medicines periodically. “At present, Narayanavanam mandal is under red zone after a COVID -19 positive case was registered in the nearby Kuppedu village. Owing to absence of any mode of transport, the patients are facing health risks. Now, we have arranged the medicines to each patient for one month,” he said.
26 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 women COVID patients discharged in Chittoor||Two women of Nagari town, who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 8, were discharged from the COVID Hospital at Chittoor, after they tested negative after 18-day treatment in the isolation ward. According to the COVID Hospital Superintendent Jayaraj, the patients aged 30 and 32, were admitted to the isolation ward on April 8. After concerted efforts of the medical and paramedical staff, the two tested negative twice, thus facilitating their discharge. An ambulance from the hospital was used to shift them to their residences at Nagari. It was observed that both the women had contact with the Tablighi Jamaat meet. “We are conducting 100 tests daily on 5 TrueNAT machines available with this hospital. We have 15 more COVID-19 positive cases undergoing treatment here,” he said.
26 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rains lash Tirupati||Heavy rains lashed the pilgrim city of Tirupati on Saturday afternoon, resulting in overflowing of drains and water-logging on the roads. It came as a huge relief to people from the summer heat, which kept soaring since the first week of April.  In Tirupati rural mandal, drainage overflowed at Vaikuntapuram, Padmavathi Nagar and Lakshmipuram junctions. Heavy rain was also reported in the surrounding villages. Some trees were uprooted on the Tirumala bypass and Renigunta roads and there was an interruption in power supply. The western mandals of Mulakalacheruvu, Tamballapalle and B.Kothakota also received rainfall ranging from 26 mm to 8 mm.
26 April 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unable to pay EMIs, lorry owner ‘ends life’||A lorry owner identified as Matta Surya Rao (50), allegedly ended his life at Unguturu mandal. His body was found hanging from the lorry cabin on Friday. He was a native of Badampudi village in West Godavari district. Police said that Surya Rao had taken a vehicle loan to buy the lorry and was driving it himself. However, he was struggling to pay the monthly instalments on time as he was going through a financial crisis.The prospect of defaulting on his loan led him to take the extreme step, his family members said. Police registered a case. Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial 100 helpline for free counselling.
26 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GMC to intensify cluster containment strategy||The Guntur Municipal Corporation is planning to ramp up its cluster containment strategy across the city, which is one of the worst-affected in the State with over 125 COVID-19 cases. Officials said that the spread of infection has been contained to the areas that have reported cases in the beginning, adding that the cluster containment strategy seems to have worked well in halting the community spread of the virus. GMC Commissioner C. Anuradha said aggressive cluster containment strategies backed by intensive sanitation and disinfection of all public places helped slow the spread of the pandemic. “The GMC has identified 15 clusters, and we have been aggressively implementing the cluster containment strategy. But for the spread of infection to the primary and secondary contacts of the Delhi returnees, we have managed to control the situation,” Ms. Anuradha told The Hindu on Saturday. Ever since the first COVID-19 case was recorded in Guntur on March 25, the GMC swung into action to take steps to contain the spread of the virus. Areas up to a radius of 500 m from the houses of COVID-19 patients have been designated as core zones and a complete lockdown has been imposed by barricading all entry and exit points. An area of up to one km from the houses of COVID-19 patients have been identified as red zones, and barricades have been placed on approach roads leading to the areas.  Surveillance teams Presently, there are 15 clusters in the city: Mangaladas Nagar, Auto Nagar, RTC Colony, Anandapeta, Kummari Bazar, LB Nagar, Nallacheruvu, Sangadigunta, Butchaiathota, Srinivasraothota, Koretipadu, Chaitanyapuri Colony, Brodipet, Gunturuvari Thota and Gorantla. The clusters have been broadly classified into six containment zones, each of them manned by a control room headed by a senior officer. Each control room has an MRO, a medical officer, a Circle Inspector, a CRO and administrative secretaries besides ANMs. “The GMC has also constituted 3,780 primary surveillance teams in slums and non-slum areas and has appointed 58 medical officers and 188 paramedical staff for surveillance in the containment areas,” the Commissioner said. Besides, the GMC has ensured that all standard sanitation protocols, spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution at public places like bus shelters, community toilets, and markets has been completed.
26 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narasaraopet sees rapid spread of virus||After Guntur, Narasaraopet has become the hub of COVID-19 infection with as many as 46 cases being reported from the town. The rapid spread of the virus has baffled the officials, and Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Ch. Vijaya Rao has constituted a special team headed by two DSPs and 10 CIs to investigate the source of infection. The infection spread rapidly after the first positive case was reported in the first week of April. From a 45-year-old man it spread to five of his family members. One home guard was infected on the same street and after he visited a private hospital, more were infected. More than 700 persons had been sent to quarantine, Mr. Vijaya Rao said.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramzan begins on a muted note||With the COVID-19 lockdown in force, the first day of Ramzan on Saturday was largely a low-key affair. Many said that they had never witnessed the holy month in the city being so muted. A large number of people had bought groceries on Friday. However, those who did not, went to kirana stores, meat shops and fruit stalls in close proximity to their homes. While fruit sellers do good business in the month of Ramzan, and on Ramzan eve, they were scant as compared to previous years. Business dull “I went to buy fruits near Sultanshahi. There were not as many pushcarts there. Overall, I would say that there was not much buying activity in this part of the city,” said Waseem Khan, an entrepreneur and resident of Noor Khan Bazaar. Pushcarts were seen in pockets such as Afzalgunj, Koti, and few parts of Banjara Hills. Others said that the trend of buying essential supplies, especially during Ramzan, and prayers in mosques have seen a massive change in a world which is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. “Coronavirus has changed a lot of things. It has changed how we will be observing the holy month as well. For instance, it was a trend to buy supplies towards the evening and the markets remained open till late at night. But with the lockdown, everybody is buying food and groceries during the day, sometimes very early,” said Syed Ahmed Saleem, a techie and resident of Banjara Hills. Mr Saleem pointed out that every year, he and his wife used to send iftar to the neighbourhood mosque. This was so that private employees and commuters who could not reach home on time were able to break their fast. “Since mosques are closed for congregational prayers and even Taraweeh, we are unable to send meals. We are now thinking of helping the poor with dry ration kits,” he added. In stark contrast to earlier Ramzans, there was no night life. Restaurants were closed and Irani chai joints downed their shutters. “All the roads were deserted. This is the first time that I have seen Ramzan being observed in such a subdued way. We will pray for all of humanity in this month,” says Parveen Safi, an educator.
26 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banking services suspended in red zones||All the banks falling under the areas marked as 15 COVID-19 containment zones across the East Godavari district have suspended the services till May 3. Speaking to The Hindu , District Lead Bank Manager J.Shanmukha Rao has said, “The banks have been directed to put a hold on offering services in the containment zones till May 3,” he said. However, he said that in the non-containment zones, the banks would remain open but services would be offered to the public only between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m.
26 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers get aid||A group of shipping companies on Saturday distributed rice to 3,500 workers of the Kakinada Anchorage Port at the Cocanada Chamber of Commerce office in East Godavari district. Kakinada MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy distributed rice donated by the shipping companies.
26 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Robot to help hospitals in breaking the chain||KARMI-Bot, a robot deployed at the isolation ward for COVID-19 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, may soon find its way to hospitals across the country and even abroad. For, ASIMOV Robotics, a start-up based in Maker Village here, is on the verge of kick-starting its commercial production. The robot, developed by ASIMOV Robotics, with support from the Viswasanthi Foundation run by actor Mohanlal, was handed over to Ernakulam Collector S. Suhas at an event held at the start-up village complex in Kalamassery recently. Deployed at the hospital isolation ward on Saturday, the robot performs a slew of activities from dispensing food and medicines and collection of trash left behind by patients to initiating a video call between doctors and patients. Besides, it can perform ultraviolet-based disinfection and also spray detergents at targets. Its main goal is to limit the interaction between patients and health workers, minimising the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, which are scarce in the country at present. Orders pouring in “We have already received close to 500 orders for the robot from India and abroad, and the design of the manufacturing model for commercial production is complete. We can go into commercial production as soon as the lockdown is lifted and spares are available,” said T. Jayakrishnan, CEO, ASIMOV Robotics. The start-up is focusing on the healthcare sector and plans to bring out a robot specifically designed with therapeutic applications for deployment in intensive care units. KARMI-Bot, Mr. Jayakrishnan said, was developed within a month after consultations with medical college authorities. The robot, capable of carrying a payload of up to 25 kg, can operate up to 6-8 hours after a full charge lasting two hours. Mr. Jayakrishnan said that it would be loaded with additional features, such as contact-less temperature checking and automated charger docking, once spare parts are available after the lockdown ends.
26 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Instagram user held for morphing girls’ photos||The Kerala police have cracked a cybercrime on fast-track by tracing a 19-year-old Instagram user who allegedly misused the profile photos of more than 15 girls from various parts of Kozhikode district and circulated them widely through his fake accounts with derogatory comments. Majnas, a native of Ambayathode, was arrested within three days after the girls approached District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) Dr. A. Srinivas. The suspect had allegedly created five different fake Instagram accounts to post the girls’ images by describing them as prostitutes. Police sources said the suspect was tracked with the support of the Kozhikode Cyberdome. C. Sivaprasad, Circle Inspector and nodal officer in charge of the Cyberdome, said the account holder was identified in just three days after receiving the complaint. Majnas was arrested by a team led by Nadakkavu Circle Inspector Ashraf. The police have registered three cases against him. The youth was charged under various Sections of the IT Act. According to the police, the reason for misusing the images is yet to be ascertained. Incidentally, the complainants had no online or off-line connection with the suspect who was doing odd jobs after Plus Two course. A relative of one of the complainants said the online torture by the invisible account holder had caused huge mental agony and disgrace to the girls. Learning about their plight, a few ethical hackers had voluntarily hacked one of the fake accounts in their efforts to track the suspect.
26 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool reports 1 death, 14 new cases||Increasing number of primary and secondary contacts of COVID positive persons in Kurnool and Anantapur districts have been turning positive with the number of cases rising consecutively for the fourth day. While there was death of a 61-year-old patient in Kurnool on Saturday, 14 new positive cases were reported, taking the total to 275. As many as 235 patients were still in hospitals getting treatment. The number of deaths has gone up to 9. Out of the 14 cases, six were from Kurnool city, three from Nandyala, one each from Atmakur, Gonegandla, Pamulapadu and two from Nandikotkur. Meanwhile, 24 patients were discharged from the Viswabharathi Hospital in Kurnool on Saturday and taking the total number of discharged to 31, District Collector G. Veerapandian said. State COVID Special Officer Ajay Jain, the District Collector and Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan lauded the efforts of doctors and paramedical staff while giving away Rs. 2, 000 cash and fruit kits to those who got discharged. Anantapur In Anantapur district, five new cases were reported from Hindupur town taking the tally to 51, while 13 were discharged and four patients died. Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu said while two of the new positive patients were aged 41, one person was 46, one was 24 and the youngest of them was a 15-year-old boy. Currently, 34 patients were undergoing treatment at the COVID hospitals. Till Friday night, 646 samples were collected and 491 samples were tested at VDRL Laboratory, TrueNAT machines at Anantapur, Hindupur, RDT Bathalapalli and Kadiri. Results of 155 samples were yet to be known.
26 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Do not deploy policemen aged above 55 in red zones’||“Police personnel who are aged above 55 should not be deployed in the COVID-19 red zones in the district in view of their vulnerability and in the backdrop of the increasing number of positive cases,” DGP D. Gautam Sawang told SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli. After reviewing the situation and deployment of the force in the containment activity, Mr. Sawang said, “All mandals where positive cases have been recorded must be designated as red zones. There will be some relaxation in the remaining mandals after May 3.” “All the elderly persons have to be safeguarded. Even the personnel above 55 years must be posted in the green zones ,” the DGP said.
26 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on toes as four more persons test positive in Nellore district||After a brief lull, four more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours, putting the district administration on its toes. With this, the total number of infected persons rose to 72 in the district, which also saw the first COVID-19 case in the State when a student who had returned from Italy contracted the disease. Nellore, Muthukur, Kovur and Tada accounted for one new case each, health officials said. While eight persons had recovered, two persons succumbed to the virus. The district administration implemented the containment action plan with full vigour in Nellore city where 38 divisions were identified as red zones. State Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav toured Ranganayakulapeta area in the city and oversaw implementation of the containment strategy. Police strictly enforced the lockdown by booking cases and seizing vehicles of persons who were seen on the roads without any valid reason after the end of the relaxation period in the morning. Police personnel were seen campaigning at traffic junctions including the VRC centre, holding placards and asking people to stay indoors and practice personal hygiene. Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu reviewed the health situation in the district as five new positive cases were registered in the last 48 hours and stepped up surveillance in the containment clusters. Essential commodities were delivered at the doorstep of denizens in the areas declared as red zones. Meanwhile, TDP district president Beeda Ravichandra held a silent protest at the party office seeking financial assistance for workers who have been pushed into a financial crisis due to the lockdown. In neighbouring Prakasam district, a cluster management strategy was unveiled at Ravinuthala village in Korisapadu mandal on Sunday after a 28-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus. The lockdown was total in Ongole which accounted for 30 of the total 53 positive cases in the district.
26 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSU holds online classes to save academic year||Online classes have come as a boon for the students of colleges affiliated to the Vikrama Simhapuri University, where regular classes have been suspended in view of the lockdown. “Thanks to online classes, we were able to complete the pending syllabus and save the academic year,” said Vice-Chancellor R. Sudarsana Rao, who took part in a video-conference chaired by Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. The syllabus and practicals for all undergraduate courses have already been completed. Main examinations will be conducted for about 37,000 students pursuing BA, BBA, BCA, B.Com, B.Sc and other courses at 44 centres in different affiliated colleges in Nellore district soon after the lockdown is lifted, he said. Post-graduation and professional courses are offered in about 50 private aided, unaided and government colleges besides the University Constituent College and VSU PG Centre at Kavali. A two-day online workshop will be organised on Aprl 27 and 28 for the benefit of faculty members of the university to make best use of the different e-teaching platforms. Faculty members working in affiliated colleges can attend the workshop by registering free of cost.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||More exam centres sought in south India||The Indira Gandhi National Tribal University has announced only one centre in southern India in Chennai for its entrance examinations for 2020-21 admissions, much to the dismay of students in the region. The MPs from Kerala have written to the Human Resource Development Minister, demanding multiple centres in each southern State as was provided in previous years. “In 2019, Wayanad in Kerala was the largest IGNTU examination centre outside of Madhya Pradesh with over 400 applicants,” said a letter from Binoy Viswam, a CPI Rajya Sabha MP. “Wayanad is home to the largest tribal population in Kerala,” wrote Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who represents it in the Lok Sabha MP. “Urging students to opt for examination centres far away from home denies them a fair opportunity to compete in the admission process.” The Central University, located in Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh, was set up in 2007. It opened its 2020-21 application process on April 23, and plans to hold the entrance examinations on June 27 and 28. However, the COVID-19 pandemic may result in changes in dates and venues, the admission notice said. K.K. Ragesh, a CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP, said some of the university’s other recent decisions also went against its mandate for providing quality education to the tribal communities. “Recently, the university has proposed to open departments of Sanskrit and Jyotisha, while many of the tribal languages and cultures were ignored from consideration and support,” he wrote.
26 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||No food or treatment: Telangana workers||Several migrant workers from Telangana in the UAE have contracted COVID-19 and been quarantined since Monday, said Indian Consulate General in Dubai Vipul Kapoor. The workers reside in Belhasa labour camp at Ajman Alijurf-3 in the state of Ajman. In a video message that went viral on social media on Saturday Mr. Kapur confirmed that about 12 migrant workers from Telangana tested positive for COVID-19 and several others from India who are also in the camp are likely to be diagnosed virus-positive. “We are taking all necessary measures for the welfare of migrant workers and providing food to those in the camp. However, local authorities are taking care of the persons in quarantine,” he said in the message. Four workers from Nizamabad district are among those who tested positive and they are in the Room No.6 of the camp. Working in a private hospital in Ajman, they contracted the virus as they did not wear PPEs due to lack of awareness. Room locked Talking to The Hindu over phone, Rakesh (name changed), a 23-year-old worker belonging to Velpur mandal, said that he, along with two others from Kerala, is in quarantine and their room is locked from outside. “The authorities are not providing us food or treatment and we are fending for ourselves,” he said, his voice trembling. Another worker, 30-year-old Satish (name changed), who hails from Indailwai mandal, said when he complained of having coronavirus symptoms, he was quarantined. Later, his test turned up positive. “The UAE authorities have neither started treatment nor have admitted us to hospital till date,” he said. Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association president Patkuri Basanth Reddy, who has been in regular contact with the migrant workers at the Ajman camp, told The Hindu that a considerable number of Telugu workers have been affected by the coronavirus and are anxiously waiting to get home.
26 April 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals stage protests over teacher posts||Members of the Adivasi Sangham, Girijana Sankshema Sangham, activists of various political parties and their affiliated unions and ST rights associations staged protests demanding that the government take measures for implementation of GO No.3 in tribal areas. The protesters carrying placards raised slogans urging the government to recruit only tribal people for teacher posts as per the GO. Polavaram MLA and AP Legislative Committee for Tribal Welfare Chairman Tellam Balaraju said the order would help in the development of tribal villages and improve literacy. Many hamlets did not have roads, drinking water, electricity, medical and other facilities and the tribes were suffering due to poor communication and transportation, the MLA said. The protesters tried to follow social distancing while voicing their concerns.
26 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 rears its head in Srikakulam||After reporting negative for COVID-19 for quite sometime, Srikakulam too joined the list of affected districts, proving that the relief here was short-lived. Three cases emerged here, the wife, sister-in-law and mother-in-law of a person employed with the Delhi Metro Rail. His initial reports too indicated positive but the final test at the Kakinada laboratory showed a negative result, while the three tested positive in the first and final reports. He returned from Delhi on March 19 and has since been kept in home quarantine at Kaguvada village of Patapatnam mandal. He took the test a couple of days ago as senior officials wanted his fitness certificate and a COVID-19 negative report for him to report back to duty at metro rail. 70 quarantined The development has put the officials on their toes. With the directive of Collector J. Nivas, nearly 70 of his contacts in the last one month have been sent to a quarantine facility. According to sources, his mother-in-law is a vegetable seller and did her business till lockdown was clamped on March 24. Officials are gathering the details of the persons whom they had contacted between March 19 and 24. The police have intensified lockdown enforcement in Patapatnam mandal which is very close to Odisha. Meanwhile, the district administration confirmed that 1,422 out of 1,445 foreign returnees were safe and tested negative.
26 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD uploads 781 publications on website||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has uploaded a whopping 781 publications in seven languages, including the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, in the e-publications section on its website www.tirumala.org or e-books.tirumala.org. Launched on March 21, 2015, the dynamic e-publications portal is frequently upgraded by the TTD’s Information Technology department, which has uploaded almost all the TTD’s publications. The link was pulled down last year after controversial content identified in it stirred a hornet’s nest. After a thorough review of the content by roping in scholars, the redesigned portal is now launched with a new option for the readers in the form of search on content, language and author-wise choice. Vedas and Upanishads are also uploaded in the ‘Special books’ category. The 781 publications made available include 492 in Telugu, 75 in Sanskrit, 122 in English, 74 in Hindi, 14 in Tamil and two each in Kannada and Banjara languages. The TTD’s monthly magazine Sapthagiri too is available on the site. published in Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Hindi, English and Sanskrit is now available in a readable as well as freely downloadable format. All that one has to do for downloading any content is to click on the e-publications link is on the page in the websites.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan sets the ball rolling on ‘Mana Badi’ works||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday asked officials of the Education Department to chalk out a plan of action on the works that were to be completed by June under the ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’ programme. Addressing a review meeting with the officials in his camp office, the Chief Minister said the purpose of the whole exercise was to improve infrastructure in schools and enhance the standards of teaching, and it should not be compromised at any cost. The officials informed him that the tendering process for purchase of furniture and blackboards (green glassy chalk boards) had almost been completed and, for other components also, it would be done soon. Reverse tenders They said they could save Rs. 5.07 crore by opting for reverse tenders for purchase of 72,596 green glassy chalk boards and Rs. 4.23 crore in purchase of almirahs. He also saw the school uniforms and bags that were to be given to the students, and said that the officials must ensure quality in whatever work they take up. Priority areas Under ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’, the government is focusing on creating nine priority facilities in the government schools across the 13 districts of the State. They include toilets with running water, electrification with fans and tubelights, drinking water supply, furniture for students and staff, painting for the entire school campus, major and minor repairs, new blackboards, and construction of additional classrooms and compound walls. Since meeting these needs in all the government schools in one go is a difficult task, the government has decided to implement the programme in a phased manner, with the active participation of headmasters, parents’ committee and others.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIR tries innovative ways to update listeners on COVID||At the time of cyclone Kathai, the All-India Radio, Vijayawada, Station Director Guttikonda Kondala Rao had received a phone call from the State Real Time Governance Society (RTGS) with a plea to somehow reach out to 35-odd fishermen in Prakasam district who ventured into the sea for a catch in five boats. “Our news bulletin was over and so we made the announcement about the impending cyclone in the middle of a song on FM Rainbow Krishnaveni. The message reached the fishermen and they immediately returned to their homes,” says Mr. Rao with a satisfactory smile. That’s the reach of radio, a broadcast medium that can be accessed anywhere, anytime and by anybody. Utilising this engaging and social nature of radio and its powerful connection with its audience, All India Radio, Vijayawada, has been trying to mitigate pain and suffering of people on account of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Rao has been on his toes designing innovative programmes to keep the community up to date with the developments, constantly advising people on the practical steps to be taken to reduce the impact of the virus, besides creating additional slots to squeeze in 'COVID-19' news bulletins. Catchy musicals Catchy jingles being a tried and tested means to get across a message loud and clear, Mr. Rao has composed five of these short and brief spurt of musicals on the key aspects of the pandemic like on the need to wash hands properly and frequently, social distancing and eating ‘right’ in the lockdown period. All the five jingles are in Telugu with sub-titles in English. Encouraged by the popularity, Mr. Rao has created more of them, this time both in Telugu and in English. “We have been broadcasting interviews of the subject experts from All-India Institute of Medical Sciences who talk about key aspects related to the pandemic and the precautions to be observed,” he says. The Akasavani has increased the time slot of 'COVID' news bulletin from 10 minutes to 15 minutes. It broadcasts new bulletins at 5.40 a.m, 11 am, 1.20 p.m, 3.00 p.m. and at 5.05 p.m. The public radio broadcaster has also been effectively talking about the large-scale relief work in progress, both by the government and by private organisations. “There is so much good work happening around and we make it a point to talk about it so others draw inspiration from them,” he explains. Lessons for students For last few days, the Akasavani has been broadcasting classroom lessons for 10th class students of the social welfare schools to prepare them for the Board examinations in view of the lockdown. A similar proposal is being contemplated for college students also.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A game of cards that proved costly||Krishna district turned out to be the third-worst affected district in the State after Kurnool and Guntur following a sudden spike in the number of positive COVID-19 cases in the past couple of days. One more person succumbed to the disease on Saturday. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz emphasised the need for public cooperation in obeying lockdown and following social distancing measures to contain the spread of novel coronavirus referring to two cases of where nearly 40 persons got infected in the past couple of days. In a release, Mr. Imtiaz said that a truck driver had invited neighbours to his house and played cards and housie game recently leading to 24 positive COVID-19 in the area. In a similar case, about 15 persons got infected in Karmika Nagar near Machavaram recently, he said. “The truck driver in Krishnalanka came home after travelling in other States. He played cards and housie with neighbours in his house. In police investigation, it is found that only due to this activity 24 people contracted the virus,” he said. Worried about the negligent attitude of some citizens, Mr. Imtiaz said that only social distancing by the public was going to help stop the spread of the virus. He said that 100 of the total 127 cases were reported in the city. So far, 29 persons have recovered from the disease and were discharged, according to the State bulletin. Tests results of 1,031 samples are awaited. No meat shops today Meanwhile, to avoid Sunday rush at meat and seafood shops Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has ordered closure all such shops in the city on Sunday.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthcare infrastructure needs urgent boost, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has stressed the need for augmenting infrastructure in the healthcare sector in Andhra Pradesh to face contingencies such as COVID-19. Village clinics He instructed the officials of the Health, Medical and Family Welfare (HM&FW) Department on Saturday to set up ‘village clinics’ for taking care of public health at the grass-roots level. As far as COVID-19 is concerned, he insisted that testing labs be established in all the districts to ensure that no suspected case is left out. Addressing a review meeting on the containment measures at his camp office on Saturday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, referring to the emergence of a few confirmed cases in Srikakulam district, which did not have even a single case till April 23, directed that a senior officer be deputed to that district to prevent the disease from spreading further. High number of tests The officials told the Chief Minister that 6,928 tests were conducted on Friday alone, and the total number of tests done since the outbreak reached 61,266. With 1,147 tests per million population, Andhra Pradesh stood first in the country, they said. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to make telemedicine a permanent project with a view to reaching out to the needy. “Besides giving prescriptions to the callers, medicines have to be delivered to them,” he added. The Chief Minister said that industries and agricultural operations should be allowed as per the Central government guidelines so that migrant workers and daily wagers would be able to eke out their livelihood. Ministers Kali Krishna Srinivas (health), Botcha Satyanarayana (municipal administration) and K. Kannababu (agriculture), Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Special Chief Secretary (HM&FW) K.S. Jawahar Reddy were present.  Industries and agricultural operations should be allowed as per the Central government guidelines so that migrant workers and daily wagers would be able to eke out their livelihood Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely action by TTD helped avert disaster, says chairman||The closure of the lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala five days before the nation went into a lockdown helped in containing the COVID-19 outbreak, observed TTD Trust Board chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy. It was a timely decision by the TTD board that averted a major disaster as, even if a few hundred of the 80,000 to 1,00,000 devotees who visit the shrine every day in the normal course were infected, the virus would have taken a heavy toll. The foresightedness of the board had been hailed by experts as a prompt action that staved off the looming threat, he said in a press release. Though the temple was closed for devotees, all the daily, weekly and monthly rituals and annual festivals were being performed as per the prescribed ‘agamas’. The TTD performed Sri Srinivasa Veda Mantra Arogya Japa Yagnam from March 16 to 25 and Sri Srinivasa Shantyutsava Sahita Dhanwantari Maha Yagam from March 28 to 30 at Tirumala. Vedaparayanam had been going on from April 10 and would continue till the world is relieved of the deadly coronavirus, he said. Facilities The TTD-managed Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) established the first COVID-19 testing lab in the State. The Sri Padmavathi Medical College Hospital was converted into a COVID hospital and Sri Padmavathi Nilayam at Tiruchanoor into a quarantine facility. The TTD contributed Rs. 19 crore for the purchase of ventilators and other medical equipment. Nearly 1.40 lakh food packets were being distributed to the needy every day, he said.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to contain COVID-19 spread: BJP||BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has said that the government failed in containing the spread of COVID19. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said that four districts (Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor) accounting for nearly 70% of the total number of positive cases was a cause for concern. He said a health emergency should be declared in those districts to tackle the disease with all seriousness, and alleged that the government was not aware of the gravity of the situation arising from the “community spread” of the disease. The health bulletins being released on a daily basis were not reflective of the true picture, he stated. The BJP leader said that the Ministers and YSRCP MLAs had been roaming freely during the lockdown as if they had special privileges. The ruling party leaders were taking out rallies in the name of service activities, he alleged. He appealed to the government to focus on solving the problems faced by the farmers and migrant workers. Local body polls He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was working out a plan to hold the local body elections amidst the COVID-19 scare even as the former State Election Commissioner, N. Ramesh Kumar, was fighting against his removal through the ordinance route in the High Court. The government should drop the idea of holding the elections for at least six months, he demanded. BJP Minority Morcha national secretary Sk. Baji, party city president A. Sriram and media convener V. Gangadhar were present.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll deferment shrouded in secrecy, official tells HC||State Election Commission Secretary S. Ramsundar Reddy informed the High Court that the decision taken by N. Ramesh Kumar to stop the local body elections for six weeks or till the COVID-19 threat receded was solely on his volition and he did not consult any officials of the State government, including himself. In an affidavit filed in the court on Friday, Mr. Ramsundar Reddy stated that the entire process of stoppage of elections by Mr. Ramesh Kumar, who ceased to be the State Election Commissioner following the promulgation of an ordinance that reduced the term of office of SEC from five to three years, was shrouded in secrecy and there was no written communication or information from any Central or State government health agency on the assessment of the threat posed by COVID-19. Mr. Ramsundar Reddy further stated that the impugned ordinance would ensure that the majesty, independence and autonomy of the commission would be restored.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Financial aid for priests, imams, pastors||Here is some good news for the priests, imams, and pastors serving in places of worship across the State. The government has decided to pay Rs. 5,000 financial assistance to them during the lockdown period. Following the directions of the Government of India, the State government has issued an order extending the financial assistance to the archakas, imams and pastors working in temples, masjids and churches in Andhra Pradesh. The one-time special financial assistance will be extended to all those receiving honorarium, or salary in temples, churches and masjids. The beneficiary should be a full-time religious service render.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strictly enforce lockdown, Chief Secretaries told||Union Cabinet Secretary Rajeev Gauba told the Chief Secretaries of the States to strictly implement the lockdown as COVID-19 posed a threat to people’s lives and the economy could be revived after the temporary shock. In a video-conference on Saturday, Mr. Gauba said the nationwide lockdown helped in acquiring a considerable grip on COVID situation and this was not the time to be complacent. Some relaxations were given in rural areas from April 20 and the approach hereafter needed to be calibrated. Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney told Mr. Gauba that the government had permitted economic activities in green zones and listed other containment measures taken with due focus on curbing the menace in the hotspots. Special Chief Secretary (health, medical and family welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy was present.
26 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIIMS to offer tele-consultation||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mangalagiri, is expanding its tele-consultation services to cater to the healthcare needs of a large population across the State. Patients can register their names from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. (Monday-Saturday). Doctors will call back on the registered number from 11 a.m. onwards. Contact numbers The following are the contact numbers of various departments: Community and Family Welfare (9494908320), ENT (9494906407), General Medicine (9494908526), General Surgery (9494901428), Orthopaedics (9494903843), Ophthalmology (9494905811), Dermatology and Psychiatry (9494908401), Obstetrics and Gynaecology (9494907302), Paediatrics (9494902674) and Dentistry and Pain Relief Clinic (9494907082). For an enquiry, people can call 9493065718 or 8523007940. How to download One can download ‘AIIMS Mangalagiri e-Paramarsh’ app from the Google Play Store, choose patient login, and enter their mobile number. Then, they will have to enter a One-Time Password (OTP) to authenticate, and enter patient details for the first time for app-based registration and choose the required department for consultation. Then, patients can upload documents if any (previous prescriptions, reports, pictures, etc.), enter symptoms/history (optional) and will have to wait for the doctor’s call.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City breathes easy as rain brings down temperature||Heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorm brought respite from the heat and also cheered up the citizens during the lockdown here on Saturday. Cool breeze lifted the spirits of Vizagites, who stood at their balconies and celebrated the weather by posting pictures and status in social media this afternoon. While youth took selfies, children played on their terraces with paper boats at many places. Trees fell on roads in several areas due to gale. A large tree fell on road in between Simhachalam and Gopalapatnam route. A number of colonies in Madhavadhara, Gopalapatnam, NAD and a few areas witnessed power cuts. Drains overflowed at many places, especially in One Town, MVP Colony, Akkayyapalem, Gajuwaka and Peda Gantyada due to rain. A few low- lying areas were inundated. Many locals brought the issue to the notice of officials through social media and WhatsApp number of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). The civic body sent sanitation staff to clear the clogged drains. Meteorological Centre, Amaravati, in its bulletin which was released at 1 p.m. on Saturday, warned that thunderstorm accompanied with lightning likely to occur at isolated places over North Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam between 08.30 a.m. of April 26 to 08.30 a.m. of April 27.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Can stop COVID spread, claims startup||A startup incubated at Bio Valley Incubation Council at AP MedTech Zone in Visakhapatnam has developed a nano copper compound which it claims can prevent inhibition of various viruses including novel coronavirus by spraying it on fabrics. Founder of Aarshadhatu Green Nanotechnologies India Private Limited A.B.S. Sastry, an ayurveda scientist, who works on application of traditional sciences with modern counterparts, has said they are confident of stopping the spread of COVID-19 by using anti-pathogen fabric to produce face masks, hospital apparel and protective clothing. He told The Hindu on Monday that they had developed an inorganic plus organic nano particle formulation which could be coated on to the fabric-finishing technology for mechanical impregnation of zinc oxide and nano copper particles into textiles. “The padded fabrics that were cured exhibited agglomerated distribution of copper nano particles. To determine the mechanical integrity of the fabrics, tensile and tear testing were carried as per ASTM Standards (ASTM D-5034 for tensile and ASTM D-1424 for tear testing). The average tensile strength of the fabric with nano copper and zinc oxide particles exhibited tensile strength better than the untreated fabric,” he stated. Dr. Sastry said sustainability of viral property of the fabrics after rigorous washing cycle was studied as per well-defined standards. Nano particles loaded fabrics were found to be effective till seven washing cycles with zone of inhibition decreasing from 1.9 cm to 0.6 cm. Antiviral face masks “We therefore are seriously working on the large-scale development of providing antiviral face masks, eye wear and hospital clothing like aprons, protection suits, patient bed sheets and curtains. The virus is spread via aerosol and direct contact. Significantly, the latest reports also state that the visual route is a key mechanism for infection,” the scientist said. “Antiviral personal protective equipment, which are economical, highly robust and efficient as well as eco-friendly are therefore of critical significance to fight the spread of COVID-19,” Dr. Sastry pointed out. According to him, Aarshadhaatu has a patented “E3 production methods” (economical, efficient and eco-friendly) that is environmentally benign. This patented technology has an advantage of natural organic coating on the nano material during the manufacturing process leading to better shelf-life and reduced risk of oxidation. Stating that application of copper against bacterial viruses was known in the ancient age, National Research Development Corporation CMD H. Purushottam said the initiative on use of nano copper solution was laudable and said further scientific validation was required before commercial use.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People decide to pray at home||Keeping the onslaught of COVID-19 pandemic in mind and the protocol of observing social distancing to break the chain of spread of the disease, the Muslims in the city have decided to abstain from the regular Namaz (prayer) at the mosques, during the holy month of Ramadan, that began on Saturday.  “Fasting in the month of Ramadan and offering prayers everyday is one of the Five Pillars of Islam and is considered to be the holiest thing in our religion. But probably, for the first time we have requested our community people not to come to the masjids and offer prayers at home,” said Md. Alikhan, a resident of Kotaveedhi and president of Haji Abbu Sarang Masjid, in Old Town area. Probably for the first time that we will not be attending the prayer sessions at the masjids during the Ramadan month, he said. Haji Abbu Sarang Masjid is over 170 years old and the Isakh Madina Masjid, which is located atop the hillock was built by Emperor Aurangzeb and is considered to be a very holy place, and teems with people during this month. But on Saturday, they wore a deserted look. We have issued an official notice to keep the Masjids and Dargahs closed during this period and have banned all forms of gatherings and congregations, till we come out of this critical phase. What is important now is to survive this period and we have asked everyone to adhere to the protocols. If we are safe, the community is safe, the State is safe and the country is safe, said Mr. Alikhan. Even the ‘Suhur’ meal at dawn and ‘Iftar’ the night feast that breaks the fast will be performed indoors with family members without any gathering, said Syed Hussain, a former State cricketer. If all goes well and if we recover from the pandemic, which looks unlikely in the next 30 days, we will have a low key Ramadan celebrations at the masjids and if things do not improve, then even that will be celebrated at home, said Mr. Alikhan.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Observe social distancing norms, Minister urges people||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao appealed to people to observe social distancing norms and cooperate with the government in checking the spread of coronavirus. He visited Parawada mandal in 86th ward of GVMC on Saturday. He underlined the importance of observing hygiene. He felicitated sanitation workers and the police and distributed rations and vegetables to them. MP MVV Satyanarayana and Gajuwaka MLA Tippala Nagi Reddy participated. At Vadacheepurapalli of Parawada mandal, the Minister distributed rice, red gram and oil to 3,500 fishermen families. He also launched two drinking water tanks. Pendurthy MLA A. Adeep Raj was present. The MP donated vegetables, worth Rs. 10 lakh, to the poor in various wards of GVMC since April 21.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP opposes GO on resuming surplus land at Marripalem||BJP floor leader in the Council P.V.N. Madhav has taken exception to the State government issuing a GO on resuming the surplus land under Urban Land Ceiling at Marripalem in the city. He said issuing the order (GO Ms no.115 dated 23.04.2020) was not justified in the present situation of fighting COVID-19 and in the light of directions issued by the High Court not to take decisions on the demolitions, dispossession and eviction till May 31. He said there was a long-pending appeal for regularisation of the 17,135 square metres of land in Survey No. 81/3 at Marripalem. Besides, an FIR was pending on some persons threatening the landholder and an NRI trying to acquire it. Mr. Madhav wanted to know whether any notice was issued to the person concerned and why it was done so secretively since it was not government land. It would create fear among entrepreneurs about losing land over minor lapses, he said.  Stranded fishermen The MLC said the PMO, the Vice-President, Union Home and Finance Ministers, the Gujarat Chief Minister involved themselves in an effort to bring back Andhra fishermen from Veraval even by engaging a passenger ship. However, owing to the situation it was decided to improve facilities there itself and provide food prepared by Andhra cooks. Similarly efforts were being made to bring home Andhra pilgrims stranded in Varanasi and Hardwar, he said. Mr. Madhav criticised the YSRCP MLAs taking out processions and said at Srikalahasti several persons tested positive for COVID-19 after that. He, however, felt in view of the WHO protocols involved it was difficult to suppress positive cases as was being alleged by some. BJP city president M. Ravindra was present.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada unit ready to produce 25,000 PPE kits per week, says VSEZ||After obtaining fast-track clearances from Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ), Pals Plush, a unit located at GMR Kakinada SEZ, one among the 58 operational SEZs under VSEZ, has completely changed its product lines from plush toys being exported to USA to personal protective equipment (PPEs). Pals Plush has been able to ramp up its initial production of 1,000 PPE kits per day to 3,000 per day in less than two weeks and now it is ready to make 25,000 per week, according to VSEZ Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy. He appreciated on Saturday the proactive role of Ajay Sinha, president, Pals Plush, and his team at Kakinada, having taken up social responsibility by producing PPEs to ensure regular delivery to Central Drug Stores in AP. Mr. Reddy also appreciated the role of Ministry of Commerce, which took up the matter with Revenue Department and got scrapped basic customs duty on the recommendations of the VSEZ, bringing down the cost of each PPE, by more than Rs. 45 per kit and saved Rs. 90 lakh against the present order of two lakh kits. The exemption is granted for all PPEs such as masks and surgical gowns. He said that so far the VSEZ had accorded approvals for making PPEs, including masks to eight units in the surroundings of Vizag, Atchutapuram and Kakinada.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chandanotsavam’ a low-key affair||The annual ‘chandanotsavam’ of the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy atop Simhachalam is all set to begin here in the early hours of Sunday. The festival marks the worship of the presiding deity in His ‘nijarupa’ with the ceremonial removal of layers of sandalwood paste covering the idol. For the first time in the known history of the temple, devotees are not being allowed to worship the deity owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. VVIPs and VIPs will also not be allowed.  Long tradition It has been the tradition for long for the temple trust board chairman to offer ‘silk vastrams’ to the deity and have darshan first before allowing the devotees. But this time, Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao will offer the ‘silk vastrams’ on behalf of the government.  Amount sanctioned The government had earlier directed that the festival be a low-key affair and sanctioned Rs. 10,000 towards the ‘silk vastrams’. The two ghat roads leading uphill and the step path from ‘toli pavancha’ and the one from Madhavadhara will remain closed till 7 a.m. on Monday.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF decries SC quashing GO on quota for tribals||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Saturday took strong exception to the Supreme Court quashing the order providing for 100% reservation to Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the posts of teachers in schools in the scheduled areas. The April 22 verdict by a five-judge Constitution Bench isregressive and undermines hard-won rights of the adivasis, said V.S. Krishna, HRF Coordination Committee Member for the States of A.P. and Telangana. The 152-page judgement by the apex court undermines the importance of the Fifth Schedule enshrined in the Constitution, he alleged. The HRF members called upon the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments to seek a review of the Supreme Court judgment in order to safeguard the significant Constitutional rights and special provisions meant for adivasis in the Fifth Schedule.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Loudspeakers set up in red zone areas||City police with the support of Navy officials have set up loudspeakers in red zone areas to make announcements regarding the lockdown restrictions. The loudspeakers will be also used to create awareness about the precautions to be taken during COVID-19 crisis in those restricted areas. Police Commissioner R.K. Meena and Superintendent of Police (Rural) Attada Babujee and a few others visited a few red zones and reviewed the lockdown situation. The police arranged them on a few terraces.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL shuts down another blast furnace||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, has shut down another blast furnace to avoid inventory problem following lockdown observed to contain COVID-19. VSP has three blast furnaces, of which two are operating since the pandemic began spreading. “Inventory has increased to nearly six to seven lakh tonnes, and the market is expected to restart after the lockdown is lifted,” sources said. RINL is operating by deploying minimal manpower. The plant has a capacity to produce 7.3 million tonne per annum.
26 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaggery wash destroyed||About 2,200 litres of jaggery wash , which is used to prepare Illicit Distilled (ID) arrack has been destroyed by the teams of the district police under the Makavarapalem police station limits in the district on Saturday. The police teams destroyed nearly 1,400 litres of jaggery wash at forest area of Adigarlapalem village and another team destroyed 400 litres of jaggery wash near Krishnapuram village.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping hand||
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back in action||
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sight to behold||
26 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers want village-level purchases to continue||In a way COVID-19 lockdown restrictions have benefited farmers in the State thanks to the government procuring agriculture produce at village level instead of agriculture market yards. This, according to the farmers, is a transparent process and even eliminated all chances of unscrupulous middlemen cheating the government. In Adilabad district, it is only a few days since the government has started purchase of bengal gram through the Telangana State Cooperative Marketing Federation Ltd. (TS MARKFED) under the supervision of concerned Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS). “The process, however, has won the hearts of poor farmers who are not only saved of the trouble in transporting their produce to the market yards but has eliminated the role of middlemen who used to purchase the foodgrains from farmers at lower rate and sell it to the government at the higher minimum support price,” claimed Jainad PACS chairman B. Goverdhan Reddy. “The sale of agriculture produce smuggled from Maharashtra has also stopped thanks to the government. We want this process to be continued in future also,” demanded Kallem Vishwajeet Reddy and Thotapalli Ramanna of Kapri in Jainad mandal, a bengal gram intensive area. The preparation of the agriculture department at the start of the rabi season helped a lot in making the process a success. The department had made village wise list of farmers cultivating bengal gram and the extent agains the names of individual farmers. This gave the government a fair idea of the produce that each farmer expected and needless to say it helped in making suitable preparations for marketing. The total arrivals of bengal gram in Adilabad district are expected to be about 5 lakh quintals of which nearly 1.5 lakh quintals has already been purchased. “The start of purchase of maize will have more number of farmers seeking continuation of the village level purchase,” Mr. Goverdhan Reddy hoped, apparently happy for the farmers and proud of the government. The purchase of maize is slated to start in a few days and the quantum of produce is expected to be about 72,000 quintals.
26 April 2020||ADILABAD:,TELANGANA||Footwear distributed to walking migrant workers||The hundreds of migrant workers crossing the NH 44 bypassing Adilabad town on Saturday had a reason to thank donors. Besides food and water, footwear is the item most in demand as the marching labourers have their existing pairs worn out because of which they suffered injuries on their feet. Moved by their plight local donors G. Karunakar Reddy and B. Sanjiv Reddy gave away abut 70 pairs of footwear of general sizes.
26 April 2020||DICHPALLY (NIZAMABAD DT.),TELANGANA||Migrants continue on their long journey towards home||The prolonged lockdown has proved a curse for migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh who have been rendered workless and shelterless. On Friday morning, they set out on foot to their native villages in Kirnapur block of Balaghat district, some 650 km from their workplace, Kompally, in Secunderabad. The workers, who were employed in the construction sector, along with six women and three children, were sighted at Sudhapally here on Saturday morning. Having spent the night at a Punjabi dhaba, they resumed their journey. They found breakfast served by local social workers and donors. “We did not expect the lockdown to have such a severe impact. Since it was announced all of a sudden, we could not move anywhere from the workplace. Since we have no work and no food, we began our journey back home without thinking how long and hard it would be. We want to die in our native place in front of our near and dear ones rather than at a place which is not ours,” says 48-year-old Sukhlal Matre. In all, there were 70 people walking down the NH-44 in three teams, maintaining a short distance from one another. Women and men took turns in carrying the children. “We hope we will reach our homes in five to six days,” said Ramgopal, a middle-aged worker. They have small land holdings at their villages in Balaghat located in Central India. Though the district is known for rice mills and tile factories, they keep coming to Telangana during lean season as they get more wages here. After reaching Nagpur, they would travel on State Highway-26 in Madhya Pradesh. “We set out on our journey, hoping some Good Samaritans would come to our rescue. We have no money. Only God will show us the way. In the afternoons and whenever we feel tired, we take rest under the shade of trees,” said Matre putting up a sorrowful face. He, however, said that they would think of coming back here when things get better.
26 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Primary contacts of lab technician quarantined||Top medical officials, including the superintendent, resident medical officer of the government hospital, and the district nodal officer for COVID-19 in Jogulamba-Gadwal district, have been sent to home quarantine after a lab technician tested positive two days ago. A total of 14 primary contacts of the 40-year-old technician have been quarantined, but no samples were collected as none of these people showed any symptoms. The lab technician was asymptomatic and was tested on a random basis as part of a routine exercise. “On April 22, before sending the samples to Hyderabad, we asked him and a sanitation worker at the hospital to give their samples, as a routine check. The next day, we got the results and he along with nine others tested positive,” a health department official said. In a twist of irony, the technician had collected his own swabs for testing. Since he had no symptoms, the man did not think twice before sending his own samples for testing. He even showed up to duty the next day. Sources told The Hindu that the person may have contracted the virus when he travelled in a 108 ambulance that was not disinfected after shifting a COVID-19 patient to Gandhi Hospital. “In the wee hours of April 3, the unlikely patient visited the CCMB in Hyderabad to deliver a batch of swab samples in an ambulance. He was seated alongside the driver of the vehicle,” the officer said, asking not to be named. On April 21, the victim again reported for COVID-19 duty and collected 56 swabs, and another 28 samples on April 22, including his own. Once the results were out, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, while 14 of his primary contacts, including his wife and top medical officers, were asked to home quarantine. Officers in Gadwal are now besieged with worry as to the way forward, with the lab technician having been in close contact with several senior healthcare officials, who in turn used to meet and brief top government officials about the coronavirus situation. The officer admitted that the development raises grave concerns about the lapses on the part of district authorities in sanitising ambulances and providing adequate personal protection equipment (PPEs) to frontline staff. However, Gadwal Collector Shruti Ojha did not respond to repeated calls and texts from The Hindu . In another related and worrying instance of public authorities taking rules for granted, an elected public representative from Gadwal town is learnt to have visited containment zones (where only authorised officials are allowed) as a volunteer with his supporters for distributing vegetables, along with revenue officers, before he was tested positive. “If this turns out to be true, officials may well have to test hundreds of residents in the said containment zones,” sources said. The officials maintained that he is a primary contact of a positive person who contracted it from a Markaz returnee. His brother, a journalist with a vernacular news channel, also tested positive.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Toll free number proves a boon for the disabled||The toll free number, 1800-572-8980, received 508 calls in the last 20 days from people with disabilities seeking help in getting resources or transportation. Officials from the Telangana government’s Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens wing said that people have called requesting for medicines, food, passes for caretakers, bank work, groceries, help in availing government benefit schemes like pension. People with disabilities can dial the number if they need any psychological counselling. The toll free number, which was launched earlier this month, can be dialled from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on all days. Director B. Shailaja of the Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens wing, which comes under Women and Child Welfare department, said that they are coordinating with various government departments, private organisations, philanthropists in arranging the resources. “Medicines, groceries, passes for their caretakers are handed over at their door step if they do not have any other option to collect it. We arrange transportation if a person who has to travel for an emergency or essential work do not have access to the facility,” Mrs. Shailaja said. Some people with severe disability might need caretakers who have to travel everyday. They would need pass to travel. The department which issues the passes is not the same in all the district. A few people including retired government officials had problem in getting the passes. A few weeks ago, a person from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, who had to get his catheter changed, dialled the number. As he did not have anyone to take him to Nalgonda for that, the department’s officials arranged a vehicle for him. In another instance, a person with disability was in a containment zone in Tandur and did not draw pension for the disabled for two months. As he could not step out of the zone, he dialled the number. The staff members coordinated with a bank official who sent an employee and his signature was taken on withdrawal form and pension issued. “As of now, people with disability can dial the toll free number for any help during lockdown. In case of senior citizens, they can dial 14567,” Mrs. Shailaja said. Sudhakar Reddy, who has muscular dystrophy, suggested that it would be better if police issue passes to caretakers for the sake of uniformity.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wholesale markets abuzz despite lockdown||If during the lockdown, one is desperate to experience ‘normalcy’, they can head to any of the three localities in the city — Begum Bazar, Osman Gunj, or Moazzam Jahi Market — during morning hours. While the State government is crying itself hoarse about the need to maintain physical distance, hardly any such thing is observed at these locations, abuzz with commercial activity on a daily basis. The markets are thronged by retailers and transport vehicles between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. even during lockdown. Several wholesale traders indulging in hectic transactions here can be seen without masks or gloves exposing themselves and retail purchasers to the danger of the pandemic. Begum Bazar is the hub of wholesale transactions for the entire city when it comes to groceries, spices and condiments, dry fruits and other provisions, while Osman Gunj deals heavily in commodities such as garlic and ginger. While the area is home to several large warehouses, the actual outlets where transactions take place are but diminutive tenements, which can accommodate two persons at the maximum. Besides, narrow lanes chock-a-block with transport vehicles and two-wheelers hardly leave any space for maintaining physical distance. “I wholly depend on Begum Bazar and Osman Gunj for supplies to my grocery store. Owing to empty shelves in supermarkets, the customer turnout is higher after lockdown, forcing me to make more rounds to the wholesaler,” said K. Lakshman, a grocery store owner from Dilsukhnagar. News about a retailer in the city contracting the infection has only increased the fears. Another person who bought groceries from Begum Bazar to distribute among the poor in Boduppal too is said to have contracted the virus. Though lower in number, crowds can also be seen at Moazzam Jahi Market, which is one of the major markets when it comes to fruits, with no physical distance being observed whatsoever. With the onset of Ramzan month, the throngs are only set to increase in size leading to a more chaotic situation. Police, though present there, are doing precious little to control crowds or organise them into queues. “Markets are allowed to be open. We cannot ask them to shut down, as they deal in essential commodities,” says a policeman at the location, expressing helplessness to control such large crowds.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC takes up lawyer’s case on banning TikTok||The Telangana High Court has taken up a letter written by a lawyer seeking a ban on TikTok in the country alleging that it contains videos encouraging some people not to follow precautions about coronavirus. Lawyer Ashok Ram Kumar, who wrote the letter, said that TikTok, a China-based short-form video streaming app, has videos undermining the medical seriousness of COVID-19. “Some of the video clips have content encouraging people of a particular community not to comply with precautions like social distancing and wearing masks,” he said. “Videos showing youngsters are laced with religious overtones. The content has potential to influence a section of people and create chaos in the backdrop of coronavirus spreading its tentacles,” the lawyer stated. Mr. Ram Kumar sent an email to the TikTok grievance officer complaining about the ‘objectionable’ video clips on April 9. Three days later, he got a reply stating that the video content was taken off. However, the lawyer found the video clips still active online when he checked. Earlier, in the third week of March, the lawyer complained to Hyderabad police about the video clips through Twitter. As per rules, the grievance officer should delete such videos within 36 hours of receiving a complaint. With the coronavirus incidence registering a spurt with each passing day across the country, even 36 hours is too long a duration to act, the lawyer said. The video clips would have reached a lot of people in 36 hours, he said. The lawyer also contended that the government’s efforts to check COVID-19 could be diluted by such videos and platforms that take a longer time to delete objectionable video content. The State and Central governments along with the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and TikTok were made respondents.  Some of the video clips have content encouraging people of a particular community not to comply with precautions like social distancing and wearing masks. Videos showing youngsters are laced with religious overtones   Ashok Ram Kumar Lawyer
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SOS calls for food shoot up||Over a month after the nation-wide lockdown brought the economy to a halt and disrupted life, many in the city are on the brink of starvation. Messages on phones, social media and informal networks are buzzing about food requirements of people across the city. On Saturday afternoon, an activist put out a tweet about a family: “Sir, please help needy person one family at Bahadurpura area near Fiza Hotel contact number 70931842xx Ismail along with his family and daughter and a boy are in need of rations (sic).” Within minutes, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials responded: “Dear citizen, Thank you for bringing this to our notice. Will respond at the earliest.” A little later, there was another message with a woman’s name, a phone number and requirement of food near Hakeempet Kunta, an area that is just a few metres from the upscale locality of Banjara Hills. “We were told about people going hungry in the Champapet area. We went there with 250 food packets and realised that there were about 300 people. There were senior citizens and widows but they had homes. So we supplied them dry rations that would last 15 days,” says Fauzan Khan, who has been moving around distributing cooked food and rations in many parts of the city. He encountered a desperate call for food at two locations in the city over the past few days. “When we went to distribute food near Hafeezbaba Nagar and in the inner lanes of Zehra Colony in Banjara Hills, a huge number of people rushed in to collect the food. Luckily, we had police protection so we could exit easily,” says Mr. Khan. Sitting under Pillar no. 50 are a couple, Salman and Reshma. “In the initial days, people distributed a lot of food. We saved some and ate it in the evening. But now we are getting it only once a day. Some passersby give us food, without which we would have to go hungry,” says Reshma, who used to work as a maid in the area but is now unemployed. Her husband used to work for a pushcart owner and has lost his job. “Based on requirements and calls, the GHMC is distributing 10,000 lunch packs and a similar number for dinner. But the requirement is much higher. It is not just the migrants who are affected, even local residents who have been rendered jobless are affected. We are not able to gauge the desperation in the inner parts of the city,” says Laeek Ahmed who is volunteering his services for food distribution with the GHMC. On Saturday, the GHMC helpline received 453 calls for food and delivered 20,500 food packets through Annapurna mobile vehicles.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team lauds State’s efforts to contain COVID-19||The Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) which arrived in the State on Saturday on a three-day tour has appreciated the initiatives taken by the State government to contain coronavirus. The IMCT headed by Arun Baroka, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, and comprising Dr. Chandrashekhar Gedam, Senior Public Health Specialist, Dr. Hemlatha, Director, National Institute of Nutrition, S. S. Thakur, Director, Ministry of Consumers Affairs, and Shekhar Chaturvedi, Associate Professor, National Institute of Disaster Management, met the Chief Secretary at BRKR Bhavan here on Saturday. Earlier in the day, the team visited various areas, including the specially set up Centre for COVID-19 with 1,500 beds in Gachibowli that would be later turned into Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. They went round the centre and inspected the ICU, emergency wards, isolation wards, store rooms etc. The team also visited the biggest kitchen being run by NGO Akshaya Patra that was preparing food and distributing it free to the poor and migrant workers through 200 Annapurna canteens set up by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The State had already turned Gandhi Hospital and King Kothi Hospital into full-fledged isolation hospitals for COVID cases and if more beds were required then the patients would be sent to the Gachibowli centre, officials told the visiting team. In Hyderabad alone, 2,000 beds were available in various government hospitals for coronavirus patients and all District Headquarters Hospitals in the State were also earmarked as COVID hospitals. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar made a detailed presentation to the visiting Central team at his chamber on the efforts taken by the Telangana government to contain the spread of the virus and said all departments were working as a team and had prepared overall strategy for COVID management. He said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s emphasis was on minimising positive cases and deaths by implementing the lockdown strictly in the State. He explained to the team the treatment given to COVID-positive patients, maintenance of containment zones, quarantine centres, hospital preparedness, surveillance, testing, helpline, procurement of medical equipment, supply of rice to white ration card holders, relief measures to migrant workers, Annapurna centres to serve food to the needy and shelter homes. Several officials, including Shanti Kumari, Special CS (Health), Janardhan Reddy, Secretary to Agriculture, Anjani Kumar, Commissioner of Police , Sandeep Kumar Sultania, Secretary, PR & RD, Lokesh Kumar, GHMC Commissioner, Satyanarayana Reddy, Commissioner, Civil Supplies, Ronald Ross, Secretary (Finance), Rajat Kumar Saini, Director (CCLA), and Sarfaraz Ahmed, Director (Prohibition & Excise) participated.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telemedicine consultations increase by over 100%||The number of telemedicine consultations has increased due to lockdown and social distancing becoming mandatory to curb the spread of coronavirus. According to sources, teleconsultations have increased by over 100% a week on an average. Hyderabad is one among the Metro cities from where the maximum number of health queries have come from apart from Bangalore, Delhi NCR, Mumbai, Pune and Chennai, among a few others. Chief healthcare strategy officer of Practo Technologies K. Alexander said that the existing telemedicine platforms had to quickly respond to the surge in demand for health consultations without compromising on quality. “We have got enough doctors of all specialities on board at Practo. The telemedicine consultations are also affordable to suit every pocket,” he said.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nearly 4,627 litres of beer, 259 litres of IML seized in a month||Telangana Prohibition and Excise officials have seized 4,627 litres of beer and 259 litres of Indian Made Liquor (IML) such as rum and whisky from March 22 till Friday. Besides, 201 litres of illegally distilled (ID) liquor and 13,630 black jaggery, which is used in its preparation, was seized. Deputy Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise (Hyderabad) C. Vivekananda Reddy said that 74 cases were booked and 97 persons were arrested in this regard. Action will be taken against bars and wine shops from where the alcohol is sourced, he added. Officials said that the accused are either being released on self-bail or are issued notices to attend Excise stations for further investigation as courts are not functioning due to the current lockdown. In one of the cases, 429 cartons of beer and 145 cartons of breezer of various brands was seized near Boiguda Kaman on Thursday. Not yet destroyed Usually, the liquor seized is destroyed by either draining it, setting it on fire, or by crushing alcohol filled bottles at the end of a month. This process is taken up in the presence of an assistant excise superintendent or excise superintendent. Officials said that the liquor seized in the past one month has not been destroyed yet.  Action will be taken against bars and wine shops from where the alcohol is sourced. C. Vivekananda Reddy, Deputy Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise (Hyderabad)
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crop seasons nomenclature changed in Telangana||The State government has changed the nomenclature of two agricultural seasons followed – Kharif and Rabi – as ‘Vanakalam and Yasangi’. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy on Saturday, the Agriculture Department has issued the orders making change following the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The decision to change the names of crop seasons was taken as they are better known in Telangana and there was a lot of confusion even among the educated lot about understanding the crop seasons in their present names. All agriculture and allied departments have to follow the new names, including in their communication. All agricultural offices, agriculture and horticulture universities and corporations too have to follow the changes, the Minister added.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM urged to talk to Centre on draft of Electricity Act amendments||Telangana State Power Engineers Association (TSPEA) requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take up the matter with the Centre to get the last date for submission of comments on the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 to September 30. In a representation submitted to the Chief Minister, association president P. Ratnakar Rao and general secretary P. Sadanandam said the Minister of Power had posted the draft bill on its website on April 17 giving 21 days for submission of comments and objections by different stakeholders. “We are very much surprised and shocked to see the timing of introduction of the bill, when the entire country is fighting coronavirus pandemic,” the association said in the representation, highlighting the fact how the power engineers across that country had handled the unprecedented condition of 31,000 MW load drop during the lights switch off event on April 5. Stating that the proposed amendments were fundamental in nature, creating major changes in the structure of Electricity Act, 2003, the association said they had to be studied and analysed in depth. They were of the firm opinion that comments, views and objections of all stakeholders, especially the consumers and employees, must be obtained and given due consideration by the Centre. Several of the proposed amendments have legal repercussions and would require in-depth interaction with legal experts. Further, detailed study and interaction would be necessary for giving comments on the ever increasing role of non-conventional and renewable energy sources as also global warming, they felt.
26 April 2020||ISNAPUR,TELANGANA||Govt. aid continues to elude migrant workers||Gudia is seven months pregnant. On Thursday, she was at the colony, carrying a two-year--old girl and waiting for supply of ration. Someone had informed her that ration would be distributed. But as no distribution took place, she was forced return to her single-room rented accommodation. She was accompanied by Renuka from Mahalpur Khairabad in Nalanda district of Bihar, and Sushila Devi, also from a village in the same district. They migrated here about a year ago and were engaged in menial jobs in construction and pharma industries. All of them are staying in single-room houses for which they had been paying a rent of Rs. 2,000 per month. There are scores of people who claimed that they had not received any compensation from the government despite officials stating that the administration had been making all-out efforts to reach every one. “We have received 12 kg of rice and Rs. 500 from the authorities,” said Kumar from Odisha. However, the percentage of people who received the money is little. For some, the ration extended by the authorities or philanthropists is already exhausted and the money has also dried up due to lack of work for the past one month. “Some one has donated about 10 kg of rice, pulses, oil, tamarind and sugar. We are a family of five and one can understand the needs of such a big family. I approached another donor who came to my rescue. How long I have I to do this? Can I get my driver’s job again? Shall we have to go to our native place after the lockdown was over?” asked M Deepak, a driver from Maharashtra staying in the district headquarters.
26 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Containment zones become free zones in Karimnagar||The Trace, Test and Quarantine formula adopted by the district authorities is yielding good results with no COVID-19 case being reported in the district since April 16. Following the development and with the breaking of the ‘Indonesian contact links’, the administration, which declared containment zones in Mukarampura, Kashmirgadda and other localities where the Indonesians had roamed, declared them as free zones and removed all the barricades around the residential areas on Friday. The authorities declared free zones after conducting several rounds of medical check-ups. Even after declaring the free zone, there would be close surveillance by the Health department and police. However, there will be strict enforcement of lockdown and curfew in these free zones. Incidentally, out of the 19 positive cases, including 14 from Karimnagar and five from Huzurabad town, 17 tested negative. Now, only two cases, Markaz returnees, are undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital.
26 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||‘Delay in daily water supply due to lockdown’||Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar has said that the promised daily water supply to the people of Karimnagar town was delayed due to the lockdown. However, authorities are taking necessary measures to launch the daily supply scheme soon and will launch the trial run of the scheme within a week, he said. The Minister, along with Mayor Y. Sunil Rao and Municipal Commissioner Valluru Kranthi visited the water filter-bed on LMD reservoir on Saturday and also inspected the 36 MLD filter plant and water tanks under Mission Bhagiratha.
26 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Private school’s gesture to migrant labourers||The faculty of Paramita educational institutions here donated their one-day salary totalling to Rs. 3 lakh to provide essential commodities to 600 migrant labourers for a period of 15 days. At a programme here on Saturday, chairman E Prasada Rao handed over the cheque of Rs. 3 lakh to Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar.
26 April 2020||MAHABUBABAD DT.,TELANGANA||CI, constable injured as car hits their bike||Bayyaram Circle Inspector Y Ramesh and a constable Ramakrishna suffered injuries when a car hit their bike near Miryalapenta village here on Saturday. According to police, Ramesh and Ramakrishna were were escorting Yellandu MLA Banoth Haripriya’s convoy, when a car hit the bike. The injured have been shifted to a private hospital in Khammam. It was learnt that CI had suffered a fracture in the hip bone.
26 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Farmers set fire to paddy||Yet again, farmers set fire to their paddy at a procurement centre in Boinpalli mandal headquarters alleging that the millers were deducting about 8 kg of weight in the name of chaff and moisture in Rajanna-Sircilla district on Saturday. The farmers said that they have been bringing paddy to the procurement centre only after cleaning and removing all wastage such as mud and chaff. However, the millers were deducting at least 8 kg of weight in the name of chaff and moisture. The authorities concerned at the centre were apprised of the situation, but in vain. Unable to bear the mental agony and harassment by millers, the farmers set fire to their produce by collecting dry grass and waste firewood. They demanded that the government take appropriate measures to avoid deduction during the weighting and protect the farmers and secure the MSP. Incidentally, this is the second incident of farmers setting fire to the paddy in the district represented by Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K Taraka Rama Rao. Two days ago, irate farmers had set fire to their paddy in Thangallapalli mandal.
26 April 2020||SANGAREDDY:,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp held in Sangareddy||District Principal and Sessions Judge K. Sai Rama Devi inaugurated a blood donation camp on Saturday at the district court complex. More than 90 persons donated blood. At Medak Collector K. Dharma Reddy inaugurated the blood donation camp at the Collectorate. He said that several people are suffering due to non-availability of blood and hence camps are being held at mandals to meet the requirement. Mr. Dharma Reddy informed that about 40 units of blood wee collected by the end of the day.
26 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||13-year-old boy tests positive in Warangal||A 13-year-old boy of Errabelli village at Velair mandal in the district tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. With this, the number of active cases in the district is eight. In a statement, District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) K. Lalitha Devi said that the boy was the primary contact of a 10-year-old girl of Poorigutta locality in Warangal city, who tested positive a couple of days back. The boy has been shifted to Gandhi Hospital and Errabelli village declared a containment zone as per the orders of District Collector Rajeevgandhi Hanumanthu. The DMHO also said that a household survey would be conducted at the village on Sunday to identify COVID-19 suspects or patients.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Single-digit cases in TS||The hospital doctors had applied for permission to conduct the plasma therapy clinical trials for COVID-19 patients in Telangana. “There are many donors who are ready to donate their plasma,” doctors said. Plasma collected from patients who recovered from the infectious disease would contain antibodies which would neutralise coronavirus. It was expected that mortality rate might be brought down when the plasma filled with neutralising antibodies were infused into critically ill patients. However, its effectiveness as a treatment option for COVID-19 is yet to be proved.
26 April 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Kejriwal should arrange stay of Delhi govt. staff from Haryana’||The State government on Saturday appealed to the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation in Delhi to make arrangements for accommodating Haryana residents who are employed with the Delhi government, saying their daily movement increases the risk of COVID-19 spread. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said Sonipat, which borders Delhi, has reported 17 COVID-19 cases and claimed 13 of them were found to have contracted the infection in Delhi. He said a Delhi Police personnel who resides in Jhajjar was also found positive. Besides, a few COVID-19 positive cases in Gurugram were found to have contracted infection in Delhi, he said, adding: “This situation poses grave danger and increases risk of infection manifold to Haryana.”  “I request the Arvind Kejriwal government that those Delhi government employees who reside in Haryana... the arrangements for their stay should be made in Delhi itself and no passes should be issued to them for visiting their homes (in Haryana),” Mr. Vij said.  Seal border He said as these employees are issued passes by the Delhi government, despite heavy police presence at the inter-State borders, the authorities in Haryana have to allow them in. Mr. Vij said he has directed Haryana’s Director General of Police to completely seal off the borders with Delhi and ensure anyone, who is not authorised, does not enter the State.
26 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Four hospital employees test positive in Gurugram||Three nurses and a para-medical staff of Medanta hospital here tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of infected people in the district to 51. The total number of active cases in the district is 16. Hospital sources told The Hindu that random tests of hospital staff were conducted and four women tested positive. The sources, however, confirmed that those who tested positive had no interaction with the COVID-19 patients at the hospital. Three of them, however, belong to a nearby area declared a containment zone.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||One death, 111 new cases; more doctors test positive||One death and 111 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total deaths to 54 and total number of cases to 2,625. The chairman of the Delhi government’s committee on combating COVID-19, S.K. Sarin, has said that the lockdown might have to be extended till mid-May in the city. “India is still on the ascending limb of the epidemic curve and so, to ease the restrictions will mean the cases will multiply uncontrollably. And, Delhi has a large number of containment zones, so it will be wise to extend it,” he said. Of the 2,625 cases, 869 people have recovered and there are 1,702 active cases. Meanwhile, at least 22 more people, including staff of the Delhi government-run Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri and their family members, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The people who tested positive also include four guards and two doctors of the hospital. A total of 42 people associated with the hospital have tested positive so far, according to hospital documents. “Two people who tested positive today [Saturday] are family members of staff and they live on the hospital premises,” a hospital official told The Hindu . Citing the rising number of healthcare workers in the city getting infected, the United Resident Doctor Association on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting a dedicated hospital for treatment of healthcare workers who are testing positive. Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Saturday decided to allow shops selling non-essential commodities to open in the city, following a Central government’s order on the same, a government spokesperson said. Such shops, however, will not be allowed to open in places declared “containment zones” in the city. The final decision on opening of shops has to be taken by the State governments, the Centre said. The Centre said that in urban areas, all standalone and neighbourhood shops and those in residential complexes are allowed to open but not those in markets, market complexes and shopping malls. “People started opening shops since morning. We are keeping a close watch,” a Delhi government source said.  (With inputs from PTI)
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man kills wife in containment zone following fight over kids||A 39-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband in a containment zone in west Delhi’s Madipur on Saturday. The accused has been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said Rahisul Azam, a resident of Madipur JJ Colony, allegedly killed his wife Gulshan after a fight. Rahisul then made a PCR call and informed the police about the incident. The police said that a call regarding a fight in a house was received at 3.56 a.m. “The caller was identified as Rahisul who sells footwear in Jahangirpuri,” Mr. Purohit said. The police said that Rahisul hit Gulshan on the head with a stick, leading to her death on the spot. Second marriage They had gotten married three months ago. Further probe revealed that this was the second marriage for both of them. “The fight broke over a discussion on the future of their children from their respective earlier marriages who live in their village in Bihar’s Motihari,” the DCP said. The police said that as they were married for less than seven years, the Sub Divisional Magistrate has been informed. Mr. Purohit said that the house where the incident took place falls under an area which was declared a containment zone on April 13 after two COVID-19 cases were reported there. “The area is densely populated with average size of houses being 12.50 yards in multi-storey buildings,” the officer said. The police said that CDMO West, Disaster Management, SDM have been informed and the incident was also reported on the COVID-19 helpline.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Destitute man dies a week after being rescued||A week after being rescued from near Kashmere Gate, a destitute man died at a city hospital on Thursday, said Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social worker who had rescued him on April 15.  The Hindu had earlier reported how Mr. Aledia had spotted the man, identified as Manoj, near Kudesia Ghat and informed authorities who then shifted the person to Rajan Babu TB Hospital. On Saturday, Mr. Aledia said that after tracing the man’s family to Bihar and arranging for a caretaker, when he reached the hospital, he was informed that Manoj had died. Hailing from a family of dhobis in Bihar, Mr. Manoj had come to the city over two decades ago, added Mr. Aledia. “Usually there are no caretakers for destitutes in hospitals and therefore, the authorities had asked us to arrange one. We did so and when we visited the hospital we found an empty bed. Those on adjacent beds recognised us as we had been visiting Manoj often. They told us that he had died soon after our visit on Thursday,” said Mr. Aledia, convenor of the National Forum For Homeless Housing Rights. When Mr. Aledia first spotted Manoj near Kudesia Ghat last week, he had mistaken him for a body. It was only after inching closer that he realised that the person was breathing, but very lightly. “ Paani [water] is all that he managed to utter and then kept repeating,” Mr. Aledia said while recounting the story behind a photo taken by him which had gone viral on social media. Stating that according to doctors, Manoj had been suffering from TB, Mr. Aledia said, “That entire stretch along the Yamuna has become a TB hotspot. Adequate medicines are not being delivered there and people there are severely malnourished. Several other instances have also taken place where the homeless have succumbed to the disease [TB].” On the same day, when Mr. Manoj was rescued, hundreds of migrant workers who had been stationed at the Kudesia Ghat due to the lockdown, were shifted to shelter homes by the State government after the issue was brought to light through media reports. Stating that several representations had been made to the government pertaining to these workers, Mr. Aledia also said, “The people who have been living here for the last 10-15 days have had no access to proper sanitation and could not even take a bath. There is a high possibility that they are suffering from other communicable diseases as well. Proper medical check-ups should be done before they are made to stay with hundreds of others in shelters.”
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policemen play cupid, get couple married amid social distancing||Delhi Police officers on Saturday played cupid for a couple and got them married in a temple here. They also allowed the bride to travel to her husband’s house in a police vehicle. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that one Naresh Ahluwalia, a resident of Govindpuri, approached Head Constable Anil Kumar and Sanjeev at Kalkaji police station with an “issue”. “He requested the policemen to help them reach Arya Samaj Mandir in Greater Kailash-I as his son Kaushal’s marriage was scheduled for today [Saturday] with one Pooja. He said the bride and her parents were waiting at the temple,” he said. The two officers then approached Inspector Sandeep Ghai, Kalkaji Police Station SHO, and after having got his permission, they took the groom and his family to the temple in a police vehicle “while adhering to social distancing norms”. At the temple, the bride and her parents were present along with the priest. The wedding was solemnised in the presence of police officers. Interestingly, the woman’s journey to the husband’s residence took place in a police vehicle and not in any usual traditional way. In a video of the couple leaving in the vehicle, they are seen sitting at the back of the car as the policemen drive them home.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown blues: elderly from Kerala stuck in Capital for over a month||After landing at the Delhi airport in the wee hours of March 22, 68-year-old T.C. Varghese from Kerala underwent medical checks, mandatory 14-day quarantine, tested negative for COVID-19, changed two hotels, and spent more than Rs. 2 lakh on hotels bills, but is still “stuck” in Delhi. The senior citizen said that he longed to go back home. “When I left Canada, I never thought that I would be stuck in Delhi for such a long time. I am tired of staying in cage-like hotel rooms. I miss my tapioca, banana and vegetable farming. The government should arrange some sort of transport for people like us to return home,” Mr. Varghese told The Hindu.  Mr. Varghese and one of his relatives were supposed to catch a flight to Kochi on March 22 evening, and from there they would go to his hometown in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta. The flight, however, got cancelled. “I had gone to Canada to take my 67-year-old relative back to Kerala. She is a widower and was staying with her daughter there. We were supposed to come back on March 26, but pre-poned our tickets and reach Delhi at 2.30 am on March 22. But we still got stuck here,” he said. Both of them underwent the mandatory quarantine period of 14 days at a paid quarantine facility in Aerocity, where they had to pay Rs. 3,100 for a day. “On April 6, she was moved to a family friend’s house in Delhi. When I asked if I could continue at the hotel, they told me that I would have to pay Rs. 7,000 a day. So I moved to another hotel, which was a little cheaper,” he said. The lockdown was then extended and his hopes of returning home were extinguished. “After the lockdown was extended, I shifted to another hotel in Mahipalpur, which is less expensive. Till now I have spent more than Rs. 2 lakh on hotel bills” he said.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT directs pollution bodies to submit compensation report||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board to furnish an action plan on the recovery of compensation for the restoration of agricultural land which were damaged due to industrial activities. A Bench headed by NGT chairman Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We also find that while action has been indicated, the gap in terms of illegal units still existing in the area has not been given. Further, while compensation assessed has been mentioned, steps for recovery of entire amount have not been mentioned.” “The amount recovered needs to be utilised for restoration in terms of an action plan with the approval of CPCB. The Haryana State PCB and DPCC may file further action-taken report,” the Bench said. Appointed committee The directions came after the tribunal took note of reports furnished by the pollution control bodies and that of an NGT-appointed oversight panel. Following allegations of continued pollution by the applicants, the Bench observed, “Some of the applicants state that polluting activities are still continuing and damaging the agricultural lands in the area. Whenever action is taken, the polluting activities are shifted from one place to another. We permit the applicants to furnish particulars of such alleged activities to the Haryana State PCB as well as to the DPCC.” Illegal activities The green panel was hearing a group of pleas which sought action against unauthorised industrial activities which included unscientific handling of plastic and its illegal disposal by way of burning.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman confirmed as infected, 11 quarantined||A Delhi Police officer has tested positive for COVID-19 in outer-north Delhi after which 11 officers who were working with him have been quarantined. A senior police officer said that an officer posted at Alipur police station has tested positive after which 11 officers, including an Assistant Sub-Inspector, Head Constable and Constables have been quarantined at a centre in Bakhtwarpur. “The officials, who have been put under quarantine, worked with the officer who tested positive for the virus,” the officer said. About 30 Delhi Police officers have tested positive so far, including 14 from Central Delhi and others from Traffic unit, North-West and West Delhi. On Friday, the office of the Commissioner of Police issued an order stating that 21 officers who have tested positive while discharging their duty will be given financial assistance of Rs. 1 lakh.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minors held for stabbing man to death in Nizamuddin||A 32-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by two minors and a 20-year-old man in south-east Delhi’s Nizamuddin. The accused have been held, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the victim has been identified as Hasin alias Chiggu, a resident of Khusro Nagar, who had 17 criminal cases registered against him and the accused as Nikhil and his two accomplices who are juveniles. The police said that a call was received at 9.15 a.m. on Saturday from one Kajal who said that her husband had been murdered. When the police reached the spot, they found Hasin lying dead. The body had multiple stab wounds. “During local enquiry, it was found that Hasin was last seen with Azad, Kamran and Poly. During sustained and scientific interrogation of the three suspects, they revealed that a fight had taken place between the victim and the mother of one of the juveniles over setting up of a street stall,” Mr. Meena said. The juvenile then roped in another minor friend and Nikhil and hatched a plan to kill Hasin and later executed it. The three were held within hours of committing the crime and the knives used in commission of the crime were seized.
26 April 2020||New Delhi/Noida,||Over 2,800 people held for violating lockdown||Over 100 cases were registered and 2,861 people detained in the Capital on Saturday for violating lockdown orders, the police said. According to data shared by the police, 125 cases were registered under Section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 p.m. A total of 2,861 people have been detained under Section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 241 vehicles impounded under Section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, it showed. A total of 366 movement passes were issued, the police said. Fifty-five cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, they added. Since March 24, 1,17,584 people have been detained for violating orders under Section 65 of the Delhi Police Act. Meanwhile, 14 people were arrested and challans issued to 245 vehicle owners across Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday for lockdown violation, the police said.
26 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha allows workers’ movement in State||In an attempt to bring the State’s economy back on track, the Odisha government on Saturday allowed intra-State movement of labour and asked stranded labourers to participate in different economic activities, including agriculture. “The State government has decided that stranded labourers, who wish to travel within the State to work, are allowed to do so in an organised manner,” said Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy in an order issued in this regard. About 86,000 workers, of which about 16,000 are from Odisha, have been given accommodation in 2,610 camps in the State. As per the guidelines issued for labour movement, the industries or labour contractors will be allowed to transport labourers in dedicated and designated buses from camps to the workplace, maintaining social distancing and other relevant safety protocols. Information in advance However, the information has to be furnished to the District Collectors through district labour officers in advance. The District Collectors will issue movement pass to different agencies. “Since the buses are off the roads, these will be made operational for carrying labourers only. The monthly payment of road tax for requisition will be waived,” the government pointed out. The government also made it clear that since these stranded labourers have already completed the recommended quarantine period, the recipient local authorities such as sarpanch, BDO or Collectors would not insist upon further quarantine. The inter-Ministerial group, which met to discuss commencing industrial activities especially in micro, small and medium enterprises, decided to take views of industry bodies and companies. Meanwhile, the State government said it got the appreciation of the Empowered Group for Food and Logistics (EG5), which marked its effort of contacting Odia labourers stranded outside the State and mobilising assistance for them, as best practice. In order to facilitate the redressal of issues of migrant labourers stranded in different States, the government has set up a 30-line help centre. Nodal officers have been coordinating with other State governments to make food available to them in their respective States.
26 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Man to sell rare coins for PM’s fund||Debiprasad Mangaraj, a leading numismatist of India, has announced to sell 2 lakh antique coins, including some priceless centuries-old currencies. The money raised through the proposed auction would go to PM CARES Fund and Chief Minster’s Relief Fund. According to the 28-year-old youth, who started collecting coins from the age of five, the worth of the coins could run into crores of rupees. “I have eight lakh distinctive pieces of coins of different eras. Two lakh additional coins were also lying with me,” said Mr. Mangaraj. The engineering graduate said, “the COVID-19 pandemic made me unnerved. I realised that this is the time to contribute to society, although the thought of parting with coins makes me depressed.” The young man claims to possess rare copper, silver, gold and other metal coins of hundreds-year-old belonging to different-eras in BC (Before Christ) and AD (Anno Domini). The oldest coin could date back to 2,300 years. Some of the rare coins were transacted by East India Company. Coins which were in circulation during era of King Ashoka, the Indian emperor of the Maurya Dynasty, Kushan empire and Mughal period.
26 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal to relax curfew hours for morning walks||Amid the ongoing lockdown, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to relax curfew hours in the State to let people, especially the senior citizens, to go for morning walks. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said the government has decided to relax the curfew hours from 5.30 a.m. to 7 a.m. daily from April 26 onwards to facilitate the senior citizens and general public for morning walks. The government has also decided to give relaxation in curfew for four hours instead of the existing three hours from April 27. This would not only ensure social distancing but also minimum crowding in the shops, he said in a meeting over COVID-19 with senior government officials through video conference in Shimla. Mr. Thakur said the curfew has adversely affected the economy of the State and thus it was vital to chalk out an appropriate action plan to revive the economic activities post-lockdown.
26 April 2020||Dhubri (Assam),||Students returning from Kota to be screened, quarantined in Assam||The 391 students coming back to Assam from Kota in Rajasthan will be screened on entering the State at Srirampur border and anyone with COVID-19 symptoms will not be allowed to proceed to Guwahati, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. It has been decided that the students, who are currently travelling back to the State, would be kept at the Sarusajai quarantine facility in Guwahati, Mr. Sarma told reporters here. “If, however, anybody is found to have fever or symptoms, they will not be allowed to travel further (from Srirampur). If there are no such cases, all will be kept at the quarantine facility in Guwahati,” he said. Those with symptoms of coronavirus infection will be quarantined in Kokrajhar district, bordering West Bengal. Swab tests will be conducted on them on the fifth day and doctors will decide whether or not those testing negative can be discharged and allowed to spend the remaining nine days under home observation, Mr. Sarma said. The students, who have already been in quarantine in Kota, have not come into direct contact with any COVID-19 patient and so their quarantine period will be 14 days, he said. It is 28 days for those who come into direct contact of COVID-19 patients, Mr. Sarma clarified.
26 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||1 more doctor tests positive in AMU||One more junior doctor tested positive for COVID-19 in Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital on Saturday, said officials. With this, the total number of resident doctors testing positive in JNMCH has reached three. “On Saturday, a 27-year-old anaesthetist tested positive. He lived in the same complex near the campus where the gynaecologist who tested positive on Friday lives,” said University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai. With the number of cases of doctors increasing, the Resident Doctors’ Association demanded that the resident doctors who were in contact with the infected doctors not be asked to go into home quarantine. “As many of them live with elderly parents, there are chances that they would pass on the infection to them. We demand that they should be quarantined in hostels or university guest house,” said RDA president Hamza Malik. Dr. Malik said the University administration had ample time to prepare for the pandemic as the index case in the hospital was reported at least one-and-a-half months after COVID-19 had spread in other parts of the country. W“They just kept giving a false sense of security. No proper PPE kits were given to the healthcare workers giving their services in the trauma centres,” said Dr. Malik. He added that the serious part was that the primary source of infection to the three doctors has not yet been identified.
26 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Conditional’ movement of vehicles||The Assam government on Saturday started a “conditional” inter-district movement of vehicles for people stranded within the State to return home or go to their workplaces. State Transport Department officials said 51,402 requests were received till Friday night for inter-district travel during the three-day window provided. Of these, 41,651 requested for travel by the Assam State Transport Corporation buses. “The staggered entry of people will take place with approval from the deputy commissioners and in compliance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs,” the ASTC said.
26 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Persecution of activists, scribes condemned||The Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) on Saturday condemned the NDA government’s persecution of activists, journalists and academics during the COVID-19 lockdown, which it said had been turned into an “insidious and undeclared emergency”, effectively suspending the fundamental rights and freedoms. When the government should be fulfilling its constitutional mandate to help lakhs of people who were on the brink of starvation due to lack of planning by the State, the ruling party was using the lockdown period as an opportunity to further its political agenda and suppress all forms of dissent, said the MKSS. The MKSS, headed by social activist and Magsaysay Award winner Aruna Roy, said the targeting of Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha was linked to the arrests of activists Sudha Bhardwaj, Arun Ferreira, Varavara Rao and others in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case in 2018 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. At the time, there were national protests and global condemnation of their incarceration. Named in FIR Meeran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Umar Khalid and many others were recently named in an FIR for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in Delhi in February-end. The MKSS said in a statement that while the individuals who made inflammatory speeches before the violence were free, those who worked for relief and rehabilitation in the aftermath had been booked. Several persons facing incarceration in this period have been booked under either the non-bailable sections of Indian Penal Code or the UAPA. “The registration of FIRs against Kannan Gopinathan, Siddharth Varadarajan, Prashant Bhushan, and Ashlin Mathew in different parts of the country are part of a pattern of acts intended to silence those critical of the government,” the MKSS said. These should be seen as a continuation of arbitrary persecution of other activists earlier, it said. Though the Supreme Court had suggested the release of prisoners as a measure to contain the pandemic, the government was using the lockdown to curb fundamental rights, criminalise dissent and take more prisoners. “Even legal recourse is made much more difficult in these extraordinary circumstances,” the MKSS said. Releaase prisoners The MKSS demanded that the State and political leadership release the prisoners and cease its “repressive tactics”. All lockdown excesses must be stopped and the State must focus on ensuring the delivery of social entitlements to the hungry, poor and unemployed, said the MKSS, while asking the government to engage with dissent, protest and critique from citizens during the present crisis.
26 April 2020||Lucknow,||MP offers reward for information on people who ‘hid’ Delhi event link||A BJP Lok Sabha MP in Uttar Pradesh has announced a reward of Rs. 11,000 for people in his constituency for providing accurate details of persons linked to the Nizamuddin event or those who have returned from abroad but concealed information from the administration. BJP MP from Salempur Ravindra Kushwaha has released a poster online appealing people to provide information about persons linked to the Nizamuddin event or those who have come from abroad. He asks Salempur residents to provide details of those persons to the administration who are suspected of COVID-19 but have not revealed information. Those providing “accurate information” will be rewarded with Rs. 11,000, the two-time MP from the east U.P. constituency said. The online poster carries two phone numbers on which residents can provide the information to the MP. The identity of the person providing the information will not be revealed, the poster said. ‘Furnish proof’ However, it also stresses that those providing these tip-offs will have to furnish proof about the suspect activities of those they are reporting. Moreover, the amount will be deposited to them once the sample of the person they have reported comes out positive. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Kushwaha said his intention was to prevent the spread of the disease. “Even now, people are still hiding. So my appeal is, come out, get tested, and if anyone is ill or infected, they will be treated.” Mr. Kushwaha said he announced the reward so that those suspected of being infected don’t spread it to others. “ Apne ghar-parivar ko toh bachaye hi, samaaj ko bhi bachaye (They should ensure the safety of their families but also of the society),” he said. As in the past, such campaigns could lead to a lot of false alarms and harassment of people on the basis of mere allegations, or to settle scores. However, Mr. Kushwaha is confident the facts would be verified instantly. Till Saturday afternoon, he was yet to get a single response. Salempur Lok Sabha constituency is located on the eastern fringes of U.P., combining parts of Deoria and Ballia districts. No COVID-19 cases have been reported from these two districts.
26 April 2020||Washington,||UN pushes for global vaccine effort||The global coronavirus death toll approached 2,00,000 on Saturday as the UN launched an international push for a vaccine to defeat the pandemic. Governments around the world are struggling to limit the economic devastation unleashed by the virus, which has infected nearly 2.8 million people and left half of humanity under some form of lockdown. The scale of the COVID-19 pandemic has forced medical research on the virus to move at unprecedented speed, but effective treatments are still far off and the UN chief said the effort will require cooperation on a global scale. “We face a global public enemy like no other,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told a virtual briefing on Friday, asking for international organisations, world leaders and the private sector to join the effort. “A world free of COVID-19 requires the most massive public health effort in history.” Any vaccine should be safe, affordable and available to all, Mr. Guterres said at the meeting, which was also attended by the leaders of Germany and France. But notably absent were the leaders of China, where the virus first emerged late last year, and the U.S., which has accused the UN’s World Health Organization of not warning quickly enough about the original outbreak. The spread of COVID-19 is increasing other medical risks as well with the WHO warning nearly 4,00,000 more people could die from malaria because of disruption to the supply of mosquito nets and medicines. Saturday marked World Malaria Day, a disease which the WHO said could kill around 7,70,000 this year, or “twice as much as in 2018”. Early stages With more than four billion people on lockdown or stay-at-home orders to slow the spread of the virus, governments are weighing how to lift restrictions without causing a spike in infections and how to revive economies battered by weeks of closure. The daily toll in Western countries seems to be falling, a sign hopeful epidemiologists had been looking for, but the WHO has warned that other nations are still in the early stages of the fight. Global COVID-19 deaths have climbed past 1,95,000, according to an AFP tally, but new reported cases appear to have leveled off at about 80,000 a day. The U.S. is the hardest-hit by far in the pandemic, recording more than 51,000 deaths and over 8,90,000 infections.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||No consensus in U.S. on accuracy of antibody tests||The researchers worked around the clock, in shifts of three to five hours, hoping to stave off weariness and keep their minds sharp for the delicate task. They set up lines of laboratory volunteers: medical residents, post-doctoral students, even experienced veterans of science, each handling a specific task. They checked and rechecked their data, as if the world were depending on it. Because in some ways, it was. For the past few weeks, more than 50 scientists have been working diligently to do something that the Food and Drug Administration mostly has not: verifying that 14 coronavirus antibody tests on the market actually deliver accurate results. These tests are crucial to reopening the economy, but public health experts have raised urgent concerns about their quality. The new research, completed just days ago and posted online on Friday, confirmed some of those fears: of the 14 tests, only three delivered consistently reliable results. Even the best had some flaws. The research has not been peer-reviewed and is subject to revision. But the results are already raising difficult questions about the course of the epidemic. Surveys of residents in the Bay Area, Los Angeles and New York this week found that substantial percentages tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, the official name of the new coronavirus. In New York City, the figure was said to be as high as 21%. Elsewhere, it was closer to 3%. The idea that many residents in some parts of the country have already been exposed to the virus has wide implications. At the least, the finding could greatly complicate plans to reopen the economy. Already Americans are scrambling to take antibody tests to see if they might escape lockdowns. Public health experts are wondering if those with positive results might be allowed to return to work. But these tactics mean nothing if the test results can’t be trusted. False positive In the new research, scientists found that only one of the tests never delivered a so-called false positive — that is, it never mistakenly signalled antibodies in people who did not have them. Two other tests did not deliver false-positive results 99% of the time. But the converse was not true. Even these three tests detected antibodies in infected people only 90% of the time, at best. The false-positive metric is particularly important. The result may lead people to believe themselves immune to the virus when they are not and to put themselves in danger by abandoning social distancing and other protective measures. It is also the result on which scientists are most divided. “There are multiple tests that look reasonable and promising,” said Dr. Alexander Marson, an immunologist at the University of California, San Francisco, and one of the project’s leaders. “That’s some reason for optimism.” Dr. Marson is also an investigator in the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub, which partly funded the study. Other scientists were less sanguine than Dr. Marson. Four of the tests produced false-positive rates ranging from 11% to 16%; many of the rest hovered around 5%. “Those numbers are just unacceptable,” said Scott Hensley, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania. The proportion of people in the U.S. who have been exposed to the coronavirus is likely to be 5% or less, Mr. Hensley said. “If your kit has a 3% false-positive, how do you interpret that? It’s basically impossible,” he said. “If your kit has 14% false positive, it’s useless.” Mr. Hensley said the study nonetheless was well designed and the results pressing, given the sudden proliferation of antibody tests on the market and the push to use them to lift lockdowns. Dr. Marson and his collaborator, Patrick Hsu, a bioengineer at the University of California, Berkeley, anticipated that antibody tests would face questions about quality.NY Times
26 April 2020||SYDNEY,||Australia, NZ aim to show the way in fighting virus||Thousands of miles from U.S. President Donald Trump’s combative news briefings, a conservative leader in Australia and a progressive Prime Minister in New Zealand are steadily guiding their countries toward a rapid suppression of the coronavirus outbreak. Both nations are now reporting just a handful of new infections each day, down from hundreds in March, and they are converging toward an extraordinary goal: completely eliminating the virus from their island nations. Whether they get to zero or not, what Australia and New Zealand have already accomplished is a remarkable cause for hope. Scott Morrison of Australia, a conservative Christian, and Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s darling of the left, are both succeeding with throwback democracy — in which partisanship recedes, experts lead, and quiet coordination matters more than firing up the base. “This is certainly distinct from the United States,” said Dr. Peter Collignon, a physician and professor of microbiology at the Australian National University who has worked for the World Health Organization. “Here it’s not a time for politics. This is a time for looking at the data and saying let’s do what makes the most sense.” The dreamy prospect of near normalcy, with the virus defeated, crowds gathering in pubs and every child back in school, is hard to imagine for much of the U.S. If there are any two countries that could pull off a clear if hermetically sealed victory — offering a model of recovery that elevates competence over ego and restores some confidence in democratic government — it may be these two Pacific neighbours. Time factor Far from any global hot spot, they’ve had the advantage of time: Australia reported its first case on January 25, New Zealand on February 28. But compared to Mr. Trump and leaders in Europe, Mr. Morrison and Ms. Ardern responded with more alacrity and with starker warnings. Mr. Morrison banned travellers from China on February 1 (a day before the U.S. did) and labelled the outbreak a pandemic on February 27 (two weeks before the WHO), while forming a national Cabinet of federal and State leaders to build hospital capacity and guide the response. In New Zealand, where the government is more centralised, Ms. Ardern introduced an alert system that led to a total lockdown less than a month after the country’s first case emerged. “We must fight by going hard and going early,” Ms. Ardern said. In both countries, the public initially resisted and then complied, in part because the information flowing from officials at every level in both nations was largely consistent.NY Times
26 April 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia abolishes flogging as punishment||Saudi Arabia has abolished flogging as a punishment, the state human rights commission said on Saturday, hailing a “major step forward” in the reform programme launched by the King and his powerful son. Court-ordered floggings in Saudi Arabia — sometimes extending to hundreds of lashes — have long drawn condemnation from human rights groups. But they say the headline legal reforms overseen by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman have brought no let-up in the conservative Islamic kingdom’s crushing of dissent, including through the use of the death penalty. The state human rights commission said the latest reform, which was reported by Saudi media, including the pro-government Okaz newspaper, would ensure that no more convicts were sentenced to flogging. “This decision guarantees that convicts who would previously have been sentenced to the lash will from now on receive fines or prison terms instead,” its chairman, Awad al-Awad, said. Previously, the courts had powers to order the flogging of convicts found guilty of offences ranging from extramarital sex and breach of the peace to murder. In future, judges will have to choose between fines and/or jail sentences, or non-custodial alternatives like community service. Blogger flogging The most high-profile instance of flogging in recent years was the case of Saudi blogger Raif Badawi who was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes in 2014 on charges of “insulting” Islam. He was awarded the European Parliament’s Sakharov human rights prize the following year. The abolition of corporal punishment in Saudi Arabia comes just days after the Kingdom’s human rights record was again in the spotlight following news of the death from a stroke in custody of leading activist Abullah al-Hamid, 69. Hamid was a founding member of the Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA) and was sentenced to 11 years in jail in March 2013, campaigners said He was convicted on multiple charges, including “breaking allegiance” to the Saudi ruler, “inciting disorder” and seeking to disrupt state security, Amnesty International said. Criticism of Saudi Arabia’s human rights record has grown since King Salman named his son Prince Mohammed the Crown Prince and heir to the throne in June 2017. The King has launched ambitious economic and social reforms, allowing women to drive and for sports and entertainment events to be staged in the kingdom. Murder of Khashoggi However, the brutal murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October 2018 and the increased repression of dissidents at home have overshadowed the Prince’s pledge to modernise the economy and society. The Saudi authorities put a record 184 people to death last year, according to figures released by Amnesty International on Tuesday. “Saudi Arabia’s growing use of the death penalty, including as a weapon against political dissidents, is an alarming development,” the human rights group said.
26 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan test-fires series of anti-ship missiles||The Pakistan Navy on Saturday successfully test-fired a series of anti-ship missiles in the North Arabian Sea, a spokesman said. The missiles were fired from surface ships, fixed and rotary-wing aircraft, the Navy’s spokesperson Rear Admiral Arshid Javed said. Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Zafar Mahmood Abbasi witnessed the firing of the missiles, he said in a statement. Operational capability The demonstration is a testament to Pakistan Navy’s operational capability and military readiness, the official said. On the occasion, Admiral Abbasi said that the Pakistan Navy is fully capable of responding to the enemy’s aggression in a befitting manner. Navy spokesperson Rear Admiral Javed took to Twitter to share the information on the firing. “Pak. Navy conducted Live Weapon firing of Anti-Ship Missiles from Surface & Aviation units in North Arabian Sea. CNS, Adm. Zafar Mahmood Abbasi witnessed LWF as Chief Guest & said that PN is always ready to thwart any aggression against Pakistan’s maritime frontiers,” he said in a tweet. The Navy did not provide any further details on the drill, which has come amidst the continued chill in India-Pakistan relations.
26 April 2020||Geneva,||‘Recovered patients not immune to re-infection’||The World Health Organization (WHO) warned on Saturday that there is no evidence that people who test positive for the new coronavirus are immunised and protected against reinfection. The warning suggests that the issuance of “immune passports” may promote the spread of the pandemic. “There is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from #COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection,” WHO said. Some governments, wanting a gradual return to work and the resumption of economic activity, have put forward the idea of issuing documents attesting to the immunity of people on the basis of serological tests revealing the presence of antibodies in the blood. At this point in the pandemic, there is not enough evidence about the effectiveness of antibody-mediated immunity to guarantee the accuracy of an “immunity passport” or “risk-free certificate.”  Additional validation WHO believes that the serological tests currently used “need additional validation to determine their accuracy and reliability”. In particular, the tests need to make it possible to distinguish the immune response to the novel coronavirus from the antibodies produced during an infection by another of the six known human coronaviruses, four of which are widespread, causing mild colds.
26 April 2020||Washington,||Iran shouldn’t be allowed to buy arms: U.S.||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called on Saturday for the UN to extend its conventional arms embargo on Iran beyond its scheduled end in October, citing Tehran’s recent launch of a military satellite. The lifting of the embargo was stipulated in the nuclear deal which the U.S., under President Donald Trump, unilaterally renounced in 2018. “The world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism... should not be allowed to buy and sell conventional weapons,” Mr. Pompeo said on Saturday. He called on the European Union to “sanction those individuals and entities working on Iran’s missile programmes.”
26 April 2020||Lahore,||Pak. doctors on hunger strike||Dozens of Pakistani doctors and nurses have launched a hunger strike demanding adequate protective equipment, the lead organiser of the protest said on Saturday. Health workers have complained for weeks that the country’s hospitals are suffering shortages of safety gear, prompting the arrest of more than 50 doctors who called for more supplies in Quetta. Frontline staff have been left vulnerable, with more than 150 medical workers testing positive for the virus nationwide, according to the Young Doctors’ Association in worst-hit Punjab province.
26 April 2020||Beijing,||China eases export curbs||China is dropping a requirement that a number of key virus care products get domestic regulatory approval before export, as long as they are approved in the importing countries, the Commerce Ministry said on Saturday. The ruling applies to products such as virus tests, medical masks, infrared thermometers and ventilators. “Tonight’s new rule is a revision to (the older rule),” said Zhang Shuwen, the CEO of Liming Bio-products, a biotech firm offering coronavirus tests targeting the overseas market. “It’s wrong to have a one-size-fits-all policy...”
26 April 2020||Washington,||Indian-American lawyer Seema Nanda to step down as CEO of Democratic Party||Seema Nanda has announced her decision to step down as the CEO of the Democratic National Committee, the top administrative position in the main Opposition party, ahead of the presidential elections in November. Ms. Nanda in 2018 became the first Indian-American to be appointed as the CEO of the Democratic National Committee.PTI
26 April 2020||Mumbai,||Is the BCCI financially COVID-proof?||Corporates all over the world have been feeling the pinch because of the COVID-19 outbreak. Sports federations are no exceptions — with live sport coming to a standstill, broadcast revenue has been severely hit. While Cricket Australia (CA) is in financial trouble, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) — the richest cricket body in the world — is unlikely to be affected in the near future, even if it is forced to cancel the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition. Insiders attribute the CA’s difficulties — staff salaries have been cut by 80% — to “careless planning” since it has invested heavily in the equity market. On the other hand, the BCCI — being a registered society — has played it safe, resulting in financial security. “We are not allowed to invest in equities,” BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal told The Hindu . “Moreover, the BCCI has always parked excess funds [in instruments] with assured returns.” According to BCCI’s 2017-18 balance sheet, its cash and bank balance, as on March 31, 2018, was Rs. 5,526.18 crore. Of this, Rs. 2,011.83 crore was in fixed deposits. Approximately Rs. 900 crore was kept aside in escrow accounts to deal with various arbitration proceedings. Add to this the fact that the IPL’s media rights have skyrocketed since 2018, and it hints at the BCCI being well-placed to deal with the financial fallout of the pandemic. Since 2018, Star India on average pays Rs. 3,270 crore annually for media rights. Besides, the BCCI earns approximately Rs. 700 crore in sponsorships (Rs. 440 crore from title sponsor Vivo and Rs. 250-300 crore from associate sponsors). Even after distributing half of this revenue equally to the eight franchises, the BCCI is left with an assured annual income of almost Rs. 2,000 crore, just from the IPL. The Board also receives approximately Rs. 60 crore from Star India for every international home game. As a result, if the IPL — albeit a curtailed edition — is held towards the end of the year and the BCCI’s home season with 17 scheduled games proceeds unscathed, Indian cricket is unlikely to suffer financially in the immediate future. Still, Dhumal is cautious and admits it’s too early to judge whether the BCCI is COVID-19-proof. “Obviously there will be some ramifications. We will have to wait till cricket resumes to assess the actual impact,” he said. Minimising impact At the moment, though, it’s unlikely that the BCCI will have to introduce pay cuts, either for its administrative staff or contracted players and coaches. However, the fact that the BCCI disburses 70% of its annual surplus among affiliates — read state associations — also means that if the Board’s revenues are affected, it will have a big impact on domestic cricketers. “Even in the worst-case scenario, the BCCI will try and protect the staff and cricketing fraternity, and do its best to minimise the impact on our cricketers and administrative staff,” Dhumal concluded.  Obviously, there will be some ramifications… We will have to wait till cricket resumes to assess the actual impact Arun Dhumal BCCI treasurer
26 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Peter Engel’s interesting observations||Germany’s Peter Engel made some interesting observations about top Indian paddlers and his interactions with them during his tenure as the foreign coach of the National team[s], during a video conference with SAI coaches on Saturday. Engel, in charge of the senior National teams for the 2014 Commonwealth and Asian Games, shared his experiences on working with Manika Batra, Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan. When he saw Manika playing most of her strokes on her backhand with a long pimple, he suggested she use her forehand to finish points. “I told her that no rubber can solve your problem. You have to work on your forehand. Now if you see her, she is not playing with pimple anymore and is, in fact, hitting winners [using] on the normal rubber,” said Engel, who had previously coached National teams from The Netherlands and Spain.  The German said Sharath became strong on his backhand after following his idea of the paddler using his left side more effectively so that he could finish points on his stronger weapon — the forehand. “When I first started with Sharath, I told him it was not enough to use only his forehand. Earlier, his backhand was 50-50 on the table. Now he is placing them preparing for his forehand.” Sathiyan, said the coach, was not finishing points and was content playing rallies. “Earlier, when he had the chance to finish, he didn’t. I told him ‘you are playing chess on a big court. You should take your chances. Now, he is a smart player.” Inputs The veteran, who has been involved in 11 Olympics, said: “Coaches should involve the advanced players in practice, ensuring they sync with their ideas. They should ask the players for their inputs as well.”
26 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kibu to focus on attacking football||Kibu Vicuna, the newly-appointed coach of ISL club Kerala Blasters, has underlined his priorities for the upcoming season. In an Instagram live chat with Kerala Blasters’ new sporting director Karolis Skinskys, the 48-year-old Spainard said he would be adopting an aggressive and pressing style to dominate the rivals. Kibu also stressed the need to work on the second team and on the academy to build a feeder system for the main team. Kibu was assured by Skinskys that good junior players from the second team would be drafted into the main team. “It is too early to say anything about the squad or changes I will make. But we need to build a strong squad. The tactics will depend on match situation and on the strengths and weaknesses of our rivals. But I believe in attacking football and we will be playing a hard-pressing game to dominate,”’ he said. Kibu said it was a privilege to be the head coach of a club with a large fan base and he expected full support from them. “It is an exciting challenge to be a head coach of a club with big fan base. “I can assure the fans that we will give more than our 100 per cent and will work hard to build a strong team to play good football and get positive results. I need all your support,” said Kibu, who led Mohun Bagan to I league title this season. Kibu, who has been in India for more than a year and has seen Indian football from close quarters was of opinion that the country has potential to go big. However, he said the need of the hour was to build infrastructure and concentrate on academies. “I think Indian football is improving and it has big potential. But if there is one aspect which India has to improve is to work with young players in the academies and clubs. The infrastructure also has to improve,” he said.
26 April 2020||Bengaluru,||EIRS, BTC using best stable-management techniques to care for the horses||Special care needs to be provided to keep horses in good health during this down time forced by the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. If horses at riding schools and race courses are left idle, it can have disastrous consequences. The large Embassy International Riding School (EIRS) campus here houses around 100 horses. A reduced staff, who stay at EIRS, care for the horses. This includes EIRS Director Silva Storai, who is quite happy to have horses for company in this lockdown period. “We have around 10 staff members who are staying at our campus now. People who leave the campus to buy supplies for the horses are screened before they re-enter. We are using the best stable-management techniques to take care of the horses.” As the horses are not too physically active now, diet modifications and regular exercise routines are imperative to prevent the onset of potentially fatal diseases like laminitis and colic. Walking important “Horses should be fed less barley and oats, and more fibre and good-quality grass. We have horse walker equipment, which can be set for the ideal speed and intensity. Horses need active walks; it should not be a lazy stroll. Horses should be treated like world-class athletes,” Silva said. Noted veterinarian and equine specialist Hasnain Mirza tends to racehorses at the Bangalore Turf Club here. “The race horses at BTC are healthy. They are being exercised regularly. Horses cannot be cooped up indoors all day long. They need two walks per day. “But you should not do any high-intensity training, as there are no races to prepare for in the foreseeable future. If you train a horse to peak fitness when there is no race coming up, it can be detrimental to their long-term health,” Hasnain said. Hasnain, the father of equestrian and 2018 Asian Games double silver medallist Fouaad Mirza, added that horses need a minimum of two months to become race-ready. “But if you don’t keep the horses ticking along in this lockdown period with low-intensity exercise and rationed diet, it can take six months to make them race-ready,” Hasnain said.
26 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown has been a blessing in disguise for Kashyap||London Olympics quarterfinalist P. Kashyap says it will be appropriate for the Badminton World Federation to start the tournament calendar early next year given the current scenario. “For me, this seems to be the ideal option considering the safety of the players as any competition means travelling to different countries,” the 33-year-old Kashyap told The Hindu.  Referring to BWF freezing rankings, Kashyap felt there was no other option at the moment, but the bigger challenge would come later. “You can start thinking about that (defreezing rankings) only when the BWF calendar is finalised. “ But, again players interests should be of topmost priority,” he said. Frustrating “Personally, the injury-breaks used to be more frustrating for me than this lockdown. Now, you can do some exercises and shadow practice unlike when you are down with injury when you can’t even move,” said Kashyap, who has been rather more prone to injuries than most of his contemporaries. “I had a back injury in Spain before this virus had hit the world and would have been out of action for four weeks. So, I must say this lockdown is a blessing in disguise as it has given me time to be fit and back on court. The training with the Indonesian coaches too has been helping us a lot,” he said. “From my perspective, the online sessions monitored by Gopi Anna (chief National coach P. Gopi Chand) and the fitness trainer Dinaz are ensuring that the desired fitness levels are maintained,” he said. “Obviously, it is very tough to stay away from the badminton court, but doing some courses of Indian Oil Corporation (where he is a senior manager) to get a feel of what the organisation does on various fronts — like supplying fuel for flights, the hazards involved — has been helPful,” he said. In the meantime, Kashyap and Saina Nehwal have been with their respective parents since mid-March when they returned from the European circuit — first because of self-quarantine and then the lockdown.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reading, training and balancing stones: Rahi’s routine||Asian Games gold-medallist Rahi Sarnobat is a voracious reader. She is not troubled by the lockdown, as she keeps herself busy by reading four books at a time. “I cannot survive without books. This is the perfect time to sink into the sea of books. I am reading Vidrohi Tukaram , Chakwa Chandan , Pais and finally I have got the Marathi translation of Sapiens . I’m trying all different genres and enjoying it,” said Rahi, when contacted at her home in Kolhapur. “I am spending really good time with my family after 2006,” recalled the 29-year-old, who has been busy with international shooting competitions since her junior days. Practical thought Rahi, who has won two World Cup gold medals, is quite practical. “I have accepted the situation. This is out of control of the entire humankind. I am going to use every bit of this extra time to improve and maintain my form. Generally, as the Games start getting closer, we think the time is less. This time, it is going to be different,” said Rahi, talking about her preparation for the Tokyo Olympics, postponed to next year. “I think this team is going to be a part of the most memorable Olympic Games of our generation,” she said. “We have got good time without competition, after a long time. There is enough time to plan and come out really strong. Of course, live training is not possible at all. We will go one step back after this period in terms of physical strength and the feel of live shooting,” she observed. Maintaining her customised physical fitness routine, prepared by her trainer, Rahi uses “dry training” to stay in touch with shooting. The time off has given her a chance to try something that had fascinated her. “I had learnt stone balancing last year. I really loved it. Now, I have got time to experiment and experience the same at home,” she said proudly, pulling out photos of delicately balanced stones. For the dynamic mind, there is no dearth of challenges to add excitement to the routine.
26 April 2020||Coimbatore,||‘We shall overcome the situation, together’||Chennai City FC stars Charles Anandraj and Sriram Boopathi urged the people across the country to stay indoors and help contain the spread of the virus. Miss the game “We miss playing the game and the most valuable asset of the game — the fans. I request all the fans and the Indian people to take care of their loved ones in this critical period,” Anandraj stated in an AIFF media team release. “I urge everyone to obey the lockdown and help the front-line workers, who are directly fighting against the virus,” he added. Sriram voiced a similar view. “Different situations demand unique solutions. But, the current situation demands that all of stay at home for the wellness of ourselves and our loved ones. “Together, we will overcome the situation and come out stronger.”
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Silver Sindhu’ was desperate to win the World championship||P.V. Sindhu says she was desperate to win the World Championships last year as people had started calling her ‘Silver Sindhu’ because of a string of runner-up finishes, including the 2016 Olympics. “I was so desperate to win the title. I did not want people to say she lost in final again,” said Sindhu. “I thought no matter what happens, I will give 100% to just win this title. There were times people say ‘Silver Sindhu’ about me. Sometimes these things comes to my mind,” she told women cricketers Smriti Mandhana and Jemimah Rodrigues on a talk show. Asked how she coped with the constant criticism of faltering in the final hurdle, she said, “After the 2016 Olympics, I had seven to eight silvers in a row in 2017. People started telling me that you have a ‘final phobia’ and always lose in the final. ‘Part of life’ “It is not easy to come to the semifinal and final, but people do not know that. They are like ‘she lost in the final again’ But winning and losing is part of life.”
26 April 2020||Kolkata,||AAI chips in for Limba||The hurdles in the treatment of Olympian archer Limba Ram, hailing from Rajasthan, were cleared on Saturday following efforts from the Archery Association of India (AAI). Limba has been undergoing treatment for a neurological disease and other issues at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi for the last one year. He has been staying with his wife Merian Jenny at a hostel in the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium provided by the Sports Authority of India. However, his treatment got affected and routine medical assistance could not reach him following the nationwide lockdown. After learning about his plight through media reports on Saturday, AAI swung into action to provide relief to the three-time Olympian (1988 Seoul, 1992 Barcelona and 1996 Atlanta). “I spoke to our president Arjun Munda, who is also the Union Tribal Affairs Minister, and got in touch with the Sports Ministry. The roadblocks have been cleared. I spoke to his wife and she confirmed that Limba’s treatment would resume soon,” said AAI secretary Pramod Chandurkar.
26 April 2020||Port Vila (Vanuatu),||Live cricket in Vanuatu!||Some overnight rain couldn’t prevent Vanuatu from producing a rarity in these coronavirus times — a live sporting event. The tropical island in the South Pacific was the only venue in the world hosting a competitive sports final on Saturday, as most international sport remains shuttered around the globe. Vanuatu CA chief executive Shane Deitz invited anyone missing live action to tune in to a live stream. And more than 3,000 did at various times during a men’s 10-over exhibition match and the women’s T20 final, won by Mele Bulls. “It’s one of the only live sports around the world at the moment. We can showcase a bit of cricket for everyone who is in lockdown,” said Deitz. Officials set up four cameras and commentary for the online stream on Vanuatu Cricket’s FB site. The commentators had a bit of fun too, suggesting that a few fans were getting rowdy as the red wine had kicked in!
26 April 2020||London,||West Indies ‘flexible’ over England tour||Cricket West Indies has said it is “flexible” about rearranging its tour of England but will not risk the players’ health just to complete a three-Test series. The fixtures were all due to take place in June but Friday saw the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) extend the delay to the start of its season until July 1.  CWI chief executive Johnny Grave insisted player safety remained the priority. Meanwhile, ECB chief executive Tom Harrison has confirmed receiving offers from Australia and New Zealand boards, helping them host their domestic games — county as well as List-A.
26 April 2020||Melbourne,||Aussies mull exemptions for India’s Oz visit||The Australian government might make travel exemptions for the Indian team’s tour Down Under later this year to save Cricket Australia (CA) from losing a staggering AUD 300 million. India’s four-Test tour in December-January could provide a relief to CA. As of now, Australia’s borders are closed till September 30 and there could be an extension of travel sanctions. According to a report in ESPNCricinfo, “International exemptions to allow an India touring party to arrive in Australia next summer would be seriously considered by the federal government in the event of wider travel bans, strongly suggesting that CA will be able to avoid losing up to AUD 300 million.” The report added that CA has received a positive response from its government.
26 April 2020||London,||Anderson to auction shirt and bat||England pacer James Anderson has decided to auction his autographed shirt and bat from the last Test that he played in Cape Town to help raise funds for the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Taking to Twitter, Anderson wrote: “We’re auctioning this lot off on eBay for @gowellfund. “My shirt and stump from the last Test I played in Cape Town and my Tailender bat.”
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dingko airlifted to Delhi||Asian Games gold-winning boxer Dingko Singh was on Saturday airlifted from Imphal to the capital for his liver cancer treatment. Dingko’s transfer to Delhi by a Spicejet air ambulance was facilitated by the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) after he missed a scheduled radiation therapy session due to the ongoing coronavirus-forced national lockdown. The boxer was accompanied by his wife Ngangom Babai Devi. BFI president Ajay Singh, who is also the chairman and managing director of SpiceJet, personally took the initiative to fly out Dingko after learning about his deteriorating health. “I am to happy share that Dingko, our champion boxer, has reached Delhi and has been taken to hospital for further treatment. SpiceJet is honoured to have provided its air ambulance service to our national hero and fly him to Delhi for his treatment and we wish him a speedy recovery,” said Ajay Singh.
26 April 2020||LAUSANNE,||IOC’s $25m aid packet||The International Olympic Committee (IOC) is allocating more than $25 million to cover extra athlete and team costs following the one-year postponement of the Tokyo Games. The IOC said an extra $15 million will go to a programme helping 1,600 athletes from 185 less well-funded countries prepare for the 2021 Games. More than $10 million is available for national Olympic bodies to cover additional operational costs such as travel and accommodation for officials.AP
26 April 2020||LONDON,||London Marathon may now be for elite only||This year’s delayed London Marathon may now be restricted to elite runners only, race organiser Hugh Brasher said. He, however, added that this was just one of “ten scenarios” currently being considered by his team. The 2020 edition of the race through the British capital was meant to take place on Sunday but has been postponed until Oct. 4.  AFP
26 April 2020||London,||War veteran tops charts after record fund-raiser||A 99-year-old British Second World War veteran who shot to fame raising millions for health workers fighting the coronavirus has become the oldest artiste to reach No. 1 in the U.K. music charts. Tom Moore’s rendition of “You’ll Never Walk Alone” — a much-loved and widely covered song from a 1945 musical — sold 82,000 units, the Press Association (PA) news agency said on Friday, beating Canadian artist The Weeknd’s “Blinding Lights” in second place. “It’s out of this world, truly amazing!” Mr. Moore, a captain who served in India, said on his official Twitter account. The single, which features Mr. Moore singing alongside actor and singer Michael Ball and a choir from the state-run health service is also the fastest-selling single of 2020 so far, according to PA. The race to the No.1 spot had been tight, Martin Talbot, chief executive of the Official Charts Company told PA, until The Weeknd tweeted his support on Thursday for the “incredible 99 yr. old war veteran”, and his hope that Mr. Moore “can have a No. 1 for his 100th birthday”. “My grandchildren can’t believe I am a chart topper!” said Mr. Moore, who turns 100 at the end of this month. Guinness World Records also announced that Mr. Moore has broken the record for raising the most money in an individual charity walk — more than £27 million. He set out to raise just £1,000 for the Britain’s National Health Service (NHS) by walking 100 laps of his 25-metre (82-foot) garden. The final lap of his garden in Bedfordshire, south England, was met with a guard of honour from the Yorkshire Regiment and broadcast live on British TV on Thursday.
26 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam NGO’s ‘smiley’ offer tickles donors||A non-governmental organisation in western Assam’s Barpeta has turned to humour to tackle the impact of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. The initiative, says NGO Shubham, is for a cause — to collect funds to fight hunger — with donors getting a ‘smile profile’ in return. Members of the organisation got in touch with cartoonist Nituparna Rajbongshi to take forward the idea to gift each donor a caricature of their profile picture. And a few days go, the ‘Your photo can bring a smile’ campaign was born. “Donors usually do not expect anything in return. But while encouraging people to donate for the needy and hungry people struggling to get essential commodities, we wanted to give each of them smile in return,” Kuldeep Das, the NGO’s secretary told The Hindu.  So the NGO’s appeal came with a request for donors to send a good-quality profile photograph via WhatsApp and an email to the organisation. “We have received 98 photographs so far in our initiative to provide food for the needy people around,” said Mr. Das. The seven members of Shubham got together in 2010, concentrating on environmental education such as promoting natural colours for children to play with, organising science congress and camps on climate change issues. “I liked the idea from the group that I have known to be serious about what they do and sniffed an opportunity to contribute the way I know best,” said Mr. Rajbongshi. “But a caricature that conveys the personality of a subject takes time.”
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 07:22 IST,||Sudoku - April 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Reinventing the wheels||It was April 7, two weeks into the nationwide lockdown announced to combat COVID-19, and all roads were closed. Riku Singh was stuck in Guwahati, while his mother, who has stage four cancer, was in Udharbond in Cachar district, more than 300 km away. Singh was distraught because he could not find a way to get medicines to her urgently. In desperation, he tweeted at the Assam Health Minister and the Assam Police asking for help. Meanwhile, post-lockdown, the Northeast Frontier Railway or NFR had set up a Swift and Efficient Transport of Utilities (SETU) team, whose members were scanning Twitter. They read Singh’s tweet and contacted S. Umesh, the Area Manager at Badarpur railway junction in Assam. Umesh called NFR’s Divisional Operations Manager, Kapinjal Kishore Sharma, in Guwahati, who picked up the medicines from Singh. The package was then put in a goods train and sent to Silchar, from where Singh’s uncle picked it up and delivered it to the patient. “The railway people arrived like angels. I have no words to express my gratitude,” says Singh. When Sukhdev Mandar in Ludhiana urgently needed a particular drug from Nagpur for his immunity-related ailment, the Central Railway (CR) chief parcel supervisor at Nagpur agreed to trans-ship it via Itarsi in the absence of a direct train. They don’t normally do trans-shipment but, as Krishnath Patil, CR’s senior divisional commercial manager, said, “These are extraordinary circumstances”. Indian Railways (IR), the world’s fourth largest rail network, seems to be responding snappily to the times. IR might have suspended all passenger trains on March 22, the first time in its history, but the country’s lifeline has been far from idle. Apart from a myriad off-beat interventions like the ones above, it has been busy reinventing itself so that its massive infrastructure — spread across a staggering 64,000 km, over 7,000 stations, and with 12 lakh employees — can be honed into a valuable tool during the pandemic. Coach to ward “We were asked to come up with ideas to use our existing facilities in the fight against the novel coronavirus,” says a senior official with the Railways. The Railway Board, the top decision-making body, started daily video conferences with officers across 16 zones. One of the first ideas that came up was to convert coaches into quarantine or isolation wards, given the acute shortage of these. Soon, the idea became a key initiative for IR. By the end of March, the Railway Board had issued a set of guidelines in consultation with the Armed Forces Medical Services, the medical departments of zonal railways and Ayushman Bharat. Some 5,000 coaches had been repurposed as of April 10. These isolation coaches have one toilet and one bathing room each, the middle berths have been removed, and windows fitted with mosquito nets. They have oxygen cylinders and fixtures for medical equipment. They have special COVID-19 features like taps with long handles and dustbins with foot pedals. However, even if these coaches are pressed into service — as Rajesh Bajpai, Executive Director, Railway Board, says, “Our hope is the country never reaches a stage when these coaches have to be used” — the challenge will be to station them in spots where uninterrupted water and electricity supply is assured. Second, in the absence of airconditioning and specialised equipment, it might make more sense to use these as second-line quarantine rather than treatment facilities. Hospital back-up The next major initiative was to put to use IR’s extensive health facilities, consisting of 586 health units, 45 sub-divisional hospitals, 56 divisional hospitals, eight production unit hospitals, and 16 zonal hospitals across the country. This vast network is now being readied for COVID-19 patients, with as many as 5,000 beds earmarked. In Mumbai, Jagjivan Ram Hospital, the zonal hospital of Western Railways, has become the only one to be converted into a COVID-19 hospital. Spokesperson Ravinder Bhakar said it was treating around 80 patients. In the Northeast, NFR has modified 315 passenger coaches, with 2,500 isolation beds, and has earmarked another 170 beds as isolation beds across its hospitals. “These will be made available whenever required,” says NFR’s chief spokesperson, Subhanan Chanda. While these measures were under way, the doctors in IR’s hospitals pointed out the need for personal protective equipment (PPE). Producing PPE is no mean feat: a special type of fabric has to be procured, a particular sewing machine is used for seamless stitching, and a special tape attached to prevent contamination. The final design adopted by the Railway Board was prepared by the Jagadhari Workshop, which sent its sample PPE to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for approval. “Right now, we are aiming for just 1,000 PPEs a day. They will first be used by doctors working in COVID wards at railway hospitals. But as we ramp up production, we can provide it to other hospitals too,” says a senior railway official. NFR, meanwhile, has so far made 407 PPE coveralls, 2,500 litres of hand sanitiser and 76,000 reusable masks. In Tamil Nadu, the government is in touch with the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai and Goldenrock Workshop in Tiruchi for the bulk supply of healthcare consumables like steel cots and IV stands. The Hubballi Workshop is making contactless cubicles, while the Coach Rehabilitation Workshop in Bhopal has come up with a mobile cubicle that can be transported to remote areas. The meal wagon Most importantly, with roads blockaded and trucks abandoned by drivers, IR has had to play a crucial role in ensuring that the supply of foodgrains is not hit. Not surprisingly, it more than doubled its numbers, moving 4.58 million tonnes of foodgrains from April 1 to April 22, compared to 1.82 million tonnes over the same period last year. In an innovative move, two sets of long-distance, super-heavy, fast freight trains were introduced — Annapoorna Trains by Northern Railways and Jai Kisan Specials by South Central Railway. These services have taken advantage of the freed-up tracks to join two freight trains and run them as one, thus doubling capacity. Normally, a freight train of 42 wagons carries around 2,600 tonnes of foodgrains. The special trains now carry 5,200 tonnes. As this goes to print, 55 Annapoorna trains and 8 Jai Kisan specials have been run, clocking a creditable average speed of 44 kmph. Other quick decisions have also helped IR up its role. It has tweaked its regular routes, aggregated small parcels, and picked up unique cargo. It identified 65 parcel routes for essential goods and, until April 14, has run 507 such trains. In Bhusaval in Maharashtra, for instance, trains transport onions but not bananas, which go by road. Post-lockdown, a parcel van of bananas was sent to Delhi. Now, following requests from fruit traders, Central Railway plans to run several parcel trains for fruit. Similarly, Western Railway has dramatically increased milk loading at Palanpur in Gujarat to transport milk to Haryana and Delhi. From March 23 to April 20, 14 milk specials have run, carrying 9,903.20 tonnes of milk. In the Northeast, NFR has moved more than 480 rakes of essentials and 25 parcel trains for the seven sister States. Assam’s Barak Valley is one of the remotest corners of the area that NFR services, and Umesh and his team there ensure that supplies keep coming in. For the first time, a goods terminal near Silchar was used for medicine parcel service — one for Barak Valley and the other for Tripura; then a milk rake came from Gujarat, supplying 50 wagonloads. The SETU helpline allows customers to call and place requests for bulk transport of essentials such as PPE, medicines and foods. Nationwide, IR has transported 1,150 tonnes of medical items. IR is also providing cooked meals for the needy, tying up with local NGOs and groups for distribution. IRCTC, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation, has set up kitchens across the country, starting at Mumbai Central. At present, the Railways is providing meals to over 50,000 people a day nationwide, and efforts are on to increase this to 2.6 lakh meals per day wherever it is possible. Fast forward The challenge will be to see if IR can keep up the momentum after the lockdown is lifted. While it’s always played a leading role in the transport of bulk commodities such as coal, iron ore and foodgrains, it could use the opportunity provided by the pandemic to dramatically revamp its freight business. Its huge, trained workforce and extensive resources and networks could be used to create a new freight model if it has the foresight to do so. It could, for instance, tie up with road transport to offer seamless cargo movement, and incorporate sophisticated facilities to cover a wider range of goods, including perishables, medicines etc. The challenge will be to establish timetabled long-distance trains and assured delivery times even after passenger trains are back on track. And, most important, keep its rates competitive. In other words, as much as the Railways has upped the ante to deliver during the pandemic, its real victory will be if it can emerge from the pandemic a smarter, sharper, and more efficient brand.  With inputs from Rahul Karmakar   in Guwahati.   Western Railways has dramatically increased milk loading at Palanpur in Gujarat to transport milk to Haryana and Delhi. From March 23 to April 20, 14 milk specials have been run   In Mumbai, Jagjivan Ram Hospital, the zonal hospital of Western Railways, is being converted into the first COVID-19 hospital
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Adjutant’s last stand||Sometimes, beautiful and ugly are two sides of the same coin. Victorian high fashion accessories came from one of the most “disgusting-looking animals” that wear a white collar ruff at the base of their necks which, along with their inflatable neck pouch, turn bright orange in the breeding season. Tippets, boas and victorines, the rage of France and England once and displayed at the Great Exhibition of 1851, were sourced from the adjutant stork, a byword for ugliness, that stalked the streets and rooftops of Calcutta till 1900. They disappeared thereafter. This endangered species were named for the “military” quality of their awkward stride. The brand name of the ruff was Commercolly, after Kumarkhali, an upazila in the Shilaidaha area, now in Bangladesh, where Tagore wrote some memorable verse. In Bengali, the adjutant stork is known as hargila — literally “bone swallower”, a word used to describe a tall, gaunt person. I saw the birds for the first time in old illustrations of Calcutta, their stomping grounds being Fort William, Government House (today’s Raj Bhavan) and other landmarks of Dalhousie Square such as the Town Hall and Writers’ Buildings. Silhouetted against the skyline like grotesque statues, they stood on the terraces of the Government House and Spence’s Hotel, the city’s first luxury hotel, winged around like pterodactyls. Flying high Sarah Amherst, daughter of Governor-General William Pitt Amherst (1823-1828), had left behind drawings of her Calcutta residence and comical pen pictures of these birds. “They are so useful as scavengers that there is a fine for killing them,” she writes. “However in the Fort where they abound, the young cadets play them sad tricks, such as throwing out a leg of mutton tied to a large stone, so that when the adjutant has gobbled it up, he finds himself anchored... and there is a story that to satisfy Lord Hastings’ own eyes, a calf’s leg with an iron shoe on the hoof was thrown out and immediately swallowed whole by an adjutant, they are so greedy…” Sometimes, they exploded when they swallowed whole marrow bones stuffed with gunpowder by raw cadets. Two adjutant storks with giant bills facing each other figure prominently in what was once the coat of arms of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The date of award of the coat of arms was 1896. The Latin words on it read: Per ardua stabilis esto (“Be firm through difficulties”). It is recently that I caught sight of the logo above one of the many entrances of the New Market (Stuart Hogg Market of yore), but a couple of years ago, I had heard from artist Sanat Kar that the Corporation’s adjutant birds had survived on Alimuddin Street. Sure enough, the cast iron logos were there — double discs with the mirror-image storks in both — a simple but smart design. In 2018, I had the good fortune of sighting the storks in Guwahati. I knew that Assam was one of the last havens of the adjutant stork in India. Luckily, the local guide, Prabin Kutum, was an enthusiastic young man, and when I told him I was interested in the birds, he drove me to a huge garbage dump which shares its boundaries with a freshwater lake named Dipor Bil, listed as a Ramsar site for conservation in November 2002. It was close to sunset, and a distant railway bridge spanned the water body. Our jeep passed a couple of humongous sheds and, at last, we faced the garbage dump encircled by green hills. It emanated a deeply earthy, not unpleasant, odour. Cows grazed and flocks of snow-white cattle egrets flitted around. A couple of kites were trying to boss around. Then I noticed a huge bird flapping its wings as it soared on thermals. It had something distinctly Jurassic about its appearance, and what with the orange sac hanging from its orange neck, it looked quite obscene, like some avian yahoo that Jonathan Swift could have created. Indeed, it was the greater adjutant stork and they thrived here, on the dump, on offal and carrion, performing their scavenger role. There was an entire colony of them and they stood about stock still, fluttered their wings, or raised their huge bills clattering them almost like castanets. In these dire times, I can’t help but recall the storks and the Latin tag associated with them: Per ardua stabilis esto . soumitra.soumitradas@gmail.com   Then I noticed a huge bird flapping its wings as it soared. It had something distinctly Jurassic about its appearance
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Raising Generation C||The paediatrician’s waiting room was unusually crowded. Parents and grandparents sat on narrow benches, cradling infants. The sounds of coughing and sniffling, mostly from adults, rang through the room. Some wore face masks — cloth, synthetic or rayon, whatever they had been able to get their hands on. Others had given it a miss. A young man stepped out of the waiting room with his toddler son twice, to cough. It was late March and fears of the novel coronavirus were spreading fast. My own persistent cough convinced me that I needed to wear a mask — at least in the presence of my daughter, six weeks old, who had developed a mild temperature the previous night. It had passed, but was enough for her grandmother to decide that it warranted a visit to the paediatrician. When we went inside, the paediatrician — an elderly woman — was also sniffling. She wore no mask. “I should be wearing a mask…but you know…” she trailed off. Once I was satisfied that my daughter’s short bout of fever was not serious, I asked if I could breastfeed her, given my cough. “You can,” she replied. “But don’t talk to her while you do.” Masked motherhood Not talk to my newborn? Not sing lullabies, utter gibberish, or babble words of love? That didn’t seem possible. And so, the mask stayed on my face while I sang to her, burped or changed her. Practising ‘social distancing’ or ‘physical distancing’ was anything but easy; the very idea of it went against my need to hold, cuddle and comfort my infant. Days after our paediatrician visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered the shock announcement of a national lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. My first concern was whether it would be possible to take my daughter for her vaccination, which was due the very next day. True to my fears, the paediatrician had shut her clinic without notice. When I called her, she told me that as an elderly woman, she could not risk exposure to the virus. My husband and I panicked. Our daughter’s vaccination had already been delayed once because she was underweight. We dreaded delaying it any further. After a number of frantic calls, we found a doctor who was willing to meet us and administer the vaccine at a hospital. Inside the hospital lobby, we were greeted with the sight of a policeman wearing a mask and a handful of patients, including a profusely coughing old man. My husband and I were instructed to sit separately. Hospital staff glanced at our heavily swaddled infant curiously. “Don’t bring your baby to the hospital if you can help it. Hospitals are one of the most infectious places for children to be, especially now,” one of them told me. My daughter was born in a suburban Mumbai hospital in late January; her wails and cries marking her arrival in the world a few days before expected. She had just about made it to a normal birth weight. I began adjusting to the tiny little person in my life, tailoring my clock to hers, teaching myself to interpret her cries and body language. As I struggled to breastfeed her and my daughter’s weight dipped, I fretted and worked myself into a state of worry. When later, her cheeks fattened up and belly grew rounded, I laughed with relief. I was learning to be a mother. Fearful whispers By February, the first whispers of the novel coronavirus were being heard. As the murmurs about a seemingly remote illness grew into a din which could not be ignored, I willed myself to believe, like many others, that India would somehow escape this wild contagion. But it was not to be. We could no longer ignore that the virus was going to hit India as badly, even as the government continued to be in denial, like most of us. And as I watched my little girl wriggle and demand to be fed, oblivious to all else, a sense of terror descended on me. How was I going to protect her from this alien, wildly contagious infection for which there was no known cure? I began to limit her interaction with the outside world, cancelling her naming ceremony and requesting family and friends to defer their visits to meet my daughter. At home, I became a gatekeeper, interrogating family members who needed to step out. If motherhood meant being protective, Corona took my protectiveness to another level, possibly of paranoia. When my husband and I had talked about whether we wanted to be parents, we had worried that the world was a deeply violent place with hate, discrimination and intolerance on the rise everywhere. Cities were increasingly unliveable, social and economic security were the privilege of a few, while nuclear weapons and climate change — mediums of mass destruction — presented permanent threats to humanity. A fraught future Why had we decided to bring a child into the world? Was it because we were reasonably confident of providing for the needs of another human being? Had we succumbed to social expectations? Thick in the era of COVID-19, I am aware of another underlying reason: it was the idea that we could reasonably predict a certain life trajectory to our child, albeit with caveats. But now, no previously made calculations about the future hold. We find ourselves at a loss of terms and language in which to imagine a future for her. Right now, we possess neither the understanding nor the ability to anticipate the shape of a post-corona world. If the socioeconomic and environmental inheritance of our generation stood on shaky ground, the world in which my daughter and her generation will grow up promises to be only more uncertain and fraught. As my daughter nears the three-month mark, I am aware that her name is yet to be registered in the city’s municipal records. She is yet to see the colour of the sky or feel the fresh breeze on her face. Instead, we are closeted at home, caring for a little human being who was born in a year of raging pandemic but whose frequent wails and unexpected smiles still govern our lives even under lockdown. The writer is an independent journalist based in Mumbai.  As my daughter nears the three-month mark, I am aware that her name is yet to be registered in the city municipal records. She is yet to see the colour of the sky or feel fresh air on her face
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Coming up for light and air||How to convey that which lies beyond the realm of words? What secrets are revealed by stretching recognisable forms into almost invisible identities? What mysteries call for splashes of colour to transform into precise dark shapes through which a gleam of light manages to escape and illuminate? To view the lifework of artist Mehlli Gobhai, who died two years ago, is to find oneself on the path of a parabola, climbing hesitantly in one direction and landing with more questions than answers in a different place. Moving around the five levels of the National Gallery of Modern Art in Mumbai — where his work was displayed before the gallery was shut due to the lockdown — one got a rare glimpse into the evolution of Gobhai’s body of work: his drawings as a teenager, life sketches, illustrations as an advertising professional, his paintings using different materials, spanning 70 years of interplay between his intellectual, social and artisanal commitments. “Mehlli’s art focused on the axis mundi, the world axis, the column of light, the sap rising through the world tree — images of ascension were at the core of his work,” said Nancy Adajania, co-curator of ‘Don’t Ask Me About Colour’. The upwardly rising spiral of the building thus served to accentuate the viewing experience. Viewers can now see the show online. “Mehlli did not avoid colour. He refused to be intoxicated by it,” said Adajania, explaining the title of the retrospective. “In fact, the ground colours of all his later paintings — more familiar to viewers — were chalky pink and pale yellow. He would gradually build up the sienna, umber, charcoal grey over this base,” she said. Shown for the first time ever, his mixed-media works bursting with celebratory colours — red, yellow, mint green, cobalt blue — came as a shock. “I like colours to be somewhat submerged,” Gobhai had once said. “I like forms to be somewhat submerged, and to come up for air.” This polychrome palette marked the artist’s definitive transition from representation to abstraction. Abstract mysteries Pivoting the exhibition was a stone sculpture of the tantric goddess Chamunda, which greeted viewers at the base of a stairway. An index finger on her lips in a rahasya mudra suggests her position as a custodian of mysteries. If Gobhai regarded Chamunda as a deity of abstraction, the master abstractionist gently draws us into his sphere of images to alter the ways in which we relate to the world we think we know. Is that the outline of Krishna playing a flute? And there? A dancing woman perhaps? A woman holding a teacup with her toes? Gobhai later shifted to dark, subdued shades of sepia, charcoal grey, sienna, while always staying alive to the sacredness of geometry and mathematical harmony. Figures now melted into abstract motions, lines and divisions dominated the scene. “How does one manage the chaos, bring the contradictions into a choreography of reconciliation? That was one of his key questions,” said co-curator Ranjit Hoskote. “The line became prominent as a measure of chaos, a geometry that would keep turbulence in check. The swing and weight of the plumb line, the dance of parallel and intersecting lines, become vital gauges of space in his work at this time. These stylised, simplified linearities are also the last vestiges of the figure in his work, traces of an elbow, a knee, a pelvis, as we see from the drawings in his notebooks of that period,” said Hoskote. Disparate empires Gobhai’s fixation with abstraction had been an almost lifelong one, but he was never removed from the world of ideas. He read poets, aestheticians, philosophers, and discussed them with friends. “For Mehlli, the abstractionist was very much a person who grappled with ideas and had an intellectual life,” said Hoskote. In Gobhai’s copy of Wilhelm Worringer’s 1908 classic Abstraction and Empathy , he had underlined a sentence, reflecting his own thoughts: “These regular abstract forms are, therefore, the only ones and the highest, in which man can rest in the face of the vast confusion of the world-picture.” From all around the NGMA building, you could experience disparate empires of Gobhai’s creative mind. Looking down the atrium from the topmost floor, for instance, his wooden cubes stood surrounded by paintings that were more low-relief sculptures, moving beyond the two-dimensional surface with layer upon layer of canvas or paper. From another level, standing amid his life sketches and advertising work, you saw his sharp and dark geometrical works. Alongside his work as a leading abstractionist, Gobhai never stopped making life studies. His nude figures, the curators write, are “electric with energy. They convey the body’s pulses and torsion through a choreographic economy of strokes, hatchings and loops.” Deep commitments One cannot write of Gobhai’s work without acknowledging his deep socio-political commitments for a safe and inclusive society, be they concerns about street children or solidarity with environment activists and displaced local communities. In one of his 1990 posters for the Sadat Hashmi Memorial Trust just before the Mumbai riots, two figures are entwined in the foreground as a city burns. Accompanying these drawings, the curators found a note which proved prescient: “Don’t wait for grief to bind us. Fight communalism now.” For the curators, the retrospective was not so much a project as a homage to a departed friend. As they went about with their research, “events and anecdotes leaped up from the pages and connected with stories he had told us,” said Adajania. These included his rich journal entries. In one such, there is his delightful attention to both fleeting and lasting moments in nature. “Came to a thicket — misty, cool, with the giant deodars faintly visible around me… suddenly, a group of small lemon-coloured birds flew out of the mist… and alighted on my head and shoulders before they realised I was not an inanimate object. Sudden panic and they flew off into the cool mists.” Gobhai’s pantheistic spirit quietly pulls one into the expanse of his swarthy and muted universe, and in proximity with nature. Life jumps out of these basic geometric trappings and encampments, capacious vestibules to earth itself. His work seems to say: from earth we have come, to earth we shall return. Not without light. Always a hint of sublime light.  The exhibition can be viewed at https://www.gallerychemould.com.   The reporter and writer is based in Grenoble.  Gobhai’s fixation with abstraction had been an almost lifelong one, but he was never removed from the world of ideas. He read poets, aestheticians, philosophers, and discussed them with friends
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘What we have to think about, above all, is how to slow down’||Brooding over the COVID-19 pandemic that has resulted in a global crisis of never-before-experienced proportions, I turned to my mentor, fellow author Amitav Ghosh, for advice and perspectives on the state of our planet. When we chatted the other day, you predicted that “unfortunately I am sure things are going to get worse.” In what ways do you foresee things getting any worse than this? There are many ways the present situation could get much worse. Just imagine what would happen now if a major city were to be threatened by a cyclone or a wildfire (as was happening only a few months before the pandemic). In any case it is very clear now that the measures taken to control the pandemic will cause a great deal of immiseration in many countries, India being just one of them. What will be the social response to the worsening conditions? We don’t know at this point, but if we look back to the last great period of climate disruption — the so-called Little Ice Age of the long 17th century — we see a truly terrifying cycle of epidemic, famine, war, revolution and social breakdown. Some would say that the world is more resilient now than it was then. But it could also be argued that the world is much more fragile now than it used be, simply because of the incredible complexity of so many of our systems (the catastrophe inflicted on India’s migrant workers is an example of this). It has been instructive also to see how food distribution systems have been affected by the novel coronavirus lockdown in many countries, including the U.S. The global food system is fragile and my greatest fear right now is of a food crisis. In much of your writings, you talk about the earth sending messages through disasters — already inThe Calcutta Chromosome25 years ago you hinted at the idea of malaria as some kind of entity with its own soul like a cult god. But how are we to interpret these messages: as angry threats or anguished prayers or stern guidance? They’re certainly not polite requests, if we think of damaging floods, tsunamis, forest fires, etc. Or is the earth saying: You only have yourself to blame for behaving so stupidly, short-sightedly and egoistically? One of the more positive aspects of the climate crisis is that it has made it clear that the Earth is not an inert entity. No one has said this more clearly than James Lovelock, who (in collaboration with Lynn Margulis) propounded the Gaia hypothesis. Here are some sentences from an article of his called ‘What is Gaia’: “Long ago the Greeks… gave to the Earth the name Gaia or, for short, Ge. In those days science and theology were one and science, although less precise, had soul. As time passed this warm relationship faded and was replaced by the frigidity of schoolmen. The life sciences, no longer concerned with life, fell to classifying dead things and even to vivisection… Now at least there are signs of a change. Science becomes holistic again and rediscovers soul, and theology, moved by ecumenical forces, begins to realize that Gaia is not to be subdivided for academic convenience and that Ge is much more than a prefix.” Lovelock’s ideas were for a long time criticised and mocked by scientists, not the least because of his choice of the name ‘Gaia’ — who was the Greek goddess of the Earth. But the reason he chose that name is that he couldn’t find an equivalent concept in the modern techno-scientific vocabulary; he had to go back to a personification of the Earth as a goddess. That’s certainly food for thought, but sometimes mankind is compared to a cancer on the planet, a bad virus. What do you think? Are we the virus from Gaia’s point of view? This implies that human history could have had one, and only one trajectory. I don’t think that is true. Even ‘capitalism’ had many trajectories, some of which, like the so-called East Asian model, were much less resource-intensive than the Anglo-American model. Things could have been different if certain key chapters in our history had not worked out as they have: the conquest of the Americas; Britain’s rise to global dominance in the 18th and 19th centuries; and, most of all, the near-universal adoption of the Washington Consensus after 1990. We should not forget that no less than half of all the greenhouse gases that are now in the atmosphere, were put there in just the last 30 years. This period had been called the ‘Great Acceleration’, and it’s a fitting name, I think, because all our crises are effects of this acceleration — climate breakdown, the migration crisis, and, of course, the novel coronavirus pandemic. These crises are all cognate, although there is no direct causal link between them. So, is everything wrong with the planet? Isn’t there any glimmer of hope that you see? Personally I think it’s not productive to look at the state of our world through the frame of ‘hope/despair’. We need to try to cope with the crises that are unfolding around us because it is our duty to do so, not because there is (or isn’t) a magical solution. Okay, but assuming that the end of the world might just be around the corner — when can we expect it to happen? Or has it already started and we are seeing it unfold before our eyes? ‘The world’ is not the same for everyone. There are many worlds: some have already ended and some are ending, while other worlds are being reborn. It’s often been pointed out that for many indigenous peoples the world they knew ended a long time ago. However, they have managed to survive and have drawn on their experiences to create new worlds. I think we have a lot to learn from them at this time. Worlds also end and begin in small ways sometimes. For most of my life I lived in a certain kind of literary world, one that followed certain practices and methods. That world ended for me when I began to understand the reality of climate change. But that doesn’t mean I stopped thinking or writing — quite the contrary. So you could say the passing of one world led to the birth of another. That’s extremely interesting. As for the present crisis you earlier told me: “I think we will all have to rethink our ways of life, our ideas of travel and so forth.” How do you view each person’s responsibility in this regard, to put this rethinking in concrete terms? To begin with I think we need to recognise that the planetary crisis requires collective action. It has now been established that the idea that it could be addressed by individual lifestyle changes was thought up by an advertising firm, as a conscious strategy, so that fossil fuel companies would not be subjected to regulation. In that sense our most important responsibility, if we live in a democracy, is to bring pressure to bear upon our politicians. At the same time, changing our lifestyles is important too, because it does, at the very least, foreground important issues in our own minds and in the minds of others. Greta Thunberg’s approach is exemplary, to my mind: at the same time that she has created a global political movement she has also made very important lifestyle changes. Any suggestions you can share for people who might be wondering what they can do as individuals? For example, what rethinking are you doing? To be honest, when this lockdown began I felt something akin to the relief one feels when one falls sick with exhaustion after a long period of hyperactivity. Suddenly it became clear that we were all caught, almost inadvertently, in a spiralling cycle of acceleration. And of course, it is this acceleration, on a global scale, that lies behind the pandemic. What we have to think about, above all, is how to slow down. Slowing down indeed seems to be one of the best things to do now. Apart from your own books, are there others you would recommend for the current crisis? One obvious reading is J.R. Macneil and Peter Engelke’s The Great Acceleration .  Will it be enough if a large number of individuals rethink? In my experience, except for some environmentalist cliques, the majority of people are not rethinkers. They will try to put the COVID-19 experience behind them as soon as they can.  I think, unfortunately, that you are right. What the history of epidemics shows is that while they are raging people imagine that they will rethink everything. But when they are over they go back quite quickly to their old ways. Do you think intellectuals, artists, writers can play an important role in this situation? We’re not exactly experts in saving the world… I mean, writers in general are not practical-minded. If you ask a writer to hammer a nail into a wall, it’slikely both the writer’s hand and the wall will get damaged... Iam always a little wary of the idea of writers, artists and intellectuals setting out to ‘change the world’. We are, as you point out, not very practical people. But, on the other hand, the world cannot do without its dreamers. Read the full interview online. The interviewer and detective novelist based in Bengaluru is the author of the Majestic Trilogy.  For most of my life I lived in a certain kind of literary world, one that followed certain practices and methods. That world ended for me when I began to understand the reality of climate change   When this lockdown began I felt something akin to the relief one feels when one falls sick with exhaustion after a long period of hyperactivity
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A celebration of faith amid the darkness||“It matters little that there are thousands of beings plunged in the densest ignorance. He whom we saw yesterday is on earth; his presence is enough to prove that a day will come when darkness shall be transformed into light,” Mirra Alfassa wrote in her diary dated March 30, 1914. She was a seeker from France who, guided by some inner conviction, had arrived at Pondicherry, then a French colony, to meet Sri Aurobindo. Subsequently renowned as the Mother, she was a spiritual child prodigy who, even before she learnt the alphabet, wondered if humanity was the highest the earth could evolve or if the mystery of evolution was yet to manifest something more sensible and perfect that would justify its experiment with species over millennia. Mystic experience She had gone through several phases of her quest, including delving deep into occultism through the help of probably the greatest practitioners of that lore, Max and Alma Theon of Algeria. She had several mystic experiences, but they were all to prove to be preparations for her meeting with Sri Aurobindo. Sri Aurobindo had said words that seem prescient today, “At present mankind is undergoing an evolutionary crisis in which is concealed the choice of his destiny: for a stage has been reached in which the human mind has achieved in certain directions an enormous development while in others it stands arrested and bewildered and can no longer find its way... man has created a system of civilisation which has become too great for his limited mental capacity and understanding and his still more limited spiritual and moral capacity to utilise and manage, a too dangerous servant of his blundering ego and its appetites. For no greater seeing mind, no intuitive soul of knowledge has yet come to his surface of consciousness which could make this basic fullness of life a condition for the free growth of something that exceeded it.” Yet Sri Aurobindo did not subscribe to the widely prevalent Indian notion of the world as an illusion. The process of life on the earth was not launched for it to be branded false or its latest product, man, to be an embodied paradox, a bizarre amalgam of brutish instincts and splendid dreams, awful evils and great virtues, to be its apex. The Mother realised that she was destined to collaborate in Sri Aurobindo’s adventure of seeking consciousness. That was, however, not to be. As World War I broke out, she had to leave for Paris, but her pursuit continued. It may be especially relevant to recount an incident in her life in the context of the current pandemic. Circumstances led her to Japan towards the end of the war. Suddenly a terrible epidemic, then infamous as Spanish Flu, broke out, wiping out some 30 million lives and Japan too was ravaged. One day a postman travelled to a small village near Tokyo and found all the villagers dead and “the snow was their common shroud.” The Mother was in Tokyo. Exigency had obliged her to travel to the other end of the city. Looking at the masked and gloomy passengers in the tram car, she asked herself what could have caused the phenomenon. By the time she returned home, she had caught the flu. She isolated herself from everyone and even when a friendly doctor came rushing with a rare medicine, the only probable panacea then, she advised him to save someone else with it. Sudden deaths On the second day of her fever, the Mother saw a phantom in tattered military uniform, half his head blown off, entering her room. Pouncing upon her, the phantom tried to suck her life out. When unable to get rid of the menace with her normal strength, she took recourse to her occult power and only then could throw the being off. She writes, “I understood that the illness originated from beings who had been thrown violently out of their bodies.” They were normal human beings full of dreams but suddenly jolted out of their physical existence. “They didn’t know that they had no body anymore and tried to find in others the life force they could not find in themselves...” Strangely, the epidemic stopped soon after. What emerges from the experience is that it is not crude material conditions alone but a subtle consort between all that is rotten behind the physical conditions and all that is rotten within our consciousness — violence, ill will, treachery, unabashed greed — that spawns such invisible vampires. This truth can be extended to every crisis today. In theory, we do not lack ethics or ideals in society. But it is something stubborn in our consciousness that corrupts everything. This can be transformed only by a tremendous spiritual intervention. Birth of Auroville The Mother returned to Pondicherry on April 24, 1920, to join Sri Aurobindo in this task of invoking that transforming power. With her arrival, ‘children’ or disciples began gathering around her — and they were from several continents, belonging to various faiths. The Mother taught them how to put into practice Sri Aurobindo’s revelation that ‘All life is yoga.’ The Ashram took formal shape in 1926 and its activities expanded, with residents looking upon their mundane activities as a powerful means of sadhana or meditation. After Sri Aurobindo’s death on December 5, 1950, the Ashram ran under the Mother’s guidance. She founded the Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education in 1951, and in 1968 she launched the daring experiment that is Auroville, the City of Dawn, the city for a future ‘that belongs to humanity as a whole.’ This daring dreamer, a supreme optimist, left the earth on November 17, 1973, after organising a worldwide celebration of Aurobindo’s birth centenary on August 15, 1972. The best tribute that can be offered to her on the centenary of her arrival is to take note of a significant message she left behind: “The future of the earth depends on a change of consciousness... and the change is bound to come. But it is left to men to decide if they will collaborate for this change or if it will have to be enforced upon them by the power of crushing circumstances. So, wake up and collaborate.” Manoj Das is an author and Padma Bhushan awardee.    Circumstances led her to Japan towards the end of the war. Suddenly a terrible epidemic, then infamous as Spanish Flu, broke out, wiping out some 30 million lives
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The writing’s on the page||When Aditi Surana was 14 years old, a handwriting coach pointed out that she had spent the better part of an hour carefully drawing a string of zeroes on the page. Instead of feeling apologetic or embarrassed, Surana looked at the writing carefully and found that there was definitely a pattern there. And patterns usually say something — or can be decanted for meaning. Graphology seems a rather odd gateway to a podcast, but what Aditi Surana has done is combine her longstanding passion for handwriting analysis with her skills as a high-performance coach to create the context for conversation. In each episode of IVM’s new podcast series,Absolutely Write, Surana engages with a guest to unpack their personal journey while she peers into their handwriting for clues to their personality. The conversations are open-ended and somewhat winding, peppered with friendly banter and some serious reflective pauses. “Complicated conversations actually offer insights to the passive listener,” says Surana, explaining what she hopes to achieve with her podcast. “Just listening to someone talk about their journey in a non-judgmental space can create clarity.” Surprises, anyone? Guests on the show so far have been IVM insiders, hosts of other podcasts, and hence there is a level of comfort and familiarity that comes through. This is also the limitation, precluding any real surprises for either the host or — by extension — the listener. Surana is quick to note that this is by design, as the team wanted to include guests who “were comfortable with the medium.” To her credit, Surana is able to bring in a measure of the unexpected when she unravels the dots and crosses in the writing samples from her guests. Trait and reason Speaking with her first guest Anupam Gupta, host of the business podcastPaisa Vaisa, she points to his habits of close observation and attention to process as a basis for decision making, expressed in parenting styles as much as in advising on stock market moves. Rather than becoming caught up with the handwriting itself, Surana then pulls back to ask Gupta on how he applies this trait to his work as a financial analyst. This is where, potentially, the learning for the listener takes place. Clearly, having a seasoned podcaster as a guest helps smooth awkward pauses, though tell-tale nervous laughter does punctuate some of the early shows. Podcast episodes toggle between interviews with these selected guests and shorter pieces launched every Friday where Surana focuses on “a topic that is essential to your personal growth.” These deal with such themes as our relationship with money, building — and breaking — habits, and finding flow (recalling Eckhart Tolle), speaking, clearly, to an audience that enjoys self-help as a genre. Achievers in conversation If you are among those who enjoy listening to how someone found their groove, I’d like to recommend another show that recently came to my attention. Former NPR journalist and U.S.-based leadership coach Chitra Ragavan’sWhen it Matteredengages achievers in conversation around their professional journeys—and the personal moments that propelled them to success or brought them back from the brink of failure. Started in July 2019, the podcast has had guests including former FBI Director James Comey and physician-astronaut Shawna Pandya. Ragavan’s long experience with radio and her training as a journalist comes through in her audio style, the research that informs the interviews, and the expert way in which she guides the conversation to yielding those decisive moments. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.  Clearly, having a seasoned podcaster as a guest helps smooth awkward pauses, though tell-tale nervous laughter does punctuate some of the early shows
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||White anger, crimson sky||This book brings together 15 short stories from Assam, originally written in Assamese, Bodo or English, and edited by one of the foremost names in Assamese literature, Aruni Kashyap. As the title indicates, all the narratives address the realities of political agitation and ethnic conflict that has been Assam’s share since colonial times. Shadow of the gun Curiously, however, the editor seems to assume that all readers will have an understanding of how and why the stories represent “what it means to live under the shadow of the gun”. Apart from invoking the universality of human suffering, this book purportedly also wants to present such experiences through the lens of very specific cultures and communities of a particular region. Strange, then, that not a single line of context is offered in the preface, none of the individual texts have headnotes, and no author biography possesses publication dates and sources. This does leave one to flounder a bit. Since the colours of oppression and insurgency have shifted and coalesced in Assam in complex ways over time, some contextual information would have not only been helpful, it would have intensified the impact of these tales. And the tales do leave a strong impact, in spite of the spottiness of the translations. Of the 15 stories, four were originally written in English, two in Bodo and the rest in Assamese. The most notable of the English narratives is ‘Vigil’ by Jahnavi Barua, exploring with understated intensity the mind of a mother torn in love for her sons, one of whom is a police officer, the other an insurgent. The Assamese stories almost uniformly choose straightforward narrative over stylistic experimentation and all the contributions use simple, even stock, situations to convey an affective message. These are strong stories, dealing with love, loss, politics (personal and organisational), idealism and suffering seen almost exclusively through the eyes of women, children, and other outliers of a community. Stuti Goswami’s assured translation of Sanjib Pol Deka’s ‘What Lies over Here?’ uses the motif of folk theatre to tie in the themes of communities in conflict, others explore political indoctrination meetings (Ratnottama Das Bikrom’s ‘Crimsom’ sic) or village burnings (Arup Kumar Nath’s ‘Koli-Puran’). ‘Crimsom’ (sic) is easily the most accomplished in the collection, supported by Mitali Goswami’s luminous translation. A teenage boy and his “pekpeki” (chatterbox) sister come of age in the aftermath of unexpected violence. Teenage rivalry, idealism, menstruation and bloodshed are masterfully woven into the titular refrain: “[c]rimson sun, crimson blood, crimson western sky.” Wordplay and world-play come together to produce a tale that’s sensitively handled, insightful and moving. A stylistically different piece is Juri Baruah’s ‘A Political Tale’. It is a meditation on the road as metaphor for life, spinning the conceit out into symbolic spaces of memory and experience. But the emotional force of a female political activist’s interior monologue is hobbled by an awkward translation and inadequate footnotes. Heat of outrage What ties all the stories together is the white heat of outrage. These are deeply angry voices, one and all, not yet ready for laughter as resistance. The Assamese tales are all marked by earnestness; it is only in the two Bodo tales that we see sparks of satire. In time, perhaps, anger will be able to perfectly turn the knife of sarcasm, and more stories like Nandeswar Daimari’s superb Bodo non-fable ‘A Hen that Doesn’t know how to Hatch its own Eggs’ will emerge. Both Bodo tales use some black humour in offerings that are stark and pitiless in their refusal to comment. The careless translations (especially in the rendering of Katindra Swargiary’s ‘Hongla Pandit’) cannot detract from the power of these deceptively simple tales. At the end of the day, this is a book so important that one is tempted to overlook its uneven quality and shoddy presentation. The reviewer is Assistant Professor, English, at IIT Guwahati.  How the Tell the Story of an Insurgency Edited by Aruni Kashyap HarperCollins  Rs. 399    These are strong stories, dealing with love, loss, politics, idealism and suffering seen almost exclusively through the eyes of women, children, and other outliers of a given community
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Kattabomman colours an apple||So how is the lockdown treating you? I have a simple, three-point formula that anybody can use to make sure they not only survive the lockdown but positively enjoy it: don’t be poor, don’t be a migrant worker, and don’t be a member of a minority community. If you can manage this, everything will be fine. At least until you lose your job. As and when you lose your job, don’t panic — apply to the IT cell, and you’ll get a job that pays infinitely better than MGNREGA. As for me, I’ve never worked as hard my whole life as I have during this lockdown. I’d never imagined that work-from-home would be so much more hectic than work-from-work. Not only have I been putting in 18-19 hours a day, I’ve also been forced to learn new skills and new facts about everyday life — all thanks to Modiji. Jhaadu-pocha-bartan routine Apart from reading, writing, and forwarding propaganda on WhatsApp, now I also know how to comb a toddler’s hair when the toddler is in continuous and irregular motion, the strategic-tactical line on when to use Scotch-Brite and when to deploy the steel mesh, and to never EVER turn away, even for one second, when milk is on the stove — it will always, ALWAYS stab you in the back. In our home, three individuals — all women, of course — do the heavy-lifting when it comes to domestic work: cook, cleaner, nanny. In their lockdown-induced absence, the wife’s MHA advisory — in complete disregard of the patriarchal settings that come factory-fitted with every entitled Indian male — has divided the housework and care work equally between herself and myself. Out of consideration for me, she has assigned to herself the tougher 50% — all the managerial stuff that is high value and therefore full of tension. These include planning the day’s schedule, issuing precise instructions, monitoring me for timely compliance and quality control, etc. I get the 50% that is less stressful because it is merely physical labour, and rather easy to do so long as you know your Lizol from your Colin from your Harpic. Just chill So the lockdown for me has been a non-stop, confused blur of jobs: jhaadu-pocha, bartan-cooking, reading-writing, pot-banging-potty-cleaning, hand-washing-candle-lighting, milk-feeding-copy-editing, tear-wiping-fairytale-telling, arguing-mask-wearing, handwashing-and-praying. The easiest — because you’ve been doing it all your life — is your work-work. The household chores — mopping, cleaning, etc — I don’t mind so much because they leave me mentally free to contemplate the planet’s post-human future. The toughest is shepherding Kattabomman from morning to midnight. I dread his daily official meetings. Since April 1, the first day of his school life, I’ve been waking up earlier than I ever have to set up his zoom calls with his nursery teacher. I undertake extensive online research to prep for his ‘learning activity’, and still manage to bungle it every time. Last Friday’s ‘activity’, for instance, was a typical disaster, with potentially calamitous side effects on marital concord. On an A4 sheet of paper, I’d drawn an outline of an apple, as I was supposed to. Kattabomman somehow turned it into a pink heart with green whiskers. The pink heart also sported thick yellow hair in the style of Cher. For some reason, it also had purple eyes, a sad purple mouth, and a limp, purple tail. “What the hell is this?” the wife asked, from over our (mine and Kattabomman’s) shoulders. “Eh…I was just asking myself the same question,” I said. “Where is the apple cut-out I gave you?” “You were wrong about the apple cut-out,” I said. “You--” “God, I don’t have time for this,” she said, rolling her eyes like Cersei Lannister. “Just chill,” I said. “It’s just a stupid activity for three-year-olds.” “You had one job,” she said. “To paste the apple cut-out on the bloody page.” “You were supposed to give me an apple outline, not an apple cut-out,” I said. “Is there a difference between an outline and a cut-out?” “There is. If you check the Oxford English Dictionary—” “Forget it. The app says cut-out.” “The noodle app?” “It’s moodle, not noodle,” she said. “The app is wrong about the apple activity.” “A-for-apple,” said Kattabomman. “Ok I’m done!” she said, throwing her hands up in a dramatic but hackneyed gesture of mock surrender. “From tomorrow, you and your son manage on your own. I’m out of it!” “Let me remind you,” I began, “That we agreed to split all suffering 50-50.” But she’d already stomped out. I stared at Kattabomman. He stared at me. We both stared at the botched monstrosity that was meant to be a ‘learning activity’ for the letter A. It required him to colour inside the outline of an apple while chanting the slogan, ‘A-for-Apple’. He was still at it, painstakingly applying the final touches to what seemed like an apple displaying severe symptoms of COVID-19. “ Dei, ennada idhu ?” I asked him, exhausted and exasperated. “ Po !” he said, bringing his tiny fist down on the sickly apple. “ Po, corona, po !”
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Questioning diverse identities||When the final draft of the National Register of Citizens was released in July 2018, around four million people were left out in Assam. By December 2019, the Narendra Modi government had brought in the Citizenship Amendment Act to grant citizenship to religious minorities of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh facing persecution. Indian Muslims saw it as a threat of disenfranchisement, as the government, wanting ostensibly to address the issue of migrants, excluded people on the basis of their faith. Protests swelled in the streets across the country against the CAA and a possible National Register of Citizens for all of India, and if people have moved indoors it’s largely because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. In this context,The Deoliwallahsis a sad reminder of what happens to people who are trapped by decisions made by governments, and how it forces them to become victims of suspicion and hate. Prisoners at home In the aftermath of the 1962 Indo-China war, 3,000 Chinese-Indians, practitioners of small trade in leather, running restaurants, and other family businesses, who had made India their home, suddenly faced the prospect of being interred in a disused World War II prisoner-of-war camp at Deoli, Rajasthan. The Defence of India Act, 1962 defined the ‘enemy’ as ‘any person or country committing external aggression against India; any person belonging to a country committing such aggression.’ As authors Joy Ma and Dilip D’Souza write, there was more to come. “The Indian Government amended the Foreigners Act which essentially said that any person whose parents or grandparents were subjects/citizens of any country that India was at war with would be subject to certain consequences.” And the Foreigners (Restricted Areas) Order was passed — declaring that foreigners could not enter restricted areas. All these executive and parliamentary actions together laid the ground for the incarceration of the Chinese Indians. This is a moving account of how people were picked up from far-flung places in Shillong, Darjeeling, Tinsukia, and Kalimpong, forced to carry only the essentials with them, and made to undertake a week-long rail journey to Deoli which was to mark the beginning of a five-year internment. Along the way, many of them realised that the place they had called home no longer wanted them. They had been singled out as persons of hostile origin by virtue of their physical features. It did not matter to the police authorities that Hindi and English were the two languages spoken by the Chinese Indians. The camp was ill-prepared to meet the new detainees. Most of all, the camp officials were shocked to learn that the detainees could speak Hindi fluently. With just the bare minimum afforded to the Chinese, the lives they had known changed forever. After they were released, many left India for Canada.  The book’s authors remind us that much like the Foreigners Act, the omission of Muslim refugees from the protection of the CAA will offer a legal structure to the government to target people who profess Islam. The Deoliwallahs remind us that in a democratic India, often hailed as an exemplar of unity in diversity, this is a road best not taken. The most difficult hurdle for the detainees was the stigma of being in jail. They haven’t been able to forget it.  The Deoliwallahs: The True Story of the 1962 Chinese-Indian Internment Joy Ma, Dilip D’Souza Pan Macmillan India  Rs. 650
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Gross domestic problem||T.C.A. Ranganathan spent four decades in the banking sector in senior positions and Srinivasa Raghavan had long and varied stints as an economist-cum-journalist with financial papers. Their treatise on the Indian economy over the past several decades sends several messages but falls short in some areas. Their book,All the Wrong Turns, is divided into six sections each analysing a separate sector such as agriculture, manufacturing, and so forth. There is no interconnection between them except for manufacturing and international trade. Nor is there an over-arching economic philosophy for assessment. Indeed, there are obligatory references to China’s growth and the Korean and Taiwanese miracles. Though the authors appreciate state intervention in those countries, they feel India’s interventions are flawed. Western influence The writers argue that in India’s efforts to promote development, the state took on a responsibility for which it was not equipped as it ‘never had a history of either manufacturing or entrepreneurship.’ The other is that, there was too much micromanagement and, beyond a stage, the state should have divested its role. Yet another point is that India had inherited western institutions which were unsuited to serve its goals. In the same tenor is the edict that India should ‘stop paying heed to economists trained in the West and working here.’ But if, as the authors claim, India did not have a manufacturing legacy, how did the indigenous private sector inherit that capacity? In the section on agriculture, a rosy view of growth since Independence is presented, both in the aggregate and in sub-sectors. They explain that India has done well compared to other countries. However, the writers underplay the phenomenon of agricultural distress, attributing it to other causes such as poor water management, absence of marketing, frequent changes in export quotas and lack of finance or credit. The section on manufacturing covers a gamut of issues. They blame the poor performance of the private sector primarily on the shackles imposed under the Industrial Development Act and the Industrial Policy Resolution (IDR/IPR). They feel that if the private sector was ‘left alone to their own devices...[they may] have performed even better....’ On international trade, the lament is India has not done as well as China, Korea and Taiwan. As the authors aver, the failure is in not ‘focussing on governance and building blocks of modernity.’ The section on banking is rich with insightful analysis. It is not possible to take up all the issues in this brief review, but two valuable points they make deserve attention. One is that even as Basel compliance is strong for individual banks, it is low for the system as a whole and this has led to increasing bad loans. The other is that in India reliance on banks is heavy, while in other countries the reliance is more on the real economy and less on banks. This imbalance has to be redressed and it may not be easy to achieve it in the near future. This book is a mixed bag, falling between two stools. However, it deals with an array of economic issues, and offers ideas, some contrarian, others valuable.  The reviewer writes on economic and strategic issues.  All the Wrong Turns: Perspectives on the Indian Economy T.C.A. Ranganathan, T.C.A. Srinivasa Raghavan Westland  Rs. 799
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The period drama on the idiot box||In the mid-1960s, Doordarshan was the only television channel in India, with barely an hour of transmission a day. Our neighbour’s son brought a TV set from the U.S. some time then, creating excitement not only in his family but in the entire neighbourhood. We had only heard of the box which when switched on would open up a whole new world. The family sat around the sofa and watched very animatedly the black-and- white visuals. Next evening, five of us children mustered up the courage and rang their door bell. When the man of the house opened the door, we rushed in without saying a word and made ourselves comfortable on their carpet. He was kind enough to smile despite the fact that we were intruding into their privacy. We sat watching till the end of the transmission. This then became our daily ritual. And what did we watch each day with such rapt attention — Krishi Darshan. We would watch experts conversing with farmers and villagers, explaining how to grow better and more crops. All through this, we would be glued to the screen in silence. It was the magic of the box. In the following decades, TV was spreading its tentacles. I vividly remember a Sunday morning in 1987, returning to India after living abroad, we found the Delhi roads deserted when the Ramayana series was being telecast. Had never ever seen the idiot box grip people of all ages and classes. Now, we have hundreds of channels at our fingertips. So much to chose from and yet we complain — nothing to watch while restlessly surfing channels. With TV sets in every home, 24-hour transmission and Internet apps, some of us are glued to the screen. You rarely get a gentle knock at the door these days from your neighbour who wants to drop in and chat. I can’t help but yearn for those days when TV brought together total strangers in a neighbourhood rather than make strangers out of neighbours.  alkavarma@hotmail.com
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Argentina!||Today’s deal is from an important tournament held recently in Argentina. Most pairs reached six no trump and failed, due to the foul heart split and the unlucky location of the king of diamonds. One declarer, Argentine expert Monica Angeleri, brought it home. Angeleri won the opening spade lead in hand with the king. She led a heart to dummy’s king and a heart to the jack and ace as West shed a diamond. She cashed three more spade tricks and four club tricks, thanks to the fall of the jack, to reach this three-card ending with the lead in dummy: (grid 2) She knew that West had started with five diamonds, and she had to play her for the king, as East could just cash a heart if she had that card. She led a low diamond to her eight, putting West on lead with the 10. West had to lead away from her king of diamonds and Angeleri had her slam. Beautifully played!
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Fully cowfefe only||Respected Madam/ Sir,  How is the quarantine news? Whether everything is ok in the esteemed newspaper? One day rumour is coming that one newspaper is terminating employees. Next day rumour is coming that one TV channel is terminating employees. Everyday rumours only. Kali Yuga. What else one can say? Before Corona days, I used to think oho, it will be so nice to work in office. Full computer and AC and all. Decades ago, during probation time, maybe I have told this story. Bank of India branch used to be next to one cowshed. Smell is very bad. But after two-three weeks, brain is adjusting for smell. But we are noticing one thing, deposit slip is being used like anything. Every day, one or two slip books are disappearing. During morning meeting manager said, “Hello, what nonsense. Whole day seven customers are coming. But evening 70 slips are missing.” Mrs. Chacko, is it you? Mrs. Chacko face is turning red. She said, “Sir, just because by mistake one person tried to take new ceiling fan from the branch to one person’s house means every time one person will be treated like Charles Sobhraj?” Then two-three days later, when we are returning from lunch break, mystery is solved. Everyday lunch time we are locking branch but leaving window open so that post or messages can be put inside. But what is actually happening? Madam/ Sir, nearby cow is coming, putting head into the window and eating all paper items. When we came back, she is casually enjoying deposit slip as if ras malai. We laughed and laughed like anything but whether head office will believe? Never. They said if you want new deposit slip book, please ask cow owner. Whether we are Bank of India or Gold Mohur Cattle Feed Company? But these days any cows coming inside office? Zero. Full AC and kitchen and sofa set and all. That’s why I sometimes think what enjoyment it will be to work in modern office. But after Corona, no need. At least those days stable jobs was there. Today? Monday you are manager. Tuesday you are in the dustbin. What story I was going to tell? No no. Not cow story. One other story. OHO. YES. Story of housewarming. Friday morning Mrs. M came and said, “Please get ready today, tomorrow one housewarming is there.” I said, “Kamalam, did I sleep for two months by mistake? Corona is over?” She said, “What nonsense you are talking. My cousin in Bhopal is doing housewarming in video conference. All are attending. Please get ready.” I said, “What is there to get ready? Video conference means put one shirt and look at camera no? Even trouser not needed.” Kamalam looked like M.R. Radha seeing first day first show of Aayirathil Oruvan . She said, “Your hair is growing like banyan tree in Theosophical Society. Please do one haircut.” I said, “Kamalam, how I will get haircut? Whether police will allow barber shop?” She thought for two minutes then said, “I will cut your hair.” I said no no no no no. Madam/ Sir, what happened? She cut my hair. Nowadays, from morning to evening I am wearing one Deccan Chargers cap. Under cap hair is like old toothbrush Kamalam is using for jewellery cleaning. Total humiliation. During housewarming people are saying, excuse me, why Mr. Mathrubootham is wearing cap? That too of old team? Mrs. M is saying oho that is because he is lifelong fan of Deccan Chargers. What did I say? Nothing. Because Mrs. Mathrubootham said, during housewarming pin-drop silence. Only smiling. Yours in humiliation, J. Mathrubootham
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Rejuvenating spring||The yellow-coloured Indian laburnum, commonly known as golden shower, bloomed a week ago, brightening up the road I live on. There is also a profusion of the copper pod flowers like a tapestry of gold on the road. The haldi gulmohar, as it is also known as, was considered a good luck charm in your studies, if it fell on your textbook. The pink and white flowers of the rain trees are vying for attention in this burst of golden-flowered mornings in April. It suddenly dawns on me that Vishu, a festival in Kerala, marks the beginning of spring. These past couple of weeks have seen you play out a part from Groundhog Day caught in a time warp, reliving the same day. I shake the thought off, dress for my morning walk. The time is 7.15 a.m. Zuma, our 18-month-old retriever is excited, happy, looking forward to setting out for his walk every morning. Our eight-year-old Messi, is excited too but will walk at his own pace. They step on the haldi gulmohar flowers, with a spring in their step. In the U.S., U.K., Europe, Asia and many parts of the world, it is spring. A time of coming out of hibernation, opening the windows to inhale fresh air, gathering together in parks and beaches, celebrating this flowering time. Now all this in COVID-19 times seems distant. “It would have been so pleasant now in Kent,” said my younger daughter who is in her final year of college. She was forced to abruptly return home in Chennai. The deep orange flowers of the African tulip tree are distracting me, so does the frangipani trees. In Buddhism, the frangipani flower is seen as a symbol of renewal, of new life. Well, new life is surely the sign around, of tender new leaves, of fresh foliage, letting the dried-up leaves and branches disappear. The birds are around now, silence can be heard, the air is breathing freely, happy that people have paused in their homes. I remember the lines of a William Blake poem, Spring : ‘Birds delight, Day and night, Nightingale, In the dale, Lark in sky, Merrily, Merrily, merrily to welcome in the year…’  irisfilms@gmail.com
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Free or dead||Right-wing groups across 18 U.S. States organised demonstrations against stay-at-home orders, and many violated social distancing norms. While President Trump expressed his support for the protesters in a series of all-caps tweets saying “Liberate Michigan” etc., healthcare workers staged counter-protests. Meanwhile, in what was derided as a publicity stunt, the State of Missouri sued China in a U.S. Federal Court over its handling of COVID-19.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Another brick in the wall||U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order that bans immigration for 60 days, focusing on those seeking green cards to live and work permanently in the U.S, but with numerous exemptions. Framing the measure as a way to put unemployed Americans “first in line for jobs” and conserve medical resources, he said it could be extended later.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Green Goa||Goa became the country’s first ‘green’ State as its seven positive COVID-19 cases tested negative. There have been no new cases since April 3. Of over 800 people tested in Goa, seven tested positive. “They will now be quarantined at a government facility and later at home,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Goa was followed by Manipur, whose two patients also tested negative.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Slips below zero||U.S. oil prices fell below zero for the first time in history on April 20, with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude dipping as far as -$40.32 a barrel for deliveries in May, as traders reacted to excess supply and sold off futures before their contracts expired. WTI for June deliveries also suffered but recovered with a surge a couple of days later, while Brent crude for June fell to a 21-year low.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Ode to joy||Looking to spread cheer as well as information during the pandemic, Beninese singer-lyricist and UNICEF goodwill ambassador Angélique Kidjo re-recorded a 1967 hit single by the late Miriam Makeba, once called “the world’s most defiantly joyful song”. It’s titled ‘Pata Pata’ — Xhosa for ‘touch touch’ — but Kidjo’s version, released globally by UNICEF, changed the lyrics to ‘No Pata Pata’.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Theron’s donation||With reports of gender-based violence increasingly surfacing during the pandemic, Hollywood actor Charlize Theron launched a campaign to fight the troubling trend. ‘Together for Her’, an initiative under the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Project, in partnership with CARE and the Entertainment Industry Foundation, will donate half a million dollars towards domestic violence shelters and community-based programmes.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||On trial||Oxford University began trials on humans for a COVID-19 vaccine it has been developing called ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, with 510 volunteers aged between 18 and 55 set to take part over the next couple of weeks. This is the fourth vaccine globally to reach the human trial stage, and production is being scaled up to vaccinate thousands of volunteers in later phases.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Entering Prez Estate||As many as 115 families at Rashtrapati Bhavan have gone into quarantine after a relative of one of the housekeeping staff tested positive for COVID-19. Hundreds of families live on the premises and work towards the upkeep of the rooms and gardens of the sprawling 330-acre estate. No employee of the President’s secretariat has tested positive.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind your language||The Indian government went into damage control mode as several Indians living and working in the U.A.E. landed in trouble for Islamophobic comments on social media. Meanwhile, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation issued a warning about the growing anti-Muslim prejudice in India. Prime Minister Modi responded by tweeting that “COVID-19 does not see race, religion...” etc., while India’s ambassador to the U.A.E. warned expat Indians against hate speech.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||If I Had Your Face||Frances Cha  Ballantine Books $27.00 In contemporary Seoul, four young women make their way in a world defined by impossible standards of beauty, secret salons for wealthy men, strict social hierarchies and K-pop fan mania. In this hostile setting, their tentative friendships may turn out to be the only thing that saves them.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Mad, Bad & Dangerous to Know||Samira Ahmed  Soho Teen $10.99 (Kindle price) Told in alternating stories set 200 years apart, this novel is about two young women fighting to write their own narratives and escape the pressure of cultural expectations. Leila and Khayyam’s lives intertwine, and as one woman’s long-forgotten life is uncovered, another’s is transformed.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Not That Kind of Guy||Andie J. Christopher  Berkley $8.45 (Kindle price) State attorney Bridget Nolan is successful in all aspects of her life except romance, not that she has much time for it. Matt Kido, the legal intern, falls for her. They spend a rollicking time together in Las Vegas, but are quite ready to put it all behind them. Then everything changes.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A Saint in Swindon||Alice Jolly  Fairlight Books Price not mentioned A stranger arrives in town and never leaves his room. He only demands books. Who is he? What is he reading? Speculations run rife. This funny and dystopian tale is about the importance of literature in an increasingly dark world.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Akbar: The Great Mughal||Ira Mukhoty  Aleph Rs. 799 Abu’l Fath Jalal-ud-din Muhammad Akbar, the third Mughal emperor, is regarded as one of the greatest rulers in Indian history. In this biography, Mukhoty covers Akbar’s life and times, his military genius, reverence towards all religions, and other acts of statesmanship and humanity.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Superbugs: The Race to Stop an Epidemic||Matt McCarthy  HarperCollins Rs. 599 A physician and researcher explores the history of bacteria and antibiotics, from Alexander Fleming’s discovery of penicillin, to obscure sources of new medicines, bringing to light how the world arrived at this juncture of breakthrough and vulnerability.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Employment in India||Ajit K. Ghose  Oxford University Press Rs. 345 Reviewing the evolution of employment conditions in India since Independence, this volume, in the OUP Short Introductions series, outlines the contours of the employment challenge that India faces and discusses viable ways of overcoming this hurdle.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Republic of Religion: The Rise and Fall of Colonial Secularism in India||Abhinav Chandrachud  Penguin Random House India Rs. 599 This volume argues that the secular structure of the colonial state was imposed by a colonial power on a conquered people of the subcontinent. It was an unnatural foreign imposition, one which was bound to come apart.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3097||Across  1 With respect to area around Norfolk, Everyman has to be obnoxious (9) 10 Laugh abruptly with derisive interjections following excitement (3-4) 11 A Rover’s waxed, for starters, when money’s seen around here! (3,4) 12 Where you find some heresy? No; dogma! (5) 13 Nine getting into pastry, sliced for a do (5,3) 15 Concert venue, a large place in which to fall asleep entirely (6,4) 16 A young woman almost flipped somewhere in Latvia (4) 18 They made ‘SOS’ a palindrome (4) 20 Gaffer isn’t swayed by facetious excuse for typo in text (3,7) 22 Release redacted; it’s inevitable (4,4) 24 Hush-hush, not about to become public (5) 26 Carelessly malinger without a reason for machine’s downtime (7) 27 Anglesey spending year struggling to become member of African Union (7) 28 Where Douglas is breaking flamingoes – not good (4,2,3)  Down  2 Serf working across terrain in mediaeval principality (8) 3 Losing head, stop being calm (4) 4 ‘Clue is “Fish”.’ ‘Flounders.’ ‘That’s how it goes’ (4,2,4) 5 Italian scorer, clever dick to some extent (5) 6 Now – regrettably – Dad’s eating hay (4,3,3,3) 7 Biscuit mix (6) 8 Exercise and hot drink proposed by Spooner (3,3) 9 Revising hastily at last? There’s nothing more to add (4,4,2,3) 14 One who told tales when cradle rocked (1,1,8) 17 A minion’s faltering complaint (8) 19 Supports British experts (6) 21 What’s displayed by keener gymnasts, in part? (6) 23 What cowboys may carry; what may carry cowboys (5) 25 Primarily, announcement showing incredulity flatly! (2,2)
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sewage surveillance can estimate coronavirus spread in the community||Sampling sewage for viral particles is a time-tested method of environment surveillance and is routinely resorted to for understanding circulation of several viruses — wild and vaccine-derived polio, rota virus, Hepatitis E and typhoid — in the community. Now, researchers in France have found that sewage surveillance can help in understanding the circulation of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in the human population. People infected with the virus have been found to shed the virus in their stools. And by studying sewage samples, it is possible to know the viral load in the community through modelling once data on how many viral particles are shed by individuals and how the viral particles get diluted in sewage are available. Late detection In the case of novel coronavirus, sewage surveillance becomes particularly useful as a large percentage of infected population is either asymptomatic or show only mild symptoms. Hence, there is a greatly likelihood that circulation of the virus in the community will be detected quite late, if at all. The circulation is likely to continue undetected till such time community testing is ramped up so that many get tested, or till such time people become severely ill, requiring hospitalisation. While a few other researchers have found coronavirus in sewage samples, the study posted on medRxiv preprint server, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, has shown that the environmental surveillance is able to pick up a spike in virus concentration in sewage much before cases show up or overload and strain the healthcare system. The other benefit is that sewage surveillance can be carried out independent of testing in humans and will be able to pick up early signs even when people in the community do not show symptoms. The ability of sewage surveillance to decipher community spread even when people are asymptomatic is akin to antibody testing. Correlation with outbreak The study was carried out in greater Paris for a month (March 5 to April 7), and samples were picked twice a week from 23 raw and eight treated wastewater sites. The study found that the rise and fall in coronavirus concentrations closely matched the COVID-19 outbreak in the region. Most interestingly, the team led by Dr. Moulin L from Sorbonne Universite, CNRS, Paris found high concentration of viral RNA about a week before multiple deaths were recorded in Paris on March 10. The virus concentration in wastewater had the same trend as cases and deaths. The concentration of virus in the wastewater samples increased a few days ahead of an increase in cases and deaths in the city. “We have a very clear curve that precedes the curve in numbers of clinical cases, and now with confinement, we see a flattening of that curve,” Laurent Moulin, a study co-author and a microbiologist at Eau de Paris told the journal Science.  Surveillance of virus in sewage is not only easy but also good to track and monitor the spread of the virus in the community, says a senior researcher based in India who has carried out sewage surveillance for a few different viruses. “Environmental surveillance is the key to know and understand community transmission. But one should be clear when to carry out sewage surveillance — when cases have come down once the outbreak has been controlled or before cases show up so as to predict an outbreak,” says. the researcher. “In the case of novel coronavirus, sewage surveillance is a good way to detect asymptomatic cases and those who exhibit mild symptoms, who might otherwise not be tested.” According to the scientist, there are two ways to take sewage samples — pick up samples at several places to monitor the presence of the virus in a community living in upstream catchment area and/or terminal sites where the sewage of the city/town is treated or let out into water bodies. Useful method That the presence of the virus in wastewater treatment closely correlated with cases in greater Paris, reflects how useful this method is in tracking community spread. Higher concentrations of the virus in the wastewater did correspond to higher number of infected people in the region. “Viral particles in sewage samples is a collection of virus shed by many people in the community and is akin to pooled testing,” the scientist said. “But sewage sampling is not a replacement to testing for infection in people but is only a supplement.” The best time and place to carry out sewage sampling in India for coronavirus is when testing of people has been sorted and in places where no cases have been reported, according to the scientist.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus spares no major organ in the body||As the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 crosses 2.7 million and that of deaths is fast approaching 192,000, physicians are beginning to realise that lungs are just the ground zero for the virus while the virus spreads its lethal tentacles to multiple organs — heart and blood vessels, kidneys, gut, and brain — not necessarily in one patient. While about 80% of people infected with the virus either don’t display any symptoms or only mild symptoms, the remaining need hospitalisation and about 5% need ICU care. Who would need hospitalisation and even ICU care depends on how decisively the body strikes down the virus soon after infection. If not beaten back in the initial stage of infection, the virus invades the lower respiratory tract and enters the lungs, which very soon turns into a battle ground. A feature published in the journal Science explains how the virus tears apart the body and attacks different organs with so far unseen ferocity. The virus enters the cells by binding to receptors found on certain cells called angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). The lining of the nose is rich in cells with this receptor and hence is the site of entry into the body. The receptors are found in cells found in many other organs, thus leaving them too vulnerable. The lungs The tiny air sacs in the lungs called the alveoli, where oxygen exchange between the lungs and blood vessels take place, are rich in ACE2 receptors. Once the virus enters these cells, the immune system mounts an all out battle against the virus, disrupting the oxygen transfer and leaving the air sacs with fluid and dead cells, which makes breathing shallow and difficult and accompanied with coughing. While some patients survive without further complications once provided with external oxygen support, some others deteriorate further, developing a condition called acute respiratory distress syndrome. Oxygen levels drop sharply and breathing becomes harder. The lungs are by now riddled with fluid white blood cells, mucus, and the detritus of destroyed lung cells instead of air. Many patients end up on ventilators, and while some survive the rest either die or their condition worsens further. Patients experiencing worsening conditions typically have their immune system overreacting and bringing on a “cytokine storm”, where the level of cytokines far exceed the levels needed resulting in healthy tissues being attacked. “Blood vessels leak, blood pressure drops, clots form, and catastrophic organ failure can ensue,” the Science feature says. Blood supply Heart is one of the organs that gets affected after lungs. The disruption seems to extend to the blood itself, causing blood clots, which when breaks can restrict the blood supply to the brain causing stroke or artery supplying blood to the lungs causing pulmonary embolism. Infection may also lead to blood vessel constriction, causing reduced blood supply to organs. “Some patients have extremely low blood-oxygen levels and yet are not gasping for breath. The oxygen uptake is impeded by constricted blood vessels rather than by clogged alveoli,” the report says. The virus attacking the blood vessels could be one reason why patients with blood pressure, diabetes are at higher risk. Not at great risk Surprisingly, asthmatics or patients with other respiratory diseases are not at great risk unlike those with vascular problems — diabetes, obesity, age, hypertension. Scientists are yet to understand exactly what causes damage to the heart and blood vessels. Kidneys too are very vulnerable and experience in China shows that a sizeable fraction of patients may suffer from kidney failure. It could be due to direct infection by the virus, cytokine storms reducing blood supply to the kidneys, or pre-existing diabetes causing fatal damage to kidneys. A small subset (5%-10%) of patients suffer from neurological problems — seizure-like symptoms, strokes, loss of sense of smell and taste, and at times even depression of brain stem reflex, which is responsible for sensing oxygen starvation. In rare cases, the virus finds its way into the cerebrospinal fluid causing meningitis and encephalitis. “No one knows when or how the virus might penetrate the brain. But one scientist speculates about a possible invasion route: through the nose, then upward and through the olfactory bulb — explaining reports of a loss of smell — which connects to the brain,” the report says.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||First merger of two black holes with unequal masses detected||For the first time since it started functioning, the gravitational wave observatories at LIGO scientific collaboration have detected a merger of two unequal-mass black holes. The event, dubbed GW190412, was detected nearly a year ago, and this is almost five years after the first ever detection of gravitational wave signals by these powerful detectors. Subsequent analysis of the signal coming from the violent merger showed that it involved two black holes of unequal masses coalescing, one of which was some 30 times the mass of the Sun and the other which had a mass nearly 8 times the solar mass. The actual merger took place at a distance of 2.5 billion light years away. This study has been published in preprint server ArXiv, and is pending peer review. The detected signal’s waveform has special extra features in it when it corresponds to the merger of two unequal-sized black holes as compared with a merger of equal-sized black holes. These features make it possible to infer many more things about the characters in this celestial drama, namely, a more accurate determination of the distance from the event, the spin or angular momentum of the more massive black hole and the orientation of the whole event with respect to viewers on Earth. While the mass of the black hole bends the space-time close to it, the spin or angular momentum of this inscrutable object drags the nearby space-time, causing it to swirl around, along with it. Hence both these properties are important to estimate. Crucial difference Pointing out the difference between binary black holes with equal masses and those with different masses, K.G. Arun of Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI), says, ”Dominant emission of gravitational waves happens at twice the orbital frequency of the binary… In this case, we find, for the first time, emission at a frequency that is three times the orbital frequency. This emission is negligible when binaries contain equal masses and when the orbit is face-on. GR has a unique prediction for the details of this emission which is verified by this observation.” Anand Sengupta of IIT Gandhinagar, along with Prof. Arun and Phd scholar Soumen Roy from IIT Gandhinagar made important contributions to this analysis. The trio worked on the contribution to the signal from higher harmonics which form a fainter component to the signal. “Following this a sophisticated statistical analysis was performed to measure the strength of the sub-dominant component and its statistical significance, by calculating the odds that it was not a false positive. For instance, that it was not some instrumental noise mimicking this effect,” says Prof. Sengupta. “The asymmetry in the masses made the feeble higher harmonic component better ‘heard’, leading to its unambiguous detection,” he adds. Also, in the case of the merger of unequal black holes, the spin of the more massive black hole can be determined from the extra features in the signal waveform. “The spin of the heavier black hole plays a more prominent role in the dynamics of the binary. Hence, it leaves a stronger imprint on the waveform, making it easy to measure,” says Prof. Arun. A second Indian team consisting of researchers from ICTS-TIFR, Bengaluru, verified the consistency of the signal with the prediction of General Relativity. The existence of higher harmonics was itself a prediction of General Relativity.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Stop villainising bats, say scientists, conservationists||Unverified news and social media posts linking bats to the COVID-19 outbreak have led to widespread antipathy and there have been increasing incidents of the public destroying bat roosts and smoking them out. To raise awareness, 64 chiropterologists (those who study bats) from six South Asian countries have released a document clarifying the myths about bats and strongly affirming that bats do not spread COVID-19. They also clarify that the bat coronaviruses (BtCoV) found in two species of Indian bats (in a recent Indian Council of Medical Research study) are not the same as SARS-CoV-2 and cannot cause COVID-19. “Human activities and encroaching upon wildlife habitats puts us at risk of encountering new viruses. We need to modify human practices to prevent the emergence of new pathogens.”, says Arinjay Banerjee, a postdoctoral researcher at McMaster University, Canada in the release. He studies bat viruses and was part of the team that isolated the COVID-19 virus. Origin unknown The researchers write that the exact origin of SARS-CoV-2 is still unknown and it is premature to blame bats or any other animal for the pandemic. “Killing bats and destroying their habitats can be more harmful as this can lead to bats spreading out their habitat. We should remember that all wild animals harbour viruses and it is very biased and unfair to point fingers only at bats. If we keep destroying habitats there are changes of the spread of other viruses from other animals to humans,” explains Harish Prakash, Ph.D. scholar, at the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, to The Hindu.  The researchers and conservationists highlight that bats perform vital ecosystem services such as pollination, pest control, and provide intangible economic benefits. They urge the governments of South Asian countries to strengthen the legal framework to protect bats. As only two species (out of 128) are protected by law in India, the researchers ask the government to reconsider and reinforce the laws governing bat conservation. They write: “The current pandemic is an outcome of the ongoing ecological destruction, increasing intensification of livestock farming and wildlife trade. We request the media to not oversimplify scientific evidence, to emphasise the role of humans in disease outbreaks, and to highlight the importance of coexistence with bats in urban landscapes.”
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Witnessing the future through the lockdown||The nationwide lockdown, and halting of most economic activities as a way to combat the novel coronavirus has brought about significant improvements in air quality across the country, albeit in the short term. However, this phase of good air quality is lending itself as a real-life experiment to determine the lowest achievable pollution levels possible in a very long time. Attaining blue skies in a short period of about two weeks has allowed us to take a long view of the problem, the multiple sources of air pollution and to imagine a future with clean air. It has allowed us to understand clearly which solutions will work, how, and at what scale. Fall in pollutant levels Central Pollution Control Board data analysed from the last two weeks indicates a sudden reduction in pollutant levels across the country, including in some of the most polluted cities. Due to stringent travel restrictions, shutting of most industries and halting commercial and construction activity, the impact of air quality improvements has become immediately visible within and outside the cities. Delhi, across its 35 monitoring locations, has recorded a drop of 44% in PM2.5 levels between March 24 and April 6. Noida and Gurugram have recorded similarly large and rapid decreases of 51% in their PM2.5 levels and 55% in PM10 levels. Other capital cities, such as Mumbai, Bengaluru and Lucknow have reported a decrease in the range of 18% to 30% during the lockdown period. It is also notable that the decrease in particulate levels is the same if we compare the two week period (March 24 to April 6) between 2019 and 2020. Delhi NCR registers a drastic decline of 65%-70% in PM10 values compared with 2019 mainly due to construction activity coming to a grinding halt. Also, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata, and even smaller cities such as Jaipur and Guwahati, have recorded significant drop in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentration, ranging from 53-68%, which is largely related to a dramatic decline in vehicle movement. Mumbai, with the maximum COVID-19 hotspots, stands out with a 68% drop in NOX during the two week lockdown period in which data has been collected. Compared to last year, Kanpur has registered a drop of 83% in NOX pointing to most vehicles going off the road during the lockdown. Sulphur dioxide, another polluting gas, mostly released by burning of coal, oil and gas, either in vehicles or in power plants and other industries, also registered a big drop. In Pune, SO2 level was 44% less during the lockdown, as compared to the week before. For the same time, readings in Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Kolkata were roughly a quarter less, coinciding with reduced industrial activity and transport emissions. Major sources The National Clean Air Programme aims for an improvement of 20%-30% in the air quality by 2024, taking 2017 as the base year. It is necessary to address all major sources including transport, industry, residential, waste burning, road dust, agriculture residue burning, and construction, if air quality across large swathes of India has to be restored to moderate levels. Our initial findings based on real-time source apportionment of online PM2.5 composition measurements in Delhi, over the period of lockdown show that contribution from incinerators has dropped, indicating much less processing of hotel and food waste. The real time analysis also shows contribution from tyre wear on road dropping close to insignificant. This points to the urgent need for guidelines on reuse of tyres. Urgent retrofitting of flue gas desulphurisation units in thermal power plants is necessary as thermal plants are likely to continue in the near future. Going forward, tackling the auto sector is crucial. In bringing the economy back to life, filling the gap with an electric vehicle-specific stimulus package could be an interim solution to improving air quality. Waste disposal and crop residue The link between waste disposal in cities and poor air quality is a conspicuous one, which deserves due attention and action. Solutions lie in efficient waste segregation at source followed by recycling — especially for industrial units. It is evident that a large amount of crop residue after each harvest cycle cannot be managed through traditional means or mechanised harvesters alone. Focus on innovation in crop residue management to minimise stubble burning in a sustainable and effective way across different locations alone can control this issue. As the government prepares the largest ever recovery package to place the economy back on track, undertaking reforms such that it brings in less polluting industries, more clean transport and more resilient infrastructure will ensure that India is able to lock in a clean future and is better prepared for any shocks in the future.  (The author is a professor at IIT-Kanpur and member of the Steering Committee, NCAP MoEFCC)
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Life behind the barricades||Muneeb Rahman, a graphic designer who resides in Old Delhi’s Chandni Mahal, a containment zone in the Capital, is now accustomed to the inquisitive eyes peering out of the balconies whenever an ambulance drives past their locality. “Each time an ambulance is in the locality, there are people hanging around in balconies. It has almost become like a show. Houses, where authorities have put the home quarantine posters, are also facing quite an amount of stigma from other locals,” said Mr. Rahman, who asserts that life has changed considerably after a few locals tested positive for COVID-19. While adjusting to the altered rhythm of life in the containment zone had been arduous for some, most people The Hindu spoke to in such areas admitted that they had encountered only minor hassles such as the delivery of essentials and in some cases, the over-inquisitiveness of nosy neighbours. Clutched by the pandemic fear, most favoured the imposition of strict restrictions on movement. Living in fear First they panicked, as they stumbled onto difficulties in procuring basic items and rations before the local leaders intervened. “For the first couple of days there were difficulties. However, local leaders stepped in. Even though there is no home delivery, items are still available. Locals are allowed to step out twice a day, from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., for visiting markets,” Mr. Rahman said. But the fear of the pandemic spreading still remains, concedes Mohammad Rafique. “People are scared of the entire situation and rumours are spreading like wildfire. The other day, even before a person’s test results came, some alleged that the person had died. In some cases, relatives of those who have been quarantined were endlessly questioned by neighbours,” he said. Walled lives Meenu Prakash, a resident of Pocket J&K in the contained zone of Dilshad Garden, had stepped out into the balcony of her house to distract her three-year-old grandson, only to be shooed away into his house by two policemen on a bike. “It is very tough staying inside the house 24x7,” she complained. It’s a common grouse of several residents in the city’s swelling list of contained zones. There are strict restrictions on vehicular movements as well, Ms. Prakash observed. One day, she was taking her neighbour for dialysis when the police stopped them for detailed questioning at a barricade. “They checked all the documents before letting us out,” she recollected. But going out to fetch essentials is not a hassle. “There is no problem when going to buy essentials like fruits, vegetables, and milk but they stop us at barricades and question the purpose of visit,” said Ms. Prakash, who though in concerned by long queues outside the store. Delivery hassles Some complained that shops were reluctant to deliver in sealed areas while some others groused that the delivery person was only allowed till the gate. “We wanted to order vegetables and called a store. They denied delivering here,” said Arushi Rudra. Surbhi, another resident, said that she had ordered from a grocery outlet but the delivery person was stopped at the main gate. “The security persons at the gate denied entry. My mother then had to plead that she was alone at home. They let him in then,” she said. The relatives staying elsewhere too are worried. “I live with my husband here. My mother stays in Vaishali. Whenever she calls, she keeps asking me if there are more cases and tells me not to step out,” said Ms. Rudra. Little difference Though movements are restricted and regulated, government employees are allowed to leave the area after showing their identity cards without any hassle, revealed Geeta Grover. Ms. Grover though appreciated the efforts made for the residents. “The sealing has made little difference because we were not going out as it is. Whatever the government is doing is for our safety,” she stressed. In Malviya Nagar’s Gandhi Park, residents said they are more or less trouble-free as a handful of stores, selling essential commodities are open, though most stores remain shut, as the area has been cordoned off since March 27. At Narendra Gupta’s store, a person who later tested positive had come to purchase groceries before the lockdown was even imposed. In a short while, the area around the park and Hauz Rani were identified as containment zone. While Mr. Gupta said that there had not been any issues with regard to the essential commodities, as he had stocked up, he was keen on reopening his store. “Everyone in our house has been tested, they are all fine. There is no issue,” he said. Likewise, Rana Pratap Singh, who runs a tours and travels company and resides next to Gandhi Park, said he was not facing any issue with the provision of essential commodities. Mr. Singh informed that there were only about four stores — a vegetable vendor, a fruits vendor, a grocery store and a pharmacist — but that has seldom been an issue. “If we need anything, we give money to the civil defence volunteers or the police and they go buy for us,” said Mr. Singh, lauding the efforts of the administration. He was unaware of how the people in his locality got infected, stating that all the information they received was only from the news. “If the government hadn’t taken the kind of strict steps they are taking here, from what we are seeing in the news, things would have been a lot worse here,” he added. Javir Baig, a garments trader in the locality, said his entire family had been screened and that there had been no issues with the supply of groceries. For people who couldn’t afford food, authorities were supplying cooked meals on a daily basis. Constant vigil Tanya (name changed), a resident of East Patel Nagar, another containment zones, said: “While security men are stationed outside a couple of houses that have been sealed, others have the mobility to a certain extent. Residents are also getting regular calls from authorities each day, who find out whether anyone is showing COVID-19 symptoms.” Devaang Bagga, who lives near the Bengali Market, which is also a containment zone, said that there was strict vigilance in the area even before the sealing took place. “The security was tightened even before the area was officially cordoned off. Locals were not really stepping out much and as a crowd control measure, all the grocery shops had given their numbers and were urging for items to be home delivered. Now with the area completely sealed, there is no way people can step out as there are barricades everywhere,” he said. Further, he added: “In cases where certain items like medicines are not available easily, constables are going in their scooters and getting them delivered. People in this area have more or less been calm and there is not much rumour-mongering, unlike certain other pockets.”
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Why pathogens travel in search of a host||The story so far: Long before the virus causing COVID-19 vitiated normalcy, it split people across geopolitical lines over differing claims about how the vicious virus came to be in the first place. Claims were made of the virus being manufactured in laboratories and then shipped to nations to let loose on their populations. In a paper published on March 17, Nature Medicine busted the theory of a lab-cultured SARS-CoV-2. The paper, ‘The proximal origin of SARS-CoV-2’, by Kristian G. Andersen, Andrew Rambaut, W. Ian Lipkin et al , made it clear that this was a case of zoonoses. The “analyses clearly show that SARS-CoV-2 is not a laboratory construct or a purposefully manipulated virus”. The paper further posited that the host of the virus was definitely an animal, and that the most variable part of the coronavirus genome in humans — the receptor-binding domain (RBD) in the spike protein — could have occurred in an animal host before the transfer to humans, or natural selection happened in humans after the zoonotic transfer. What is zoonosis? The first possible source heard of in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic was the wet market in Huanan, Wuhan, China. While subsequent studies cast doubts on the link, it is quite possible that an animal source was present at this location, the Nature paper argues. Moreover, commenting on the fact that bats and pangolins might have spread the infection, the authors said: “Given the similarity of SARS-CoV-2 to bat SARS-CoV-like coronaviruses, it is likely that bats serve as reservoir hosts for its progenitor… Malayan pangolins illegally imported into Guangdong province, contain coronaviruses similar to SARS-CoV-2.” While agreeing that it was theoretically possible that SARS-CoV-2 acquired mutations in a petri dish, the Nature paper added that “the finding of SARS-CoV-like coronaviruses from pangolins with nearly identical RBDs, however, provides a much stronger and more parsimonious explanation of how SARS-CoV-2 acquired these via recombination or mutation”. It also posited the possibility of a “progenitor of SARS-CoV-2 that jumped into humans, acquiring the genomic features through adaptation during undetected human-to-human transmission”. The changes in the genome occurred as a part of the natural evolutionary process. “All SARS-CoV-2 genomes sequenced so far have the genomic features described… and are thus derived from a common ancestor that had them too.” The issue of pathogens crossing species to cause diseases is not a new concept. According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), 60% of all infectious diseases in humans are zoonotic, and about 75% of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic in nature. Emerging pathogens are more likely to be viruses, than any other kind — bacteria, parasites, fungi — and are more likely to have a broad host range. Why are human beings at risk? The inevitable interaction between humans and livestock with wildlife exposes the human species to the risk of spillover of potential pathogens. For many zoonotic diseases or zoonoses, livestock serve as an epidemiological bridge between wildlife and human infections. Among zoonoses that emerged or re-emerged recently, the UNEP counts Ebola, bird flu, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Rift Valley fever, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), West Nile virus, Zika virus disease, and COVID-19. The UNEP is also very clear that the drivers of zoonotic disease emergence are changes in the environment, usually as a result of human activities ranging from land use change; changes in animals or human hosts; and changes in pathogens, which are programmed to survive, and in the process exploit multiple hosts. For instance, bat-associated viruses emerged due to the loss of habitats, it argues. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa was reportedly the result of forest losses leading to closer contacts between wildlife and human settlements; the emergence of avian influenza was linked to intensive poultry farming; and the Nipah virus was linked to the intensification of pig farming and fruit production in Malaysia. A presentation by the UNEP argues, “Ecosystem integrity underlines human health and development. Human-induced environmental changes modify wildlife population structure and reduce biodiversity, resulting in new environmental conditions that favour particular hosts, vectors, and/or pathogens.” Consequently, preserving ecosystem integrity can actually help regulate diseases by supporting a diversity of species so that it is more difficult for one pathogen to spill over, amplify or dominate. UNEP Executive Director Inger Andersen says: “Never before have so many opportunities existed for pathogens to pass from wild and domestic animals to people. Our continued erosion of wild spaces has brought us uncomfortably close to animals and plants that harbour diseases that can jump to humans.” Changes in weather patterns, and extreme weather events affect the distribution areas of disease, pathogens and pests. Also, changes in human behaviour, including travel, conflicts, migration, wildlife trade, urbanisation, and dietary and medical preferences, can result in disease emergence, according to researchers at the UNEP. What about the plant kingdom? It is not just animal-to-human transmission we need to worry about. Peter Beetham writes in the Scientific American (https://bit.ly/3bJ5h92) that we must be wary of transmission from the plant kingdom as well — “The current COVID-19 pandemic underscores how unprepared we humans are in fighting zoonotic diseases: pathogens that originate in wildlife and jump to humans. Human immune systems are equally unprepared for drug-resistant diseases that jump from plants to humans. As we work to control and treat the current pandemic, we must simultaneously be thinking one step ahead — how we can avoid other pandemics in the future, without disrupting our food supply?” In pristine ecosystems, all biological systems have an inherent capacity for both resilience and adaptation, but the current pace of change may be too fast for systems to adapt and achieve resilience, the UNEP argues. So what can be done? The UN agency pitches for ‘One Health’. What is ‘One Health’? According to the World Health Organization, ‘One Health’ is an approach to designing and implementing programmes, policies, legislation and research in which multiple sectors communicate and work together to achieve better public health outcomes. The areas of work in which a ‘One Health’ approach is particularly relevant include food safety, the control of zoonoses, and combating antibiotic resistance (when bacteria change after being exposed to antibiotics and become more difficult to treat). The concept helps practitioners understand disease determinants, manage risks and optimise interventions. Climate scientists argue and epidemiologists agree that ‘One Health’ is a key principle for the control of zoonotic diseases, antimicrobial resistance, food safety and vector-borne diseases. What lies ahead? It is clear is that it will be difficult to predict, with current tools, where the next outbreak will come from or when it will be. Growing evidence suggests that outbreaks or epidemic diseases may become more frequent as changes continue to have an impact on the ecosystem. But doing nothing will only let these pathogens flourish, jump hosts and make a terrible assault on humans. The UNEP calls for strong global stewardship of nature and bio-diversity. Additionally, developing sharper, reliable early warning systems (for diseases), and a ‘One Health’ approach may be the guides for the road ahead.  The inevitable interaction between humans and livestock with wildlife exposes the human species to the risk of potential pathogens. For many zoonotic diseases, livestock serve as an epidemiological bridge between wildlife and human infections
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||What are the concerns around the AarogyaSetu app?||The story so far: On April 2, the AarogyaSetu app — for pan-India use and available in 11 languages — was launched as the main contact tracing technology endorsed by the Central government. Developed by the National Informatics Centre under the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, the app got its biggest push when Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged the nation to download it while announcing the extension of the national lockdown till May 3. Soon it became one of the most downloaded apps globally, and has crossed the 75 million mark. The app has now added on functionalities such as donating to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, or PM CARES fund, and hosting e-passes for essential services providers. How does the app work? It is designed to keep track of other AarogyaSetu users that a person came in contact with, and alert him or her if any of the contacts tests positive for COVID-19. It achieves this using the phone’s Bluetooth and GPS capabilities. The app will keep a record of all other AarogyaSetu users that it detected nearby using Bluetooth, and also a GPS log of all the places that the device had been at 15-minute intervals. These records are stored on the phone till the time any user tests positive or declares symptoms of COVID-19 in a self-assessment survey in the app. In such cases, the records are uploaded to the servers. According to the privacy policy of the app, it gives users a colour coding of green and yellow based on their self-assessment. The data of users who fall in the yellow category are uploaded to the server, while that of those in the green category — purportedly the lower risk group — is retained in the app. While registering, the app collects a set of personal information such as name, sex, age, phone number, current location and travel history that is uploaded to government servers, which then generates a unique digital identity for that user. When the Bluetooths of two AarogyaSetu users sniff each other out, this unique digital identity is exchanged along with the time and location of the meeting. When an app user tests positive, all unique digital identities in his or her records get an alert on the risk they face and instructions on self-isolation and next steps. Has it been effective? The AarogyaSetu app faces the same issue as every other contact tracing technology that has come up during the pandemic period — it is people dependent. It needs widespread usage and self-reporting to be effective. Given that any number of total users will be a subset of smartphone owners in India, and there are bound to be variations in the levels of self-reporting, the efficacy is not bulletproof. The terms of use of the app also say as much, distancing the government from any failure on the part of the app in correctly identifying COVID-19 patients. Jason Bay, the brain behind TraceTogether, a contact tracing app from Singapore which has been among the more successful ones, emphasised the point that “automated contact tracing is not a panacea”. In a blog post, “Automated contact tracing is not a coronavirus panacea” (April 11, 2020 – https://bit.ly/2yI7nXU), he said: “A human-out-of-the-loop system will certainly yield better results than having no system at all, but where a competent human-in-the-loop system with sufficient capacity exists, we caution against an over-reliance on technology.” TraceTogether’s developers worked closely and constantly with frontline health-care workers to make the app effective. Are there privacy concerns? Definitely. First of all, the app exists in the privacy law vacuum that is India. With no legislation that spells out in detail how the online privacy of Indians is to be protected, AarogyaSetu users have little choice but to accept the privacy policy provided by the government. The policy goes into some detail on where and how long the data will be retained, but it leaves the language around who will have access to it vague. As per the policy, “persons carrying out medical and administrative interventions necessary in relation to COVID-19” will have access to the data. According to a working paper from the Internet Freedom Foundation, this “suggests interdepartmental exchanges of people’s personal information” and is “more excessive than countries like Singapore and even Israel”. Beyond the legal loopholes, there are technical loopholes as well. The unique digital identity in AarogyaSetu is a static number, which increases the probability of identity breaches. A better approach would be constantly-changing digital identification keys like what Google and Apple deploy in their joint contact tracing technology. The abundance of data collected is also potentially problematic. AarogyaSetu uses both Bluetooth and GPS reference points, which could be seen as an overkill. Other apps such as TraceTogether make do with Bluetooth. Another issue that forums such as the Internet Freedom Foundation and the Software Freedom Law Center have raised is that the AarogyaSetu app is something of a black box. There is no documentation publicly available on the app. The advocacy groups argue that there should be more transparency on the inner workings of an app that is being promoted by the government and which is asking for the personal details of millions of citizens. How is the Apple-Google project different? The two technology giants that had till date baulked at the idea of offering integrations with each other’s operating systems, are now doing so, thanks to a global crisis. Android and iOS phones will be able to talk to each other via Bluetooth. While they are currently offering it built into government health-care apps, this facility may soon be baked into operating systems. This may mean that different health-care apps will also be able to speak to one another using this channel, ensuring wider reach. While Google and Apple have emphasised that consent would be required for this feature to track you, privacy concerns prevail here too.  With no legislation on how the online privacy of Indians is to be protected, AarogyaSetu users have little choice but to accept the privacy policy provided by the government as it is
26 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Post-lockdown rules for Gurugram units||The district administration here on Saturday came out with a set of guidelines under 15 heads for the manufacturing industry and the other companies to adhere to before the resumption of the operations. This included work-floor CCTV footage access to district administration, surprise checks by the police and labour teams and initiation of criminal proceedings in case of deviations. The 17-page document also suggested the organisations to invest in technology such as automatic doors. It also made clear that interState and inter-district movement of employees would not be allowed. Surprise checks Besides the usual directions to discontinue biometric attendance system, use face masks and thermal screening of the employees, the guidelines said the district administration should have access to CCTV footage of work-floor. The organisations have been told to ensure sufficient CCTV coverage before beginning operations and preferably a web-enabled system. “The police, administration and labour teams will make surprise checks and audits to check your compliance. Any deviation will result in summary stoppage of work and lead to initiation of criminal proceedings too,” said the guidelines. On the transport of employees, which remains a knotty issue, the guidelines said interstate or inter-district travel of the employees was not allowed except for the essential services. The guidelines said that ideally the employees must be housed within premises or made to house in an adjacent accommodation, and employees can travel on feet or by their own vehicles. Between work and accommodation, there can be a company-owned transport with mandatory nod to social distancing with one employee per row. Health conditions It cautioned not to insist employees with pulmonary, cardiac or renal issues, diabetes, hypertension or obesity to attend work and consider allowing parents with children below five years of age to work from home. Stressing upon the increased use of technology to beat COVID-19, the administration suggested that window and split air-conditioners with HEPA-based air purifiers and exhaust fans are better than centralised air conditioners. For job works requiring collaboration that would interfere with social distancing, redesign the production flow even if it adds to production time substantially, said the guidelines. On maintaining social distancing, the guidelines suggested the floor of the office should be clearly marked with coloured tape (squares or circles) at every six feet and the employees be allowed to walk strictly in those squares or circles. Other cues of social distancing should also be used; for instance, mark the edges of the walls and doors with colours such as red to discourage accidental touching, said the guidelines. Directing the organisations rendering essential services to align their operations to these guidelines, the document said all organisations should always adopt more stringent measures, in case of any disparity among the Central, State and District administration guidelines.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Immigration ban and the impact||The story so far: With the toll of the novel coronavirus on the American population spiralling rapidly, and political pressure increasing on the country’s leader to take effective action to bring the pandemic under control, United States President Donald Trump announced on Monday, on Twitter, that he would be using an executive order to suspend legal immigration into the U.S. for 60 days. The White House has indicated that the time limit could be extended depending on conditions on the ground. Why has Mr. Trump taken such a step? The immediate context of his proposal is the teetering U.S. economy, which, like many others across the world, has ground to a virtual halt in the face of the pandemic. The deeper context to the announcement is the fact that Mr. Trump is seeking re-election in the November 2020 election against the presumptive Democratic nominee, former U.S. Vice-President Joe Biden. Proposals to restrict immigration served Mr. Trump’s campaign well during the 2016 presidential election, particularly when they were situated in the context of protecting jobs for U.S. workers. What does it mean for visa applicants? The order is not expected to halt visa processing for many thousands of temporary employees, including a sizeable number of Indian nationals in the H-1B skilled worker category; agricultural workers classified under the H-2A visa; and seasonal workers, who fall into the H-2B category. Second, according to the White House, the policy will also likely carve out exemptions for certain categories of essential workers, including those in health care and who have a critical role to play in fighting the pandemic. Third, exemptions are also being made for those who seek to immigrate via their immediate relatives. This includes spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens applying for green cards, or permanent residency. Also, those who have already been granted permanent residence will not be impacted by this executive order. Fourth, members of the armed forces, those who are immigrating for law enforcement reasons and are already in the pipeline, and those on the EB-5 programme, which requires individuals to invest at least $500,000 in U.S. real estate projects, will be considered. Beyond these exemptions, there is a broader question of how many jobs that could potentially be taken by incoming immigrants will be saved for out-of-work U.S. workers. The number of unemployment claims filed since the pandemic started eating into the U.S. economy is now over 26 million. According to some analysts, out of the million-plus green cards that the U.S. issues annually, approximately 358,000 could possibly be impacted by the pause in immigration processing for the duration of the proclamation. The gap between these two figures is nothing short of gargantuan, and it begs a question of motive behind the executive order. Could there be any impact on skilled workers from India? On tourism, there is little concern at the present juncture given that India has stopped commercial flights owing to the risks of coronavirus spread. Numerous airlines across the world have also suspended operations and have cancelled flights across the board. Further, in many countries, quarantine procedures apply to international arrivals and this will dissuade many visitors from international travel. Finally, the U.S. State Department announced in March 2020 that it would be suspending all routine visa processing at its consulates and embassies abroad; this has not only dampened the pace of visa issuance but it has also slowed legal immigration considerably. As a comparator, more than 9.2 million visas were issued at U.S. diplomatic missions abroad last year. When the worst phases of the pandemic have passed in the U.S. and India, there could be a resumption of air traffic and international visitors may have the option to travel to the U.S. once again. But presently, there is no visibility whatsoever on when such conditions might emerge. So far as skilled workers seeking the H-1B visa are concerned, similar conditions apply. U.S. visa issuance in all countries, not only in India, has ground to a halt. This has left many H-1B visa-seekers in the lurch in India, and that could have an economically debilitating impact on the Indian IT and Information Technology Enabled Service (ITeS) sectors. However, this derives more from the overall impact of the pandemic, and not from Mr. Trump’s immigration ban. How will it affect U.S. politics? Given the minimal impact on net jobs saved for U.S. workers, there is a real question regarding whether the ban was conceived of as a genuine policy measure or whether it is a diversionary tactic to mask the Trump administration’s failure to save more lives, and to bolster the President’s sinking political standing. If the latter case applies, then this executive action has already set the tenor of the upcoming U.S. presidential election. Immigration was a divisive issue in 2016. A Trump-driven encore for immigration issues in 2020 could well polarise American society further and lead to an acrimonious campaign season.  U.S. visa issuance in all countries has ground to a halt. This has left many H-1B visa-seekers in the lurch in India, and it could have a debilitating impact on the Indian IT sector
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leader wants higher MSP for Delhi farmers||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday alleged exploitation of Delhi’s farmers at city markets. Mr. Bidhuri requested Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to intervene in the matter and ensure that instead of traders, it purchased wheat from farmers at the rate of at least Rs. 2,500 per quintal. The leader said he had also raised the issue with Union Minister for Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Ramvilas Paswan. “Foodgrains of farmers should be purchased by the Delhi government at a rate of Rs. 2,500 per quintal which is Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 more than the MSP,” Mr. Bidhuri said. ‘Being exploited’ The BJP legislator from Badarpur alleged that farmers were being exploited by traders in the grain markets of Narela and Najafgarh among others in Delhi. He said, the MSP fixed by the Centre for the procurement of rabi crops for the year 2020-2021 was Rs. 1,925 per quintal, but farmers were, he alleged, being forced to sell their foodgrains at rates which were Rs. 100 to Rs. 175 less than the fixed MSP per quintal.
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||5-hour-long disinfection drive in Jahangirpuri||An extensive five-hour-long sanitation drive of all containment zones in north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri was carried out by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Civil Lines Zones, here on Saturday. Block points erected across the area to restrict access to it were also refurbished. The drive, which was undertaken under the supervision of the executive engineer, maintenance of the North Corporation and nodal officers of the Model Town sub-division, was carried out from 11.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. and covered a radius of 9 km across the area which has, according to sources, seen over 80 COVID-19 positive cases. “The sanitation staff used extended pipelines to spray the cramped bylanes of all containment areas with disinfectants. Hunger relief and food shelters in various schools and community centres have also being covered. The drive will continue regularly,” a senior government official said. “Given the number of cases which have been reported from the area, we have now also begun requesting local residents to proactively step up and report symptoms; this was done after we noticed that there were some instances of social stigma restricting transgender individuals from doing so,” an official from the district administration said. Restoration of block points demarcating the containment zone was also carried out. NDMC staff had started restoring all the block points of the containment zone which had allegedly been tampered with by the public for “unauthorised movement”, the official said
26 April 2020||New Delhi,||Five Sikh body schools granted time to pay salary to teachers||The Delhi HC granted two weeks’ time to five schools run by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to pay salary arrears to its teachers, some of whom have not been paid since December last year. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal said “there can be no justification for non-payment of salaries” when fees were being charged from the students.
26 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. to start sanitation campaign||The Delhi Congress on Saturday announced that a “Congress sanitisation maha abhiyan” will be launched on Monday in all 272 municipal wards in the city. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Chaudhury Anil Kumar said, “The campaign ‘Congress ke Sipahi Karenge Corona ki Dhulai’ will be launched on April 27. The Aam Aadmi Party government and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have failed to carry out sanitation across Delhi.” “The rising number of COVID-19 cases is proof that the Delhi government’s much-touted ‘SHIELD programme’ has totally collapsed. The number of hotspot areas have also risen,” he added.
26 April 2020||April 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sound of silence||
