26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Telugu Desam revamp on the cards||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is toying with the idea of rejigging the party structure. Apart from overhauling the party, Mr. Naidu plans to change the State president. In all probabilities, former Minister K. Atchannaidu will replace Kimidi Kala Venkat Rao, who has been serving as Andhra Pradesh State president ever since bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh. According to information, the party leadership is of the view a ‘mass leader’ is required to drive and gear up the party to fight the ruling YSR Congress Party in the next three years. Both Mr. Kala Venkat Rao and Mr. Atchannaidu hail from the Backward Classes (BCs) communities. There are ‘some voices’ in the party that some other BC leaders can be promoted instead of Mr. Atchannaidu, who is ‘tainted’ in the ESI scam. But, Mr. Naidu wanted Mr. Atchannaidu to take up the cudgels. Firstly, he has a mass appeal. Secondly, the ‘sympathy’ which reportedly developed after his arrest in the ESI scam, may turn the tide in favour of the TDP, sources say. It is pertinent to mention here that Mr. Atchannaidu, belonging to Koppula Velama, is brother of K. Yerranaidu who had taken the matter to the High Court and sought a probe into the assets of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. It was the PIL filed by Yerrannaidu that clinched the issue though the Minister for Textiles in combined Andhra Pradesh, P. Shanker Rao, had addressed a letter to the High Court Chief Justice seeking probe into the assets of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. When contacted, Mr. Atchannaidu says that he is ready to discharge whatever duties and responsibilities given by the party supremo. Panels likely Also, Mr. Naidu, party sources say, is ‘inclined to do away’ with the district presidents set-up in the party. A five-member committee will replace district president in each district in the State. In addition, in-charges for all 25 Lok Sabha constituencies will be nominated. The Lok Sabha in-charges, senior leaders, elected MLAs in respective districts will be members of the committees. The onus lies on the Lok Sabha in-charges to ensure that all Assembly segments under his/her constituency are won by the party. Planning The committees will assist the party supremo in chalking out the plans at regular intervals. The committees will also plan and steer the agitations. Mr. Naidu is likely to make an announcement in this regard on September 27, party sources say.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar poll to be held in 3 phases from Oct. 28||The Bihar Assembly election will be be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7, followed by the counting on November 10, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Friday. Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora said the number of phases as well as the duration of the conduct of the poll had been reduced due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Polling hours increased The polling hours have been increased, except in the Left wing extremism-affected districts, by an hour — from 7 a.m. till 6 p.m. instead of 5 p.m. Mr. Arora said COVID-19 patients would be allowed to vote in the last hour of polling while following necessary precautions. In the first phase, election will be held in 71 of the 243 constituencies, while the second phase will cover 94 seats and the third phase 78.  With 7.29 crore electors, the poll could be the largest held during a pandemic in the immediate future, Mr. Arora said. The ECI and other authorities have taken steps to make the elections COVID-19-safe. More than 7 lakh units of hand sanitisers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 7.6 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of hand gloves have been procured. Everyone involved in election work, including the polling staff and voters, would have to wear masks.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||A soothing voice falls silent||Legendary playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, or “SPB” as he was known to his legion of fans, passed away at a private hospital in Chennai on Friday. He was 74. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was hospitalised in August at MGM Healthcare after testing positive for COVID-19. While he reportedly did well initially, he took a turn for the worse and was put on a ventilator and ECMO support. On September 7, he tested negative for COVID-19 but continued to be on the ventilator and ECMO even as he participated in passive physiotherapy. He seemed to have made a recovery when a sudden setback on Thursday caused a further deterioration in his condition. A release from the hospital said, “Despite maximal life support measures and the best efforts, his condition deteriorated and he suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest.” Born Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam in 1946 to Nellore-based Harikatha exponent Sambamurthy, his original ambition was to become an engineer. However, life had other plans for him, and he went on to pursue a career in singing for nearly 50 years. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam made his singing debut in 1966 with the Telugu movie Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramanna . Since then he has sung over 40,000 songs in as many as 16 languages, including Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada and Hindi. For five decades, his was the voice for generations of actors. He went on to win six national awards and the hearts of several fans across the world. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Bhushan in 2011. SPB also dabbled in acting and music direction, and more recently, took on the avatar of a judge in reality singing contests. Tributes poured in from across the country, with President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders in various sectors hailing his versatility, humility, willingness to learn, and his charity and guidance for those who looked up to him. SPB’s mortal remains were taken to his house in Nungambakkam in Chennai, where scores of people paid their last respects. Late on Friday night, the cortege left for his farmhouse in the northern outskirts of the city where the final rites and cremation will be done, a family member said. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter — Charan and Pallavi — both of whom are singers.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches London flat in Yes Bank case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached a London-based property currently worth Rs. 127 crore, linked to Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor, in connection with a money laundering case. The total attachment now stands at Rs. 2,011 crore. The residential flat, located on South Audley Street in London, was bought in 2017 for £9.9 million (about Rs. 93 crore) in the name of DOIT Creations Jersey Limited, of which Mr. Kapoor is allegedly the beneficial owner. “Information from a reliable source revealed that Rana Kapoor is trying to alienate this property in London,” ED said on Friday. The ED probe against Mr. Rana and others is based on an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation, which alleged that in April-June 2018, Yes Bank had invested Rs. 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL). Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL had allegedly paid kickbacks totalling Rs. 600 crore to Mr. Kapoor and his family members in the garb of a loan to DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited. Yes Bank had also sanctioned a loan of Rs. 750 crore to RKW Developers, a group company of DHFL beneficially owned by Mr. Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and their family members. Mr. Kapoor, Mr. Kapil Wadhawan and Mr. Dheeraj Wadhawan were arrested by the ED and they are currently in judicial custody.In a separate case involving Mr. Kapoor, assets worth Rs. 307 crore were attached.
26 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records more recoveries than new COVID-19 cases||With as many as 19,592 COVID-19 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of recoveries outweighed the surge in cases in Maharashtra. The State reported 17,794 new cases, taking its total case tally beyond the 13 lakh mark to touch 13,00,757, of which 2,72,775 are active. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 9,73,214. With 416 deaths, the death toll has climbed to 34,761. 2,163 cases in Mumbai “The State’s recovery rate has risen to 76.33%, while its case fatality rate is 2.67%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total case tally to 2,77,942, while 56 deaths saw its toll climb to 5,534. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has risen to nearly 43,000. Mumbai reported 2,163 cases, pushing its tally to 1,94,303 of , of which 28,395 are active. With 48 fatalities, the city’s toll has risen to 8,706. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported more than 650 new cases as its total case tally crossed the 64,000 mark. Two new deaths saw its toll rise to 1,791. Raigad recorded 16 deaths and 339 cases to take its toll to 738 and tally to 29,684. Nagpur reported 53 deaths to take its death toll to 1,927. A jump of more than 1,500 cases took the district’s tally to 71,923, of which 17,838 are active. Spike in Sangli, Satara In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported 691 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 35,191, of which 10,724 are active. With 20 deaths, the toll has risen to 1,061. Satara reported 19 fatalities to take its death toll to 841. As many as 647 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 33,500, of which 8,601 are active. Kolhapur reported 31 deaths as its toll rose to 1,250. More than 500 cases took its tally to 41,216, of which 8,071 are active. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported a big jump of more than 900 cases as its total tally reached 70,051, of which 14,771 are active. With a high fatality surge of 42 deaths, the district’s total death toll has climbed to 1,235. Jalgaon reported 687 cases and 15 deaths. The district’s tally has risen to 45,912, of which 8,044 are active, while the death toll has now climbed to 1,211. Ahmednagar reported a huge surge of 705 cases as its tally rose to 38,962, of which 8,197 are active. Sixteen deaths took the toll to 640. “Of a total of 62,80,788 laboratory samples tested thus far, 13,00,757 (20.71%) have returned positive. More than 90,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” Dr. Awate said. A total of 19,29,572 people across the State are in home quarantine and 32,747 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
26 September 2020||kolkata,||Protests across Bengal, highways blocked||Workers and leaders cutting across political parties held protests all across West Bengal on Friday along with various farmers association over the two agriculture Bills passed in the recently-concluded monsoon session by Parliament. The farmers’ wing of the Trinamool Congress held a protest near Gandhi Statue on Esplanade by dislaying farm produce. Senior Trinamool Congress leaders including Tapas Roy and head of party’s farmers’ wing Bechram Manna were present at the protest venue and promised the farmers that the State government would protect the interest of farmers. This was the third day of protests by the Trinamool Congress over the passage of the farm Bills. According to the State unit of All India Kishan Mahasabha, protests were held across 200 places in West Bengal, where farmers blocked national and State highways. Protestors blocked the National Highway at Debra and Chandrakona in Paschim Medinipur, Karjorain Paschim Bardhaman, Gazole in Malda and Tufanganj in Cooch Behar districts respectively. Protesters also blocked the State Highway in Bankura and Murshidabad district. The blockade on the major arterial roads lasted from 11 a.m. to 12 noon and from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. “The protest in West Bengal witnessed spontaneous protests by a large number of farmers. Despite inclement weather and rains the National and State highways were blocked at several places,” Amal Halder, secretary of West Bengal unit of All India Krishak Sabha, the peasant wing of Communist Party of India (Marxist) told The Hindu . The Paschim Banga Khet Majoor Samity (PBKMS), an organisation of agricultural workers who have supported the farmers strike, also held protests in South 24 Parganas. Later in the evening leaders of the Congress and Left parties held a joint rally in the city in which hundreds of people joined in.
26 September 2020||Rajpura,||Thousands take to streets over farm Bills||Thousands of farmers took to the streets on Friday amid a call for a “Bharat bandh” given by a wide coalition of farmer outfits to protest against the three farm Bills recently passed by Parliament. Farmers blocked rail and road traffic, held sit-ins at many places and shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of implementing “anti-farmer” policies. Much of the action was concentrated in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Normal life was hit in Punjab, where over 30 farmer outfits had given a call for a complete shutdown. Shops and commercial establishments remained shut in many parts. Farmers blocked railway track at a few places in Amritsar, Ferozepur, Barna and Patiala, and announced that the “rail roko” agitation would be stepped up further across the State from September 26. They also announced stoppage of rail traffic indefinitely from October 1, if their demands were not met. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said protests were held at over 150 places in Punjab. “Besides starting an indefinite rail roko agitation from October 1, a resolution will be passed by the gram sabha of each village to cancel the agriculture Bills and [Punjab] Chief Minister Amarinder Singh would be urged to convene a special session of the Assembly and pass a resolution not to implement the agricultural laws in Punjab,” he said. BJP’s alliance partner, Shiromani Akali Dal, also staged protests across the State as part of its ‘chakka jam’ programme. The party asked Captain Amarinder Singh to call an immediate Cabinet meeting and pass an ordinance to declare the entire State as one ‘mandi’ (principal market yard) to ensure that the Central agricultural Bills are not enforceable in Punjab.  Peaceful protests  In neighbouring Haryana, peaceful demonstrations were held across the State, with Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamuna Nagar bearing the maximum impact. Though commercial establishments and transport services remained unaffected, protesters sat on roads at several places, including highways, disrupting traffic. Besides Delhi-Hisar, Ambala-Kaithal and Jind-Patiala highways, farmers blocked internal roads in Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Ambala, Kaithal and Jind. Farmers massed on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, squatting on NH-9 and disrupting traffic. Protests in Shahjahanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Noida, Aligarh and Mathura led to long traffic jams across western Uttar Pradesh. Protests were also held in Rajasthan.  (With inputs from Ashok Kumar and Anuj Kumar)
26 September 2020||Srinagar,||DNA samples of Rajouri families match 3 youth killed in Shopian||DNA samples of the three youth killed in a joint operation of the Army and the police in Shopian in Kashmir on July 18 matched the samples taken from the families of the missing youth from Rajouri, the police said on Friday. “DNA sample results of the three families of Rajouri have matched those killed in Amshipora of Shopian. We will now take further course of action and complete the remaining formalities,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said at a press conference here. The police statement comes a week after the Army’s inquiry established that the Shopian operation “contravened the dos and don’ts of the Chief of Army Staff approved by the Supreme Court and exceeded the powers vested under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act”. The Army has initiated disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima facie answerable. “The Shopian encounter was staged, wherein innocent labourers were murdered and passed off as militants. Now is the test for the administration to ensure justice to the families by taking the case to its logical conclusion. It should not be a repeat of Pathribal and Machil cases. The policy to incentivise killings breeds instances of murder for medals”, said PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone said, “It is not [for] the first time and not the last time. There is no deterrence”. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari appreciated the role of the police in a fair investigation.
26 September 2020||Kolkata,||GI tag for Dalle Khursani chilli from Sikkim||The Geographical Identification (GI) registry has accepted and published the GI application for Dalle Khursani, one of world’s hottest chillies, found in Sikkim and the adjoining regions of the eastern Himalayas. The development has brought cheer to the people of Sikkim. The name of the GI product is Dalle Khursani and the logo bears the name of “Dalle Khursani Chilli Sikkim”. However, a section of people in the Darjeeling hills, where the chilli is also grown, feel that the logo bearing Sikkim’s name can have implications for farmers. The application for the GI tag for Dalle Khursani was made by North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited. The Dalle Khursani chilli is known for its unique flavour and high pungency. It’s almost round, cherry-sized and bright red when the fruit is fully ripe. “The Scoville score for this chilli is rated in the range of 100,000 to 350,000 SHU (Scovelle Heat Units). It is one of the valuable cash crops and grown all over the state since it is valued for its diverse commercial uses. It is a perennial crop characterised by small to medium sized pods,” the application published by the GI journal on August 31, 2020 read. P. D. Rai, former MP of Sikkim and a leader of the Sikkim Democratic Front, said the chilli is an important cash crop, grown all across Sikkim, even on roof-tops. The annual production of the chilli could be 35 to 40 metric tonnes, he added. Mr. Rai said that the chilli is used in a variety of local dishes as pickle and sauce, and it also has medical properties. Well-known social and political activist from Darjeeling, Swaraj Thapa, while congratulating the people of Sikkim on the development, has raised the issue of Darjeeling’s absence from the logo of the GI tag. “The GI registration documents barely mention Darjeeling also as a geographical region where Dalle Khorsani is grown. The proposed logo completely omits Darjeeling. As a consequence, growers of Dalle Khorsani in the Darjeeling region are bound to be deprived of the advantage of a GI classification in the long term,” Mr. Thapa said Chinnaraja G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar, Geographical Indications, told The Hindu that in the case of Dalle Kursani, they had accepted and published the application in the public domain, and if there were no objections in the next four months, the GI certificate will then be issued. “When something is registered as GI, it is deemed to be the property of the Government of India. Some people say that it belongs to their State because of misconceptions. It is a community property based on traditional knowledge,” Mr. Naidu said. He said that since the application was based on the cultivation of a plant species in a particular area, it was not a question of one State or the other. GI tags are awarded on the basis of Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, passed by the Parliament in 2003, and the first product to be included in the list is, interestingly, Darjeeling Tea from West Bengal, the Deputy Registrar added.  Besides Dalle Khursani, there are other chillies found in the northeast region with very high SHUs. For instance, the famous Bhut Jolokia, also called Ghosh chilli or Naga King chilli, grown in Nagaland, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, has an SHU range of 8,55,000 to 10,41,000. Nagaland has a GI tag for the chilli.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||7,073 new cases take tally to 6.6 lakh in State||The State saw 7,073 new COVID-19 infections and 48 new deaths in 24 hours ending Friday morning as 69,429 samples were tested. The cumulative tally of infections has gone up to 6,61,458 and the death toll climbed to 5,606. The recovery rate continues to go up as 8,695 more patients recovered in the past day and so far a total of 5,88,169 patients have recovered. The recovery rate was at 88.92%. In the past 10 days, over one lakh patients have recovered in the State against around 77,000 new infections reported. Currently, 67,683 patients are undergoing treatment. The total tests conducted in the State so far were 54.47 lakh and the overall positivity rate was 12.14% while that of the past day was 10.19%. New cases East Godavari has again witnessed over a thousand new cases in the past day. At 1,031 new infections, the district’s daily tally was the highest in the State. It reported only two deaths. The new cases and deaths in the other districts are as follows: West Godavari (931 and 5), Prakasam (806 and 8), Chittoor (713 and 8), Guntur (533 and 2), Nellore (459 and 3), Anantapur (456 and 6), Srikakulam (430 and 1), Krishna (423 and 5), Vizianagaram (378 and 0), Kadapa (368 and 3), Visakhapatnam (340 and 3) and Kurnool (205 and 2). Nellore’s infection tally has crossed the 50,000-mark. So far, seven districts have seen over 50,000 infections and Visakhapatnam is inching closer to the 50,000-mark. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (92,173), West Godavari (62,582), Chittoor(58,268), Kurnool (55,250), Anantapur (55,216), Guntur (52,316), Nellore (50,027), Visakhapatnam (48,589), Prakasam (45,443), Kadapa (41,852), Srikakulam (37,784), Vizianagaram (33,359) and Krishna (25,704).
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Unscientific waste disposal can attract up to Rs. 2 lakh fine||The Legislative Assembly on Friday passed the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, which allows for imposing fine of up to Rs. 2 lakh on households not disposing of solid waste in a scientific manner and as per the guidelines prescribed in the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, by the Central government. Waste segregation and disposal has been a particular concern in the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits. Earlier, the fine was a meagre Rs. 1,000, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy informed the House. PILs Recently, several PIL petitions had been filed in the High Court of Karnataka complaining that solid waste that was being generated in the BBMP limits was not disposed of scientifically. For the BBMP, segregation of waste at source has been an perennial issue. Though it has been made mandatory, compliance is still very low, admitted senior officials. This is said to be one of the main reasons for the civic body’s continued dependence on landfills.
26 September 2020||Belagavi,||CBI arrests three GST officers on graft charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday arrested three Goods and Services Tax officers on the charge of bribery. The arrested officers, two Superintendents and an Inspector, are all working in the office of the Commissioner, Central Goods and Service Tax, Central Excise in Belagavi, according to a press release from the CBI. A few days ago, a Belagavi-based industrialist complained to the CBI that these officers had demanded a bribe of Rs. 20 lakh from him, stating that he had not paid GST dues amount. The CBI sleuths, who flew into Belagavi, arrested the inspector when he demanded and received Rs. 5 lakh as first instalment of the bribe from the industrialist. In a follow-up action, the two Superintendents were also caught. Searches at the office and residential premises of the accused in Belagavi and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh are in progress. All the arrested accused were produced before the jurisdictional court in Dharwad, the release put up on the CBI website said. The release did not mention the names of the accused or the industrialist.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Nearly 7 crore COVID-19 tests conducted in India||India has recorded a high of nearly 15 lakh COVID-19 tests in a day, according to a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. “With 14,92,409 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have touched nearly 7 crore (6,89,28,440),’’ the Ministry said. The surge in the daily testing capacities demonstrated the determined escalation of the testing infrastructure in the country. “The last one crore tests were conducted in merely 9 days. The Tests Per Million (TPM) stand at 49,948 as of today,” the Ministry said. Positivity rate Evidence has revealed that higher numbers of testing subsequently led to lowered positivity rate. The States that were testing the highest numbers were also reporting a gradual decline in the positivity rate. “With the expansion of testing infrastructure, the daily testing by States/UTs has also increased. Twenty-three States/UTs have better tests per million than the national average (49,948).”  1,818 labs The country now had 1,818 labs — 1,084 in the government sector and 734 private labs. These include Real-Time RT PCR-based testing labs (923), TrueNat-based testing labs (769) and CBNAAT-based testing labs(126). “Testing forms an integral pillar of COVID-18 response and management. The Ministry has conveyed that the aim is to catch every missing person through testing to curb the spread of the infection. Several measures have been taken by the Central government through calibrated steps to widen the testing net and ensure easier and more accessible testing by all across the country. States/UTs have been instructed to ensure higher testing and directed that all symptomatic negatives of Rapid Antigen Tests are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR,” the Ministry added.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CET in November for admission to IIITs in State||Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) has decided to conduct a Common Entrance Test (CET) for admissions to the four IIITs in the State in November. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday said the university would depart from the usual practice of admitting students based on their marks in mathematics and science subjects in Class 10 this year due to the prevailing pandemic, which necessitated cancellation of the SSC examination and declaration of all students as ‘pass’.  Syllabus Speaking after releasing the results of the Integrated Common Entrance Test (ICET-2020), the Minister said the test would be for 100 marks (50 for mathematics and 50 for science) based on the Class 10 syllabus. Mr. Suresh said efforts would be made to set up one examination centre in every mandal, besides setting up test centres in Telangana.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Man-made woes||
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU first cut-off list on Oct. 12||Delhi University will release the first cut-off list for admission to merit-based undergraduate (UG) courses on October 12, the university announced in a notification on Friday. The university is planning to release five cut-off lists with the second list scheduled to come out on October 19, third list on October 26, fourth on November 2, and fifth on November 9. Admissions against special cut-offs will open from November 18. In case of vacant seats, DU may announce more lists. Cut-off marks this year are expected to be higher than last year. The first list for entrance-based UG courses will be announced on October 19.
26 September 2020||Pune,||Pune Police chief sidesteps query on Wadhawans||Newly-appointed Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Friday said basic policing and use of technology will be his priorities in the new role. However, Mr. Gupta refused to speak on the controversy that followed after he gave a travel pass during the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown to the scam accused Wadhawan brothers of Dewan Housing Finance Limited.  Asked about the incident involving the Wadhawan brothers, Mr. Gupta only said, “it was an incident that is over”.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Under 4,000 new virus cases for 6th day in city||A total of 3,827 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 2,64,450, while the death toll has risen to 5,147 with 24 more deaths being reported. There are now 30,867 active cases in Delhi.
26 September 2020||new delhi,||Centre unveils first look of RRTS train design||The Centre on Friday unveiled the first look of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS)train that has been designed to attain a top speed of 180 kmph on the 82-km Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor. The prototype will be ready by 2022.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB questions actor Rakul Preet Singh||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday questioned actor Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, and Dharma Productions’ executive producer Kshitij Ravi, in the drugs probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||BMC violated all laws, says Kangana’s lawyer||Senior advocate Birendra Saraf, representing Kangana Ranaut, on Friday told a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathwalla and R.I. Chagla in the High Court that the photographs submitted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation weakens its case against the actor.
26 September 2020||Kolkata,||covid cases||West Bengal on Friday recorded 3,190 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total tally in the State to 2,41,059. The State also recorded 59 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 4,665. The number of active cases touched 25,374 and the discharge rate stands at 87.54%. The State Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari was among those who tested positive. Of the 59 deaths, Kolkata recorded six, taking the toll in the city 1,639. North 24 Parganas accounted for 19 deaths taking fatalities in the district to 1,050. Hooghly district recorded five deaths and Howrah and South 24 Parganas recorded four deaths each. Kolkata recorded 692 new cases taking the total to 53,148, while North 24 Parganas registered 685 cases taking the total to 48,183. Of the total deaths in the State, 85.4 % patients (3,982) had co-morbidities.
26 September 2020||BENGALURU,||Deemed forest area in State set to drop||The Karnataka government is set to drop 6,64,000 hectares of land from ‘deemed forest’ classification. This will mean that the total quantum of State’s deemed forest will be reduced to 3,30,000 ha.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 255.17 cr. of Kanva Group||The ED has attached assets worth Rs. 255.17 crore belonging to N. Nanjundaiah, of the Kanva Group of Companies, as well other family members in a case related to the alleged cheating of investors.
26 September 2020||Chennai,||Karnataka, T.N. spar over Mekedatu at meet||The Cauvery Water Management Authority’s meeting on Friday saw a sharp exchange of words between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the Mekedatu dam project. Karnataka urged the Centre to clear the project.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Rain likely in coastal areas for 2 more days||Kerala reported 6,477 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 1,60,993. Testing again went up in the State, with 56,057 samples tested in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 3,481. The toll rose to 635 with 22 deaths being added to the official list of fatalities.
26 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Eight injured as bus overturns in Dharwad||As many as eight passengers travelling in a State transport bus were injured when the vehicle overturned after hitting a truck near Dharwad on Friday night. The NWKRTC bus was on its way to Belagavi from Hubballi, when the accident occurred near Yarikoppa village on Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road. All the injured have been shifted to Civil Hospital in Dharwad for treatment. In all, there were 34 passengers on the bus.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 5,679 new cases, 72 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,679 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday and 72 fatalities. Chennai reported a rise in cases for the second consecutive day, with 1,193 persons testing positive for the infection. Coimbatore reported 661 cases.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||For every emotion in life, there is a fitting SPB number||For every occasion in life there is an appropriate SPB song, and millions of fans from all over the world recorded their sorrow at his passing as a “personal loss”. His voice, which morphed and modulated to suit the voice of the many heroes he sang for, is without doubt among the most recognised in the country. SPB, with his hearty laugh, humility and great respect for the audience, was a darling of the masses he entertained for close to five decades. Though he started out hoping to be an engineer, his failure to clear a subject in PUC forced him to pursue the now-defunct AMIE course in Chennai. But music lured him towards singing competitions and finally into the world of films. His talent was spotted by another playback singer and music director S.P. Kothandapani, who was in the audience at a competition at the Andhra Social and Cultural Society (ASCA) and he provided him an opportunity to sing in the Telugu film Sri Sri Mariatha Ramanna . SPB was one among the four singers — S.P. Kothandapani, P. Susheela, P.B. Srinivas and Eelapada Raguramaiha — who rendered the ragamalika, Emi Evindha Mogum . “Anyone who had listened to the part he rendered for Shoban Babu would have realised the potential in the voice. It proved to be a prelude for a record career in film music,” said film music historian Vamanan. As they say, the rest was history. While his prowess as a playback singer is legendary, SPB was also an excellent voice over, or dubbing artist. He was the voice of actor Kamal Hassan, whenever the latter’s Tamil movies were dubbed in Telugu.  Paadum Nila (Singing Moon) as he was called by his fans, had a lilting voice with the finest traces of great singers. “His was a breeze-like voice of A.M Raja, the softness of P.B. Srinivas and the effortlessness of Mohamed Rafi,” said Vamanan. In one scene he could sing a spoof with laughter in his voice as in Annatha adurar othiko, and in another he would powerfully express the anguished mind by rendering Unna nenachan, paatu padichen, thangame! in Apoorva Sagodharargal . He had also acted in films such as Manathil Uruthi Vendum , Keladi Kanmani and Sigaram , besides scoring music for some films — Sigaram being a runaway hit for its score. Zest for life An extremely friendly and genial man who enjoyed his moments with interviewers, SPB once said he was fond of life and never wanted to die. SPB bagged his first national award for Sankarabharanam , though all the songs in the Telugu film are based on pure Carnatic ragas. He was never formally trained in Carnatic music, but that did not stop him, not then, not ever. “Even SPB had apprehensions about taking up the assignment as he had no proper training in classical music. It was T.K. Pugazhendhi, the assistant of music director K.V. Mahadevan who persuaded SPB to render the songs,” recalled Vamanan. And what hits they turned out to be. The second time he won the award for his first Hindi song, Tere Mere Beech Mein in the film Ek Duuje Ke Liye . Two more awards came his way for the Telugu films Sagarasangamam and Rudraveena . Sangeetha Sagara Ganayogi Panchakshara Gavai , the Kannada film, won him the fifth national award. An award for Tamil films eluded him many years, though his collaboration with music directors Ilayaraja and M.S. Viswanathan had resulted in innumerable memorable duets, solos, folk songs, spoofs and songs with the classical touch. He finally won it for the lilting number Thanga Thamarai in the film Minsara Kanavu with music scored by A.R. Rahman. Looking back, even as he secured a toehold in the Telugu industry, a break in the Tamil film industry proved elusive until an introduction to music director M.S. Viswanathan (MSV) through his friend Bharani. SPB chose to render Nilava Ennidam Nerungathe before MSV, who liked the voice, but had reservations about his Tamil pronunciation. He sent him to learn Tamil properly and when SPB returned having polished up his pronunciation, decided to give him a song. SPB blew in like a fresh breeze with Iyarkai Ennum Ilayakanni , for the film Santhi Nilayam . “Though the song was recorded first, another song, Aayiram Nilave Vaa in the MGR-starrer Adimaipen reached the public first, because it was released earlier in 1969,” Vamanan said. Overnight hits Both the songs became overnight hits. SPB would gratefully acknowledge the opportunity given to him by MGR and music director K.V. Mahadevan who had introduced him to the future Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. SPB was down with malaria after rehearsal was over. But MGR waited till he recovered so that he could perform. “MGR told me that he did not want to disappoint me. He felt that I would have informed my friends of this chance, and if I was not given the opportunity, my friends would not think well of my capacity as a singer,” SPB once said. Later in the film Suryakanthi , he sang the number Naan Endral Avalum Naanum and late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa rendered the English verses. His playback songs for thespian Sivaji Ganesan, particularly Potuvaitha Mugamo in Sumathi En Sundari and Emuna Nadhi Inkey in Gouravam were equally popular. SPB sang Aval Oru Navarasa Natakam in the film Ulagam Suttrum Vaaliban and Paadum Pothu Naan Thendral Kattru and Angey Varuvathu Yaro in the film Netru Indru Naalai . MSV continued to use SPB in films with various actors. SPB was the favourite singer of MSV and would always cherish the song Ilakkanam Marudho in the film Nizhal Nijamahirathu . SPB’s career graph soared with the arrival of Ilayaraja and actors such as Rajinikant and Kamal Haasan. Even with Ilayaraja it did not happen immediately. Once the duo combined, it proved unstoppable. Bhuvana Oru Kelvikuri offered him two outstanding songs — Raja Enbar Mandhiri Enbar and Vizhiyile Malarnthathu . SPB is no more, but his voice will live on; his fans will ensure that.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No respite for Kerala as 6,477 cases reported||Kerala reported 6,477 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. Testing levels too rose, with 56,057 samples added in 24 hours. The number of active cases in hospitals rose to 48,892. Of these cases, 371 persons were being cared for in ICUs, with 96 requiring ventilator support. The State’s death toll rose steadily and on Friday, 22 deaths that took place between September 3 and 24 were added to the official list. In a big cluster, 200 BSF personnel tested COVID-19 positive at the Border Security Force (BSF) training centre at Areekkarakkunnu near Nadapuram in Kozhikode district on Friday. Tests were conducted among 500 persons in the camp. Health Department sources said a large scale antigen test was done as six camp members tested positive on Thursday. Only 19 persons showed symptoms. These symptomatic patients were admitted to First Line Treatment Centres under the Health Department at Nadapuram. Others were quarantined at the camp. The camp housed 900 persons. Antigen tests for the remaining 400 would be done on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh recorded 7,073 new infections and 48 deaths on Friday, and tested 69,429 more samples. Currently, 67,683 patients were under treatment. In all 54.47 lakh tests were carried out with overall positivity rate of 12.14%; in the past day, the rate was 10.19%. East Godavari added 1,031 infections and two deaths. Telangana recorded 2,381 cases on Thursday and 10 fatalities. While 57,621 persons were tested, reports of 1,659 were awaited. Greater Hyderabad added 386 cases. Karnataka on Friday reported 8,655 new cases and 86 fresh deaths. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,080 cases and 32 deaths. The State carried out 59,919 tests including 20,284 rapid antigen tests. A total of 5,679 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday and the deaths of 72 persons were recorded in Tamil Nadu. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported a rise in cases for the second consecutive day with 1,193 persons testing positive for the infection followed by 661 in Coimbatore. The new cases took the State’s overall tally to 5,69,370. Of this, 46,386 were active cases. Another 5,626 persons were discharged following treatment on Friday. Till date, a total of 5,13,836 persons were discharged. The toll climbed to 9,148. A total of 94,877 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. Till date, Tamil Nadu has tested a total of 69,10,521 samples. Four more private laboratories were approved for conducting COVID-19 tests. With this, there are a total of 116 COVID-19 testing facilities in the private sector and 66 in the government sector.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Small farmers happiest today, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a powerful defence of the three farm-related Bills and the Labour Codes dealing with long-pending reforms in the sector. He said it was the “first time in decades that the Centre has framed laws that would benefit farmers and workers”. Mr. Modi was addressing BJP leaders and workers on the 104th birth anniversary of the party’s ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; and the labour Bills were passed by Parliament in the monsoon session. Mr. Modi hit out at the Opposition, which has vehemently protested against the Bills, saying many governments had come to power in the States and at the Centre over the decades in the name of farmers and workers, “but what did they get? Nothing; just a web of promises that neither the farmers understood nor the workers.” ‘Entwined in laws’ “The farmers were entwined in laws that prevented them from selling their produce at prices that they wanted; consequently, though the quantity of produce went up, their income did not go up,” he said, adding those who always “lied” to farmers were now “shooting from their shoulders” and misleading them. Asserting that the small and marginal farmers were the “happiest today”, he stated that it was “for the first time, they have got an alternative to bargain for the price of their produce. The tradition earlier was to sell in ‘mandis’. If he thinks he will benefit by selling there, he will sell there. If he thinks the benefit is more outside, he will sell outside”. Mr. Modi gave a call to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members to fan out across villages to dispel myths spread by rivals over these Bills. “Our ground connection will bust the propaganda being spread in the virtual world,” he said. Speaking about the Labour Codes, he said his government had brought them in to bring workers out of the complex web of dozens of laws. Over 50 crore workers employed in the organised and unorganised sectors would benefit from these reforms, with fixed income and other measures, including health benefits. So far, only 30% of the workers had the coverage of minimum wage guarantee, and it would now expand to all workers in the unorganised sector, he observed. Women workers have been empowered by these proposed laws as they did not get equal rights earlier, he said. ‘Nation-first’ mantra Asserting that “nation-first” is the BJP’s mantra, he noted that the promises made by the party have been fulfilled. He referred to decisions such as scrapping of Article 370, which gave Jammu and Kashmir special rights, and the beginning of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Mr. Modi asked BJP cadres to promote local products and spread awareness of the National Education Policy.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Suspension of MPs unfortunate: Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday termed the chain of events leading to the suspension of eight Opposition members in the Rajya Sabha on Monday and the subsequent boycott of both Houses of Parliament by the Opposition “unfortunate”. The “dignity of the House and its Chair” was “an important aspect of the Parliamentary system and it is the duty of all members to respect it,” Mr. Birla noted at a press conference in New Delhi. The tradition of Parliament was not to refer to the goings-on in the other House, but that it would suffice to say that the events thereof had been unfortunate, he said. Mr. Birla, however, observed that the boycott of the Lok Sabha by the Opposition was largely under political compulsions. “In the Lok Sabha, the Opposition has largely extended cooperation to the Chair in the peaceful conduct of the House, and the boycott was, as I understand it, under an act of political compulsion,” he said. “I had asked the leaders of the Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha to tea after they announced the boycott, and tried to persuade them to reconsider at least for the last sitting, but these were decisions taken under political compulsions.” Unprecedented event The suspended Rajya Sabha members had, in an unprecedented event, gone on an overnight strike within the Parliament premises after their suspension was announced by House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. Deputy Chairperson Harivansh, who had been at the receiving end of the Opposition fury in the House and who was accused of passing the substantive Farm related Bills in the House without division and without the House being in order, had also undertaken a day-long fast. The Opposition in the Lok Sabha, where the Bills were cleared prior to being tabled in the Rajya Sabha and that too with more than five hours debate, had boycotted the proceedings in solidarity with the eight suspended MPs. Mr. Birla, while giving details of the productivity of the Lok Sabha, said that it had breached a record on that score, with 167% productivity. Members, through various avenues open to them, had debated various important issues. LAC crisis Asked why the border stand-off with China was not debated in the House, he said COVID-19 was the most challenging problem facing the country and that issue had been debated not just during a general debate on the issue but also during debates on amendments to the Epidemic Diseases Act. The construction work on a new Parliament complex had almost started and would be completed in 21 months. The Lok Sabha Secretariat was prepared to hold both the winter session and Budget session of Parliament, he stated. While the Rajya Sabha Secretariat saw 83 staffers contracting COVID-19 during the monsoon session, Mr. Birla, while admitting that the Lok Sabha Secretariat had not escaped the disease, refused to disclose any numbers, terming such disclosure “unseemly.”
26 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Versatile voice that won over Bollywood||Late legendary playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was a towering personality in Bollywood. His voice swept the Hindi heartland beginning with hits like Ek Duuje Ke Liye staring Kamal Haasan and Rati Agnihotri in 1981, through to Salman Khan’s Maine Pyar Kiye in 1989. He was paired with legendary playback singer Lala Mangeshkar and his popularity sky rocketed since he sang the two initial Hindi songs Tere Mere beech Main and Hum Tum Dono Jaab Mil Jaye. Ms. Mangeshkar was then at her peak and SPB proved an able match, giving him instant acceptance in Bollywood. The song Mere Jeeven Saathi added to his stardom. What got broad-based acceptance and made him famous was the National Film Award in 1981 for his work in Ek Duuje Ke Liye . His songs later contributed immensely in establishing Bollywood superstar Salman Khan as a romantic hero during the beginning of his career in films such as Maine Pyaar Kiya, Saajan and Hum Aapke Hain Koun . Songs such as Kabootar ja ja ja , Aate jaate hanste gaate , Aaja shaam hone aayi , Mere rang me rangne waali , Maine pyaar kiya and Dil deewana remain hits of the 1990s.  Saajan , starring Salman, Madhuri Dixit and Sanjay Dutt, saw SPB singing Bahut pyar karte hai , Dekha hai pehli baar among other hits. He also sang for Salman in Patthar Ke Phool and Hum Aapke Hain Koun , the latter becoming one of the biggest hits in Hindi cinema that year and for many years to come with its songs Pehla pehla pyaar , Didi tera devar deewana , and the title number Hum aapke hain koun . Despite his star status, in the industry, Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was known for his humility and grace. “He always had a smile on his face and the songs that he had sung are legendary,” Anu Malik recalled. Mr Malik who had a chance to meet Mr. Balasubrahmanyam personally when he visited Chennai to record his songs, said, “I have yet to meet a greater human being than Balasubrahmanyam Sir. Everyone knows that he was a great singer but one should also know that he was one of the most humblest of all human beings who believed his voice does the talk.. his Hindi diction was impeccable.” “My all time favourite is Mere Rang Mein Rangne Waali picturised on Salman Khan. A brilliant song brilliantly sung by Balasubrahmanyam Sir,” Mr. Malik said. According to music composer Hitesh (Chacha) Mishra, Mr. Balasubrahmanyam’s best song is Aake Teri Bahoon Main Har Saam Lage Sinduri with Lata ji. His voice was very romantic and touched every heart easily. He was undoubtedly different from other playback singers. And that made him special.”  (With inputs from PTI)
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Ilaiyaraaja, Rajini and Kamal inconsolable||Music maestro Isaignani Ilaiyaraaja said there was no limit to his grief, following the death of singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on Friday. “Some time ago I said please get up and come soon, I'm waiting for you. You didn’t listen to me. You are gone. Where have you gone?” said the composer, addressing the singer in an emotional video message. When the singer’s health deteriorated earlier in August, Ilaiyaraaja had shared a message urging him to recover soon. “Have you gone to sing in the heavens? I don't understand the world any more. I don't have any words to say. I don't know what to say,” the veteran music director said. “There will be no person in India who is not a fan of SPB and his singing. Those who know him (personally)…they loved him even more for his humanity apart from his singing and his voice. SPB treated everyone, whether old or young with respect, dignity and love,” superstar Rajinikanth said in an emotional tribute. The actor, for whom the late singer sang the “hero introduction songs” in many of his movies, said SPB was unique among the many legendary singers in the Indian film industry. “The Indian film industry has created a lot of great singers — Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Ghantasala, T.M. Soundararajan. They all sang songs in one language that they knew. But SPB sang in many languages,” he said. Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said SPB maintained an equipoise when subjected to criticism or applause. “He admired talent and he thought it was not his position to ridicule or talk about lesser music. He would not revel in the mediocrity of others,” Mr Haasan said, adding, “He was a very busy singer. He had a set aside certain days for certain languages. He kept his second Sundays free for Kannada songs. He recorded 12 songs in a day because producers were waiting. If Covid-19 had not hit him, he would have sung more.” He said the veteran singer was his ‘biggest public relations man’. “Even when I was not a star, he was proud of me. I now miss my greatest public relations man. He was someone who would cry if someone praises me,” Mr. Haasan said. “He has dubbed for me in over 150 films. People used to get confused as to who was speaking,” he recalled.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NDA gears for first polls during pandemic||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on Friday welcomed the announcement of the Assembly poll dates for Bihar and exuded confidence that it would win. At a press conference in Patna, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced that his party, the Janata Dal(U), welcomed the Election Commission’s decision. The BJP general secretary in charge of Bihar, Bhupendra Yadav, tweeted, “The Assembly polls in Bihar will reflect the results of the Lok Sabha elections and the NDA will win with a two-thirds majority in Bihar Assembly.” The polls, the first in India under the shadow of COVID-19, will present many challenges not only to the EC but also to parties that have to change the ways of campaigning to accommodate the safety norms. However, a senior Bihar BJP leader says, “We were the first party to start off with digital rallies in June, and we have prepared content and connectivity for outreach on various digital platforms to suit big, small and micro groups.” Seat-sharing plans The political challenges will unfurl not just as the campaign gains traction but also the closer the BJP and its partner, the JD(U), come to finalising their seat sharing agreement. While the two parties fought together in the 2005 and 2010 polls, Mr. Kumar’s exit from the NDA before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls meant that old agreements needed to be renegotiated after his party’s return to the NDA fold in 2017. “While during the 2019 polls, it was decided that the BJP and JD(U) will fight an equal number of Lok Sabha seats, for the Assembly, the JD(U) wants to retain its dominant role. That is a bit hard to swallow for the BJP,” said a source in the Bihar BJP. The Lok Janshakti Party has also been demanding a larger share of seats, which the JD(U) says is up to the BJP to spare from its share. JD(U) general secretary K.C. Tyagi told The Hindu that while his party expects a seamless seat adjustment with the BJP, they have “no experience” of fighting polls with the LJP. “While we have fought alongside the BJP many times, we have no experience with the LJP,” he said, hinting that appeasing the LJP will be the job of the BJP and not the JD(U). The other challenge is an undercurrent of anti-incumbency for the past 15 years of Nitish Kumar’s administration and the handling of the recent floods in the State and the pandemic. The BJP feels that the antidote to this could be in the persona of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the welfare handouts given during the lockdown. “Every Below Poverty Line family in Bihar has received some assistance or the other under various welfare measures announced by the Central government. Modi ka bheja hua paisa (money sent by Modi) is something that the Opposition is not taking into account,” said a senior Bihar BJP leader. The Opposition has been playing down the power of double-engine growth, saying it hasn’t given much to Bihar, but they forget that the State has only had “double engine government” — same alliance government at the Centre and State — since 2017. “In 2005 and 2010, the UPA was in power, and when Modi ji took over as PM in 2014, Nitish Kumar was no longer with us. People will give us the benefit of doubt,” the Bihar BJP leader said.
26 September 2020||Srinagar,||DNA samples match Rajouri youth||DNA samples of the three youth killed in a joint operation of the Army and the police in Shopian in Kashmir on July 18 matched the samples taken from the families of the missing youth from Rajouri, the police said on Friday. “DNA sample results of the three families of Rajouri have matched those killed in Amshipora of Shopian. We will now take further course of action and complete the remaining formalities,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said at a press conference here. The police statement comes a week after the Army’s inquiry established that the Shopian operation “contravened the dos and don’ts of the Chief of Army Staff approved by the Supreme Court and exceeded the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act”. The Army has initiated disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima facie answerable. Parties seek action “The Shopian encounter was staged, wherein innocent labourers were murdered and passed off as militants. Now is the test for the administration to ensure justice to the families by taking the case to its logical conclusion. It should be a repeat of Pathribal and Machil cases. The policy to incentivise killings breeds instances of murder for medals”, said PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone said, “It is not [for] the first time and not the last time. There is no deterrence”. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari appreciated the role of the police in a fair investigation. “Such cases must be probed without any bias. The role of local collaborators who provide concocted information to security forces in lieu of some remuneration should also be exposed”, he said.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I can’t believe Balu’s voice has fallen silent’||The devastating news of the passing away of the legendary playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam has left me shattered and shell-shocked. I am benumbed and words fail me as I struggle to express my deep anguish. Like millions of people across the globe, my wife, Smt. Ushamma, and I prayed fervently for his speedy recovery. We hoped that he would win this battle against the dreaded coronavirus. Alas! The cruel hand of destiny has snatched away ever-smiling Balu from us. I wake up every morning and get rejuvenated by listening to Annamacharya Keertans and devotional songs of late Sri Ghantasala Venkateswararao and Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam. This has been my routine for many years. The words that Balu is no more has left a void in me. How can my morning routine be the same without listening to your mellifluous voice, Balu? Ever since I came to know about his hospitalisation, I have been in constant touch, initially with Balu and later with his family members. It became my daily routine to seek updates on his well-being. I was regularly in touch with the doctors who were treating him at MGM Hospital. For the past many days, the doctors kept me informed on how he was coping with the aftermath of contracting the virus. I must compliment the doctors for doing their best. During the initial days of his treatment, I felt happy when the doctors told me that he was improving and responding to treatment. They informed me that they were taking advice of experts from Mayo Clinic and Boston Medical University and used to update me on their line of treatment too. Upon my suggestion, they took the advice of leading pulmonologists in South India. When the doctors informed me of the need for physiotherapy treatment for Balu, I had spoken to Apollo Hospitals Group Chairman, Dr Pratap C. Reddy, for arranging the machine. Balu’s son, Charan, was also in constant touch with me. Four days ago, it came as a relief when the doctors told me that he was progressing and responding to the treatment. They said that he was spending time with family members by speaking to them. I was relieved on hearing this as initially his communication was only through gestures or by writing down his thoughts on a piece of paper. I was told that he had recently expressed his wish to watch TV as he was a keen cricket enthusiast. On getting those updates a few days ago, I felt confident that he would pull through. All this made me not believe the news that he is no more when it was broken to me. I can barely stay composed and collect my thoughts. Memories come flooding to me, unable as I am to cope with this sudden tragedy. I have always had a special affinity towards Balu… it could be due to the fact that I knew him since childhood or because he hailed from my village in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh or for his humility, dedication and hard work, which he imbibed from his father, late Sri Sripathi Panditaradhyula Sambamurthy, who was a Harikatha artiste and a great musician. Sri Sambamurthy used to organise Thyagaraja music festivals and invite eminent musicians. It was a great opportunity to me and music lovers of Nellore to listen and enjoy the music of legends like D.K. Pattamal, M.S. Subbulakshmi, Chembai Vaidyanatha Iyer, Sri Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, violinist Shri Lalgudi Jayaraman, veena expert Sri Chitti Babu, vocalist M.L. Vasanthakumari, eminent percussionist T.K. Murthy and others. It could be any or a combination of all these reasons which endeared Balu to me. I will miss him personally in ways beyond the pale of language — such is the deep bond I shared with him. With his friendly disposition, Balu was equally affectionate towards me whenever we interacted. We used to go down the memory lane and get nostalgic. His conversations used to be interspersed with interesting anecdotes, which I cherish. Our love for Telugu language and Bharatiya Samskrithi (Indian culture) was one of the common factors that further cemented our bonding. Balu was an institution by himself. Undoubtedly, he was like a binding force, an overarching bridge between the past and present generations. He was a mentor par excellence and a genteel guide for the younger generation. Not only did he earn name and fame globally as a versatile singer, but was equally at ease in donning the greasepaint. He slipped effortlessly into the supporting characters he had enacted. The fact that he lent his voice to leading actors from the 1960s till recently and in different languages speaks volumes of his brilliance. He had the unique gift of modulating his voice to suit the actor’s persona. Voice modulation was his forte. Apart from Telugu, he has sung in many languages, including Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi. The Telugu people in particular and the world of music in general will be indebted to Balu for unearthing fresh and hidden singing talent through the popular programme of ‘Padutha Theeyaga’ patronised by Sri Ch. Ramoji Rao, chairman, Eenadu Group and telecast on ETV for many years. The soft-spoken Balu always used to encourage the budding performers by subtly correcting them in a friendly manner. It was a great quality of this iconic personality. I can never forget the moment when I presented the centenary award to Balu at the inauguration of the 47th International Film Festival of India in Panaji, Goa 2016. It will be difficult to me and millions of his fans to accept the fact that Balu’s voice has fallen silent. Om Shanti!  (The author is the   Vice-President of India)   Not only did he earn name and fame globally as a versatile singer, but was equally at ease in donning the greasepaint
26 September 2020||Patna,||Political parties welcome Bihar election schedule||Political parties on Friday welcomed the Election Commission’s (EC) announcement on the schedule for the three-phase Assembly elections in Bihar, and expressed confidence over their respective imminent victories in the poll. A clash broke out between BJP workers and the Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP-L) workers, led by former MP Rajesh Ranjan, outside the BJP’s office in Patna. JAP(L) workers were protesting against the farm Bills passed in Parliament earlier this week. “We welcome the poll schedule as the people of Bihar have already decided to oust the present government led by Nitish Kumar from power. Our contest is against the BJP, not the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal-United (JD-U) as he (Mr. Kumar) has lost his political credibility among the voters of Bihar. The mahagathbandhan (‘grand alliance’) will come to power in this election,” said RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Mr. Yadav led a tractor march with senior party leader Shivanand Tiwari in Friday’s nationwide protest over the farm Bills. ‘People’s regime’ Minutes after the poll schedule announcement, imprisoned RJD president Lalu Prasad tweeted,“ Utho Bihari, karo taiyaree … janata ka sashan abki baari ...Bihar mein badlav hoga , afsar raj khatam hoga .. .ab janata ka raj hoga (rise and awake, people of Bihar...make preparations…this time, there will be the people’s regime…a change in Bihar will happen…the end of bureaucratic rule...now there will be people’s rule).” The ruling NDA (National Democratic Alliance) parties, the BJP and the JD(U), also welcomed the poll schedule and said, “There was no contest between the NDA and the ‘grand alliance’ as the NDA will win over 220 seats out of the total 243 seats in the upcoming poll.”   HAM(S)’s Mr. Manjhi tweeted, “This election will be fought on the plank of 15 years of sushashan (good governance) versus 15 years of jungle raj . The people of the State will return Nitish Kumar to power again as he has served them well.”
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||New agriculture Bills will enslave farmers, says Rahul||Coinciding with the nationwide farmer’s agitation, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi shared a three-minute video chat with farmers discussing the three farm Bills recently passed by Parliament. Mr. Gandhi held a video chat with 10 farmers from Haryana, Bihar and Maharashtra, discussing the new agricultural laws. The farmers expressed concerns that the laws will enable corporate houses to buy their produce below the minimum support price (MSP) rates. They also said the government should ensure any person buying produce below the MSP rate should be deemed illegal and made a punishable offence. The farmers also feared that the new laws will help big business houses to buy their land and reduce them to farm workers. They said these laws are like the return of the East India Company, to which Mr. Gandhi quipped, “There was an East India Company, now there is a West India company.” ‘For India’s future’ “These laws will have to be opposed for the future of India. A farmer’s voice has immense strength; it was the farmer’s voice that helped us win our freedom. And farmer’s protests will get us freedom again,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Gandhi in a tweet had said the micro, small and medium scale industries (MSMEs) were destroyed by an erroneous GST, and now new agricultural laws will enslave our farmers.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 223 crore upgrade for 56 Mi-17s is untenable, says CAG||An upgrade of 90 medium lift Mi-17 helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) proposed in 2002 could not be achieved even after 18 years, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said, as a result of which these “helicopters were flying with limited capability, thus compromising operational preparedness during these years”, and the expenditure of about Rs. 223 crore was “not justified” with limited life left in 56 of them. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) concluded a contract with Elbit Systems of Israel for the upgrade of the 90 copters at Rs. 618.23 crore in January 2017. “After upgradation, 56 of these helicopters would be left with less than two years of life. The expenditure of Rs. 222.92 crore being incurred on their upgradation is not justified,” the CAG said in a report tabled in Parliament early this week. The 56 helicopters would be phased out by 2024. In addition, for the upgradation, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and Bharat Electronics Limited were to supply Rs. 1,720 crore worth of essential components, for which a contract had yet not been concluded. The Mi-17 and Mi-17 1V helicopters had certain limitations in operating in adverse weather, night conditions and in electronic warfare dense battlefield. Due to this, the IAF initiated the proposal to upgrade 172 helicopters in 2002 and the Acceptance of Necessity was accorded by the Defence Acquisition Council in 2005. But the Request For Proposal was not issued even after two years as the IAF could not finalise the number of copters to be upgraded. After a series of delays, during which few helicopters were lost in accidents, a contract for the upgradate of 90 was signed with Elbit systems.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||A patient who inspired his doctors, to the end||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam’s journey through 52 days of hospitalisation was pretty much along the lines of how he lived life — pleasant, patient and courteous even in the most extenuating circumstances, positive and determined to triumph over the crisis. Doctors who treated him at the hospital feel his passing as a personal loss, having spent just under two months with him, with his battle theirs, too. V. Sabanayagam, clinical lead, Multidisciplinary Intensive Care, MGM Hospitals, revisits the singer’s stay in hospital, marking its ups and downs. SPB was admitted to the hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19, on the advice of his family doctor Deepak Subramanian, who heads the Minimal Access (GI) and bariatric surgery unit at MGM. “He told me: ‘I’ll do what you want me to do to overcome this’,” the doctor recalls. “For the first three days he was doing okay,” Dr. Sabanayagam explains. “But in the background, his disease was progressing and his oxygen requirement was increasing. So he was shifted to a high dependency unit on August 9, and received oxygen through a high-flow nasal cannula and non-invasive ventilation, alternately. Despite this, when he became breathless, we decided to escalate his treatment on August 13. Meanwhile, he was on the antivirals, steroids, plasma therapy and supportive therapy usual in COVID-19 treatment.” When the decision was taken to put him on the ventilator, doctors were apprehensive of how they would tell the singer that they would have to do a procedure which would silence him, literally. “We expected to have a long conversation. But the only thing he said, calmly, was: ‘Go ahead and do whatever is appropriate’.” When his oxygen demand kept growing, on August 14, he was put on the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) device to provide cardiac and respiratory support. He slowly started to improve, Dr. Sabanayagam adds. He was able to sit up and began to interact with people. “Up to 48 hours before, he was doing well. But then he developed a severe infection,” Dr. Deepak explains. “We feel so exhausted today, as if a close friend has passed on after a valiant fight,” Suresh Rao, director, Heart and Lung Transplantation Programme, adds.
26 September 2020||Washington DC,||Quad discusses Indo-Pacific infrastructure and 5G||Senior officials from the Foreign Ministries of “the Quad” group of countries — India, the U.S., Australia and Japan — met virtually on Friday, during the United Nations high level week, as part of their periodic consultations on the Indo-Pacific region. Officials discussed “ongoing and proposed practical cooperation in the areas of connectivity and infrastructure development”, a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement said. The U.S. State Department spelt out the discussion on connectivity more. “Noting the importance of digital connectivity and secure networks, the officials discussed ways to promote the use of trusted vendors, particularly for fifth generation (5G) networks,” it said in a statement on the meeting. In an effort to stop Chinese G5 giant Huawei from setting up shop networks in other countries, U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo has been promoting “clean telcos” — a list of companies considered by the U.S. administration to be free from security risks and the risk of surveillance by the Chinese government. Other topics discussed by the Quad officials, as per the statements, included counter-terrorism, cyber and maritime security, and quality infrastructure in the region. ASEAN inclusiveness Both countries’ statements say the officials committed support to the concept of ASEAN-centrality in the Indo-Pacific and ASEAN’s leadership in the architecture of the region. The U.S. statement says the officials “explored ways to work together in the Mekong sub-region, in the South China Sea, and across the Indo-Pacific to support international law, pluralism, regional stability, and post-pandemic recovery efforts”. The MEA statement says the officials reiterated their readiness to work with ASEAN and all other countries towards realising “a common and promising vision for the Indo-Pacific”. The U.S. statement describes collective efforts to advance “a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”. The phrase normally used by Washington is “free and open Indo-Pacific”. India had, at least initially since the Quad was revived after a ten year hiatus in 2017, been hesitant for the Quad to be seen as a framework to exclude or contain China. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had articulated an inclusive vision for the Indo Pacific in 2018 at the Shangri La Dialogue in Singapore, when India-China relations were on a high relative to this year, when there have been tensions and clashes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The MEA statement on the Thursday meeting, unlike the U.S. statement, does not use the word “Quad” in the text. The officials indicated that there would be a Ministerial-level meeting of the Quad later this year, as per the MEA statement.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||India has lost one of its most melodious voices: President||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were among the leaders who paid tributes to singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on Friday. “In the passing of music legend S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Indian music has lost one of its most melodious voices. Called ‘Paadum Nila’ or ‘Singing Moon’ by his countless fans, he was honoured with the Padma Bhushan and many national awards. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers,” Mr. Kovind said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “With the unfortunate demise of Shri S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer... A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah said, “He will forever remain in our memories through his melodious voice & unparalleled music compositions. My condolences are with his family and followers.”  ‘Touched hearts’ Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, said “his songs touched millions of hearts in many languages. His voice will live on.” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and other Union Cabinet Ministers also offered their condolences. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami said it was a great loss for the Tamil film industry and music fans. “He reached great heights and his songs will always remain in our memory,” he stated. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan were among those who offered condolences.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,||NIA court finds Subhani Haja Moideen guilty of joining IS||Subhani Haja Moideen, an IS recruit, was found guilty of joining the proscribed terrorist organisation and waging war against the Government of Iraq by a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) here on Friday. The punishment will be pronounced on Monday. The court found the accused guilty of Section 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code (criminal conspiracy) and Sections 38, and 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for offences relating to membership of a terrorist organisation and support given to a terrorist organisation respectively. The accused had, along with some other persons, agreed to do certain illegal acts, including joining the terror outfit and support and associate with it. These are punishable under Sections 120(B) of the IPC and Sections 20, 38 and 39 of the UAPA, the judge noted. Convicting Haja, P. Krishnakumar, NIA special judge, observed that the prosecution could also establish that the accused had committed offences under Sections 125 of the Indian Penal Code for waging war against an Asiatic country. Haja was arrested by the agency on October 5, 2016. The prosecution could clearly establish that the accused had committed all offences charged against him except the one booked under Section 122 of the IPC, which dealt with collecting arms with the intention of waging war against the Government of India, the court noted. The case The accused was in the company of the IS while in Iraq and during the period, he came in close proximity to explosives. The wearing apparels, all made in Turkey, contained chemical compounds of explosives, the court noted. The accused had actually joined the organisation by crossing the border of Turkey and got trained by the organisation. There is evidence to prove that he migrated to the IS and severed his tie-ups with the homeland, the court noted. When the circumstances of the case are taken cumulatively, it forms a chain so complete that there is no escape from the inference that the accused joined the terrorist organisation. The prosecution succeeded in bringing reliable evidences to prove its case, the court concluded.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Cancel licence of turf club, develop area as a park: PAC||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the State legislature has recommended cancellation of the licence of the Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) and development of the area as a park on the lines of Cubbon Park and Lalbagh Botanical Gardens. With rapid rise in the city’s population and vehicles, the PAC said the BTC land should be developed as a park to increase green cover. The government should develop it as a park with all modern facilities, it said. Though there were discussions to shift the BTC since 1968, no serious attempt has been made to shift it to the outskirts of the city, it said. The PAC report was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Friday. The PAC, comprising members of both the Houses of the legislature, directed authorities to ensure clearing of the pending rent of Rs. 36.63 crore by the BTC. The committee, headed by H.K. Patil (Congress), suggested to the government to seek an early hearing to clear the case pending in the Supreme Court. A petition in the Supreme Court had prevented the government from initiating action against the BTC. The panel blamed the Finance Department for not initiating action to suspend the licence of the club even after it found that it violated the Mysore Race Course Licensing Act, 1952, and other rules. The PAC said the violations should be brought to the notice of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to revoke the licence given to the BTC. The PAC said the Finance Department had filed an affidavit in the apex court to recover Rs. 36.63 crore dues till 2018–19 as rent for the land. It instructed authorities to calculate rent for the previous fiscal and ensure dues are paid with interest.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Newly-married Telangana man kidnapped, killed by wife’s kin||In a suspected case of honour killing, a 28-year-old interior designer was allegedly kidnapped and killed by his wife’s family with the help of hired assassins on Thursday evening at Sadasivpet of Sangareddy district. Fourteen people, including the girl’s parents, maternal uncles, cousin, and aunts, were arrested by Gachibowli police in connection with the case, while four others are at large. The youngster, Chinta Yoga Hemanth Kumar from Vysya community, fell in love with D. Avanthi Reddy (23), around four years ago. On June 11, they got married at the Sub-Registrar office, Quthbullapur against the wishes of her family. Avanthi’s father D. Laxma Reddy had then filed a missing complaint at Chandanagar police station. Later, the couple met Cyberabad Commissioner of Police VC Sajjanar and informed him about the marriage and both families were counselled, Madhapur in-charge DCP M Venkateshwarlu said. After their marriage, the young couple started living in a rented house at TNGO’s Colony, Gachibowli while their parents were staying in Chandanagar. Annoyed by the marriage, Avanthi’s parents Laxma Reddy and Archana, along with her maternal uncle Guduru Yugandhar Reddy decided to eliminate Hemanth, Mr. Venkateshwarlu said. Yugandhar told Laxma Reddy that it would cost Rs. 10 lakh to hire assassins, for which the latter agreed and paid Rs. 1 lakh in advance, he said. Yugandhar, who was familiar with the area, approached M Buchi Yadav, Yerkala Krishna and Mohammed Pasha and plotted the murder, the officer said. As per their plan, on Thursday afternoon, Yugandhar along with Vijayender, cousin Ranjith and a few women from the family, who were unaware of the plan, visited her house. “Around 2.30 p.m., Hemanth phoned his parents informing them about the sudden visit of her relatives and asked them to come to his house at the earliest,”Mr. Venkateshwarlu told The Hindu.  By the time Hemanth’s parents Murali Krishna and Laxmi Rani reached TNGO’s Colony, they had forced the young couple into a car saying that they were being taken to Avanthi’s parents’ house at Chandanagar, the officer said.
26 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Now, Assam tribal groups plan political party||The list of new political parties in Assam is likely to expand ahead of the 2021 Assembly election. Less than a month after two influential students’ organisations — the All Assam Students’ Union and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad — formed the Asom Jatiya Parishad (AJP), several tribal groups have announced the possibility of launching a political party.  The decision is expected to take shape after a tribal political convention in Guwahati on October 15, leaders of the organisations said. “The proposed political entity seeks to bring tribal organisations on a common platform for the cause of the long-neglected indigenous tribal people of Assam,” said Aditya Khakhlari, chief convener of the Coordination Committee of Tribal Organisations of Assam. The committee has 21 member-organisations that include the All Assam Tribal Sangha, All Bodo Students’ Union, All Rabha Students’ Union and Takam Mising Porin Kebang. “Unlike in the past, we want to ensure each community has equal stake in the new political initiative that will cater to the interests of the tribal people who are a factor in almost half of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam,” Mr. Khakhlari told journalists. Experiments with tribal fronts had petered out in the past. The United People’s Front, for instance, was formed a year ahead of the 2016 Assam poll but could not be sustained. Apart from the AJP, which expects to put up a strong fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, there have been at least two new regional parties in Assam. They are the Asom Gana Mancha and the Gana Shakti Party. Peasant rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti has constituted a panel to brainstorm for the formation of a new political party.
26 September 2020||KOLLAM,||Fishers’ Statewide stir on Oct. 15||Fishers under the National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) will organise a Statewide protest on October 15 demanding the withdrawal of three key Central regulations — two in the draft stage, one already notified — that pose ‘threat to their livelihood’. They say the Centre came up with the new laws in the past six months using COVID-19 situation as a ruse to avoid consultations with stakeholders. “Some are of particular concern to the fisherfolk of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry. The fishers from all three States will come together, simultaneously launching the protest at fish landing centres and harbours,” says T. Peter, general secretary, NFF. The fishers allege that the Draft National Fisheries Policy was put up in the public domain during the national lockdown, making it impossible for the community members to discuss its implication. Also, translations of the draft in regional languages are not available. The fishers find it difficult to comprehend the content.  Draft policy According to the NFF, the draft policy takes away the rights of the traditional fishers engaged in capture fisheries and promotes privatisation of resources and culture fisheries. The community also opposes the Draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Act, 2020, as it can have a significant impact on the sector. “We want amendments to the existing Act after considering the inputs of all natural resource-dependent groups, including the fishers,” he says. Another demand is that the shipping corridor off the Kollam coast be pushed beyond the 500 m depth and the government conduct a study of the ship-boat collisions on the Indian coast. The shipping corridor off the Kollam coast notified by the Director General of Shipping cuts through Kollam Parappu (Quilon bank), a very rich fishing ground. A lot of trawlers, large mesh gill net boats and fishers who use hook and line from both Kerala and Tamil Nadu operate in the area, making it one of the busiest points in the west coast. According to the NFF, around 25,000 fishermen depend on the Quilon bank and the corridor poses a serious threat to their livelihood. “Ideally the corridor should be located beyond 500 metres so that our livelihood is protected.”
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Godrej and The Hindu present webinar on evolving food habits||Godrej, in association with The Hindu , is hosting a panel discussion on “Evolving food habits and home kitchens in the new normal” on Tuesday, September 29, at 4 p.m. The panellists include business head and executive vice president of Godrej Appliances Kamal Nandi; two-time national award winning chef Varun Inamdar, and Altlife’s chief culinary officer Monika Manchanda. The discussion will be moderated by Ruth D’Souza, an independent food and beverages writer. The panel will look into the emerging patterns of food habits and their impact on the home kitchen. It will deep dive into some of the top trends to unravel how disruption in dining out, online shopping, and the focus on mindful eating has led to the rise of “no compromise convenience cooking”. The webinar, held in association with The Hindu , is powered by Godrej Appliances and Vikhroli Cucina, the Godrej Group’s brand-agnostic owned media platform in the food space. The Godrej Food Trends Report 2020, launched in February this year, based on inputs from over 150 culinary experts from across India, had predicted ghar ka khana (home-cooked food) will top the charts. In the months following the launch of the report, as a new normal emerged, interest in ghar ka khana augmented opportunities for neighbourhood “foodpreneurs”. It brought to the fore commitment to mindful eating and more. The webinar will be held on Zoom on Tuesday, September 29, at 4 p.m. To participate and confirm your registration, click here: http:/bit.ly/GODREJTH, or scan the QR code.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||RTC runs 731 buses on city routes||After more than six months, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), on Friday resumed its city bus services. The State government had suspended bus services initially due to lockdown and later in view of COVID restrictions. In keeping with the announcement made a day before, the transport juggernaut operated a quarter of its city fleet. According to TSRTC officials, as many as 731 buses were pressed into service. The most number of buses travelled from Patancheru to Farooqnagar, Patancheru to Hayatnagar, Ibrahimpatnam to Jubilee Bus Station, Secunderabad to Dilsukhnagar, Koti to Ghansimiyaguda and Uppal to Mehdipatnam with 40 buses plying on each route. ‘Lot of planning’ Officials said that much of the planning was focused the night before on route selection and the number of buses proposed to be deployed on them. Apart from this, planning frequency of buses was also looked into.Witnesses and officials both said that the occupancy was low on the first day of resumption of services. However, they expressed confidence that the number of passengers would increase. “We began operations around 6 a.m. By around 9 a.m., all the buses earmarked for operations were on the road. We did witness a low occupancy, but as is the trend, this will increase in the coming days,” an official said. Another official maintained that COVID–19 precautions as mandated by the State government were taken. Sanitisers provided These include providing sanitisers to staff, including drivers and conductors. “Each driver is given one bottle of sanitiser. Conductors have been given two bottles of sanitisers. One for themselves and the other for passengers. The sanitiser will be dispensed to the passengers when the come to buy tickets,” the official said. Each bus is being fumigated three times a day, he added.
26 September 2020||Srinagar,||Qadri assassins posed as clients, say police||The J&K police on Friday constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the assassination of television analyst and lawyer Babar Qadri, 39, who was killed by two pistol wielding men posing as clients. Meanwhile, two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in an Anantnag operation of the security forces. “A Special Investigation Team has been constituted to probe the incident. It will be headed by the Superintendent of Police, Hazratbal,” said Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar. He said two masked men entered Qadri’s residence at Hawal, Srinagar, around 6.20 p.m. on Thursday, “as clients with files in their hands”. “They told Qadri that they had to discuss some accident related case and later fired upon him. Qadri sustained four bullet wounds on his head,” IGP Kumar said. He said the militants also fired a few bullets in the air. “The police had forewarned Qadri and asked him not to live in the old city’s Hawal area but he refused [to heed the warning],” he added.  On the recent killing of a Block Development Chairman in Budgam, IGP Kumar said, “Militants probably knew about his movement. Two Personal Security Officers have been suspended. Names of two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants have come to the fore.” The Hurriyat, headed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, expressed shock over the killing of Qadri. “As the conflict lingers, another precious life falls prey to it,” a spokesperson said. Two militants killed The police on Friday said two LeT militants were killed in Anantnag’s Sirhama area. “One slain militant was identified as Abu Rehan from Pakistan, who was active since March 2019. Another was Adil Bhat, an LeT commander. Adil was involved in the attack on two policemen at Nowgam on August 14,” IGP Kumar said.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Google Pay does not share customer data’||Google on Friday said its digital payment application Google Pay does not share customer transaction data with any third party outside the payments flow. The clarification comes a day after the company told the Delhi High Court that its Google Pay, being a third-party application provider, is allowed under the law to share customer’s UPI transaction data with third parties and group companies. “This is to clarify that press reports on the basis of the affidavit filed by Google before the Delhi High Court, do not represent the complete facts. Google Pay is in full compliance with Unified Payment Interface (UPI) procedural guidelines, issued by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and the applicable laws, and does not share customer transaction data with any third party outside the payments flow,” a Google spokesperson said. In an affidavit, Google India said the NPCI’s ‘procedural guidelines’ do not impose an absolute prohibition or restriction on a third-party application provider’s ability to share data or information, if it was done with prior permission of the NPCI and the bank concerned.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Won’t stay CBI probe into Kerala murders’||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay a CBI investigation into the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periya in Kasaragod district of Kerala. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao indicated that it may not intervene if the central agency has already made “substantial progress” in the investigation. The court said it would wait to see the CBI’s response to the appeal and refused to pass any interim orders. “Let the CBI file an affidavit, then we will see,” Justice Rao observed orally. The court issued notice. It scheduled the next hearing for October 26. Kripesh and Sarathlal were hacked to death by three motorcycle-borne men in February last year. Police had arrested some suspects, including a local CPI(M) leader, A. Peethambaran. The Kerala High Court had transferred the case to the CBI. The parents of the two men have alleged that district leaders of the CPI(M) were involved. The Kerla government had appealed to the Supreme Court against the High Court decision to shift the case to the CBI.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Newly-married youth killed by wife’s kin||Murali and his wife saw the cars, alerted police and followed their trail. “When the car headed towards Gopanpally Tanda, the couple got suspicious and managed to jump out of the moving car. However, Yugandhar got down and whisked away Hemanth in another car and took him towards Patancheru,” the officer said. Soon, the police reached the spot, rescued her, took the woman’s family members into custody and launched a search operation for Hemanth after registering a missing case. According to police, Hemanth was taken to Zaheerabad, where the accused purchased liquor, snacks and a bundle of jute twine rope. While returning, they stopped the vehicle near Sadasivpet to attend nature’s call. “When the victim was relieving himself, Yadav tied his hands with the rope and pushed him inside the car, where they tied his legs and strangled him to death,” the investigator said, adding that the body was dumped in an open area. Yugandhar, Pasha, Yadav and others were picked up from the former’s relatives house in Ravalkole village in Medchal. Based on his confession, teams were sent to the spot to identify and recover the body, which was later shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,||CBI files FIR in LIFE Mission project case||Two days after the State government ordered a Vigilance probe to look into the allegations of wrongdoings in the LIFE Mission housing project in Thrissur, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a First Information Report (FIR) in a Kochi court for allegedly violating the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. The FIR has named Santhosh Eapen, Managing Director of M/s Unitac Builders, Ernakulam; M/s Sane Ventures LLP, Ernakulam; unknown officials of the LIFE Mission; and others as accused. MLA’s complaint It was on a complaint filed by Anil Akkara, Congress MLA, that the agency booked the report on Friday. The FIR was filed at the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, by invoking Section 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 35 (read with Section 3, which deals with prohibition to accept foreign contribution) of the Act. The complaint was that the LIFE Mission, an agency under the State of Kerala, violated the provisions of the Act in a criminal conspiracy with the private companies and others. Section 35 deals with punishment for accepting or assisting any person, political party or organisation, any foreign contribution or any currency or security from a foreign source, in contravention of the provisions of the Act. The ambitious housing project of the LDF government had courted controversy after Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, confided to the Enforcement Directorate that the Rs. 1 crore cash found in the safe locker of her bank was the commission received for channelling foreign aid to the builder who was constructing the houses.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Vodafone wins $2 billion tax case||The exchequer could end up paying billions of dollars in damages if it loses. To reduce future arbitration claims, India has ended such agreements with over 50 countries and is working on a new law to protect foreign investors by offering relief from possible policy changes even as it upholds the right to tax them, Reuters reported. Vodafone’s tax dispute stems from its $11 billion deal to buy the Indian mobile assets from Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. The government said Vodafone was liable to pay taxes on the acquisition, which the company contested. In 2012, India’s top court ruled in favour of the telecom provider but the government changed the rules to enable it to tax deals that had already been concluded. In 2014, Vodafone initiated arbitration proceedings against India.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers take to the streets over farm Bills||They also announced stoppage of rail traffic indefinitely from October 1, if their demands were not met. Participating in the stir on the Delhi-Amritsar NH at Rajpura, Gurdev Singh, 60, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, said his fear was that private players would take over the agriculture trade completely and the government would stop purchasing wheat and paddy from farmers. “Once that happens, it is evident that the Minimum Support Price regime will get eliminated. It is a conspiracy to phase out farmers from agriculture and let big corporates take over gradually,” said Mr. Singh. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said protests were held at over 150 places in Punjab. “Besides starting an indefinite rail roko agitation from October 1, a resolution will be passed by the gram sabha of each village to cancel the agriculture Bills and [Punjab] Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will be urged to convene a special session of the Assembly and pass a resolution not to implement the agricultural laws in Punjab,” he said. BJP’s alliance partner, Shiromani Akali Dal, also staged protests across the State as part of its ‘chakka jam’ programme. The party asked Captain Amarinder Singh to call an immediate Cabinet meeting and pass an ordinance to declare the entire State as one ‘mandi’ (principal market yard) to ensure that the Central agricultural Bills are not enforceable in Punjab. Peaceful protests In neighbouring Haryana, peaceful demonstrations were held across the State, with Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamuna Nagar bearing the maximum impact. Though commercial establishments and transport services remained unaffected, protesters sat on roads at several places, including highways, disrupting traffic. Besides Delhi-Hisar, Ambala-Kaithal and Jind-Patiala highways, farmers blocked internal roads in Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Ambala, Kaithal and Jind. Farmers massed on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, squatting on National Highway-9 and disrupting traffic. Protests in Shahjahanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Noida, Aligarh and Mathura led to long traffic jams across western Uttar Pradesh. Protests were also held in Rajasthan.  (With inputs from Ashok Kumar and Anuj Kumar)
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Nearly 7 crore COVID-19 tests conducted in India||The country now had 1,818 labs — 1,084 in the government sector and 734 private labs. These include Real-Time RT PCR-based testing labs (923), TrueNat-based testing labs (769) and CBNAAT-based testing labs(126). “Testing forms an integral pillar of COVID-18 response and management. The Ministry has conveyed that the aim is to catch every missing person through testing to curb the spread of the infection. Several measures have been taken by the Central government through calibrated steps to widen the testing net and ensure easier and more accessible testing by all across the country. States/UTs have been instructed to ensure higher testing and directed that all symptomatic negatives of Rapid Antigen Tests are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR,” the Ministry added.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||MCI replaced by National Medical Commission||The National Medical Commission (NMC) has replaced the Medical Council of India (BoG-MCI), as per information released by the Health Ministry on Friday. Dr. Suresh Chandra Sharma, former head of ENT, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, has been appointed as its chairman for three years. The change was aimed at bringing in reforms in medical education. The government dissolved the MCI in 2018, replaced it with a BoG, which was chaired by Dr. VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, said the Ministry. “Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) is hereby repealed with effect from September 25. The BoG appointed under section 3A of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) in supersession of the MCI constituted under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act shall stand dissolved,” stated the gazette notification issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Secretariat bids rescheduled||The State government has rescheduled the tender process for construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex. Tenders will now be issued between September 30 and October 13. Pre-bid meeting will be conducted on October 7 and the technical bids will be opened on October 13 evening. Opening of the price bids is scheduled on October 16, according to the new notification issued. The Roads and Buildings department, in its notification issued on September 15, has announced that bidders can download the tender documents from September 18 and the pre-bid meeting would be held on September 26. Technical bids were slated to be opened on October 1 and the price bids on October 5. Interested bidders can download the documents from the e-procurement platformwww.tender.telangana. gov.in. The initial notification has been cancelled citing “administrative reasons” and fresh dates for tender process had been notified. Senior officials said the process had only been rescheduled and not cancelled altogether without ascribing any reasons for the rescheduling. Sources, however, said the development followed the changes in the design of the complex that led to increase in the builtup area as well as the cost of the project. Panel deliberations This could be seen from the deliberations at the meeting of the State Expert Appraisal Committee on September 21. According to the minutes of the State Expert Appraisal Committee meeting, the project proponent (government) informed that the site was re-surveyed and it’s area has increased. “Few changes were also observed in the builtup area of the main building, staff amenities and other buildings,” according to the minutes of the meeting. The net site area was 25.42 acres in the earlier design which received clearance and it had now been increased to 28.05 acres, the sources said. The total built-up area of the new Secretariat complex has increased from 66,479.92 sq.m (7.15 lakh sq.ft) to 70,315.19 sq.m (7.56 lakh sq.ft) in the main complex with 11 floors in addition to ground and lower ground floors (LG+G+11). Though the number of floors in the main complex remained the same, the built up area has increased from 6.66 lakh sq.ft to 6.99 lakh sq.ft and this was mainly due to the staff amenities and other facilities.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar poll to be held in 3 phases from October 28||The notification for the first phase would be issued on October 1. The last date of nominations would be October 8 and their scrutiny done on October 9. The last date of withdrawal of candidature would be October 12. For phases two and three, the notifications would be issued on October 9 and October 13. The last date of nominations would be October 16 and October 20 and the scrutiny of nominations done on October 17 and October 21. The last date of withdrawal of candidature would be October 19 and October 23. In order to reduce crowds at polling stations, the maximum number of electors at a polling station has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, leading to the number of polling stations going up from 65,367 in 2015 to 1,06,526 now. Persons with disabilities, electors aged above 80, essential service workers and those suspected of or positive for COVID-19 would be given the option to vote by postal ballot. According to the ECI guidelines, political parties will have to follow social distancing norms while campaigning. Candidates could be accompanied by two people instead of the usual five when filing nominations and only five people could be involved in door-to-door campaigning at a particular place. Public meetings and rallies would be allowed at designated grounds identified by the Bihar Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), with social distancing circles marked. Mr. Arora said the CEO had prepared a list of such grounds. Answering a question about the potential spreading of COVID-19 during the polls, Mr. Arora said the election exercise had been meticulously worked out. “It’s a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark,” he said. The ECI also announced the schedule of election to the Bihar Legislative Council from four Graduates and Teachers’ constituencies each that had fallen vacant on May 6 due to retirement of the members. Polling for the eight constituencies would be held on October 22, the ECI announced.  It’s a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark  Sunil Arora  Chief Election Commissioner
26 September 2020||Bhopal,||‘Rahul must apologise to farmers’||Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel on Friday called upon Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Kamal Nath to apologise to farmers for reportedly reneging on the party promise ahead of the 2018 Assembly election to waive crop loans up to Rs. 2 lakh within 10 days of coming to power, a charge the party has rubbished. “I give them an ultimatum of 24 hours,” Mr. Patel said. “Otherwise, I will make farmers file complaints of fraud and conspiracy against them, based on which FIRs will be registered.” On September 21, in response to questions of two Congress MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha, Mr. Patel gave a written reply saying waiver for nearly 27 lakh farmers had been approved since December 2018.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Cable connect||
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC to announce bypoll dates on Sept. 29||The Election Commission will announce the schedule for bypolls to 64 Assembly constituencies and one Lok Sabha constituency on September 29, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Friday. Mr. Arora said the EC would hold a meeting on September 29 regarding the schedule for the byellections. On September 4, the EC said that the bypolls and the Bihar elections would be conducted “around the same time”.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Like-minded parties must stay together’||Hours after the EC’s announcement of dates for the Bihar Assembly poll, the Congress’s Bihar in-charge, Shaktisinh Gohil, said all like-minded parties should stay together. His comments come in the backdrop of RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha refusing to be part of the mahagathbandhan if RJD chiefTejashvi Yadav remains the face of the alliance. Mr. Gohil said it was natural that each party would want its leader to be the face of the alliance. He said he was confident that Mr. Kushwaha would remain in the alliance.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. rejects tour operators’ plea on refund||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Friday clarified in the Supreme Court that Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs) does not recognise private arrangements made between tour operators and airlines for advance bulk ticket bookings. The government and the regulator’s duty is towards the passengers named in the “passenger manifest”. Passengers, whose flights were cancelled during lockdown, should not be forced to run from pillar to post or behind tour operators for refund, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. The government was responding to concerns raised by travel agents and tour operators, who said they usually pay a lump-sum amount from their own pockets to book tickets in bulk. The cancelled flights during lockdown has caused them a huge loss. They had objected to the government’s refund proposal for direct payment to the passengers.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||ED attaches London flat in Yes Bank case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a London-based property currently worth Rs. 127 crore, linked to Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor, in connection with a money laundering case. The total attachment now stands at Rs. 2,011 crore. The residential flat, located on South Audley Street in London, was bought in 2017 for 9.9 million pound (about Rs. 93 crore) in the name of DOIT Creations Jersey Limited, of which Mr. Kapoor is allegedly the beneficial owner. Its probe against Mr. Rana and others is based on an FIR registered by the CBI, which alleged that in April-June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs. 3,700 crore in the short-term debentures of DHFL.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Messages are secured, says WhatsApp||Following a spate of leaked WhatsApp chats of some Bollywood actors, the instant messaging application has reiterated that messages are end-to-end encrypted. “WhatsApp protects your messages with end-to-end encryption so that only you and the person you’re communicating with can read what is sent, and nobody in between can access it, not even WhatsApp,” its spokesperson said on email.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bars, clubs, parks to reopen||The State government on Friday permitted with immediate effect reopening of all bars, clubs and tourism bars that were closed since March 22, initially due to lockdown and later in adherence to Central government guidelines restricting various services to contain the threat of COVID. A Government Order issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the following conditions would apply to reopening of bars, clubs and tourism bars. They include use of non-touch infrared thermometers or thermal screening at entrance of bar, proper queue management and hygiene conditions, crowd management in parking lots, provision of hand sanitiser, wearing of mask by bar staff and crew, ban on gatherings, musical events and dance floors, deep cleaning and sanitisation of entire bar premises in morning and evening everyday, sanitisation before new customers occupied seat and proper ventilation on the premises. However, permit rooms attached to liquor shops will remain closed till further orders. Following a memo from the Chief Secretary that the parks under GHMC and Forest department do not come under the prohibited list of activities, both departments have declared their parks open. The Forest department said the Nehru Zoological Park would be opened to visitors from October 6. All other urban parks would be opened for visitors and walkers from Saturday. Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy asked the officials to take precautionary measures in line with the Central government’s guidelines and COVID-19 rules.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Lecture series inaugurated||Former Vice Chairman of the State Planning Board Prabhat Patnaik inaugurated a lecture series on Decentralisation being organised by Chintha Publishers in connection with the Anniversary Book Fest 2020. Mr. Patnaik said decentralisation is not a homogeneous thing and has got alternate philosophies, visions, and concepts.
26 September 2020||IMPHAL,||Manipur’s BJP-led coalition not secure even after Cabinet reshuffle||The BJP-led coalition Ministry in Manipur is not out of woods even after a Cabinet reshuffle on Thursday evening, reports said. Chief Minister N. Biren had approved the removal of six Ministers. Mr. Biren tried to steady the rocking boat by inducting five Cabinet Ministers. On Thursday, Speaker Yumnam Khemchand declined the berth offered to him.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books CBSE ex-official for irregularities in recruitment||The CBI has booked a former Joint Secretary of the Central Board of Secondary Education for facilitating recruitment of three persons on forged documents. The alleged beneficiaries have also been arraigned. The accused have been identified as then joint secretary S.P. Rana, assistant secretaries Babita Rani and Shikha Tomar and assistant programmer Ruchin Tomar.
26 September 2020||Bhopal,||RTI query reveals Centre has no data on infected health workers||The National Centre for Disease Control, in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query, said it had no countrywide data on the number of health workers who contracted COVID-19 or died of it. These workers had been accorded the status of corona warriors, but the Centre seemed to have no data on their health, says RTI activist Chandrashekhar Gaur, who filed the query.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||These laws must go: Yechury||Farmers across the nation have come out to the streets to stop the government from mortgaging their harvest for private profits, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has said. “Withdraw these Bills PM Modi,” he said. The government should listen to the voice of the people, who were agitating against the agriculture Bills, he said.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek govt. help to bring back workers||Tamil Nadu’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, already crippled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, is now bleeding due to a massive labour shortage. On one side, the migrant workers have not returned from their home towns and on the other, there has been an exodus of workforce. “More than 40% of my workers are yet to return. I am able to operate only two shifts,” said the proprietor of an unit in Chennai. At least eight entrepreneurs from industrial estates in the State told The Hindu that recovery in their production had been less than 50% when compared to pre-lockdown levels. They attributed workforce shortage as a major reason for this. Representatives of a few units on Chennai’s outskirts said even the local workforce (including administration staff) were not turning up for work as local trains had not resumed operations. “There are no train services for the local labour movement. Most of them come from places such as Arakkonam, Ranipet, Avadi and Tiruttani and for them cost of commuting through trains is cheaper than other modes,” said K. Baskaran, secretary, Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association (KIEMA). “Labourers from north India are ready to come to Chennai if they are provided with special trains,” he added. According to K.E. Raghunathan, convener, Consortium of Indian Associations, in tier-1 towns there is a shortage of semi-skilled and unskilled labour; in tier-2 towns, there is a need for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workforce; and in tier-3 towns, there is a crisis in getting even administrative staff. “Almost 50% of migrant labourers have not returned,” he said. R.G. Chakrapani, secretary, Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, said a section of migrant workers feared contracting COVID-19 in Chennai. “A few large firms have managed to bring their migrant workers through flights. Now, workers from smaller units are demanding the same,” he said. However, R. Selvam, secretary, Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, said slowly the shortage in workforce was being met. In the last two months, many MSMEs tried recruiting people from in and around Chennai but the formula did not work well for them. Mr. Selvam said the local workers’ response is not as expected. “Local people don’t want to work in MSMEs,” Mr. Chakrapani lamented and pointed out that a few firms were now evaluating options like automation. “We cannot do away with migrant workers but we can certainly automate a few processes where human interference is not required,” he added. Poor response An MSME unit proprietor in Guindy said he had offered jobs to 15 locals and last week only two reported for work. “The others gave excuses like no transportation, its too far, etc. They want jobs in malls and IT firms and not at MSMEs,” he rued. Now, he is making efforts to bring back his migrant workers. The MSME units urged the State government to make some efforts to bring them back as hiring and training new workers was difficult. “We had a meeting with District Collectors but we were told the responsibility of bringing back the workers was ours. We are now waiting to meet the Chief Minister,” an office-bearer of another industrial estate said. If the labour issue was not fixed immediately, it could lead to more financial problems, said veterans in the sector.  Most of the workers come from places such as Arakkonam, Ranipet, Avadi and Tiruttani K. Baskaran Secretary, Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam to be cremated with State honours||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam will be cremated with full state honours, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. In a statement, he said Balasubrahmanyam had secured a permanent place not only in the hearts of the people of Tamil Nadu but also those of the people of India. His family members said the last rites and cremation would be performed in his farmhouse at Tamaraipakkam, near Red Hills, on Saturday. Earlier in the day, the body of the singer was brought to his residence at Kamdhar Nagar, Nungambakkam, from hospital. Thereafter, some initial rituals were performed. Politicians, musicians, film personalities, his fans and residents of nearby areas turned up in large numbers to pay their last respects. Despite the elaborate arrangements made by the police to ensure physical distancing, many jostled to catch a glimpse of the singer. A battery of mediapersons came to cover the last journey of the singer, and some of them scaled the huge compound walls. Some light music singers paid homage by singing his most famous melodramatic songs. Ebi, a singer from Perambur, said: “He is a great singer. We earned our livelihood by singing his songs on stages. His songs helped several musicians like me.” Sampath Kumar, treasurer of the SPB Fans Club, said: “He created a trust for carrying out philanthropic activities. The trust has been depositing Rs. 2,000 each in the accounts of 35 old singers every month... He would not talk about all this.” Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, DMK youth secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, actors Samuthirakani, Manobala, Mansoor Ali Khan and Anandaraj, and musicians Dhina and Imman paid homage. The body was later shifted to the farmhouse at Tamaraipakkam.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s count crosses 1,000 mark again||The State reported 5,679 new COVID-19 cases and 72 fatalities on Friday. Of the fresh infections, Chennai accounted for 1,193 cases, reporting a rise for the second consecutive day. Coimbatore followed, with 661 persons testing positive for COVID-19. The new cases took the State’s tally to 5,69,370. Of this, 46,386 are active cases. Another 5,626 persons were discharged following treatment on Friday. Till date, a total of 5,13,836 persons have been discharged. The toll climbed to 9,148. Of the 72 fatalities (37 in government hospitals and 35 in private facilities), Chennai accounted for 18 deaths, while Salem reported eight. Seven persons died in Vellore and six succumbed to the infection in Coimbatore. Among them was a 45-year-old woman from Chennai who tested positive for COVID-19 on September 23 and was admitted to a private hospital. She had no co-morbidities. She died on the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Two non-agenarians also succumbed to COVID-19. One of them, a 93-year-old man from Chennai, had bronchial asthma and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on September 17. He died on September 23 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and bronchial asthma. Among the deceased, 27 persons were in their 60s, while 17 were in their 70s. Chennai’s tally As Chennai’s daily count crossed 1,000 for a second consecutive day, the city’s tally stood at 1,60,926. A total of 10,000 persons are under treatment in the city. Coimbatore saw its tally touch 29,057. Salem recorded 297 cases, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur had 277 and 229 cases respectively. Cuddalore reported 235 cases. Cases continued to remain high in many of the northern districts. Tiruvannamalai had 173 cases, while Villupuram had 162. Kancheepuram saw 165 cases. 151 in Erode Among other districts, Erode reported 151 cases, Dharmapuri 148, Tiruppur 158 and Nilgiris 137. Vellore, Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Namakkal and Krishnagiri also had 100-plus cases. Tiruchi’s milestone  With the new cases, Tiruchi’s tally crossed 10,000. A total of 94,877 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. Till date, Tamil Nadu has tested a total of 69,10,521 samples. Four more private laboratories — Bhaarath Medical College and Hospital in Kancheepuram; Hicare Lab in Adambakkam, Chennai; Ganga Laboratory, a unit of Ganga Medical Centre in Coimbatore and Laboratory Services, Sri Kumaran Hospital in Tiruchi — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 116 private COVID-19 testing facilities and 66 government ones.  Of the 72 fatalities, Chennai accounted for 18 deaths, while Salem reported eight
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stage shows an integral part of his journey||Listening to legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam perform on stage was a musical delight. Stage shows were an integral part of his music journey and he never stepped onto a stage without rehearsals. With his incredible versatility, he rendered songs on stage with utmost precision and nurtured budding talent. Organisers of various orchestras who have performed with him for decades recall Balasubrahmanyam as a dedicated singer who respected his co-singers, irrespective of their age. Recalling that a fund-raiser concert for his hotel management college in 1969 was one of SPB’s early shows, Abaswaram Ramjhi, who has a children’s music troupe Issai Mazhalai, said: “He later sang at my wedding, along with the Pavalar Brothers troupe, in 1977.” To the organisers of musical orchestras, he was a down-to-earth singer who never missed an opportunity to appreciate singers and musicians. Describing him as a multi-tasker, V. Lakshmanan, one of the founders of Lakshman Sruthi orchestra, said that during a show in Australia, the audience gave a standing ovation for his rendition of song Kadavul amaithu veitha medai that involved a lot of mimicry. “He introduced me as a mimicry artiste to the audience and I too got a standing ovation. He always advised young singers to never mimic him and focus on the uniqueness of their voice.” Organisers also recall SPB to be a jovial person. S. Sankarram, founder of Saadhaga Paravaigal troupe, noted that he was a perfectionist who was particular about language and pronunciation. “He was one of those rare singers who never needed the help of audio technology and could bring in the same feel of playback singing in live shows too,” he said. SPB has helped several musicians throughout his career, said Karthik Jayaraman of Abbas Culturals, one of the many troupes associated with him for over three decades. He has performed Naanum Kamalum for nine years as a tribute to actor Kamal Haasan, and Kalai Vizha was one his last shows in January. Members of the Tamil Nadu Medai Melisai Kalaingargal Sangam, Madurai, organised a live show at Arapalayam on Friday night to pay homage to the singer. J. B. Vijay, organiser of Tarangini orchestra and the association’s president, said the loss of SPB was a bigger blow to many orchestra singers than the loss of livelihood due to the lockdown. S. Mathiazhagan, who runs Navarasam Isaikulam in Madurai, said his voice allowed light music troupes to earn a living.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Provisional registration of mental health establishments to begin soon||Provisional registration of mental health establishments under the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, will begin soon, and the 13 mental health review boards will be started in 10 days, according to officials. At its annual meeting held on Thursday, the Tamil Nadu State Mental Health Authority (SMHA) deliberated on a number of issues, including the registration of mental health professionals and issuance of disability certificates to persons affected with mental illness. The SMHA decided to form a committee of experts to decide on the qualifications for psychiatric social workers. It decided to reduce the registration fee for mental health establishments following a representation, an official said. According to officials, the meeting, which was chaired by J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary and Chairperson of the SMHA, discussed the commencement of mental health review boards at 13 locations in the State. He said that mental health was an integral and essential component of health. The annual meeting stressed the need for mental health promotion, involving actions that would improve psychological well-being, and for creating an environment supportive of mental health. Another official said the SMHA would take up provisional registration of de-addiction centres that would pave the way for better regulation.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for loan fraud||The Maduravoyal police have arrested a gang of three who allegedly obtained vehicle loans based on papers submitted by a customer who bought a mobile phone from a showroom under an equated monthly instalment scheme. The suspects have been identified as S. Rajesh, 31, of Maduravoyal; M. Vignesh, 23, of Vanagaram; and G. Lokesh, 31, of Thiruverkadu. They were arrested by the police following a complaint from P. Rajesh, 28, who is a medical representative living in T. Nagar. The complainant visited a leading mobile phone showroom in Porur and bought a handset under the equated monthly instalment scheme. He produced all his documents for getting the loan. After a couple of months, he was shocked to receive an SMS from the bank informing him of deduction from his account. On enquiry with the bank, he learnt that the amount was deducted towards the repayment of a vehicle loan. He informed the bank that he had not taken the loan, and lodged a complaint with the Maduravoyal police. Police personnel, with the help of the cyber crime cell in Anna Nagar, traced the suspects. Vignesh, who was working as a loan consultant in the mobile phone showroom, had used documents produced by the buyer and had raised four or five vehicle loans on producing those documents at different dealerships. The other two suspects — Rajesh and Lokesh — had abetted the crime. They then sold the vehicles and pocketed the money. The three had committed similar frauds in a few other places using the documents of other people, the police said.
26 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bills won’t affect Tamil Nadu farmers, says Minister||On a day when farmers’ associations were holding protests in various parts of the State, Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu said the bills would not affect them. Speaking to reporters in the Secretariat on Friday, Mr. Doraikkannu contended that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, himself a farmer, would not accept any legislation that went against their interests in the State. Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said Tamil Nadu was the first State in the country to have passed a Bill in the Assembly over contract farming in 2019, even before the Centre passed the legislation in Parliament. The legislation for contract farming would help farmers get a fair price for their produce through contracts with companies. “With contracts in writing, farmers can get a price agreed upon by both parties for sure,” he said.  Voluntary scheme Replying to a query, Mr. Bedi pointed out that it was a voluntary scheme and those who were not interested could continue to sell their agricultural produce like before. With the Contract Farming Act, a tomato farmer can sign an agreement with a company to buy his/her produce in the next few months at a rate agreed upon by both parties, he said. The Act also provided a channel for the farmer to raise his appeal in case of a dispute, he said.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka, T.N. spar over Mekedatu at CWMA meet||The Cauvery Water Management Authority’s (CWMA) meeting on Friday saw a sharp exchange of words between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the Mekedatu dam project. Though the matter was not on the agenda, Karnataka, at the fag end of an hour-long meeting held through video-conferencing, urged the Centre to clear the Mekedatu project, which would be a balancing reservoir, fulfilling the drinking water requirements of the Bengaluru metropolitan region. But Tamil Nadu, represented by Principal Secretary (Public Works) K. Manivasan, opposed the demand, as the project would “adversely affect” its rights. Karnataka, in its pre-feasibility report prepared in 2019, stated that the project would “regulate the required quantum of water to Tamil Nadu, on a monthly basis (in a normal year)” as per the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, as modified by the Supreme Court in 2018. T.N.’s opposition But Tamil Nadu was of the view that a mere perusal of data on Cauvery river water realisation, at its end, since the 1990s, would reveal that the State, being a lower-riparian State, it did not get its share of water as per the schedule laid down earlier by the tribunal, and now, by the Supreme Court and the CWMA. The State, as a matter of principle, was opposed to any project being proposed in the upper riparian, unless approved by the Supreme Court. At the meeting, Karnataka sought to equate the Mekedatu project with the Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which envisaged the diversion of excess water from the Mettur dam. But Tamil Nadu’s response was that the Sarabanga project, utilising only the surplus water, would benefit the area that fell under the existing ayacut, located within Tamil Nadu’s part of the Cauvery basin. At the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court, early last month, the State government had stated that the proposed project was not for developing a new ayacut. Besides, one of the factors behind the State’s apprehension regarding Mekedatu has been its proposed capacity of 67 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) — - huge and it was more than two-thirds the capacity of the Mettur dam, a senior official in the Public Works Department said. In a chat with The Hindu , R.K. Jain, chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC) and part-time chief of CWMA, sought to downplay the exchange between the two States and termed the discussion “incidental”. He, however, added that so long as the CWMA cleared the Mekedatu project, the CWC would not be able to give its nod. In light of the advice rendered last year by the Expert Appraisal Committee for River Valley and Hydroelectric Projects, attached to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, for an “amicable solution” between the two States on the issue, Mr. Jain said that efforts were on to bring about a consensus between the States. T.N.’s opposition But Tamil Nadu was of the view that a mere perusal of data on Cauvery river water realisation, at its end, since the 1990s, would reveal that being a lower-riparian State, it did not get its share of water as per the schedule laid down earlier by the tribunal, and now, by the Supreme Court and the CWMA. The State, as a matter of principle, was opposed to any project being proposed in the upper riparian, unless approved by the Supreme Court. At the meeting, Karnataka sought to equate the Mekedatu project with the Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which envisaged the diversion of excess water from the Mettur dam. But Tamil Nadu’s response was that the Sarabanga project, utilising only the surplus water, would benefit the area that fell under the existing ayacut, located within Tamil Nadu’s part of the Cauvery basin. At the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court, early last month, the State government had stated that the proposed project was not for developing a new ayacut. Besides, one of the factors behind the State’s apprehension regarding Mekedatu has been its proposed capacity of 67 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) — more than two-thirds the capacity of the Mettur dam, a senior official in the Public Works Department said. ‘Incidental discussion’ In a chat with The Hindu , R.K. Jain, chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC) and part-time chief of CWMA, sought to downplay the exchange between the two States and termed the discussion “incidental”. He, however, added that so long as the CWMA cleared the Mekedatu project, the CWC would not be able to give its nod. In light of the advice rendered last year by the Expert Appraisal Committee for River Valley and Hydroelectric Projects, attached to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, for an “amicable solution” between the two States on the issue, Mr. Jain said that efforts were on to bring about a consensus between the States.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Condolences pour in from film industry figures||“In any small corner of the world, it is possible to find an SPB fan,” said actor and comedian Vivekh. Condolences poured in from several members of the Tamil film industry who remembered their association with singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam and his contribution to cinema. His ageless voice — he has sung for several senior actors as well as the younger actors in the industry spanning five decades — and his humility were remembered by actors, directors, musicians and technicians who have been influenced by his work. “We’ve sung over 3,000 duets across six languages,” reminisced veteran playback singer P. Susheela. She said Balasubrahmanyam’s death was like the loss of a family member. “He was always ready to help anyone. One of the most memorable songs we’ve sung together isAayiram nilave vaa,” she said. Sharing a few lines from the songEngo pogudhu vaanamthat Balasubrahmanyam had sung in the Rajinikanth film Kochadaiiyaan , composer A.R. Rahman wrote on Twitter that the singer’s voice was “the Voice of Victory, Love, Devotion and Joy”. “He has sung over 40,000 songs and performed at numerous stage shows. Despite this fame, we have all learnt humility from him. He always stood grounded,” composer Harris Jayaraj said. The singer had left a legacy and his work and life would be an institution for generations to come, he said. Actor and politician T. Rajendar said Balasubrahmanyam had given life to several songs he had composed. “Not just for the Tamil film industry, it is a huge loss for the country,” he said. Poet Vairamuthu said Balasubrahmanyam’s voice had been a companion to his writing for over 40 years. “I had the honour of lip-syncing the songs that you have sung, on screen. We will all never forget your voice,” actor Sathyaraj said. The South Indian Artists Association or Nadigar Sangam said his death was an irreplaceable loss to the film industry and he was an accomplished actor, besides being a singer. Music composer D. Imman said that for actor Rajinikanth’s upcoming film Annathey , SPB had already recorded a song. “I feel blessed that I had the opportunity to work with him and record one of his last songs. He was such a loving and wonderful person,” he said. Director Bharathiraja, with whom the singer shared a close friendship, said SPB did not belong to a single State but to the entire country.  He has sung over 40,000 songs and performed at numerous stage shows. Despite his fame, we learnt humility from himHarris JayarajComposer
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A man close to his roots||Climbing trees, plucking mangoes, going to each other’s house in their native village Konetampettai. These are some of the memories that remain afresh in the mind of P. Subramani alias Chittamutti, the childhood friend of S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, fondly called as Mani in his village. “We went around the village together. Mani’s mother Shakuntala, known as Chinnama, used to call me Chittamutti, and the entire village knows me by that name now. He was loved by everyone in the hamlet. He bore my daughter’s medical expenses,” recalls Mr. Subramani, who still lives at Konetampettai. A pall of gloom descended upon Konetampettai, the native village of SPB’s mother. “He was from a Brahmin family and we are from the ST community. But his family was very close to us. We met him when he came to our village a few years ago,” says Jayamma, Mr. Subramani’s daughter-in-law. The entire village recalls him as humble and friendly, and a person who never forgot his roots. “He used to ask about every detail of the hamlet. Our families are very close. There is no caste divide in our hamlet,” says Rajendra Prasad, who identified himself as SPB’s family friend. He recalls that whenever villagers went to invite him to the hamlet for a function, he would ask what he should do for the village. “His last visit was in August 2018 and he helped build toilets for the school and a RO plant. He was punctual. The entire village is sad to have lost him,” he says.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||American International School granted six weeks’ time to prove its special status||The Madras High Court on Friday granted six weeks’ time for the American International School at Taramani here to obtain documents from the Centre to prove that it enjoys a special status and hence certain provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act of 2009 would not be applicable to it. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were informed that the institution had already written to the Centre seeking a copy of a bilateral agreement entered between the U.S. and India in 1995 for establishing the school with the objective of providing international education to children of expatriates. Counsel representing the school said he would be able to argue his case seeking exemption from the RTE Act only if he was able to lay his hands on the bilateral agreement and prove that the institution could not be equated with other schools which had to reserve 25% of seats at the entry level for the weaker sections and disadvantaged groups. ‘Unconstitutional’ The American International School had originally approached the court with a plea to declare certain provisions of the RTE Act as unconstitutional and illegal. However, the judges said such a declaration could not be issued by the High Court since the Supreme Court had already upheld the constitutional validity of the 2009 Act. They pointed out that the institution could only seek exemption from applicability of the contentious provisions after proving, through documentary evidence, that it enjoys a special status. In its affidavit, the school had stated that about 90% of its students were not Indian nationals and that they belonged to 30 different nationalities.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC adjourns case against T.N.’s new land acquisition law||The Madras High Court on Friday refrained from hearing a case challenging the validity of the Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws Act of 2019 aimed at reviving the operation of three different land acquisition laws which had become void after the enactment of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy simply adjourned the casesine diesince the Supreme Court had on September 27, 2019, ordered that the High Court should not hear any new or old writ petition concerning the subject matter until the top court passes further orders on a special leave petition preferred by the State government challenging the High Court’s July 3, 2019, verdict on a connected issue. The SLP before the Supreme Court was preferred against a judgment delivered by a Division Bench of Justices S. Manikumar (now Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court) and Subramonium Prasad (now a judge of the Delhi High Court). The two judges had held as unconstitutional a State amendment made to the 2013 Central law through the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act of 2014. Land acquisition for public purposes was carried out in the State originally under three main State enactments - the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Harijan Welfare Scheme Act of 1978, the Tamil Nadu Acquisition for Land for Industrial Purposes Act of 1997 or the Tamil Nadu Highways Act of 2001. However, all these three laws became repugnant after the 2013 Central enactment came into force on September 27, 2013. In order to save them from becoming void, the State legislature, by way of a local amendment, inserted Section 105A into the Central law to pre-empt the latter’s application to land acquisitions made in the State for industrial purposes, Harijan welfare and laying/widening of State highways. After the State amendment to the Central law, the Tamil Nadu government continued to acquire land for public purposes under the three laws. However, when the validity of the amendment was put to challenge, the Division Bench, led by Justice Manikumar, held it to be unconstitutional and also declared to be illegal all acquisitions made in the State under those three laws since September 27, 2013. The Bench, nevertheless, made it clear that its ruling would not apply to lands that had already been put to public use or if the purpose for which they were acquired had been accomplished. Serious implications Since the ruling would have a serious bearing on other lands that the government had acquired, for public purposes such as phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail (CMRL) project, but were yet to be put to use, the State government moved an appeal before the Supreme Court. The top court did not stay the High Court verdict in entirety but granted a limited interim stay of the portion declaring all acquisitions made since September 27, 2013, to be illegal. Subsequently, in December 2019, the State enacted a new law to revive the three old State land acquisition laws, which were found to have become null and void by the High Court. It was this 2019 law that had been put under challenge now by a litigant named M. Arunsandron. His counsel Richard Wilson told Chief Justice Sahi’s Bench that the 2019 Act had been brought in to nullify the effect of the judgment passed by the Bench led by Justice Manikumar. He contended that the attempt to revive the three old laws through the 2019 enactment was illegal and that the only option available before the government was to re-enact those three laws and obtain Presidential assent as observed by the Division Bench in July 2019. On the other hand, Advocate General Vijay Narayan claimed the State was well within its power to enact the 2019 law and that there was nothing illegal about it. After hearing arguments, the Chief Justice expressed difficulty in deciding the case in view of the interim injunction issued by the Supreme Court restraining the High Court from hearing any new or old cases.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘An irreparable loss to all music lovers’||Governor Banwarilal Purohit and leaders cutting across party lines condoled the death of singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on Friday. “His demise is an irreparable loss to the people of India, and particularly music lovers across the globe. However, he will always remain with us through his melodious voice and eternal music compositions,” Mr. Purohit said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said people were hoping that he would recover and the news of his death had come as a shock. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the news of Mr. Balasubrahmanyam’s demise was hard to digest. He said COVID-19 had taken away an extraordinary singer. Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the music and film industry had lost a great artiste. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the singer’s death was an irreparable loss to the country. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, PMK founder S. Ramadoss and youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss, MDMK chief Vaiko, TMC leader G.K. Vasan, AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran, DMK general secretary Duraimurugan, Congress MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan, BJP State president L. Murugan and Samathuva Makkal Katchi founder R. Sarathkumar extended their condolences. Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali said it would be difficult to fill the vacuum left by SPB.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain likely in coastal areas||Thundershowers lashed some areas in the city on Friday evening. Similar weather is set to continue over the north coastal areas and interior parts of the State for two days, according to the Meteorological department. Officials of the department attributed the sudden thunderstorms to a trough running along interior parts of the State, and convective activity. Perambur, Kodungaiyur, Chembarambakkam and Kolapakkam in the city received light rain on Friday. The weather station at Puzhal recorded 2 cm and Ennore 1 cm rain. Heavy rain S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a similar weather trend might continue on the weekend, and rain would subside from September 30. While a few places over north coastal areas would experience light to moderate rain accompanied by thunder and lightning, one or two places in southern parts of the State, such as Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam, may receive heavy rainfall on Saturday, he said. Chennai could receive light showers, and the maximum temperature will be close to 33 degree Celsius till Sunday. Since June 1, the State has recorded 38.8 cm rainfall as against the seasonal normal of 32 cm.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An enthusiastic actor full of warmth||“His childlike enthusiasm to act was something none of us will ever forget,” says actor Radikaa Sarathkumar, recalling the time she first met veteran singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on the sets of the film Keladi Kanmani.  The singer didn’t just touch several hearts by singing across languages but also made a mark through his acting, bringing depth and nuance to the varied characters he portrayed in several Tamil films. The song Mannil Indha , picturised on Radikaa and SPB, went on to become a huge hit, and is still remembered, nearly three decades after the film was released. As an actor, Ms. Radikaa said SPB had infectious enthusiasm, but he was also conscious of and eager to understand the nuances of the character he was playing. “I was very fascinated by the fact that he had sung the song without taking a breath in between, and on the sets, I would keep asking him to sing and show me how he recorded the song,” says the actor. Over the years, he shone in a number of roles — notably as the sharp and calculative CBI officer Lakshmi Narayan in Thiruda Thiruda or even in his five-minute appearance as the fast-talking witty doctor in Avvai Shanmughi.  “He was truly multi-faceted and a legend in his own right,” says cinematographer and director Rajeev Menon. Mr. Menon directed SPB in his 1997 film Minsara Kanavu , in which he essayed the role of actor Aravind Swamy’s father. “He was so enthusiastic and joyous on set. It was fascinating to see him sparring away with noted playwright and actor Girish Karnad for the film,” he recalls. Like his role in Minsara Kanavu , SPB brought in a lot of warmth playing the father to several Tamil heroes on screen . In particular, his role in Kaadhalan , the 1994 film directed by Shankar, was an instant hit. “For someone who saw so many films across languages and managed to deeply analyse and reflect on them, it still surprises me that he never took up direction,” says director Vasanth. His nature off screen is what the people he worked with believe reflected in his singing as well. “The joyousness and the smile he brought into his singing is what made his voice remain young,” says Mr. Menon.  He was truly multi-faceted and a legend in his own rightRajeev MenonCinematographer
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks details of dengue research from ICMR||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in New Delhi to spell out the details of research that had been carried out so far with respect to treatment of dengue and containing the rate of fatality due to the disease. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam in September last, seeking a direction to the Greater Chennai Corporation to control the rapid spread of dengue fever in the city. Just months after the case was filed, reports of COVID-19 began trickling in and so the advocate moved a sub-application urging the court to issue a comprehensive direction to the government for dealing with the pandemic. However, the court refused to digress from the main petition. As far as dengue was concerned, the lawyer complained that the mosquitoes breed mostly in water that collected on roads and in motor vehicles that lie abandoned on roadsides and other public places. He underscored the need to clear all such abandoned vehicles. But the corporation said removal of abandoned vehicles would fall under the jurisdiction of the traffic police. The court asked the civic body to ensure fogging was done at all places, besides seeking police help to clear abandoned vehicles.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNEA merit list on Sept. 28||The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions 2020 Committee has once again postponed the release of the merit list to September 28. The Committee was supposed to release the merit list on Friday. Initially, it was to be released on September 7. It was postponed to September 17 to give students time to upload their certificates. On September 16, the Higher Education Department postponed the release to September 25 on the request of candidates who sought more time for verification of certificates. Some of them had to be called repeatedly over the phone to submit their documents. On Friday, officials postponed the list again by three more days. Higher Education Secretary Apoorva said: “Some students sent mails [that] since their parents are affected by Covid they are not able to upload their documents.” The delay in merit list may not affect the counselling schedule.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiruvananthapuram, Mangaluru special trains to run from September 27||The Southern Railway will run two special trains — Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai-Mangalore — from September 27. In a press release, it said reservations for the two trains would begin from Friday. Only passengers with reservations would be allowed to board the trains, as per directions of the Railway Board. The first train between Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram will start from the Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station on Sunday (September 27) at 7.45 p.m. The special train will have stops at Katpadi, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrissur, Angamali, Aluva, Ernakulam, Tirupunithura, Kottayam, Changanaseri, Tiruvalla, Chengannur, Mavelikkara, Kayankulam, Kollam and Varkala Sivagiri. For its return, the train will start on Monday (September 28) at 3 p.m. The Chennai-Mangalore special train will start from Mangalore Central on Sunday (September 27) at 1.30 p.m. The special train will have stops at Manjeshwar, Kasaragod, Kanhagad, Charvattur, Payyanur, Payangadi, Kannur, Thalassery, Mahe, Vadakara, Quilandi, Kozhikode, Ferok, Parapanangadi, Tanur, Tirur, Kuttipuram, Pattambi, Shoranur, Ottappalam, Palakkad, Podanur, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpet, Katpadi, Wallajah, Arakkonam and Tiruvallur. The special train will start from the Dr. MGR Chennai Central station on Monday (September 28) at 8.10 p.m.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges CM to export minerals||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to immediately issue orders to the Tamil Nadu Minerals Ltd. (TAMIN) to start export of beach sand minerals that could bring in revenue to the tune of Rs. 20,000 crore and help the State reduce its deficit, which has touched nearly Rs. 5 lakh crore. In this connection, Mr. Stalin demanded that investigation into cases relating to illegal mining of beach minerals be speeded up. Cases pending in the courts must be quickly completed and those engaged in illegal mining, amounting to Rs. 1 lakh crore, should be brought to book, he added. He also urged the government to release the report submitted by the committee headed by former Reserve Bank of India Governor C. Rangarajan.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advocate held 5 years after he killed kids||The Maduravoyal police have arrested advocate Ravi, who was reported to be absconding after allegedly murdering his two children over five years ago. In June 2015, the police found the decomposed bodies of two children, aged 13 and 11, in their house in Maduravoyal. Ravi, then practising in the Poonamallee court, was missing. The police said Ravi, following estrangement with his wife, an advocate in Chidambaram, was living with their two children in Maduravoyal. On May 26, 2015, Ravi allegedly hit his 13-year-old daughter with a sharp object and then strangulated his 11-year-old son. He left the bodies in the bedroom and dumped clothes around them. He then fled in his car. After selling his car, he stayed in Odisha till recently. He returned to the city during the lockdown and was working at a construction site in Periamet. The police said they received a tip-off when a person known to Ravi spotted him while he sought some documents from the school where his daughter studied. They nabbed him and lodged him in prison after producing him in court.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anand recalls SPB as his sponsor||Five-time world chess champion Viswanathan Anand is a huge fan of playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. On Twitter, Mr. Anand spoke about SPB sponsoring his team — Chennai Colts — in the national team championship in 1983. “His music gave us such joy,” he said. Mr. Anand said the national team championship in 1983 was, in a way, a turning point for him. “We have been waiting for good news [about SPB’s recovery]. Every time there was an update that he seemed to have got better, I was relieved. Then, when news emerged that he was very critical, I began to feel the worst,” he said.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIITS launches M. Tech in AI||The Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City (IIITS), has launched an M. Tech programme in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). The programme was launched on Friday by Shalini Kapoor, IBM fellow and chief technical officer of AI Applications. AI is now helping predict outcomes, automate decisions and processes, do higher value work and re-imagine new business models. Students can chart careers in developing algorithms, coding and data science provided they understood the domain. Aspirants should team up with those who have complementary skill sets, she said. Institute director G. Kannabiran said it was aimed at bridging the gap of talented scientists and engineers in the industry. The programme had a strong emphasis on industrial projects under the mentorship of experts in the field of AI and ML, he said.
26 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encounter: HC rejects plea for re-postmortem||The Madras High Court on Friday refused to pass orders for exhuming the body of history sheeter S. Shankar, who was shot dead by the Ayanavaram police at New Avadi Road here on August 21 in a reported encounter, and subject it to re-postmortem since his mother S. Govindammal, who was the petitioner, suspected foul play. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan agreed with the contention of State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan that there was no need for conducting a re-postmortem because the body was handed over to the family only after video recording the autopsy as per procedure followed in cases of encounter deaths.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Habitat loss puts lion-tailed macaque in IUCN endangered list for the sixth time||Lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus), a primate endemic to small and severely fragmented rainforests of the Western Ghats in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, continues to be in the ‘endangered’ category in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The latest conservation status of the primate was updated in the IUCN database recently based on technical reports over the years from a group of researchers including Mewa Singh of the University of Mysore, Ajith Kumar of the Centre for Wildlife Studies, and Honnavalli N. Kumara of the Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History. As per the technical report, the total wild population of the lion-tailed macaque (LTM) could be about 4,000 individuals consisting of less than 2,500 mature individuals, made up of 47 isolated sub-populations in seven different locations in the three States. The population is expected to suffer an estimated decline of over 20% in the next 25 years due to varied reasons including hunting, roadkills and habitat loss, it said. Though the conservation status of the LTM had improved from ‘endangered’ in the first assessment in 1990 to ‘vulnerable’ in 1994, its status has remained endangered since 1996. Declining trend The researchers have observed that the population of the mostly shy and frugivorous primate, which prefers upper canopies of evergreen rainforests, was registering a declining trend in LTM’s home range in the Western Ghats hill ranges from the Kalakkad Hills in the south to Sirsi-Honnavara in the north at an altitude of 100 to 1,300 metres. “Fragmentation of the habitat is one of the major threats to the species. Several habitats that remain disconnected from others can be linked. There are contiguous habitats in Karnataka and Kerala. The population in Valparai plateau of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) can also be linked to other populations. Enough research has been done on various aspects of the conservation of the primate over the last several years and now it is the responsibility of the authorities to implement them on ground,” says Prof. Mewa Singh. Researchers also feel that continuous monitoring is crucial to understand the population trend for the management and protection of LTMs in their habitat. Gastrointestinal parasites Capture and release of bonnet macaque from human habitations to the habitat of LTMs could also affect their health as the former primate can cause the spread of novel parasites that was published in a 2019 paper titled ‘Prevalence of gastrointestinal parasites in lion-tailed macaque Macaca silenus in central Western Ghats, India’ with Shanthala Kumar as the lead author. The foraging and social interactions of LTMs have seen drastic changes when they live in human modified areas, says researcher Ashni Kumar Dhawale, who observed one of the four LTM groups in Valparai to study its behavioural responses to a matrix of anthropogenic habitats. “Due to easy access to human-origin food, cooked and uncooked, they spend minimal time for foraging. But the time taken for resting has considerably increased, possibly due to more time consumed for the digestion of human foods. While aggression among males increased in human modified areas, dominance among the female members intensified as food resources occur in a clumped distribution. Low-ranking individuals were found foraging human foods at higher frequencies compared to dominant individuals possibly due to delayed access to food as privileged first access being reserved for dominant members of the troop,” she said. Survey planned Officials of ATR are in the preparations to estimate the LTM population of Valparai in October in collaboration with the Nature Conservation Foundation.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water from Muthannankulam enters houses in Sri Shanmuga Nagar||Surplus water from the Muthannankulam entered a couple of houses in Sri Shanmuga Nagar and water from the Selva Chinthamani tank flowed onto the road on early Friday morning before the Coimbatore Corporation and Public Works Department’s Water Resource Organisation (WRO) officials intervened to clean choked channels. According to sources, water overflowed from the Muthannankulam in the small hours of Friday. The water overflowing through the channel that served as inlet to the Selva Chinthamani tank got stagnated, flowed onto the road and into the compound of a couple of houses in Sri Shanmuga Nagar. Sources in the WRO said bushes and lotus stalk arrested the flow under a culvert near an apartment in the area. Corporation officials said they pressed into service heavy machinery in the small hours of Friday to clear the block to ensure that the water reached the Selva Chinthamani tank. Selva Chinthamani tank Similarly, the water from the Selva Chinthamani tank flowed onto the road because of a block. The WRO officials said they had cleared the block there as well to ensure smooth flow to the Big tank . Sri Shanmuga Nagar resident C.V. Naresh said the water overflowing from the Muthannankulam scared the residents of the area. The WRO sources said the Muthannankulam water also entered a few houses built in the waterspread area. The water level in the tank had touched the full tank level – 3.2m – and was flowing to fill the Selva Chinthamani tank. Likewise, the water flowed from the Selva Chinthamani tank to the Big Tank as the Corporation was yet to down the shutters at a weir.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||International Coffee Day to be celebrated across State||Coffee Board will organise events throughout the State from October 1 to 7 to celebrate International Coffee Day that falls on October 1. According to Deputy Director (Extension) of the Board M. Karuthamani, nearly 200 cups of filter coffee prepared with the board’s coffee powder will be distributed in public places on a day as part of the week-long programme. Seminars, interactions and growers’ meets will be conducted. “We are urging them (farmers) to go in for value addition, such as speciality coffee, to get better remuneration,” he said. The State, with 45,000 hectares under coffee and producing nearly 20,000 tonnes of coffee a year, has as many as 23 farmers-producer organisations among coffee growers. The main variety grown in Tamil Nadu is Arabica. “We will discuss with the farmers ways to promote coffee, how to ensure quality after harvest, and the requirements of the growers. These meetings will be held in Coimbatore, Yercaud, Kodaikanal, Gudalur, Valparai, and Palakkad,” he added. International Coffee Day is a celebration of the sector’s diversity, quality and passion. It is observed to recognise the efforts of millions of farmers whose livelihood depends on this crop, said a press release from the board.  Nearly 200 cups of filter coffee prepared with the board’s coffee powder will be distributed in public places. M. Karuthamani, Deputy Director (Extension), Coffee Board
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Habitat loss puts lion-tailed macaque on IUCN’s endangered list for sixth time||The Lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus), a primate endemic to small and severely fragmented rainforests of the Western Ghats in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, continues to be in the ‘endangered’ category on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The latest conservation status of the primate was updated in the IUCN database recently, based on technical reports over the years from a group of researchers, including Mewa Singh of University of Mysore, Ajith Kumar of the Centre for Wildlife Studies, and Honnavalli N. Kumara of the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History. According to a technical report, the total wild population of lion-tailed macaque could be about 4,000 individuals, consisting of less than 2,500 mature individuals, made up of 47 isolated sub-populations in seven locations in the three States. The population is expected to suffer a decline of over 20% in the next 25 years owing to varied reasons, including hunting, road kills and habitat loss, it said. Though the conservation status of lion-tailed macaque had improved from ‘endangered’ in the first assessment in 1990 to ‘vulnerable’ in 1994, its status has remained ‘endangered’ since 1996. The researchers have observed that the population of the mostly shy and frugivorous primate, which prefers upper canopies of evergreen rainforests, was registering a declining trend in its home range in the Western Ghats from the Kalakkad Hills in the south to Sirsi-Honnavara in the north at an altitude of 100-1,300 m. “Fragmentation of the habitat is one of the major threats to the species. Several habitats that remain disconnected from others can be linked. There are contiguous habitats in Karnataka and Kerala. The population in the Valparai plateau of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) can also be linked to other populations. Enough research has been done on various aspects of the conservation of the primate over the last several years, and now it is the responsibility of the authorities to implement them on the ground,” says Professor Mewa Singh of the University of Mysore. Researchers feel that continuous monitoring is crucial to understanding the population trend for the management and protection of lion-tailed macaques in their habitat. Officials of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are preparing to estimate the lion-tailed macaque population of Valparai in October in collaboration with the Nature Conservation Foundation.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to seek probe into testing lab||Coimabtore Corporation will write to the district administration to probe the COVID-19 results declared by city centres of a private laboratory chain, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian has said. The corporation had on Thursday sealed the Vadavalli branch of the laboratory chain after a Kovilmedu resident had alleged that the branch had shown him to be COVID-19 positive when he was not. Mr. Pandian said that information reaching the corporation indicated that the Vadavalli branch of the laboratory chain and perhaps a few others were in collusion with private establishments in the city to show as COVID-19 positive the results of persons who were in fact negative. But, it was not clear how the chain or those establishments gained by fudging the results. This perhaps could be the reason for the city consistently showing higher COVID-19 numbers, the Corporation Commissioner said and added that unless a thorough probe was done, it would be difficult to fathom the extent of wrong test results the laboratory chain had reported. Asked if the corporation would lodge a complaint with the police, Mr. Pandian said it was for the district administration to take a call on the issue.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for sexual assault on minor girl||The Anamalai police in Coimbatore rural on Friday arrested a youth on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl and impregnating her. The accused was identified as a resident of a village near Anamalai. The police said that the accused and the survivor, a 17-year-old girl, lived in the same locality. The girl’s brother and the accused were friends and the latter became close to her, said the police. According to the police, the accused, a daily wage labourer, used to frequent the girl’s house when she was alone. The youth sexually assaulted the girl eight months ago and she became pregnant, said the police. The girl was recently taken to a nearby government hospital where doctors found that she was seven months pregnant. Admitted to hospital She was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi. The accused was arrested under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act based on the complaint lodged by the parents of the girl.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Live rounds found in airport toilet||Live rounds used in assault rifles and pistols were recovered from a toilet in the Coimbatore International Airport on Friday. Sources at the airport said that one live round used in assault rifles and three live rounds used in pistols were found in the toilet. Two assault rifle bullets, found along with the four live rounds, did not have their case. It was not confirmed whether they were used, sources said. The bullets were found when a plumber was carrying out repairs in the toilet following a block in the closet. Sources added that the bullets seemed old as they had corroded and accumulated dirt. Following the incident, the Central Industrial Security Force lodged a complaint at the Peelamedu police station. A case has been registered.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police detain suspects in kidnap case||The Tiruppur District (Rural) Police detained at least five suspects in connection with the kidnapping of Karnan, a personal assistant of Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan from the MLA office at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. Yet to record arrest A senior police officer privy to the investigation said that the police were questioning the suspects and they were yet to record their arrest. Five-member gang Acccording to the police, after being kidnapped by a five-member gang from the MLA office around 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Karnan was released by them near Dhali, Udumalpet. Camera visuals The police picked up the suspects after questioning Karnan and with the help of surveillance camera visuals of the car used by the kidnappers.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bullets found at airport toilet||Live bullets used in assault rifles and pistols were recovered from a toilet at the Coimbatore International Airport on Friday. Sources at the airport said one live round used in assault rifles and three live rounds used in pistols were found from the toilet. Two other assault rifle bullets, found along with the four live rounds, did not have their case. It was not confirmed whether they were used, sources said. The bullets were found when a plumber was carrying out repairs in the toilet following a block in the closet. Sources said the bullets seemed old as they had corroded. The Central Industrial Security Force lodged a complaint at the Peelamedu police station.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for possession of tobacco products||The Singanallur police, on Friday, arrested three persons who were in possession of 775 kg banned tobacco products worth around Rs. 4 lakh. Police said that Dhella Ram (27), Mulla Ram (28), and P. Mahendar (25) -- natives of Rajasthan -- had stocked 775 kg banned tobacco products in a rented house at Shankar Nagar in SIHS Colony. The police, with the assistance of sleuths from the Organised Crime Intelligence Unit, inspected the house on Friday and seized the banned products, all sourced from Bengaluru.
26 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shutters opened at Aliyar Reservoir||As the water level nears the full reservoir level in Aliyar Reservoir, Public Works Department officials have opened shutters to maintain water level at 119.55 feet in the 120-feet Reservoir. Sources said the discharge equalled the inflow at 2,059 cusecs.
26 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Mobile ration shops launched||Forests Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan launched Amma mobile ration shops here on Thursday to deliver ration items at the doorstep of people. It was proposed to carry the essential goods in a goods carrier once a month by a designated salesman and deliver commodities to card holders. Initially, it had been proposed to cover 28,819 family card holders in 157 ration shops through 56 vehicles in Dindigul. The minister gave away 13 house site pattas and six others received sanction letters for green houses allotted to them under the CM’s housing scheme.
26 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||360 kg of ganja seized||The police seized 300 kg of ganja and arrested seven persons here on Friday. In a press release, Superintendent Police Ravali Priya said a special team was waiting at Thangamapatti check post following an alert. It intercepted a gang led by K. Krishnamoorthy (28) of R.M. Colony and found that they were in possession of 300 kg of ganja. They arrested six others including, M. Sonaimuthu (31) of Seelapadi and M Bharani (33) of East Govidhapuram. The accused got the ganja from Andhra Pradesh and were trying to smuggle it to other districts. Meanwhile, the Tirumangalam police seized 60 kg of ganja. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vinothini, raided the houses of P. Sasikumar (37) of Navarpatti and M. Raghuvaran (32) of Usilampatti under Sindhupatti police station. The police found that they had kept ganja in their houses and in a cattle shed. The ganja brought from Andhra Pradesh was being sent to different places for retail sale. The police have seized two cars.
26 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized||The police seized 300 kg of ganja and arrested seven persons at Thangamapatti check post here following an alert on Friday. The accused, led by K. Krishnamoorthy, 28, of R.M. Colony in Dindigul had received the ganja from Andhra Pradesh and were trying to smuggle it to other districts.
26 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rubble masonry wall, Tamil-Brahmi script unearthed at Kodumanal||A rubble masonry wall measuring 25 metre, Tamil-Brahmi script with the name “Camban” inscribed on a russet coated ware, and a brick structure were found during the Kodumanal excavation at Chennimalai Union here on Friday. A team led by J. Ranjith, Archaeology Officer and Project Director for Kodumanal Excavation, from the State Department of Archaeology, Chennai, found the wall that sloped down from north to south at the site that served as trade-cum-industrial centre from fifth century BCE (Before the Common Era) to first century BCE. The pathway was created on weathered rocks and could have been used by the early settlers, Mr. Ranjith told The Hindu and added that samples were taken and sent for carbon dating. The team also unearthed a ware, positioned upside down, at a trench with the name “Camban” which is the name of the individual who could have owned the unit. During earlier excavations, potsherds with the name “Camban” were also found, said T. Subramaniam, Assistant Director (Retired), State Department of Archaeology and an expert coordinating the excavation. He said that crystal stones of various sizes, including disc-shape and barrel-shape, were found in the unit where polishing of crystal quartz was done, cut into small beads, polished, and double-sided holes were made. Likewise, a brick structure dating to the Sangam era was also unearthed at a trench and samples were lifted for carbon dating. The licence to excavate will end on September 30 and the team had so far excavated 44 quadrants and eight Megalithic burials in the village. Since the excavation brought to light the early historic period and Megalithic period, villagers wanted the excavation to be extended for a few more months. “Rain halted the works in the past three to four weeks and the team should be given more time to excavate”, said Kamalnathan of Chennimalai.
26 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM to decide on school reopening: Sengottaiyan||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will hold discussions with the Health and Family Welfare Department and the Revenue Department and make an announcement on the reopening of schools, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Friday. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the School Education Department could not take an independent decision, he told journalists at Gobichettipalayam. Mr. Sengottaiyan said the Chief Minister would soon hold discussions with the three Departments to analyse the situation and decide on the reopening of schools. He pointed out that a government order issued on Thursday, allowing students of Classes 10-12 to visit schools to get their doubts cleared from teachers, was issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department. “The Chief Minister will hold a discussion before October 1, during which the impact of COVID-19 will be discussed and a decision on the reopening of schools will be taken,” he said. Asked whether the syllabus would be reduced for the current academic year, Mr. Sengottaiyan said a report was submitted to the Chief Minister, who would take a decision. He said school admissions would be closed by September 30; if needed, the deadline would be extended. The Minister said a helpline, 14474, would be launched next month for students to get their doubts cleared from teachers from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
26 September 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases drop below 100-mark in districts||Kanniyakumari reported 86 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, which took its total case count to 12,225, with 895 active cases. Eleven people were discharged from hospitals. After recording 77 fresh cases and discharge of 102 people, Tirunelveli registered a tally of 12,260, with 909 active cases. In Madurai, 71 people tested positive, pushing the tally up to 16,216. After 77 people were discharged, the district has 716 active cases. With two deaths, the district’s toll rose to 383. Sixty-six people reported positive in Theni, raising the case count to 14,541. Ninety-one people were discharged. The death toll remains at 173. Dindigul’s tally increased by 58 to reach 8,646. Eighty people were discharged. The district, which registered one death, has 579 active cases. Tenkasi’s case count went up to 7,073 with the addition of 53 cases. After 40 people were discharged from the hospitals, the district has 557 active cases. The district reported one fatality, with which its death toll rose to 132. A total of 46 new cases took Sivaganga’s tally to 5,012. With one fresh fatality, the district’s toll touched 118. Thirty-seven people were discharged, and the district has 308 active cases. In Thoothukudi too, 46 people tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 13,164. After marking the discharge of 101 people, the district has 682 active cases. Virudhunagar recorded 42 fresh cases, which took its case count to 14,225. With 34 patients having been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 337. The death toll remains at 209. Seventeen cases were reported in Ramanathapuram, which took its case count to 5,445, with 186 active cases. Twenty-six people were discharged from hospitals.
26 September 2020||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||Another attraction thrown open to tourists||Tourists are allowed to visit Coaker’s Walk, one of the major tourist attractions of the hill station, on Friday after six months of lockdown. The pedestrian pathway for around 1 km offers a panoramic view of the deep valley. The State government has already thrown open other attractions like Kurinji Andavar Temple, Bryant Park, Chettiyar Park and Rose Garden and Upper Lake viewpoint. “This is a major attraction for tourists who can have fun and have a view of the deep valley,” said Tourism Officer, S.M. Sribalamurugan. The pathway has two telescope houses that would help tourists to view some of the major attractions of the valley. People can have an aerial view of Periyakulam town, Vaigai dam and a remote village, Vellagavi, said Assistant Tourism Officer, M. Anandan. “At least 80% of tourists do not miss Coaker’s Walk during their visit to the hill station,” he added. The facility is open between 9 a.m. to 5. p.m. with an entrance fee of Rs. 10 for adults and Rs. 5 for children. Though the government has made e-passes mandatory for tourists coming from outside Dindigul districts, no e-pass is required to those who travel in bus. It has led to more flow of tourists.
26 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dead fish float again at Saravana Poigai||A large number of fish died and floated in the water in Saravana Poigai, the temple tank of Subramaniaswamy Temple at Tirupparankundram here on Friday. Executive Officer of the temple M. Ramasamy said the dead fish started floating from Thursday night. “The temple staff removed the dead fish on Friday morning. We have also closed the pond for public use,” he said. The number of dead fish removed on Friday was lower when compared to thousands of fish that were found dead in the pond in 2016. “Still, water samples were lifted and sent to the Central Pollution Control Board, TWAD Board and the Fisheries department to assess the quality of water and find the cause of death,” he said. Hundreds of devotees visit the Saravana Poigai every day to have a holy dip in the pond. Despite holding religious importance, the water in the pond is fully contaminated and is unfit for bathing. An official from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department said devotees and residents often washed their clothes using detergents with powerful chemicals which led to water pollution. “Though we have been repeatedly telling the devotees to stop using detergents, soaps and shampoos, they just defied,” he said. As a measure to restore the pond, Madurai Corporation is building toilets and bathrooms for men and women. A common washing facility is also being constructed near the tank. These amenities are constructed through Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore's constituency development fund. “Around 25% of the work has been completed. After total completion, devotees will be restricted from taking bath in the pond. They can only sprinkle water on themselves,” said an official. Mr. Ramasamy said the HR and CE Department is working with Baba Atomic Research Centre to clean and restore the waterbody. “An additional motor, which helps to pump more dissolved oxygen into the water, has been installed after the Friday's incident,” he added.
26 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Meenakshi temple may have been rebuilt during early 13th century’||The present structure of Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai might have been reconstructed during the rule of Jatavarman Kulasekara Pandya (1190-1216 C.E.). This structure was damaged due to unknown reasons and was again renovated in the 13th century during the period of Maravarman Sundarapandyan II, according to the inscriptions found at the temple, said archaeological expert C. Santhalingam here on Friday. Mr. Santhalingam led a team of experts comprising M. Marudhu Pandiyan, curator of the Government Museum, Madurai; R. Udhayakumar, a researcher at Pandya Nadu Centre for Historical Research; and B. Asaithambi, Archaeological Officer of the State Archaeology Department, to document and study the inscriptions at the temple. The findings of the inscriptions have been compiled to be published as a book.  Simple structure Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Santhalingam said the temple might have been a simple structure prior to the reconstruction during the Jatavarman Kulasekara Pandya period. The temple had been renovated many times and extended with mandapams and halls during the Nayak rule, he said. Another important finding is that in all the 13th century inscriptions belonging to Pandya period, the name of the presiding god is mentioned as ‘Thiru Alavay Udaiya Nayanar’ and goddess was mentioned as ‘Thirukkamakkottam Udaiya Aludaiya Nacchiyar’. “It was during the Nayak period when the name ‘Chokkanatha’ for the presiding god was mentioned for the first time. The name of the goddess as ‘Meenakshi’ was mentioned on the engravings of a ‘pavaivilaku’ dated to 1752 CE. The present name of the goddess, Meenakshi Sundareswarar, was first mentioned on the engravings on a Tiruvachi lamp stand dated to 1898 C.E.,” said Mr. Santhalingam. 410 inscriptions A total of 410 inscriptions found at the temple were copied and published as part of this survey. Among them only 79 inscriptions were in a readable format. As many as 301 inscriptions were fragmented and dislocated during the renovations of the temple. Out of the 79 inscriptions, 78 were in Tamil language and one inscription was in Sanskrit language with grantha characters. Among these inscriptions, the earliest one belongs to the Arikesari Parankusa Maravarman period (700 CE). Inscriptions of Pandya rulers like Maravarman Sundara Pandya I and II, Jatavarman Sundara Pandya and Madurai Nayak rulers like Thirumalai Nayak and Vijayaranga Chokkanatha Nayak, were also found in the temple. These inscriptions also mention various donations made by the rulers. One interesting inscription belonging to Vijayaranga Chokkanatha Nayak period mentions a dispute between the palanquin bearers of the temple and government officials over the ownership of four villages, said Mr. Santhalingam.
26 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC stays quashing of tender notification||Hearing an appeal preferred by the Executive Officer / Fit Person of the Palani Dhandayuthapani Swami temple, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday stayed a single bench order that had set aside a tender notification issued by the officer inviting tenders for providing house keeping services in the temple. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli granted a stay on the single bench order. In the appeal, it was said the EO was made to act as the Fit Person of the temple, pending constitution of the Board of Trustees. Such Board was yet to be constituted by the State in temples. Till the appropriate Board was constituted, the Fit person was having all powers of the Board of Trustees to administer the temple and the EO has to work along with the Fit Person. In the Palani Temple, the EO and the Fit Person were the same and the tender was issued by the competent authority, the EO said. Further, the EO said in the writ petition that it was contended that cleaning of the temple was a spiritual activity and an officer cannot be permitted to float a tender for such activities. This claim is misconceived. The manpower requirement for housekeeping is approximately about 325 per day and it is needless to state that such huge manpower may not be obtained daily on a voluntary basis. Therefore, a power centre with all manpower, machines, equipment, tools and accessories was required. The same is created and granted through tender, the EO said.
26 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man assaulted||P. Mariselvam, 25, a truck driver of Tiruppuvanam, was hit by a gang on Madurai-Thoothukudi Ring Road on Tuesday. He was riding home from Indian Oil Corporation depot at Kappalur. He received a call on his mobile phone and stopped the bike near Kallambal bridge. When he was speaking over phone, three persons arrived and one of them pushed him down. Another person hit his head and shoulder with a weapon. When he collapsed, they snatched his mobile phone, Rs. 5,000 and took away his motorbike. Mariselvam has been admitted to a private hospital. Silaiman police have registered a case of robbery.  Woman robbed  K. Kokila, 48, of Ponmeni was robbed of her five-sovereign gold chain at Madakulam on Thursday. Police said she went for a morning walk along with her husband Karuppasamy on Vageshwari 2nd junction. Two persons, on a motorbike, came close to her. The pillion rider yanked her gold chain and escaped. S.S. Colony police are investigating.
26 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Detention order set aside||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday set aside the detention order under the Goondas Act that was passed against C. Dhanasekaran, the key accused in the Kappalur Toll Plaza shootout case. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli set aside the order as there was a delay in considering his representation.
26 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 treatment facilities in Kolli Hills reviewed||The Joint Director of Health Services reviewed the treatment facilities for COVID-19 disease at the Government Hospital in Kolli Hills on Thursday. Dr. Kavitha inspected the facilities at the hospital and reviewed arrangements made here to treat COVID-19 patients and to handle other emergency cases. Dr. Kavitha stated that there are sufficient bed facilities at the hospital to treat COVID-19 patients. Emergency cases She also stated that arrangements are in place at the hospital to treat other emergency cases. She advised the public to visit the hospital if they suffer from any COVID-19 symptoms.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||OBC quota: no interim order on State’s plea, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to pass an interim order in a challenge against a Madras High Court decision to set up a committee to “finalise” OBC reservation in State surrendered seats for the All India Quota in non-central medical colleges. “There is no interim order. We will hear this case early”, Justice L. Nageswara Rao, heading a three-judge Bench, said. The court scheduled the case for hearing on October 13. It was responding to a submission by senior advocate V. Giri, for Tamil Nadu, for an interim order. He said the High Court had “accepted our contentions to a large extent”. Advocate Gaurav Sharma, for the Medical Council of India (MCI), said they had nothing to say on the issue of reservation. “It is the government which has to say anything on it”, he submitted. The MCI would abide by the government’s decision. Senior advocate P. Wilson submitted that a committee had been formed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on September 7. A meeting was held on September 22. “The Health Minister has said to a question raised in Parliament that State-specific reservation will be followed. I will place it on record”, Mr. Wilson, who is also a DMK Rajya Sabha member, submitted. Advocate Balaji Srinivasan appeared for the AIADMK and sought an early hearing. On August 14, the court issued notice to the respondents, including the Centre and the MCI. The Tamil Nadu government had said the High Court declined to straightaway order the Centre and the MCI to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Community in these seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses in compliance with reservation rules followed in the State for the academic year 2020-21. The High Court, in its decision on July 27, declined the mandamus “despite finding there is a clear substantive law providing for State-specific reservation formulated by the MCI”. The petition has said, “Instead, the court set up a committee, when such a committee was unnecessary, consisting of the Directorate General of Health Services, the MCI and the Tamil Nadu government department concerned to ‘finalise the manner in which the facilities of OBC reservation are to be provided’.” ‘Self-contradictory’ The State said the High Court was self-contradictory. “Once the court has determinatively found that the governing law provides for OBC reservation as per Tamil Nadu rules, then the proverbial ‘story’ ends there and the appropriate authorities ought to be directed to apply the law. The committee, therefore, is aimless and entirely redundant”, the State has argued. It said the High Court had further excluded OBC reservation for the current academic year — despite finding that there was a legal right. This had denied a number of deserving OBC candidates seats in the All India Quota for 2020-2021.
26 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With 608 new COVID-19 cases, caseload in U.T. crosses 25,000||The overall COVID-19 caseload in Puducherry crossed 25,000 on Friday with the Union Territory registering 608 new cases and seven deaths. Puducherry accounted for five deaths while Karaikal and Yanam recorded one each. The patients, all men, were in the 45-83 age group and suffered from co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension and kidney related ailments. The case fatality rate was 1.94% and the recovery rate 77.61%. S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, said in a press release that the new cases were identified from testing 5,515 samples in the last 24 hours, indicating an infection rate of 11.02%. In all, 470 patients were discharged from hospitals during the last 24 hours. The Puducherry region accounted for 481 new cases, Karaikal 95, Yanam 23 and Mahe nine. The tally is 494 deaths, 5,214 active cases, an overall caseload of 25,489 and 19,781 patients discharged. The Health Department has so far tested 1.61 lakh samples and 1.3 lakh returned negative.
26 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry farmers protest against new Bills||Workers of the Bharatiya Khet Mazdoor Union, the All India Kisan Sabha and trade unions affiliated to the Left parties on Friday staged a protest at Bahour and Villianur in Puducherry and Karaikal against the recent legislation brought by the Union government in the farm sector. Workers, led by various Left party leaders, staged a demonstration condemning the Centre for bringing legislation which they said would destroy the sector. They urged the Prime Minister to recall the legislation in the interest of farmers. Left party leaders said they would participate in the agitation called by the Congress in the Union Territory on September 28 against the farm bills.
26 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Youth kidnapped, attacked by family for marrying minor girl outside caste||The Salem district police on Friday registered a case against the kin of a 25-year-old youth for kidnapping and attacking him for marrying a girl from another caste. Police have also registered a case against the youth under the Protection of Chidren from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for marrying a minor girl. According to police, Arul Kumar (25) a caste Hindu from Vazhapadi here had married a 16-year-old girl from Arunthathiyar community near Ethapur early this year, and the couple fled to Pallipalayam. Arul Kumar’s family runs an eatery and the girl’s family members are daily wagers. Police said Arul Kumar’s family members, who opposed the marriage, kidnapped him from Pallipalayam in the late hours of Wednesday and they allegedly attacked him. They tonsured him, following which he escaped and lodged a complaint with Vazhappadi police. Police have registered a case of kidnap and assault against Arul Kumar’s mother Abila, brothers Nehru and Venkatesan, sister Parimala and cousins Manikandan and Raghunathan. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint in February that her daughter was missing. Vazhapadi All Women Police Station registered a case against Arul Kumar under the POCSO Act. According to police, the girl is pregnant and she has been sent to her family here.
26 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam water level now at 100 feet||The water level at Mettur dam touched 100 feet against a Full Reservoir Level of 120 feet on Friday afternoon. According to officials at the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam touched 100 ft around 12.20 p.m on Friday. On Friday morning, the water level at the dam was 99.62 ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 64,340 mcft and the dam received inflow of 35,000 cusecs of water. The discharge through Cauvery river was 20,000 cusecs of water, and 850 cusecs of water was discharged through the East-West canal.
26 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||16 tonnes of PDS rice seized||In a joint drive conducted by the Civil Supplies-CID and Salem City Police, 16 tonnes of PDS rice hoarded by miscreants was seized here on Thursday. Based on a tip-off, police raided a workshop near Selanaikenpatti and seized over 100 sacks of rice meant for public distribution. According to police, the miscreants were planning to smuggle the rice to Karnataka. Police have arrested Prakash, a daily wager, and are on the lookout for one more person in connection with the case. Police are investigating.
26 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Villagers abscond after testing positive||As many as 28 residents of Kalanivasal near Peravurani in Thanjavur district locked up their houses and fled the village on receiving reports that they had tested positive for COVID-19. A search party, including health and revenue officials, is yet to locate the patients or get a hold of their whereabouts. According to officials, a fever camp was held at Kalanivasal, Sethubavachatram block on September 23. Samples were lifted from around 50 residents, of whom 28 people had tested positive for COVID-19. “We reached the village in the morning and found that the infected people were absconding. The houses were locked,” said an official. While several attempts were made to locate the residents, neither the neighbours nor the panchayat authorities cooperated, they said. “Police, health and revenue officials spent the whole day trying to trace the 28 patients but in vain,” he said. The villagers, all of them asymptomatic, claimed they had been incorrectly tested and through the panchayat president demanded a re-test. “The president told us that if we arrange for a retest, the villagers would return,” a health official said. The revenue officials, later in the evening, apprised Collector M. Govinda Rao of the incident. “The Collector has ordered us to create awareness of the illness and its symptoms on Saturday. If the patients still do not return, further action will be taken,” the official said, and ruled out re-tests.
26 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Farm bills will turn ryots into slaves of corporates’||Farmers belonging to associations affiliated to the Left parties staged demonstrations in Tiruchi and other districts in the Central region on Friday opposing the farm bills brought in by the Central government, and demanded their immediate withdrawal. Over 1,000 farmers were arrested in in the central region. The agitations were organised in 12 places. The protesters demanded that the Centre withdraw the farm bills as it went against the farmers’ interests. They claimed that the bills would eventually turn the farmers into slaves of corporates and urged the Tamil Nadu government not to go with the Centre on these bills. The agitation at Jeeyapuram was led by the committee coordinator Siva Suriyan of the CPI and K.C Pandian of the farmers association affiliated to the CPI(M). Police sources said 460 persons were arrested in Tiruchi district. A group of farmers affiliated to Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam staged an agitation in front of the Tiruchi Collectorate. The farmers were led by the forum’s State president Ayyakannu. In Thanjavur district, agitations were organised at 21 places leading to the arrest of 850 persons. The agitations were held under the banner of All India Farmers Struggle Coordinate Committee comprising representatives of both the Left parties and CPI-ML. Members of the Makkal Adhikaram also joined the agitations, said police sources. As many as 141 persons were arrested in Karur district where agitations were held at five places. Agitations were held in nine places in Pudukottai district leading to the arrest of about 400 persons. In Perambalur district, the agitation was organised near the new bus stand by members of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam leading to the arrest of 30 persons led by its State secretary Raja Chidambaram.
26 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Notable drop in COVID cases in central region||The central districts on Friday recorded a notable drop in COVID-19 cases with 591 patients testing positive for the viral infection, when compared to 727 cases on Thursday. The region recorded five deaths - two each from Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts and one in Tiruvarur. In Pudukottai, a 56-year-old man suffering from chronic liver disease, and a 78-year-old man who had been diagnosed with chronic kidney disease succumbed to the infection. In Thanjavur, a 58-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease and a 55-year-old man with a pre-existing condition of diabetes died of COVID-19. A 63-year-old man who suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome also died of COVID-19 in Tiruvarur. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts on Friday with 150 patients testing positive. Among them was a police constable in Thiruvidaimaruthur police station, proprietors of textile and other shops, sanitary workers, a staff nurse at a private hospital, and three doctors at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Most of the patients had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses, officials said. Tiruvarur recorded an increase in cases with 139 patients testing positive while Tiruchi recorded 107 fresh cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and people with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Pudukottai recorded a sharp drop in COVID-19 cases with 66 patients testing positive in the district on Friday. Of the 66 were local index cases with no history of travel or contact and patients with pre-existing respiratory illnesses. Karur recorded 49 fresh cases for COVID-19, including residents from Thanthonimalai, Pallapalayam and Kulithalai. Nagapattinam, too, recorded a sharp drop in COVID-19 cases on Friday with 35 fresh cases. All patients were either primary contacts, local index cases with no history and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Ariyalur, 28 patients tested positive. Among them, five hailed from Perambalur block, six from Thirumanur, four each from Sendurai and T. Palur, three from Andimadam and six from Jayankondam. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, 17 new cases were recorded - five each from Perambalur and Veppanthattai, three from Veppur and four from Alathur blocks.
26 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Idols seized from a house in Puducherry produced before court||Idol Wing CID personnel produced 74 stolen idols seized from Puducherry before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate court at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Friday. Sixty of them were made of metal and the rest were of stone. They were seized from the residence of Jean Paul Rajarathinam in Puducherry. Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court staff had on Thursday checked the height, width and weight of every idol. Subsequently, the 60 metal idols were taken to the Icon Centre at Sri Nageswaran Temple in Kumbakonam to be kept in safe custody, while the 14 stone idols would be in court custody, Idol Wing CID sources said. Superintendent of Police of Idol Wing CID R. Sakthivel earlier told reporters in Kumbakonam on Friday that all the idols were antique ones and were worshipped in various temples in the State. Special teams would be constituted to carry out further investigation. Based on a tip-off, the Idol Wing CID obtained a search warrant from the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate court in Kumbakonam and conducted the search in the house of Jean Paul Rajarathinam. The seized idols would be matched with photographs in the possession of HR and CE department and other institutions to establish the source and would be handed over to the respective temples, Mr. Sakthivel said.
26 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Accused in murder case surrenders||A day after a middle-aged woman and her 24-year-old daughter were found murdered in their house at Periyamilaguparai here, the latter's husband Ulaganathan, the suspect, surrendered before a court in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Friday. The Sessions Court police named Ulaganathan as accused in the double-murder case. Police sources said Ulaganathan, who surrendered before the court, was lodged in the sub-jail in Thanjavur. He is alleged to have murdered his mother-in-law Kalaiselvi, 47, and wife Pavithra and left the house with his infant daughter, after locking the door from the outside. Ulaganathan was married to Pavithra in 2015.
26 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery shop burgled||Gold jewels weighing 252 grams were burgled from a jewellery shop on Chinna Kadai Street in Ariyalur in the late hours of Thursday. The burglars had gained entry into the rear side of a coconut shop adjacent to the jewellery outlet. From the coconut shop, the burglars had made a hole to enter into the jewellery shop. The crime came to light on Friday after the coconut vendor came in the morning to open his shop and noticed the hole and alerted the jewellery shop owner Soundararajan. The jeweller had switched off the CCTV cameras inside the shop.
26 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level in Mettur dam stood at 100 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 38,118 and the discharge 20,001 cusecs.
26 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Both Centre, State betrayed farmers’||Members of All India Kisan Sabha staged road roko in several parts of southern districts on Friday. Besides wiping out the livelihood of the agriculturists, the Farm Bills would make the farmers labourers of the corporate companies, they said. Police arrested 98 persons at Vannarpet in Tirunelveli, and detained 91 at Kalakkad, Ambasamudram and Valliyoor in Tirunelveli district. As many as 316 farmers, including 55 women, were arrested in Thoothukudi district as they staged road roko at 10 places. In Tenkasi, 467 persons, including 55 women, were arrested. In Dindigul, CPI (M) leader K. Balabharathi blamed the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for “giving away farming sector to the corporates”. Several farmers attempted to lay siege to the Post Office in the city. In Virudhunagar district, members of various farmers’ organisations took part in dharna held at 10 places. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district secretary V. Murugan and CPI (M) leader S. Balasubramanian, and CPI leaders P. Lingam and T. Ramasamy took part in the protests. Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam district president N.A. Ramachandra Raja led the protest at Rajapalayam. CPI (M) Rajapalayam town secretary B. Mariappan participated. There were protests, led by members of the All India Farmers Association, Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, Agricultural Labourers Association and the All India Democratic Women’s Association, in Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts. In Madurai district, K. Rajendran, president, TNFA, said “Farm Bills will not provide any benefit to farmers. A total of 516 people were detained by the police from places like Melur, Othakadai, Samayanallur, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti. A total of 152 people were detained in Ramanathapuram district. Protests were organised in Paramakudi, where 25 people were detained. Similar demonstrations took place at Mudukalathur and Tiruvadanai. Road roko was held at four locations in Sivaganga district – Karaikudi, Sivaganga, Tirupattur and Manamadurai. As many as 253 people were detained.
26 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Families living in temporary shelters at Emerald seek permanent housing||More than 70 families housed in temporary relief shelters at Emerald in the Nilgiris district for the last two months have called upon the district administration to expedite the construction of houses for them so that they can move out of the shelters. The families, who had been residing in villages such as MGR Nagar, Periyar Nagar and Indira Nagar were moved to the shelters in August, when heavy rain in the district threatened to bring down the houses they were living in. Pushpa, a resident who was moved to the relief shelter, said that she was among many residents who was allowed to stay in a government school for around two weeks during the rain in August, following which the residents were moved to the relief shelters as the houses the residents were living in were deemed to be at risk of collapse or located in landslip-prone zones. The rain in August had already damaged the shelters, with the roof of most of the buildings getting damaged or blown off by winds. Though they have been repaired, the families complain that the shelters get waterlogged during rain. Kannan, another resident who has been staying in the relief shelters, said that apart from water-logging, the roof gets disloged by strong winds. “Many people are using plastic sheets as roof,” he said. The families have appealed to the district administration to speed up identifying of land to build permanent houses Officials said the process of identifying the land was on, and that the Collector had inspected a few areas two weeks ago.
26 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Adivasis turn to vermi-compost production for livelihood||Adivasis in Anaikatti in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) are turning to production of vermi-compost as a sustainable means of livelihood. The adivasis, who belong to the Irula community, said they were severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of the adivasis in our village either work for daily wages in farms, plantations or at tourist resorts nearby. Due to the effect the pandemic has had on these businesses, many have lost their jobs, said a member of the community. One such member, Basuvan, who was working as a mason, sought the help of the horticulture department in setting up a vermi-compost unit in his village. “With the help of the government, I set up a small composting pit, which can produce around two to three tonnes of vermi-compost once every 45 days,” said Mr. Basuvan, who sells the compost at Rs. 5 per kg to local residents. The unit has been a huge success, said Anaikatti resident, B. Sivakumar. Other residents of the village, who had been using chemical fertilizers for crops were now buying the vermi-compost from Basuvan, he said. “All of us have noticed that the crops are growing really well and this has created a huge demand for more compost,” said Mr. Sivakumar. More residents of Anaikatti have approached the horticulture department with a request to help fund the construction of more vermi-compost units. Joint Director of Horticulture Sivasubramaniam Samraj said the initiative was part of the collective farming scheme, and was undertaken with the assistance of the District Collector J. Innocent Divya, who has been pushing farmers in the district to adopt organic farming practices. “Last year, sanctions were received for 65 vermi-compost units. This year, we hope to sanction the construction of around a 100 units,” said Mr. Samraj, adding that the beneficiaries of the scheme receive a 50 % subsidy on completion of the unit. “Each unit costs around Rs. 1 lakh. Many of the beneficiaries have already overcome the initial input costs and have started seeing a profit,” said Mr. Samraj.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||661 test positive in Coimbatore||As many as 661 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday, taking the tally so far to 29,057. While 4,801 persons from the district were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 on Friday, 517 persons recovered from the disease and returned home. The Health Department said that six more persons from the district died of the disease, taking the death toll to 408. Tiruppur district on Friday reported 158 new cases. The district had 1,693 active cases of the disease on Friday while 158 persons recovered and returned home. The department said that four more patients from the district succumbed to COVID-19. The district’s death toll increased to 114. As many as 297 cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 289 cases were indigenous, including 146 in Salem Corporation limits. Eight patients have returned from other districts like Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Erode and Dharmapuri. Four patients affected with COVID-19 disease died at government and private hospitals. A 58-year-old man died at a private hospital on Thursday. A 63-year-old mn from Erode who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital died on Friday. A 65-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man from Rasipuram died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem during late hours of Thursday. In Namakkal, 115 cases were reported. Of these, 15 patients have returned from other districts like Erode, Salem, Coimbatore, Karur and one patient has returned from Karnataka. Erode district reported 151 new cases taking the tally to 6,140. While 123 persons were discharged on Friday, 1,116 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 79. Dharmapuri recorded 148 cases while Krishnagiri recorded 104 cases. In the Nilgiris, 137 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 3,501. The death toll in the district stands at 23 with 802 people undergoing treatment.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest against Bills||Farmers on Friday protested against the recently passed farm Bills in Parliament and staged a road roko in Salem. The protesters under the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) staged protests at Kondalampatti, Vazhapadi and a few other places condemning the legislations that would affect the livelihood of farmers. They protested against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, the Essential Commodities -Amendment Ordinance 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance and the Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance. They raised slogans against the Central government and condemned its anti-farmer stand. The protesters also condemned the State government for welcoming it. The protesters staged a road roko at Kondalampatti roundabout and traffic had to be diverted for a short while at the junction. The protesters were later arrested by the police. Close to 50 persons took part in the protest. Former legislator P. Dilibabu said that the new bills will only favour corporates and is against the interests of farmers. He added that continuous protests would be conducted against the bills. In Erode, farmers staged road roko at three places in the district. Led by D. Raveendran, member, AIKSCC, T. Subbu, district secretary, Tamilaga Vivasaigal Sangam and C.M. Thulasimani, State vice-president, Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, farmers gathered near the bus stand and blocked road. Instead of fixing the minimum support price, the government had allowed the corporates to decide on what farmers should cultivate and what price to be given to them. A total of 157 farmers participated in road rokos at Erode, Gobichettipalayam and Kadambur. The All India Kisan Sabha staged protests slamming the contentious farm Bills in Krishnagiri. Pledging support to the nationwide protests called by various farmers’ unions, the protesters condemned the BJP-led Central government for passing the bills through a voice vote. Dubbing the manner of passage of the bills through a voice as a blot on democracy, the protesters also slammed the State government for supporting the bills. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had supported the passage of the bills claiming that they would benefit the farmers.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Meenakshi temple might have been reconstructed in early 13th century’||The present structure of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai might have been reconstructed during the rule of Jatavarman Kulasekara Pandya in 1190-1216 Common Era. This structure was damaged due to unknown reasons and was again renovated in the 13th century during the period of Maravarman Sundarapandyan II, according to inscriptions found at the temple, said archaeological expert C. Santhalingam here on Friday. Mr. Santhalingam led a team of experts comprising M. Marudhu Pandiyan, Curator of Government Museum, Madurai; R. Udhayakumar, a researcher at Pandya Nadu Centre for Historical Research; and B. Asaithambi, Archaeological Officer of the State Archaeology Department, to document and study the inscriptions at Meenakshi temple. The findings have been compiled in a book form. He told reporters that the temple might have been a simple structure, prior to the reconstruction during the Jatavarman Kulasekara Pandya period. The temple has been renovated many times and extended with mandapams and halls during the Nayak rule. Another important finding is that in all the 13th century inscriptions belonging to Pandya period, the name of the presiding deity is ‘Thiru Alavay Udaiya Nayanar’ and the goddess, ‘Thirukkamakkottam Udaiya Aludaiya Nacchiyar.’ “It was only during the Nayak period when the name ‘Chokkanatha’ for the presiding deity was mentioned for the first time. The name of the goddess as ‘Meenakshi’ was mentioned on the engravings of a ‘pavaivilakku’ dated 1752 CE. The present name of the goddess, ‘Meenakshi Sundareswarar,’ was first mentioned on the engravings on a Tiruvachi lamp stand dated 1898 CE,” said Mr. Santhalingam. As many as 410 inscriptions found at the temple were copied and published as part of this survey. Among them, only 79 inscriptions were in a readable format. As many as 301 inscriptions were fragmented and dislocated during renovations over the years at the temple. Out of the 79 inscriptions, 78 were in Tamil and one was in Sanskrit with grantha characters. Among these inscriptions, the earliest belongs to Arikesari Parankusa Maravarman period (700 CE). Inscriptions of Pandya rulers such as Maravarman Sundara Pandya I and II, Jatavarman Sundara Pandya and Madurai Nayak rulers such as Thirumalai Nayak and Vijayaranga Chokkanatha Nayak were also found in the temple. These inscriptions also mention various donations made by the rulers.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka, T.N. spar over Mekedatu at CWMA meet||But Tamil Nadu was of the view that a mere perusal of data on Cauvery river water realisation, at its end, since the 1990s, would reveal that the State, being a lower-riparian State, it did not get its share of water as per the schedule laid down earlier by the tribunal, and now, by the Supreme Court and the CWMA. The State, as a matter of principle, was opposed to any project being proposed in the upper riparian, unless approved by the Supreme Court. At the meeting, Karnataka sought to equate the Mekedatu project with the Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which envisaged the diversion of excess water from the Mettur dam. But Tamil Nadu’s response was that the Sarabanga project, utilising only the surplus water, would benefit the area that fell under the existing ayacut, located within Tamil Nadu’s part of the Cauvery basin. At the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, early last month, the State government had stated that the proposed project was not for developing a new ayacut. Besides, one of the factors behind the State’s apprehension regarding Mekedatu has been its proposed capacity of 67 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) — - huge and it was more than two-thirds the capacity of the Mettur dam, a senior official in the Public Works Department said. ‘Incidental discussion’ In a chat with The Hindu , R.K. Jain, chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC) and part-time chief of CWMA, sought to downplay the exchange between the two States and termed the discussion “incidental”. He, however, added that so long as the CWMA cleared the Mekedatu project, the CWC would not be able to give its nod.  Consensus In light of the advice rendered last year by the Expert Appraisal Committee for River Valley and Hydroelectric Projects, attached to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, for an “amicable solution” between the two States on the issue, Mr. Jain said that efforts were on to bring about a consensus between the States.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘MSV ticked him off for Telugu accent’||“I sing the notes as they are written but it is the Almighty who comes out as my voice,” was a frequent statement made by S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. His first recorded song was from the film Shanti Nilayam, produced by Gemini Vasan, and the script work was done by me. Englishman Marcus Bartley was the cameraman. M.S. Viswanathan had tuned a song Iyarkaii Ennum Ilaiyya Kanni and a few months earlier, SPB had frequented his house seeking an opportunity to sing in films. “Get rid of your Telugu accent and improve your Tamil!” MSV told him, and within months, SPB’s Tamil improved. MSV made him sing Iyarkaii Ennum Ilaiyya Kanni and it was an instant hit. He received Rs. 150 as remuneration for the song. Meanwhile, MGR had an issue with T.M. Soundararajan, and SPB had the opportunity to sing for him — the song Ayiram Nilave Vaa in Adimai Penn . Though Adimai Penn released first, SPB’s first recorded song was from Shanti Nilayam.  SPB loved working with our Chithralaya Unit and before singing Panivizhum Malarvanam , he said, “Gopu sir, Chithralayaa is my mother’s home.” Baalu, as we fondly called him, was a perfect gentleman. The film industry will not be the same again.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect domestic workers’||The National Domestic Workers Movement has called for a special legislation to protect the workforce across the country. Addressing mediapersons, P. Clara, State coordinator, highlighted the plight of domestic workers in the wake of COVID-19 and said the movement staged protests across the country on Thursday. Many workers had lost their livelihood. The government should give them Rs. 7,500 a month.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Copious inflow||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Splashing around||
26 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||6,64,000 ha to be dropped from ‘deemed forest’ classification||In a drastic move, the Karnataka government is set to drop 6,64,000 hectares of land from ‘deemed forest’ classification. This would mean that the total quantum of State’s deemed forest, which presently stands at 9,94,000 hectares, would be reduced to 3,30,000 hectares. Announcing this in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, Minister for Forests B.S. Anand Singh said a notification in this regard would be issued soon. The Minister said the decision on reduction of the quantum of deemed forest land was taken following reports by district-level committees constituted by the Forest Department to examine the issue. While the quantum of deemed forest is being reduced by over 60%, the Minister said the government was ready for considering further requests related to reduction in the quantum if there were any more genuine cases. Mr. Singh made the announcement while Revenue Minister R. Ashok was piloting the Karnataka Land Revenue Amendment Bill that seeks to extend the deadline for regularisation of unauthorised cultivation under the Bagair Hukum scheme. Mr. Ashok said the land removed from the classification of deemed forest would be transferred to the Revenue Department. When it comes to utilising the land to be transferred, the department would give first preference to government institutions and civic amenities, he said. The remaining land would be transferred to those who have been tilling it for a long time based on various procedures, the Minister explained. The announcement regarding unlocking a large quantum of land from deemed forest classification was hailed by members cutting across party affiliations in the Assembly. Senior Congress member and former Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar thanked Mr. Singh for such a move and said it would help people, particularly farmers. The Karnataka Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for regularisation of unauthorised use of ‘B’ kharab land in Bengaluru and outskirts of the city besides several urban areas in the State, was adopted in the Assembly. Several Opposition members demanded that similar measures should be extended to villages to help farmers buy ‘B’ kharab land located in their farms. Mr. Ashok said he would soon hold consultations in this regard with the Opposition leaders to decide the ways and means of implementing it.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||This voice was the choice of actors||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday, not only sang some of the most popular Kannada film songs over the last five decades, but also inspired an entire generation of singers who considered him a mentor and an inspiration. His second ever song for a film — just a week after he debuted with a Telugu number — was in Kannada in December, 1966. What endeared him to composers and the audience alike was his incredible range, and his insistence on learning Kannada and getting the diction right. He was probably one singer who could sing a melody and a peppy song with equal ease. He sang Kelade Nimageega ... and Jotheyali Jothejotheyali ..., and the fast number Santoshakke Hadu Santoshakke ..., all from the 1981 film Geeta . For all stars From the mid 1970s, when P.B. Sreenivas’ career graph was ebbing and Rajkumar began doing playback for himself, SPB’s voice dominated the Kannada screen for nearly three decades, singing for almost all the leading men of the time. His voice became synonymous with that of Srinath, Vishnuvardhan, Ambareesh, Anant Nag, Shankar Nag, Ravichandran, Shivaraj Kumar, and Ramesh Aravind, among others. There are actors whose entire discography has probably been sung by SPB alone, Mr, Vishnuvardhan a case in point. “The unique quality of SPB was that he never imitated, but tweaked his voice to suit the actor. It always sounded as if I was singing it myself. He brought that magic to playback singing. The audience listening on a radio would immediately identify it as SPB’s voice, and also who he was singing for,” observed Mr. Srinath. Mr, Shivaraj Kumar, one of the actors whose songs have been sung by SPB from his debut film, said, “He was a great actor and he brought it out in his voice.” Tulsiram Naidu (Velu) of Lahari Music said from the mid 1970s to at least till 1995, SPB was almost the sole male voice of the Kannada film song. “We call them single-card artiste referring to a single name on the cassette, indicating that all songs are sung by one singer. SPB was probably the most prolific single-card artiste not just in the Kannada film industry, but in the Telugu and the Tamil film industries as well at the same time. I remember there was a time when getting a call sheet of SPB was several times more tough than a hero who commanded the box office,” SPB holds the record for recording the most number of songs in a single day [21], all in Kannada on February 8, 1981. He also recorded 19 songs in Tamil and 16 songs in Hindi in a single day, in various stages of his career. “These were not done with an eye to create a record, but due to how prolific and busy, a playback singer SPB was back then, in his heyday. his voice monopolised large parts of the Telugu, the Tamil, and the Kannada industries. Everyone wanted only SPB to sing for them,” Mr. Velu said. His most celebrated collaborations were with composer-duo Rajan-Nagendra in the 1970s and early 1980s, followed by Hamsalekha. Octogenarian composer Rajan told The Hindu that SPB had the most gifted voice of his generation. SPB sang all-time hit melodies like Maamaravello...Kogileyello... and Aaseya Bhaava... for Rajan-Nagendra. Mr. Hamsalekha said, “I attribute the success of the music of my first hit Premaloka entirely to him.” SPB also won a national award for a song composed by Mr. Hamsalekha in 1995. Ede tumbi haaduvenu... However, by the late 1990s new voices began to emerge. SPB then reinvented himself. In Kannada, he hosted the talent reality show ‘Ede Tumbi Haaduvenu...’ during 2003-2012. This took him to every home and increased the intimacy of his relationship with Kannadigas. The programme was so popular that it was also part of the plot of the 2008 Kannada film Inti Ninna Preetiya , directed by Suri, with SPB playing himself. What also earned SPB a special place in the hearts of the Kannada audience was that he learnt the language, spoke it fluently, and was keen on the learning the right pronunciation. Though often, Telugu and Tamil words made its way into his Kannada, he made a sincere attempt to always speak in Kannada, and he did acquire a good fluency. Mr. Kaikini recalled, “I remember suggesting to him abhyarthi was a better word for contestant than the spardhi he was using. He immediately started using it in the Telugu shows as well,” Mr. Kaikini said. Mr. Hamsalekha recalled that SPB used to often say that language was the soul of film music and was very particular about it. The ‘insider’ In the last few years, SPB was often critical of the Kannada film industry bringing “outsiders who did not focus on language” to sing for Kannada films. “I am not opposed to those who learn the language and sing with a good pronunciation,” he had said. Many of SPB’s songs in praise of Kannada and its ethos, like Ide Nadu, Ide Bhashe..., were superhits. Kannada always held a special place for SPB and he always said that the affection was mutual, and even said Kannadigas perhaps loved him more than any other audience.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 255.17 cr. of Kanva Group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 255.17 crore belonging to N. Nanjundaiah, of the Kanva Group of Companies and other entities, as well other family members in a case related to the alleged cheating of investors. A provisional attachment order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, was issued on Friday. The assets are in the form of immovable properties in Karnataka (agricultural and non-agricultural land and buildings and resorts) and moveable properties in the form of balance in bank accounts, said the ED in a release. The accused was arrested in August over the alleged diversion of investors’ funds to the tune of hundreds of crores. According to a release from the ED, investigation conducted under the PMLA revealed that Nanjundaiah, who is also the director of Sree Kanva Souhardha Cooperative Credit Ltd., collected Rs. 650 crore from 13,000 investors through unauthorised collection centres and agents by promising them higher rates of interest. “The accused manipulated Sree Kanva Souhardha Cooperative Credit Ltd. accounts and suppressed the actual financial position of the society, which was under losses while it projected a profit. The accused indulged in collection of further deposits and did not follow due procedure while extending the loans, thereby making recovery close to impossible,” said the release. According to the ED, the money collected was transferred to various accounts of the Kanva Group of entities, as well as to the accounts of the accused and his family members. From the amount collected, over Rs. 400 crore was allegedly “directly and indirectly swindled and diverted, advanced as loans without any surety to the Kanva Group of Companies owned by N. Nanjundaiah, which are still pending. Nanjundaiah availedloans to the extent of Rs. 120 crore from various banks and financial institutions, which are also outstanding”. This way, Nanjundaiah and others designed a Ponzi scheme and cheated people by not paying the promised interest and not returning their principal amount even after maturity, said the ED.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers to intensify protest as talks with Yediyurappa flounder||Farmers have decided to intensify their protests after talks with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday afternoon did not yield any results. According to those who participated in the meeting, there was no “positive reaction or response” from the Chief Minister’s side. “The CM indirectly and subtly indicated that they were ready for only one or two minor changes in land reforms such as reducing the 216-acre ceiling for purchasing dry lands,” said Mr. Nagendra. Representatives urged Mr. Yediyurappa to withdraw the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Karnataka Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020 at the meeting, which was also attended by Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar among others. T.N. Prakash Kammardi, former chairman, Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission, said they were “pained and disappointed after CM did not speak even of postponing the passage of the two Bills”. “We raised many questions to which the Ministers did not have an answer. We tried to convince them that both the Bills would have a negative impact on self sufficiency and food security. But they were undeterred,” he said. Kurubur Shantakumar, president, Karnataka Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Sangh, said that they also questioned the hurry in passing the Bills. “They are just toeing the lines of the Central government in the name of co-operative federalism,” he said.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tighten your belt in current fiscal year: Congress to govt.||In the wake of reduced revenue to the State owing to COVID-19, the Opposition Congress on Friday suggested to the government to reduce development works and wasteful expenditure in the current financial year. The Congress opposed borrowings of Rs. 33,000 crore for committed and developmental expenditures of the State. The borrowings of the State would reach Rs. 85,000 crore, including budgetary provision of Rs. 52,000 crore, in 2020–21, Congress members pointed out. ‘Scrap unnecessary posts’ Speaking on the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Assembly, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the government should take steps to scrap unnecessary posts in different departments, and should not allow secretaries to use vehicles of both their departments and boards/corporations. The Congress leader said that in boards/corporations where no chairman had been appointed, secretaries, who were heading both departments and boards/corporations, have been using vehicles for ferrying their family members. The government should mercilessly take action against such officials and issue guidelines for stopping the use of vehicles of both department and board/corporations by secretaries. The former Chief Minister also asked the government to withdraw orderlies posted to senior police officers and reduce expenditure. The Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in the Assembly on Friday to raise the fiscal deficit from 3% to 5% of the estimated Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in the current financial year. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy informed the House that the State was expected to face revenue shortfall of Rs. 65,000 crore this year owing to reduced economic activity in view of COVID-19. The amendment to the Bill would enable the government to borrow Rs. 33,000 crore to meet both committed and development expenditures during 2020–21. Congress members staged a walkout from the House opposing the Bill. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Bill would increase the borrowings of the government and the State would slip into a debt trap. He said the State’s committed expenditure increased from 77% in 2017–18 to 90% in 2020–21. Krishna Byre Gowda said increased borrowing would have a cascading effect on the State economy and the States’ committed expenditure would touch Rs. 1.05 lakh crore in this fiscal year.The borrowings should be the actual size of the GSDP, which would be around Rs. 14 lakh crore this year, and not the GSDP of the previous year — Rs. 18 lakh crore, he said.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister’s promise on Talacauvery||Muzrai Minister K. Srinivas Poojary on Friday assured the Legislative Council that he would seek a report from an agama scholar on a controversy over the status of Agastyeshwara linga at Talacauvery in Kodagu district. His statement came in response to the issue raised by Congress member S. Veena Achaiah, who said that Agastyeshwara linga, believed to have been consecrated by sage Agastya, had become the centre of a controversy in Talacauvery after it was removed and replaced by another linga. According to her, the linga was removed when the Agastyeshwara temple was being renovated between 2002 and 2005, and was not consecrated again because is was believed to have been damaged. “A section of people believes that it has to be immersed in the sea while another section has gone to court and obtained stay against immersion. Currently, it is just lying there without any rituals being offered,” she said. ‘Assess the area’ Ms. Achaiah said the Muzrai Department had to intervene and find a solution based on traditional and ritual guidelines. She also urged the government to deploy geological experts and engineers to assess the area, which witnessed landslip during heavy rains this monsoon, and provide solution to prevent landslips. In response, Mr. Poojary said he would take up the issue seriously.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal houses in BDA layouts to be regularised||The Legislative Assembly passed the Bangalore Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2020, for regularising illegal construction of houses in BDA layouts in Bengaluru by paying penalty from 10% to 50% of the guidance value, depending on the size of the sites. The owners of house buildings on 20x30 sq.ft sites have to pay 10% of the guidance value, and those on sites measuring more than 20x30 sq.ft and up to 30x40 sq.ft have to pay 25% of the guidance value for regularisation of constructions. The owners of house buildings on sites measuring more than 30x40 sq.ft and 40x60 sq.ft have to pay 40% while those on sites measuring more than 40x60 sq.ft and up to 50x80 sq.ft have to pay 50% of the guidance value for regularisation of constructions. 12-year-old structures This amended law is applicable to house buildings which are 12 years old. Owners of about 70,000 houses can regularise constructions by paying penalty, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy informed the House on Friday. The Bill also made a provision to punish erring officials who fail to protect BDA property from the date of enforcement of this law and also to take action to evict unauthorised occupants within a period of two years. The passage of the Bill is expected to help the cash-strapped government mobilise resources.  While ruling party members demanded regularisation of such illegal construction of houses in other urban local bodies, A.T. Ramaswamy of the JD(S) opposed the Bill arguing that it would benefit real estate mafia in the city. Mr. Ramaswamy said the Bill was passed with an intention of getting votes in the coming elections to the BBMP council. Town planning Bill The Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020, was also passed in the Assembly. It enables disposal of sites by registration by developers in a phased manner in the ratio of 40:30:30 by fully developing sites in each phase with all infrastructure. It also provides for single plot development. The Bill also aims to protect the interests of the purchaser of sites.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A foray or two into the classical genre||Though an accomplished singer, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam often was wary about trying out songs of a classical nature. In several interviews, he recounted how he tried to back out from singing for the classical music-based film Shankarabharanam , for which he won his first national award. Kannada composer Hamsalekha recalled how SPB was also hesitant about singing for his 1995 film Sangeeta Sagara Ganayogi Panchakshara Gavai , based on the life of a Hindustani classical music maestro. Mr. Hamsalekha remembered that SPB had recorded the composition Umand Ghumand Ghana Garje Badara and two others on a cassette, and listened to it several times daily in preparation. “Given that both of us were not trained in classical music, we experimented, worked hard on it, and that fetched a national award,” he said. SPB, with a lot of trepidation, also fulfilled one of his dreams of singing at a classical concert in Bengaluru in 2019. While the city’s music connoisseurs were used to film music concerts by SPB, he surprised many when he performed at the Ramaseva Mandali, Fort High School, the classical music Sabha of the city that year. As he came to receive the SV Narayanaswamy Rao Global Award, he enthralled the audience for four hours with music mostly based on classical ragas. He sang songs from Shankarabharanam , and compositions of Thyagaraja and Bhadrachala Ramadasu.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order on bail hearing of actors on Monday||The Special NDPS court on Friday reserved its order on the bail hearing of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani for September 28. The stars were arrested along with other accused by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in connection with a drug racket, with alleged links to the Kannada film industry. Some of the key accused in the case, including Aditya Alva, son of the late minister Jeevaraj Alva and the brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi, and party organiser Sheikh Fazil, are at large. Special teams have been formed to track them down, said a senior police official. The accused are also being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate for alleged money laundering. Another foreign national arrested Meanwhile, the CCB arrested a foreign national for allegedly providing drugs to some of the celebrities and party organisers. “The accused, Ossy, hails from Nigeria. He was in possession of MDMA at the time of his arrest,” said the police. According to CCB sources, Ossy is a close associate of another accused in the case. “He is known to be one of the suppliers,” said the police.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City to host conference on citizen science||CitSci India 2020, pitched to be India’s first ever national conference on citizen science for biodiversity, will begin on Monday (September 28). Part of the preparatory phase project of the National Mission on Biodiversity and Human Well-being (NMBHWB), the conference will be a virtual meeting of stakeholders, including practitioners of citizen science, researchers, educators, students, policy-makers, and individual contributors. Organised by the Biodiversity Collaborative, under the aegis of the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, and the National Biodiversity Authority, the conference aims to take advantage of structured citizen science efforts in the country. “As one of the handful of biologically megadiverse countries in the world, India has a particular responsibility towards its ecosystems, habitat and species. It is becoming clearer than ever before that biodiversity and natural systems are crucial for the survival, health and prosperity of humans,” said a release.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Blame game on funding to State from Centre||Funding to the State from the Centre became a topic of intense discussion in the Legislative Assembly on Friday. While the Opposition Congress alleged that injusticehad been meted out to the State in releasing GST compensation and funds for floods relief works, the ruling BJP said the Centre had released more funds to the State under the State Disaster Response Fund and the National Disaster Response Fund. Giving details of funds released for six years under the UPA government and the NDA government, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the UPA government had released Rs. 1,332 crore to the State under the NDRF during 2008–14, while the Narendra Modi-led government had released Rs. 9,279 crore during 2014–20. Under the SDRF, the UPA government had released Rs. 724 crore during 2008–14 while the present government had released Rs. 2,669 crore during 2014–20, he said. But Congress members pointed out that the State government had submitted a petition seeking Rs. 35,000 crore as compensation for the last year’s floods, but the Centre had released only Rs. 1,869 crore.
26 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gram Swaraj Bill adopted amid opposition||Amid serious Opposition by the Congress, the Legislative Assembly on Friday adopted the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Bill that, among other provisions, seeks to reduce the tenure of the presidents and vice-presidents of gram, taluk and zilla panchayats to 30 months from the present 60. The Bill, piloted by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, also seeks to reduce the grace period given for moving a no-confidence motion against presiding officers of panchayats to 15 months from the present 30 months. The no-confidence motion cannot be moved before the presiding officers have completed 15 months in office. The provisions of the Bill were opposed by the Congress, particularly Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and senior member K.R. Ramesh Kumar, who had submitted a report on the functioning of the panchayats when the former was the Chief Minister. Both the Congress leaders expressed concern that curtailing the tenure of the presiding officers would come in the way of their political growth. This would also affect the reservation provided to them, they argued. However, Mr. Eshwarappa maintained that the new provisions would bring in vibrancy in the panchayat system and also help more leaders to emerge from the grassroots level. Taking exception to this, the Congress members staged a walkout.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice on changes made to labour laws||The High Court on Friday ordered issue of notice to the State and Union governments on a plea challenging thelegality of the changes made to labour laws by promulgating the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, on July 30 for boosting industries. A Division Bench comprisingChief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Karnataka Industrial and Other Establishments’ Employees Federation. According to the amendment made to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, industrial establishments with up to 300 workers can now layoff and/or retrench its workers or close operation without prior government permission, as against the earlier requirement of prior permission if the number of employees is 100 or more. While the amendments made to the Factories Act, 1948, increase the overtime limit for workers from 75 hours per quarter to 125, the amendment to the Contract Labour (Abolition and Regulation) Act, 1970, makes this Act applicable for establishments that have employed at least 50 workmen as contract labourers, instead of for establishments with 20 employees or more workmen as contract labourers.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Candidate alleges Hindi imposition in UGC NET||A candidate who appeared for the University Grants Commission (UGC) National Eligibility Test (NET), which was conducted on Thursday, has alleged “Hindi imposition” in the test. Following this, the Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has decided to pursue the matter with the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the test. Milana, a candidate from Tumakuru who appeared for the Mass Communication and Journalism test on Thursday, tweeted that the question paper was in English and the translation to the questions was only available in Hindi. “It was a imposition of Hindi and there was a need for translation in all regional languages. Some of the questions were full of jargon and I was not able to comprehend them. The only option for translation was in Hindi. Clearly, candidates who know Hindi will have an advantage,” she said. Milana,who graduated from Bangalore University in 2019, appeared for the test at a centre in Tumakuru. The UGC NET determines the eligibility of candidate for the post of assistant professor and/or for junior research fellowship in universities and colleges. T.S. Nagabharana, chairman of the KDA, said they would take up the matter with the authorities concerned. “Translation of questions should be available in all regional languages. This is one of the main hurdles for students from South India in national-level competitive exams,” he said.  Translation of questions should be available in all regional languages. This is one of the main hurdles for students from South India in national-level competitive exams T.S. Nagabharana,chairman of Kannada Development Authority
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Row in Council over Mysore Lamps land||The treasury and Opposition benches in Legislative Council on Friday disagreed over moving of a resolution on preventing the government to transfer the assets of the now-defunct Mysore Lamps Works Ltd. to any company, including PSUs or any private person. Mysore Lamps has assets worth over Rs. 1,000 crore besides 21.6 acres at Malleswaram here. While the Opposition demanded that land be reserved for public purposes such as hospital and parks, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J. Madhuswamy opposed the tabling of the resolution. He argued that it amounted to “squeezing the power of the government”, as the Leader of Opposition S.R. Patil read out the contents of the resolution. In response, Congress member B.K. Hariprasad said: “We (the House) are not commanding or directing the government or squeezing the government. The House is supreme. There have been instances of land belonging to HMT and NGEF being sold and the resolution was only a precautionary measure.” Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty reserved his decision on the matter.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BU PG examinations postponed to October 5||Bangalore University on Friday announced that the post-graduate examinations will commence on October 5. The post-graduate examinations were originally scheduled to begin on September 29. They were rescheduled after the university’s undergraduate examinations were postponed on account of the farmers’ bandh proposed on September 28.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC orders issue of notice over PIL on trees||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking direction for the restoration of 9,500 trees which were grown on government land in Gundehalli village of Tekal in Malur taluk, Kolar, and which were destroyed because of illegal mining activities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on a petition filed by Ravindra and four others from Kolar. The plantation was raised through the joint effort of the gram panchayat and the Forest Department, the petitioners said.It was also alleged in the petition that the government, without recovering the remaining Rs. 106 crore fine imposed on 19 firms for carrying out illegal mining beyond the licensed areas, was planning to renew their mining licences. The petitioner also sought the initiation of criminal proceedings against the public servants who allowed illegal mining.
26 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Assembly pays tribute to SPB||The Legislative Assembly paid rich tribute to singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who died on Friday. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri observed that the singer had a rare talent of singing in a distinct manner for different actors. “The manner in which he used to sing for Anant Nag was different from his rendition for Srinath or Vishnuvardhan,” he observed. The House particularly hailed his love for Kannada and Karnataka.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘NK ignored’||Accusing successive governments of ignoring the welfare of north Karnataka in terms of irrigation projects, Opposition members from the region in the Legislative Council on Friday urged the government to get awards of tribunals notified to start Upper Krishna Project Phase 3 and Mahadayi project and convene a meeting to discuss mobilisation of funds to complete the projects. While Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil said stepmotherly treatment was being meted out to the UKP Phase 3 project that aims to irrigate 14.85 lakh acres across seven north Karnataka districts, senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader Basavaraj Horatti referred to the Mahadayi project that is yet to start.
26 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Eight COVID-19 deaths||With eight COVID-19 deaths on Friday, the toll in Hassan district went up to 297. Among the eight, five were from Hassan taluk, two from Arkalgud and one from Arsikere taluk. So far, 14,815 people have tested positive and of them, 11,815 have recovered. As many as 2,583 people are undergoing treatment. Of these, 52 are in the intensive care unit.
26 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||More COVID-19 tests||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has instructed officers to increase the number of COVID-19 tests in the next 15 days as a measure to stop the spread of infection in the district. As many as 2,000 RT-PCR and 1,000 rapid antigen tests should be conducted every day, he said in a meeting with officers in Shivamogga on Friday. The government would make kits available for the tests. Officers should take up a drive at the gram panchayat level. Tests should be conducted at all primary health centres, community health centres and taluk hospitals. Those tested positive for the infection but, with no symptoms, would be allowed to be in home quarantine. Those people with symptoms would be admitted to hospitals, he said.
26 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Roadblocks range from a few minutes to more than an hour as farmers stage protest in several districts||Farmers supported by members of various Opposition parties took to the streets on Friday to register their protest against the farm bills in various districts in North Karnataka with roadblocks ranging from several minutes to over one hour disrupting vehicular traffic. As the farmers associations have called for a Karnataka Bandh on Monday over issues concerning farmers, Friday’s protest was symbolic in many places with the protestors restricting their agitation to blocking National Highways at various points. In some places, the police took some of the protestors into custody to clear traffic and later released them. In a protest staged by farmers near Rayapur located between Hubballi and Dharwad, the police finally had to take KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri and others into custody after they insisted on continuing the hour-long road blockade. The police, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha, took the protestors into custody and cleared the Hubballi-Dharwad Road. Due to the road blockade, the police had diverted traffic via alternative routes. In Hubballi, members of the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene, the Hasiru Kranti Trust, various trade unions, the former MLA N.H. Konaraddi, Congress leaders Rajashekhar Menasinakai, Babajan Mudhol, Bangaresh Hiremath and others, including Siddu Teji and B.A. Mudhol, staged a symbolic protest at Kittur Chennamma Circle opposing the amendments to the Land Reforms Act, APMC Act and others. Later, a group of protestors proceeded to Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road where they blocked the road for several minutes to register their protest. In Haveri, farmers congregated at Hosamani Siddappa Circle snd staged protest under the aegis of the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene and blocked the road for around half an hour. Staging a dharna at the traffic circle, the protestors termed the move as anti-farmer and anti-people and urged the government to immediately withdraw the amendments, which they said were detrimental to the farming community. In Gadag, the protest went on for over an hour with the farmers staging a demonstration at Tipu Sultan Circle and blocked the main road. However, as the police had diverted traffic through alternative routes, long distance travellers were not affected and there was no pile up of vehicles. Farmers organisations staged demonstrations and road blocks at all taluk headquarters in the district condemning the State government’s decision to bring in amendments to various laws. Terming them anti-farmer, they demanded the immediate withdrawal of the amendments. Similar protests were reported from various places in Davangere and Uttara Kannada.
26 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||30 like-minded organisations extend support to bandh call||As many as 30 organisations have extended support to the call for a Karnataka Bandh given by farmers organsiations on Monday, to protest against the recent amendments to various laws pertaining to the farm sector. In a meeting organised by the Janatantra Samaj in Dharwad on Friday to discuss the plans for Monday’s agitation, the office-bearers of 30 different organisations expressed their support to the agitation. Social activist and president of Citizens For Democracy S.R. Hiremath chaired the meeting which was attended by members and office-bearers of like-minded organisations. The participants expressed displeasure over the State government’s anti-labour and anti-farmer policies and emphasised the need to oppose the move strongly. Mr. Hiremath said that the recent amendments to various bills pertaining to farmers and the working class would adversely affect their life and also the farm sector. The organisations would support the bandh call and would also continue fighting the government for any move against the people, he said. The meeting later chalked out plans for a protest march to be held on Monday and its route. They decided to take out a protest march on Monday from Kadapa Maidan to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and stage a demonstration there. The meeting has also decided to make an appeal to shop-keepers and autorickshaw drivers to support the bandh call.
26 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CM seeks report on poor work||Amid a hue and cry over the poor quality of works under the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS), especially after concrete panels came off the road overbridge, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has sought a detailed inquiry report into the issue. MLA Arvind Bellad told presspersons in Dharwad that he met the Chief Minister in Bengaluru on Friday and apprised him of it.
26 September 2020||In Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Farmers block roads as a mark of protest||Members of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha staged a protest by blocking traffic on some State Highways and Major District Roads in Belagavi district on Friday. Farmers staged a protest blocking the Jatt-Jamboti State Highway in Khanapur and at some places in Yamakanamaradi and also Rural Belagavi. They raised slogans against the Union government for the amendments to the APMC Act, Essential Commodities Act and the new contract farming rules. They also raised slogans against the State government stating that its amendments to the Karnataka Land reforms Act removed land ceilings and allowed corporate companies to buy land. The leaders said that they would continue to agitate till the amendments were withdrawn. KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said that the Congress expressed its support to the protest by farmers. However, the Congress would organise a another set of protests against these vital laws across the country and the State.  In Vijayapura, the police stopped the weekly farmers market on Solapur Road following the announcement by farmers organisations that they would block the Solapur-Vijayapura Road in protest against the farm bills. However, the police did not allow farmers to block the highway. The farmers submitted a memorandum to the government and dispersed.
26 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||60 quintals of plastic bags seized during raids||A joint team of officials from the Kalaburagi City Corporation and the Kalaburagi Pollution Control Board conducted raids on different factories and other such units and seized 60 quintals of banned plastic carry bags here on Friday. This is said to be one of the major hauls where such a large quantity of the banned carry bags have been seized. A team led by Commissioner of the corporation Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande conducted raids on two industrial units and its godowns at Gunj locality and in the Kapnoor Industrial Area on the outskirts of the city while checking on manufacturing, stocking and distribution of plastic carry bags. Officials from the Pollution Control Board, including Kiran Bulla, and Health Inspectors attached to the corporation Sharan Kumar Tengli and Deepak, along with a police force, were deputed to carry out raids on industries and godowns that were suspected to be manufacturing recycled plastic carry bags. Mr. Lokhande strictly warned the violators to stop manufacturing and selling banned polythene bags. The officials also conducted raids on 18 commercial establishments in the market area and different parts of the city and confiscated plastic carry bags.
26 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Surathkal Light House near Mangaluru to be made a tourist attraction||The Ministry of Shipping has proposed to develop the Surathkal Light House, off Mangaluru, as a tourist destination by improving amenities and facilities, according to Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) Mansukh L. Mandaviya. In a letter to Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel last week, Mr. Mandaviya has said that the Directorate General of Lighthouse and Lightships has finalised the architectural design for the improvement project, Mr. Kateel said in a statement here on Friday. The MP had written to the Minister in August last regarding the development of the lighthouse. Mr. Mandaviya said that the development project involves several works. The lighthouse would get a capsule lift to facilitate the movement of tourists to the top of the structure. There would also be a connecting bridge from the ground to the lift. A public entry gate, a security cabin and a ticketing counter would be provided under the project. The ground floor of the existing building would be converted into a gallery, while the lighthouse operations would be shifted to the first floor, Mr. Mandaviya said. The surroundings of the lighthouse would witness landscaping, hardscaping and lighting besides getting a play area for children. A proper approach from the lighthouse to the beach too would be provided under the improvement project. Thanking the Ministry for proposing the improvement project, Mr. Kateel said that the lighthouse, already a landmark in Mangaluru, would attract more number of people once the improvement project was completed. He recalled that the structure was built between 1969 and 1972 atop a huge rock close to the Sadashiva Mahaganapathi Temple. The lighthouse beach, also called NITK beach, attracts thousands of visitors during the weekends because of the shallow and relatively safe waters. However, not many people visit the lighthouse because of the absence of facilities.
26 September 2020||MANGALURU/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Twin districts too witness symbolic protest||Activists from political parties, including the Congress, the Communist Part of India and the Janata Dal (Secular), and representatives of farmers and other social organisations on Friday carried out protests in the city against the farm bills and the industrial safety, social security and occupational safety codes. Congress activists, including the former Manglauru City South MLA J.R. Lobo and District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai, Democratic Youth Federation of India’s State president Muneer Katipalla, district president of Karnataka Pranta Raita Sangha Krishnappa Saliyan and district secretary of the Communist Party of India V. Kuckian, were among those who took part in the protest. Activists said that the Union and State governments were acting against the interests of farmers and workers. The two governments are making Acts and bringing in amendments that favour capitalists. The two governments were acting in an authoritarian way and have no regard for democratic practices, they added. The activists blocked the movement of vehicles coming towards the city for a brief period by sitting on the National Highway near the busy Nantoor Junction. Then, they held a protest meeting by the roadside. Among the activists who took part in the protest included those from Social Democratic Party of India, All India Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Dalit Sangharsh Samiti, Students Federation of India and National Students Union of India. Similar protests were held in Belthangady, Puttur, Sullia and Bantwal and also in Udupi. In Hassan Farmers staged a protest in Hassan on Friday demanding that the Union and State governments withdraw what they said anti-farmer bills. They opposed the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act brought by the State government and the Union government’s bill curtailing the power of the APMCs. Under the banner of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene, hundreds of farmers took out a march from the Hemavati Statue Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in the city. The protesters said that both the governments had been implementing anti-farmers decisions. The new laws would sound the death knell to the farming community as they will lose their right over their land as well as produces they grow gradually due to the anti-farmer laws, they said. The recent decision of the those in power had shown that capitalist forces had been influencing the administration. When the farming sector had been suffering because of the COVID-19 situation, the anti-farmer bills would hit them hard, said Anekere Ravi, vice-president of KRRS. Leaders of pro-farmer organisations Mehaboob Pasha, Shivarame Gowda, Naveen Kumar and others took part in the protest.
26 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Second chance for two Chamarajanagar colleges||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar’s intervention has saved two government first-grade colleges of Chamarajanagar district from being shifted out of the district for want of students. The two colleges, at Hanur in Kollegal taluk and at Terakanambi in Gundlupet taluk, had been identified for shifting to other districts as they could not attract students. However, on the intervention of Mr. Kumar, who is the Minister in charge of Chamarajanagar district, they shall remain and function in the same places. Both Mr. Kumar and MLA for Gundlupet Niranjan Kumar hadurged Deputy CM and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan to retain the colleges, after students and various outfits requested themto do so.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Children seeking help to pay fees are begging on streets||Over the past few weeks, an increasing number of children have been begging for money. What’s got activists and NGOs more worried is the reason they are giving while asking passers-by for money: their education. They have been spotted holding a piece of paper on which someone has written that they need money to pay their school fees, said staff at the ChildLine 1908. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) is planning to conduct drives in Bengaluru, based on the complaints it has received. Activists with ChildLine as well as members of the commission said children are telling passers-by that their parents have lost their jobs or faced salary cuts because of the pandemic. “They then ask for money saying it would be used to ensure that they continue their education in private schools,” said Nagasimha G. Rao, a child rights activist with Child Rights Trust (CRT). Some children sell pens and stationery, and once they find a willing customer, they ask for extra money for their education. In some instances, the parents too are seen begging with their children by their side. The matter came to light after a few citizens approached the CRT with reports of children begging for school fees in Jayanagar and Malleswaram. “When we investigated some of the cases, we found that many children were not studying in the private school they claimed to be studying in. It’s possible that children are being made to stand on the streets for the vested interests of a few people,” Mr. Rao said. Eight teams formed KSCPCR Chairperson Fr. Antony Sebastian said that they have formed eight teams in the city that will have representatives from different departments and NGOs. The teams will visit traffic junctions across Bengaluru to identify children who need care and protection. “The teams will try to engage with children. We need to address the root cause of this problem and see if we can provide rations or any other assistance to their families. We need to check if this is part of a larger conspiracy of trafficking in children,” he added. Children vulnerable Several NGOs and child rights activist have pointed out that the number of cases pertaining to child labour, child marriage and trafficking as well as other violations have seen a drastic increase during the last six months. Radha R., a team member at ChildLine, said that rescuing children during the pandemic is a challenge. “We need to be careful. Children need to undergo a test and have to undergo quarantine before they can be transferred to a children’s home,” she said.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Health workers in State continue strike||The ongoing strike by over 30,000 contractual staff working under National Health Mission (NHM) entered the second day on Friday and partially hit reporting of COVID-19 cases and testing. The staff, comprising doctors, nurses, lab technicians and data entry operators, stayed away from work despite the government ordering district officials to crack down and take action against them. Under the aegis of Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual Employees’ Forum, the NHM contractual staff are not just into data entry but also run front offices in most hospitals, handle clerical work, like admissions and OPD referrals, and tabulate public health work. The State on Friday reported 8,655 new cases taking the total number of cases to 5,57,212. With 86 new deaths, the toll rose to 8,417. This includes 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 5,644 persons were discharged on Friday taking the total number of recoveries to 4,50,302. Active cases continued to remain below one lakh with 98,474 cases under treatment in various hospitals. Of these, 823 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,080 cases taking the total tally to 2,12,547. With 32 of the 86 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll rose to 2,794.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC revokes permission to put up hoardings for COVID-19 awareness||In an embarrassment to the State government, the Karnataka High Court on Friday revoked the permission to put up temporary hoardings across the city for public awareness messages about COVID-19 for “misusing” the court’s order by including advertisements of private companies in the hoardings. The court ordered an inquiry against the Director, Health & Family Welfare Services, who had authorised a private advertisement agency to put up the temporary hoardings, and allowed private advertisements on the hoardings about COVID-19 awareness. As some private companies were benefited from the advertisements illegally put up on the hoardings, the court directed the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to assess the advertisement tax to be paid for such advertisements and recover the same from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, which has to collect the tax from private companies whose advertisements were used on the hoardings. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi directed the government to appoint a senior officer to conduct an inquiry against the Director, H&FWS specifically on the Director’s actions of appointing M/s Wall Street Communications (WSC), a private agency, to put up hoardings, and asking the agency to use advertisements on the hoardings. The counsel for WSC told the court that the format of the hoardings containing private advertisements were provided by the Director, H&FWS. The bench, in its July 15 order, had specifically imposed a condition that hoardings should not contain any advertisement of any person or product. The court had granted permission on an application filed by the government in a batch of pending PIL petitions on illegal hoardings. The bench observed that the court was not informed earlier that sponsorship of private companies would be used for putting up hoardings as the government had specifically stated in writing that an amount from the BBMP’s budgetary allocation for advertisements would be used for putting up COVID-19 messages on hoardings. As the government on Friday said that it has already removed a majority of the hoardings following the court’s September 18 order, the bench gave two weeks to pull down the remaining ones. While directing the government to inform the court whether any money was spent by the government or by the BBMP for putting up the hoardings, or any money was received from private companies, the bench adjourned further hearing till October 13.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Track sweeping machines through GPS’||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is using mechanical sweeping machines to clean arterial and sub-arterial roads in the city. Late on Thursday night, BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta inspected the cleaning of many thoroughfares by these sweeping machines. The Administrator inspected Kempegowda Road, Shivananda Circle to Krishna, M.G. Road, and several other main roads. Mr. Gupta has directed civic officials to track the sweeping machines through GPS. While inspecting the TenderSURE work on the stretch between Central College Circle and Palace Road, he directed officials to ensure proper barricading, besides cover the utility shaft with slabs. Though pipeline work had been completed by BWSSB on Assaye Road, restoration of the road had not been taken up. BBMP officials were directed to coordinate with their counterparts in the water board to clear the road for motorists.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||When Rajkumar sang for SPB...||SPB acted in a 1993 Kannada film Muddina Mava, a remake of a hit Tamil film, and he also composed music for it. Interestingly, while he sang playback for his co-actor Shashi Kumar, it was Rajkumar who did the playback for SPB. “I always consider Dr. Rajkumar singing for me a big honour,” he recounted in an interview. SPB had been recounting his experiences in a series of videos on YouTube, and the last one was on Dr. Rajkumar. In the early stages of his career, SPB had also sung a few songs for Dr. Rajkumar, before the latter started singing all his songs.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A star is born||An engineering student in Chennai [then Madras], S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was spotted by Telugu composer S.P. Kodandapani, and he debuted as a Telugu playback singer on December 15, 1966. Just eight days later, he also made his debut as a Kannada playback singer with Kanasido Nanasido with P. Susheela, for Nakkare Ade Swarga starring Narasimharaju. “M. Ranga Rao, a noted veena player, had come to play for the Telugu song. He asked me to sing for him in Kannada. I told him that I only knew that there was a language called Kannada,” SPB had said in an interview.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Misty mountains||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For a good cause||Suresh Hanagawadi, a medical professor in Davangere and a haemophilia patient, contacted SPB in 1999 requesting him to perform a charity show for the Karnataka Haemophilia Society (KHS). “He was so moved by the story of the patients that he performed and also conducted several charity concerts in Davangere since 1999. He became the chief patron of KHS and had been involved with our organisation and the cause for over 20 years,” Dr. Hanagawadi told The Hindu. “He also used to come to our place often and sing to the patients,” he recalled.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A song on COVID-19||SPB, who succumbed to complications arising out of COVID-19, had composed, sung, and released a song in Kannada to raise awareness on the disease this March. The song written by poet Jayant Kaikini described COVID-19 as an “unseen enemy.” It appeals to people to ensure that they do not become a vehicle for the virus, and sought to creates awareness on hygiene. This is probably the last Kannada song he recorded.
26 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||551 test positive in Alappuzha||COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district. For the second time in three days, daily surge crossed the 500-mark with a record 551 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The district reported four COVID-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 30. Among the new cases, 513 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. Twenty persons who came from other States, 12 from abroad, three health workers, and one person each from Kumarapuram, Cheruthana, and Vallikunnam were also diagnosed with the disease. Sources of infection of Kumarapuram, Cheruthana, and Vallikunnam natives remain unidentified. Of the 513 locally transmitted cases, 75 were reported from Alappuzha municipality. Ambalappuzha (46), Punnapra North (43), Aroor (29), Palamel (26), Chettikkad (25), Kayamkulam (25), Punnapra South (20), Aryad (19), Veliyanad (16), and Haripad (15) also logged a high number of contact cases. District Collector A. Alexander said that measures would be taken to tackle the spread of the disease in Alappuzha municipality. Apart from creating awareness, mobile testing units will be allocated. Meanwhile, 218 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. Active COVID-19 cases in the district now stand at 3,793.
26 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Houseboat owners seek loan relief||Houseboat owners on Friday staged a dharna in front of the BSNL office here demanding that the government extend the loan moratorium period by one year and waive interest on loans. It was inaugurated by Vyapari Vyavasayi Samithi district president O. Ashraf. The owners have urged the State government to relax the norms for maintenance grant and open the sector for tourists at the earliest.
26 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki water level nearing blue alert level||Water level in the Idukki reservoir was nearing the blue alert level on Friday. The water level reached 2,387.68 ft at 4 p.m., which was 82.44% of the storage level. The blue alert level is 2,387.98 ft. The orange alert level is 2,393.98 ft and the red alert level 2,394.98 ft. Below new rule curve  However, the water level is below the new rule curve level announced by the Central Water Commission (CWC), which is 2,395.98 ft. The water level in the reservoir has risen nearly five ft within five days.
26 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||114 infected in Idukki||The district reported 114 COVID-19 positive cases on Friday. While 97 were infected through local transmission, the source of 12 cases remains untraced. Eight employees of a hotel at Adimali were among the positive cases. Seventeen persons who came from other States were also infected. Sixty-nine persons recovered from the disease on Friday, said the Collector
26 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A salon chips away at caste system||The hairdressing  salons of Vattavada, an agrarian village near Munnar, have denied entry to people of a particular caste for long. A social boycott was in place and those belonging to the said caste had to travel either to Munnar or Marayur, over 50 km away, to avail themselves of the services of hairdressers there. Authorities intervened after a few youths approached the grama panchayat with a formal complaint. The panchayat authorities asked the three salons in the village either to close down or treat people equally. But it had little impact as the salons that followed the directive faced a social boycott. Those running the salons had no options but to close down. The panchayat cancelled the licence of the salons on September 9 and Vattavada became a village without a hairdressing  salon. On September 14, the panchayat itself inaugurated in its building a salon which is open to all. Slowly, the caste differences began to blur. Now, people from all castes make use of the facilities there. A few days ago, the hairdressers at the three salons gave an undertaking to the authorities that they would not discriminate against anyone and that their licences should be renewed. The panchayat committee on Friday decided to renew the licences, Vattavada grama panchayat secretary R. Nandakumar said. “However, it will be on the condition that no discrimination will be allowed there,” he told The Hindu .
26 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Integrated vegetable pack house still in limbo||Though four years have passed since the inauguration of the integrated vegetable and banana pack house, a multicore project of the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) meant to facilitate exports at Kammana in Wayanad, it is still in a morbid state. When the unit was inaugurated by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar in November 2017, the farming community expected that the project would ensure them a sustainable income by avoiding middlemen. The project has been set up on 50 cents of leased land at Kammana, near Mananthavady. It was envisaged to make the unit a hub of export-quality farm produce such as bananas, vegetables, and tubers. The produce was to be collected through self-help groups (SHGs) under the VFPCK, graded and packaged at the unit as per the guidelines of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA). The project was set up at a cost of Rs. 2.18 crore, of which 80% was funded by the APEDA. Four vehicles, including three small goods carriers and a customised truck with freezer, were also purchased. All vehicles, except a pickup, were sent to Kottayam recently and now the authorities have left the unit to rust, E.P. Phlipkutty, president, Wayanad Karshaka Koottayma, a collective of farmers in the district, said. An exporting company based in Kannur had tried to operate it in 2017, but it was stopped after four months , he said. In the past three years, the unit has remained fully closed owing to flood and related issues. Though a Kottayam-based exporter started to operate it for processing jackfruit recently, it was also stopped abruptly, he said. However, VFPCK authorities said that they had got an exporting licence from the APEDA two months ago and it was planned to export vegetables and fruits, including jack fruit and banana, after processing them in the pack house from the next financial year.
26 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Draft notification on eco zone unacceptable’||K. Sudhakaran, Member of Parliament, has said that the draft notification of the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests declaring the areas around the Aralam Kottiyoor Wildlife Sanctuary as an ecologically sensitive zone could not be accepted and that he would fight strongly against the Centre’s action which had worried thousands of farmers in Aralam, Kottiyoor, and Kelakam panchayats. He said the Ministry should have taken care to exempt settlements and agricultural lands in Kottiyoor and Aralam areas from the restrictions in the ecologically sensitive areas. He called on the Centre to work for the withdrawal of the “unscientifically declared buffer zone” around the Kottiyoor Wildlife Sanctuary, the reduction of the forest boundary to zero point, the demarcation of the buffer zone to the forest boundary wall and the inclusion of three-tier panchayat representatives and farmers in the promoting committee. Greens’ stand However, environmentalist Vinod Payyada, member, District Environmental Protection Committee, said that the draft notification would not affect the farmers as much as it was being propagated. However, this would certainly hit those running quarries, mining, and large establishments. The government had the responsibility to address the issues of those who may be affected in the area. Bhaskaran Vellur, chairman, Malabar Paristhithi Samithi, said that the ecological sensitive zone was a must to reduce growing man-animal conflicts and also protect the environment. The government should take initiatives to create awareness among the people and farmers, he said.
26 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||CMP leader passes away||Communist Marxist Party (CMP) leader C.P. Damodharan, 81, died at a private hospital here on Thursday night. His body was brought to his house in the town and later kept for the public to pay homage at the Kannur Jawahar Library hall from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. He was later cremated at Payyambalam. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, expressing his condolences, said Damodharan had left his mark in the cooperative sector and led the cooperative workers’ union for a long time. Mr. Damodharan is survived by his wife, Vasumathi, and children Vidya, Vinod, and Vinatha.
26 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||PCB for roping in ULCCS for drone mapping at Brahmapuram||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has sought the advice of the Environment Department in entrusting the Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) with the proposed drone mapping of the solid waste dumping site of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram. The total station survey using drones is done to ascertain the exact volume of waste lying at the site. The board has sought the department’s response in handing over the drone study to UL Technology Solutions, a subsidiary of ULCCS. It is part of the follow-up steps being initiated after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) warned of stringent action against bureaucrats responsible for the sorry state of affairs at Brahmapuram. Accurate data Board officials said the aerial survey using unmanned vehicles would provide high-resolution accurate data from the site. Aerial mapping remains the best option to evolve scientific data on old waste piled up at Brahmapuram. Three consortiums had bid for bioremediation of old waste. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, which had initiated the tender proceedings, is likely to select the firm after evaluation of technical and financial bids by October. Drone mapping of the landfill/dumping site must be done prior to bioremediation and biomining. The Central Pollution Control Board has issued guidelines for contour survey as part of its directives on how to ensure proper treatment and disposal of municipal solid waste. Drone mapping of heap volumes at different stages is most cost-effective and fast, according to the central board. The State board had also suggested carrying out precursor study of the history of the Brahmapuram site and compositional analysis of waste. Site environment parameters like baseline study of heavy metals in surface and subsurface soil and water, rainfall, soil type, surface hydrology, topography, and wind direction has to be done before and after biomining. Periodic study should also be carried out after completion of biomining to check for any adverse effects in the surrounding area, it said.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies pin hopes on waste-to-energy plant||Local bodies dumping biodegradable waste at the Brahmapuram yard seem to be pinning hopes on the proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant to wriggle out of the imbroglio over unscientific management of waste at the site. Besides the Kochi Corporation, the local bodies depending on Brahmapuram include Aluva, Angamaly, Kalamassery, Thrikkakara, and Thripunithura. In its reply to the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) on action taken on solid waste management, the Kochi Corporation had elaborated on steps being taken by the government to set up a centralised WTE plant at Brahmapuram. Tender procedures will be completed by October 15. Government approval for the tender is expected by November 15, and the project will be completed in two years, the corporation said. On biomining of legacy waste, the civic body said bids were under evaluation, and that the process would be completed by the first week of October. The project is expected to be completed in nine months. It said steps had been initiated to reduce the quantity of non-biodegradable waste taken to Brahmapuram. Five material recovery facilities will be ready by November. Each ward will have one material collection facility by May next year. The corporation said that leachate generated at Brahmapuram had low heavy metal content but high organic loading. The commissioning of the leachate treatment plant is expected by March, 2021.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Infoparks Kerala on sound footing’||Infoparks Kerala, a society fully owned by the State government, has retained A-/Stable CRISIL ratings in the latest review despite the largely work-from-home arrangement in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The rating continues to reflect Infoparks’ strong financial risk profile and healthy liquidity, a release issued here said. Establishments depend on rating by a credible agency for enhancing their access to funding, widening range of funding alternatives, and for optimising the cost of funds. The 1987-founded CRISIL, a subsidiary of American financial information company S&P Global, provides ratings and research, besides risk and policy advisory services. The latest CRISIL rating reflects the financial stability of Infoparks Kerala, said Sasi P.M., Chief Executive Officer of IT Parks Kerala. Implying that the pandemic couldn’t make a dent in the business prospects, he said the Infoparks continue to get regular enquiries for occupancy. “A few small firms did wind up operations, but that is not necessarily owing to COVID-19. This has happened in the past too. What is gratifying is that the demand for space has been increasing steadily over the past two months, even more than the space being vacated,” Mr. Sasi said. The CRISIL report attributes Infoparks’ good performance to the financial support from the government and guarding the IT establishment against any possible loss. Infoparks Kerala enjoys 80 per cent occupancy in the IT buildings and their income for 2019-20 was Rs. 2 crore more than the year before. The post-tax profit of Infoparks Kerala had shown a 10 per cent increase, CRISIL said.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna’s phone, laptop data encrypted||The data from the phone and laptop of Swapna Suresh, second accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, could not be imaged as they were encrypted with passwords, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Swapna has disclosed about the possible passwords during the custodial interrogation and the information has been communicated to the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing for imaging, the agency submitted in its remand extension report submitted to an NIA special court here on Friday. However, the report is silent on the interrogation of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister. The bureaucrat was questioned by the agency for over eight hours at its Kochi office on Thursday. Swapna had to be further interrogated to examine the contents of the digital devices that were obtained. Her custodial interrogation is required considering the fact that the crime committed by her has international ramifications and she is one of the prime conspirators in the case. The incriminating materials found in other digital devices need to be argued with the accused, the NIA said. The court extended the remand of the accused till October 9. The court also ordered that Swapna be shifted to the jail at Kakkanad after considering her request.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Subhash Park all set to reopen after maintenance work||After remaining closed for the public for seven months owing to COVID-19 related restrictions, Subhash Park on Park Avenue Road is set for reopening whenever the State grants permission for it. Maintenance of the garden, lawns, and drains got over, according to a release from the Kochi Corporation. The Cochin Shipyard had been supporting the maintenance of the park with its corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds since June. Mayor Soumini Jain and shipyard CMD Madhu S. Nair visited the park.
26 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||This ‘Lanka’ now fears losing its vital link||For the last over a fortnight, the people of a tiny island in Ezhikkara near North Paravur have been up in arms over a rickety bridge that has been their lifeline for nearly three decades. The bridge, now considered just about safe for pedestrians, could collapse any time in which case, the residents fear that their place may come to mean what its name originally signified. Decades before the bridge was built, the island had assumed the name ‘Lanka’, as it was considered inaccessible as the mythological demon kingdom by that name in the Ramayana . Surrounded by a river on one side and sprawling pokkali farms on the other three, the geography of the place got so engraved in the psyche of its residents that they literally adopted it as part of their identity. Thus members of 20-odd families on the island now have Lanka, or rather ‘Lankayil’ (in Lanka) as part of their names. “It is also said that the residents constructed a temporary bund across the river as part of their agitation for the bridge, and that perhaps added to the lore of the name, since in the epic an army of monkeys built a bridge for the Lord Rama to help rescue Sita from Lanka,” said Lenin S. Lankayil, a resident. But often the name evoked sentiments beyond amusement that strayed to the realm of suspicion. “Often it happens that they don’t take our name at face value, and we have to show identification documents like Aadhaar card to be believed,” said Gireesh Lankayil, another resident. But none faced as much trouble as Mr. Lenin, a photographer, did back in the late 90s because of that name when he was contracted to cover the visit of the late President K.R. Narayanan to Kochi. That the Sri Lankan civil war was far from over meant that the law enforcement agencies had their antennas up the moment they saw someone with “Lanka” as the second name. “The police visited our island multiple times to probe the ‘Lankan’, and eventually it took my relative Sundareshan Lankayil, who was at the time Fort Kochi RDO, to clear the air and bail him out,” said Ramachandran Lankayil. Notwithstanding the sporadic troubles, the islanders have no plan to shed their “unique identity” anytime soon.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Expedite postings in forensic labs, says HC||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the State government, the Director of Women and Child Development, the Director of the Forensic Science Laboratory and the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) to make their stand clear on the appointment of scientific assistants in forensic labs in order to speed up trial in cases charged under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Many such cases were pending due to the delay in obtaining forensic test results. The PSC should implement the Supreme Court order of September 9 in this regard, said a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly. Counsel for the PSC contended that there was a delay in conducting recruitment tests due to the COVID-19 situation. The court stated that appointment of scientific assistants in labs could not be treated on a par with tests for other posts. It directed the Additional Secretary (Home) to inform it of the steps taken in this regard. The government informed the court that special prosecutors would be appointed in district-level special courts soon. A total of 14 special prosecutors had been appointed in 17 new courts. The court reminded the government of its earlier ruling on imparting adequate training to new prosecutors.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||e-training for prosecutors conducted||An e-prosecution training for the prosecutors and police officers of the district was organised on Friday. Baburajan Parammel, Director of Prosecution (Administration), Kerala, inaugurated the programme which was jointly organised by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), New Delhi, and the Directorate of Prosecution, Kerala. P.V. Raju, the State coordinator of the centre and P.C. Jayakumar, technical director, NIC, led the sessions. T.A. Nahas, Deputy Director of Prosecution, Ernakulam, presided over the function.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||655 new cases recorded in Ernakulam||A total of 655 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district, and 638 of them acquired the infection locally. Among the infected were nine health workers, including an ASHA worker. As many as 325 persons recovered. On Friday, 1,387 people were brought under observation at home. The district saw 357 new admissions at hospitals / first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) on Friday, while 270 patients were discharged. A total of 1,371 samples were sent from the district for testing on Friday. Private laboratories and hospitals collected 2,427 samples. ‘Post lift operators’ The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered to make available the services of lift operators 24/7 in all government medical colleges. Pronouncing his order in the case of a nursing assistant getting stuck for 20 minutes in a lift at the Government Medical College at Kalamassery, SHRC Chairman Antony Dominic asked all government medical colleges to immediately ensure functionality of elevators and carry out repairs wherever necessary.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10 medals presented at Naval ceremony||Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, presented gallantry and non-gallantry awards to meritorious personnel at a Naval Investiture Ceremony conducted at the Naval Base here on Friday. A total of 10 medals were awarded, including four Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry) to Commander Shailendra Singh, Commander Vikrant Singh, Lieutenant Commander Ravindra Singh Chaudhary and Leading Seaman Sushil Kumar; two Nao Sena Medal (Devotion to Duty); and four Vishisht Seva Medal (long meritorious service). Besides, personnel who demonstrated leadership, professional achievements and distinguished service of high order, and significantly contributed to service were also felicitated.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused flees from detention centre again||The Jail Department authorities were left with egg on their face after an accused managed to flee the detention centre at Karukutty near Angamaly for the second consecutive time in as many nights. Suresh aka Dracula Suresh, 30, of Vadayambady, nicknamed for his ability to pull off thefts and robberies under the cover of night, was the one to flee the detention centre in the early hours of Friday. Another accused, Mishal, 22, of Thalasserry also managed to escape along with him. All arrested persons are kept at the detention centre till their COVID-19 test results are out. Suresh was nabbed from a house at Vengola near Perumbavoor and brought to the detention centre on Thursday after he had escaped when he was first brought to the centre the previous night. He had then taken to his heels the moment he was freed from a handcuff that was fastened to his wrist along with that of another accused. He, along with Mishal, was locked up in a room on the second floor of the centre on Thursday night. However, they managed to break the lock and climb down through an adjacent tree bent over the second floor, sometime between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. on Friday. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik on Friday visited the detention centre in the wake of two successive incidents of security breaches.
26 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lensman assaulted||The Central police have registered a case in connection with the assault of a news photographer allegedly by the staff of a fuel outlet near the High Court Junction here on Friday. The photographer with The New Indian Express was allegedly assaulted while attempting to take photographs of Health Department officials collecting swabs for the COVID-19 test at the fuel outlet run directly by a public sector fuel company. His professional equipment was also damaged in the alleged attack. A police patrol vehicle rescued him from the scene and took him to the General Hospital. He lodged a complaint following which the ce registered a case invoking multiple sections of the IPC.
26 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 569 cases||The total number of active cases in the district rose to 4,001 on Friday with 569 more persons, including six health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While 552 patients contracted the virus through local contact, four patients are NRIs, and seven had arrived from other States. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 69-year-old Vazhathoppu resident, 90-year-old Kollam resident and 68-year-old Chadayamangalam residents are due to COVID-19. They died on September 3, 18 and 23 respectively. Among the health workers who tested positive, four are attached to private facilities while two have been working at Kayamkulam Taluk Hospital and Kollam District Hospital. Corporation limits While Kollam Corporation, where more than 150 persons tested positive, has the highest number of new patients, Alappad reported over 50 new cases on Friday. Karunagappally, Sooranad North, and Kulasekharapuram are the other places to report maximum cases. Meanwhile, the district administration has started taking action against private hospitals that deny treatment to patients who test positive. A private hospital had forced a patient, who was undergoing treatment there, to go to Kollam District Hospital after the person tested positive. District Hospital superintendent D. Vasanthadas brought the incident to the attention of district administration at a review meeting held on Friday. District Collector B. Abdul Nasar had earlier instructed all private and cooperative hospitals with more than 100 beds to arrange temporary ICUs to admit emergency patients. Special wards Hospitals were also directed to open special COVID-19 wards and to form a 24-hour infection control teams. All private and cooperative hospitals should charge only the rate fixed by the government for COVID-19 treatment. “Action under the Disaster Management Act will be taken against all hospitals that deny treatment to patients,” said the Collector.
26 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||322 cases in Kottayam||In Kottayam, 322 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Officials said 320 persons including two health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The cases also include 48 persons aged above 60. The two health workers who contracted the disease were identified as a 30-year-old nurse attached to the Government Medical College Hospital and a 50-year-old female nurse with the District General Hospital. 193 recoveries Kottayam municipality reported 36 cases, followed by Erattupetta with 31 cases. Cases were also reported from Aymanom-25, Kanjirappally – 21, Vazhappally-15 and Arpookkara- 12. With 193 recoveries, the district has 3,141 active cases.
26 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rise in cases unabated, 690 more test positive in Kozhikode||COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kozhikode district, with 690 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Officials said the total number of persons being treated stood at 4,958. A majority of the newly infected persons contracted the disease through local contacts, and some of them are without known sources of infection. Migrant workers too are among the positive cases. As many as 472 persons recovered on Friday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said symptomatic patients could remain in quarantine in their houses under the surveillance of the Health Department.  In Malappuram For the second consecutive day, Malappuram has recorded more than 700 cases of COVID-19. As many as 784 fresh cases were reported in the district on Friday, while 763 cases were reported on Thursday. District officials said 703 of the fresh cases were found to have been infected through direct local contacts. There were 50 cases with unidentified sources of infection. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said three health workers were among the new cases. The number of active cases in the district rose to 3,908 on Friday. As many as 588 people recovered from the disease. In Palakkad Palakkad district too saw the biggest spike ever on a single day on Friday when 419 people tested positive for the virus. District officials said 221 of them had contracted the disease through direct local contacts. Officials said the source of infection could not be traced in 177 cases. The district saw 223 recoveries on Friday. In Thrissur Thrissur recorded 607 COVID-19 cases on Friday. According to the official release, 597 people contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection in 11 cases is not known. A many as 3,782 people are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and 9,263 people are under observation. In Kannur In Kannur, a total of 419 people tested positive on Friday. Of them, 347 were infected through contact, while one had returned from abroad and 51 from other States. Twenty are health workers. As many as 217 people recovered on Friday. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 268 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the infected, 257 contracted the disease through contact, seven had returned from other States and four arrived from abroad. There are 2,065 people undergoing treatment in the district. In Wayanad A total of 74 people tested positive in Wayanad on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 659. Of them, 65 people were infected through contact and nine persons came back from other States. Eighty-three people recovered on Friday.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
26 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID threat looms over Vengeri market||With heightened activity, fear of COVID-19 spread stalks the Agricultural Urban Wholesale Market at Vengeri on the outskirts of the city. Merchants, traders and headload workers have shifted their activities there, following the closure of the Palayam market on Wednesday due to COVID-19 outbreak. About 250 persons at the market had tested positive after an antigen test was conducted on 760 people. “What happened at Palayam is likely to be repeated at Vengeri if the health authorities fail to take precautionary measures,” said a farmer. COVID-19 protocol measures have not been adopted at the Vengeri market, with most people not wearing masks or maintaining physical distancing. “After the Palayam market closed, the activities at Vengeri commenced at around 4 a.m. and the unrestrained business continued up to 9 a.m.,” said the farmer. A week ago, the Central market was closed after more than 120 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The majority of those who tested positive were vendors, headload workers and labourers. About 200 farmers from Malappuram, Kannur, and Palakkad and Kozhikode have registered with the Vengeri market. Auctioning has been going on at the market with the lifting of the lockdown in a phased manner. “We have been maintaining all norms,” said Narayanan Kalpakassery, chairman of Sangha Maithri, an apex body of farmers’ clubs, and convener of the auction committee.
26 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||200 BSF personnel infected||As many as 200 BSF personnel tested COVID-19 positive at the Border Security Force (BSF) training centre at Areekkarakkunnu near Nadapuram in Kozhikode district on Friday. Tests were conducted among 500 persons in the camp. Health Department sources said the antigen test was conducted among the larger group on Friday itself as six persons in the same camp had tested positive for the viral infection on Thursday. At the time of the second round testing, only 19 persons had suspected symptoms of the infection, they said. The 19 symptomatic patients were later admitted to a First Line Treatment Centre at Nadapuram. Others were quarantined at the BSF camp by arranging special medical care facilities. Health Department sources said the camp has a strength of 900 persons. Antigen tests would be conducted for the remaining 400 persons on Saturday, they said. According to local body representatives, many jawans in the camp had been living along with their families and the timely test results would be crucial for extending them effective treatment.
26 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||SPB, along with Ilaiyaraaja, brought Malayalis closer to Tamil songs||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who died in Chennai on Friday at the age of 74, rendered over 100 songs in Malayalam, and some of them topped the charts too. But it was not those songs that endeared him to music fans here. It was rather his hits in Tamil that made him such a favourite, especially in live shows, across the towns and villages of Kerala. It, in fact, would be no exaggeration to say that he, along with Ilaiyaraaja, the composer who worked with him most, played a big role in making Tamil songs popular with Malayalis. Instant hit Some of the Tamil songs of P. Susheela, who took no time to establish as the leading female singer in Malayalam cinema, had attracted the Malayali ear much earlier, but it was with the rise of SPB that the interest grew rapidly. Yes, A.R. Rahman and Roja made even more people in this part of the world discover Tamil film music in the early 1990s, but Ilaiyaraaja and SPB had already created a base. Back in the 80s and 90s the live music shows, or ganamela s, used to be the biggest attractions of festivals at temples or churches. Every troupe used to have a singer who specialised in singing SPB’s songs – often the foot-tapping ones – and if they did not have, they would borrow someone from another troupe. Then, in 1980, came Sankarabharanam. The unlikely box-office winner about classical music and dance saw SPB in a new light. His songs, like Sankara nadasareera para..., Omkara nadanu.. , and Dora k una ituvanti seva ..., also introduced many a Malayali to Carnatic music. Hits in Malayalam At a time when K.J. Yesudas and P. Jayachandran reigned supreme, music directors in Malayalam cinema rarely needed to look elsewhere for a male voice elsewhere. Still, SPB could boast a sizeable number of hits in Malayalam, too. He had made a sparkling debut under the baton of G. Devarajan, the greatest composer in Malayalam, for the 1969 film Kadalpalam . Ee kadalum... was a fine song too, but it was overshadowed by the film's other songs Ujjayiniyile gaayika... (P. Leela) and the Kasthoori thailamittu... (Madhuri). His popular songs in Malayalam include Tharapatham... (Anaswaram), Ootti pattanam... (Kilukkam), Kakkala Kannamma... (Yathramozhi) and Manje vaa.. (Thusharam).
26 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||QRTs deployed in Kozhikode to enforce norms||Considering the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration has deployed Quick Response Teams (QRTs) for stringent implementation of preventive measures in select areas where there is high possibility of community spread of the disease. There are 31 such QRTs operational in the district at present and they will mostly keep an eye on harbour areas and busy markets. The QRTs comprising Revenue Department officials, police officers and Local Self-Government Department staff will be primarily responsible for carrying out thorough checking and initiating spot action against health protocol violators. Reluctance to wear masks or follow social distancing guidelines will be taken up seriously by imposing fines. The QRTs have been permitted to decide the total number of people to be admitted at a time at harbours and major markets. The support of the police will be sought to restrict the entry of people beyond the permitted limit. Incident commanders will ensure proper functioning of the newly constituted squads. There are nine QRTs in Kozhikode taluk, covering Beypore, Vellayil, Valiyangadi, Palayam, Vengeri, Kunnamangalam, Chathamangalam, Chelannur, Kakkodi, Perumanna, Olavanna and Panniyankara. Vadakara and Koyilandy taluks have eight QRTs each, while Thamarassery taluk has six such units. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, who is also the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, said improved surveillance measures were taken after over 200 COVID-19 cases were detected in Palayam market. “The test reports show that large markets, towns and harbours are clusters and give rise to a large number of patients. Incident commanders will be directed to post one dedicated QRT for every such market,” the Collector said in his official order. Mr. Rao also said routine tests would be conducted in such suspected locations apart from ensuring sentinel surveillance.
26 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||He inspired many a Malayali singer||As a young boy growing up in Kochi, Afsal would rush back every evening from school to his brother’s shop that sold audio cassettes. It was the Tamil songs sung by S.P. Balasubrahmanyam that he would continuously listen to. More than three decades later, he still swears by SPB. He sings more of SPB’s hits than his own in his stage shows. “That is what the people want and I am only happy to oblige them,” Afsal told The Hindu . “He has influenced me greatly as a singer and he will continue to be an inspiration for many like me, though he may no longer be with us.” Afsal remembers the kind of frenzy SPB’s popular songs generated at live music shows across Kerala. “He was the singer who made Tamil music popular here,” he said. “.” Afsal said he was privileged to perform along with SPB on a few shows. Anoop Sankar is another Malayalam playback singer who is known for singing SPB’s songs. Never forget “I will never forget the seven stages during which I performed along with him,” Anup said. “I love singing his songs and I admire him as a person too. Once in Mumbai he apologised to me in front of the audience for not rehearsing the song Ootti patanam... (Kilukkam) .”
26 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers’ protest: six more arrested||The police on Friday arrested six persons who allegedly tried to block Kozhikode Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) M. Rajeevan while he was at Thamarassery on Thursday to hold a discussion with officials and elected representatives on the proposed classification of buffer zones around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. The accused were identified as P. Niyas, Biju Kannanthara, Mohammed Fazal, Bobby Thomas, M.K. Jassin and Ashraf Korangad. The case was registered on the basis of a petition filed by the DFO.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,KERALA||SC refuses to stay CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periye in Kasaragod district. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao indicated that it may not intervene if the Central agency had already made "substantial progress" in the investigation. The court would wait to see CBI's response to the appeal and refused to pass any interim orders. "Let the CBI file an affidavit, then we will see," Justice Rao observed orally. The court issued notice and scheduled the next hearing for October 26. Kripesh and Sarathlal were hacked to death by three motorcycle-borne men in February last year. The police had arrested some suspects, including a local CPI(M) leader, A. Peethambaran. A Single Bench of the Kerala High Court had pulled up the State police for lapses in the investigation, including not holding a forensic examination of the murder weapons. The High Court had transferred the case to the CBI. The parents of the two youths, represented by senior advocate V. Giri, alleged that the district leaders of the CPI(M) were involved in the murder. The State government, represented by senior advocate Maninder Singh, had appealed to the Supreme Court against the High Court decision to shift the case to the CBI. Mr. Singh contended that this was not the "rarest of rare" case which needed the CBI's attention. The State had constituted a 20-member strong Special Investigation Team for the case. All the accused were arrested. Mr. Singh askeEd why the CBI should be brought in when the State police had competently and professionally done its job. There has been no allegation of bias against the police. Transfer of a case from the State police to the CBI on a mere perception was contrary to the law, Mr. Singh argued. If the High Court had found there was a need to carry on further investigation, it should have ordered the SIT and not shifted the entire case to a Central agency, Mr. Singh submitted. Bail plea moved in HC Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Friday sought the CBI response on the bail plea of Subeesh, eighth accused in the case. The counsel for Subeesh, the petitioner, submitted that the State government had no role in the case now since it was handed over to the CBI. An appeal filed before the Supreme Court is pending. The counsel further contended that Subeesh was languishing in jail for more than two years. The government counsel argued that the accused would escape if he was released on bail.  The apex court has issued notice and scheduled the next hearing for October 26.
26 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||191 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 191 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of these, 149 persons, including four health workers, contracted the virus through local contact while 12 persons came from abroad. The contact source of at least 18 cases are yet to be identified. With 149 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 1,510 active cases.
26 September 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Tourism to build Motel Araam near Nedumangad||Kerala Tourism will construct a Rs. 9.61-crore Motel Araam at Valicode, near Nedumangad, along the State Highway from Thiruvananthapuram to Thenmala. The wayside amenity is being set up on 1.53 acres handed over by the Irrigation Department to Kerala Tourism for the project. Motel Araam, to be built in the Kerala architectural style, will face the State Highway which is being developed into a four-lane road with a width of 21 metres from Vazhayila to Nedumangad. \The feasibility of housing a modern convention centre on the premises is also being looked into by the Kerala Tourism Infrastructure Limited (KTIL), official sources told The Hindu . It would be taken up as a separate project after securing clearance from the Working Group on Tourism. Administrative nod The government has given the administrative sanction for the Motel Araam and appointed the KTIL as the coordinating agency after the Working Group cleared the project. The ground floor will house a beer parlour that can seat 60 at a time, dormitory, kitchen, pantry and rest rooms. On the first floor, a restaurant that will accommodate 100 diners, kids’ play area and guest bedrooms will come up. The plan is ready and the foundation stone will be laid soon. The wayside amenity will come in handy for those moving along the State Highway, especially those proceeding to the hill resort of Ponmudi, the Thenmala ecotourism village, the education hub at Vithura and to Madurai and Chennai via the Kollam-Tirumangalam NH-744. To be executed using funds from the Upgradation, Creation of Infrastructure and Amenities (Plan), the government has fixed 24 months for completing the work. Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) will be entrusted with the operation.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees 814 new cases||The COVID-19 caseload neared the 10,000-mark in the capital district, with 814 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. As many as 644 cases of these accounted for local transmission while the source of infection in 150 cases could not be ascertained. The district’s COVID-19 death toll rose to 199 with five more recent deaths — those of the natives of Nedumangad (45 years old), Kannammoola (58), Karamana (59), Vellarada (60), and Anayara (67). Of the three imported cases, two persons had come from other States and the third from abroad. The newly diagnosed patients, comprising 325 females and 489 males, included 124 people aged above 60 years and 74 children aged below 15 years. With 411 people testing negative on the day, the number of active cases tood at 8,842. The district administration placed 1,491 people in quarantine, taking the total number of those being monitored to 27,355. Police personnel too Eight police officers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. These included personnel attached to the traffic police station, Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police District Crime Records Bureau (DCRB) (two each), Special Armed Police (SAP) camp, Armed Reserve (AR) camp, Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police Special Branch, and Medical College police station (one each). Among other cases, a personal staff member of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was diagnosed with the infection. The official had been in quarantine for six days and was subjected to testing after he developed symptoms. The district health authorities have commenced treatment at a rehabilitation centre for the mentally challenged in Mithirmala, near Kallara, where 27 residents and three staff members tested positive on Thursday. The district medical office has extended the services of a doctor and two nurses for the patients who will be treated in a separate facility on the same premises. As many as 109 people, including 105 residents, had been subjected to antigen tests. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said that the high COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Thiruvananthapuram indicated the need to step up testing. Dr. Khosa appealed to the public to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol.  Test positivity rate  Testing has increased in proportion to TPR in the district of late. It stood at 11.11 when 24,511 tests had been conducted during the last week of August. The rate has gradually increased to 12.01 (29,080 tests) and 14.46 (32,112 tests) during the second and third weeks of September. While 23,464 tests have been conducted and 3,833 positive cases reported so far in the fourth week, the TPR stood at 16.34 currently.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Upsurge in caseload, deaths||Kerala reported 6,477 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 1,60,933. Testing again went up in the State, with 56,057 samples tested in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 3,481 With 1,11,331 people having recovered from the disease, the number of active COVID-19 cases being treated in various hospitals across the State stands at 48,892. Of these cases, 371 people are critically ill and are in ICUs, with 96 people requiring ventilator support. The State’s toll has also been climbing steadily and on Friday it rose to 635 when 22 deaths which occurred in the State between September 3 and 24 were added to the official list of COVID deaths. Six of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, four each from Alappuzha and Kottayam, three from Thrissur, two from Kollam and one each from Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kozhikode. Locally acquired infections constitute 96%, 6,221 out of the 6,477 new cases, with the authorities unable to determine the source of infection in 713 cases. These include infections reported in 80 health workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 814 cases, Malappuram 784, Kozhikode 690, Ernakulam 655, Thrissur 607, Kollam 569, Alappuzha 551, Kannur, 419, Palakkad 419, Kottayam 322, Kasaragod 268, Pathanamthitta 191, Idukki 114 and Wayanad 74 cases.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arts, crafts get a revamped abode||The Kerala Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar, which is undergoing a makeover, will be opened for the public on October 15, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the village, the Minister told reporters after reviewing the progress of works. Construction activities to the tune of Rs. 16 crore were undertaken in the first phase. Work on emporium, art gallery, walkway, studios, security cabin, cafeteria, exit walkway, roads, restaurant, auditorium, pond, and landscaping has entered the final phase. The government had started the craft villages at Vellar and Iringal as part of reviving the arts and crafts sector in the State. While Sargalaya, at Iringal, developed into a major centre, the Vellar facility - spread over 8.5 acres - had been languishing in a near-abandoned state. After the Left Democratic Front government came to power, the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society was entrusted with the project. As many as 50 crafts can be showcased at 28 studios in the village. Workshops and training programmes will be organised with the help of experienced teachers and craftsmen. Art, craft biennales Visitors will have the opportunity to interact with artisans. Steps are also being taken to develop an extensive marketing network for the products and roll out customised and limited edition products, the Minister said. Art and craft biennales and festivals are planned at the arts and crafts village for promoting the sectors and the artisans. Two festivals will be held a year; one focussing on arts and the second, on crafts and food. An academic institute on arts and crafts, game zones, tour packages, and a handloom village are among the additions envisaged at the Kerala Arts and Crafts Village in the second phase of development. The institute will strive to produce top-notch artisans, artists, and product designers, the Minister said. The game zones will feature spaces for sports such as archery, shooting, and adventurous activities such as rock climbing. In due course, the facility will be developed as a training club. A tour package using the inland waterways which begin at Kovalam and the heritage villages along its banks will be developed in the second phase. The Vellar facility will also be developed as a hub of literature. A handloom village is also coming up at the facility. It will showcase traditional and modern technologies in use in the sector.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quite a snake park online||For most people, a snake is simply something which gives them the heebie-jeebies. Then there are the snake nerds who can rattle off the differences between a Russell’s viper and a saw-scaled viper in their sleep. Now, a tech start-up in Thiruvananthapuram has come up with a mobile app that deals exclusively with the hissing, slithering kind. Named SnakeHub, the app has been developed by Indriyam Biologics Pvt. Ltd., a start-up incubated at SCTIMST-TIMed, the technology business incubator for medical devices and biomaterials at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology. It was launched here on Friday by Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar. SnakeHub is designed as a comprehensive database on snakes. Freely downloadable from Google Play, it offers information, in English and Malayalam, on 114 species of snakes found in Kerala, says Dileep Kumar R., director and CEO of Indriyam Biologics, which is engaged in efforts to develop new strategies to mitigate snake envenomation.  ‘Complete package’ “'We’ve planned it as a complete package on snakes that will be constantly updated,” Mr. Dileep Kumar says. Given the snakebite incidence in Kerala, public awareness about venomous and non-venomous varieties is an important issue. “Indriyam has developed this app as a social responsibility initiative,” said Balram S., CEO, SCTIMST-TIMed, who launched the logo of SnakeHub on Friday. For nerds and enthusiasts, SnakeHub offers a PDF checklist on the snakes of Kerala. Indriyam also plans to launch it as a website.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CBI probe presents new bottleneck for ruling front||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the foreign contribution angle of the controversial LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal seems to present a new bottleneck for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government as it attempts to plot a safe course across turbulent political waters ahead of the local body elections this year. The CBI had hinted in a court filing in Kochi on Friday that its inquiry would focus on the alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 in the contract. The LDF reportedly has a strong presage that the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could exploit the development to discredit the flagship of the government's housing programme for the poor. The front also foresees a season of renewed anti-government protests. It believes that the optics of the CBI questioning high-ranking government officials mayt not aid its political prospects in a crucial election year. The government has already taken much flak from Opposition parties for defending Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel against the accusation of abetting gold smuggling under the cover of Koran import. The repeated questioning of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has not, arguably, augured well for the government's image. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr Vijayan was aware of the corruption and inherent anomalies in the deal. BJP State president K. Surendran said the CBI should probe the corruption angle in the case. The Rs. 20-crore contract came under a cloud after an accused in the UAE gold smuggling case said in a court filing recently that she had received Rs. 1 crore as a percentage for pushing the construction contract in the direction of a private builder. Subsequently, two Ministers and a media adviser to Mr. Vijayan claimed that the builder had paid Rs. 9 crore as bribe to bag the contract. Top LDF leaders, including CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran and Dr. Jaleel, met with CPI(M) leaders at AKG Centre here late Friday to weigh the situation.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kits for transgenders||The State government has again sanctioned food kits to 1,000 transgender persons. The State had become the first to provide food kits to transgender persons in the first phase of lockdown in March. With the spike in cases, transgender persons have been facing a difficult time. The government has now sanctioned food kits to the tune of Rs. 700 each to 1,000 transgender persons who have ID cards, those who have completed screening for the cards, and those who have applied for it. However, this number forms only a small percentage of the nearly 25,000 transgender persons in the State. Apoorva, a transgender person, used to work as a cook at the Social Justice Department’s shelter for transwomen at Karakkamandapam here. After it closed down, she had no income. Consequently, Apoorva had to move back home with her parents. She is also worried about how to meet the hospital expenses of her parents. Ruby, who too had worked at the same shelter home, had taken up fish business. But after the death of her friend, all the savings were wiped out. She could not work since. She has no money to pay rent and has to move out of the house next month. Community members say the food kits provided by the government or the assistance of Rs. 1,500 provided by the National Institute of Social Defence are just a pittance. Some have got a breather after shifting to the shelter homes. Welcome steps The increase in funds sanctioned for sex reassignment surgery from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh and self-employment loans announced by the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation are welcome steps, but financial assistance is necessary to tide over the difficult times, they say. Their hopes are now pinned on a proposal for government assistance of Rs. 1,000 for 800 transgender persons.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s borrowing up by 112%||Kerala’s borrowing has increased substantially by 112% to meet its high expenditure needs. A fall in revenue receipts to the tune of Rs. 81,180.5 crore from the budget estimate of Rs. 1,14,636 crore is predicted during 2020-2021 due to the impact of COVID-19 on the State economy. The State’s revenue deficit will be Rs. 33,333.9 crore even after obtaining the full revenue deficit grant of Rs. 15,323 crore from the 15th Finance Commission. Borrowing only way To meet the budgeted revenue expenditure and the additional expenses necessitated by COVID-19, the State has to resort to borrowing. With the enhancement of borrowing limit of States from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5%, the State is to get a fiscal space of Rs. 18,087 crore. The delay of the Union government in filling the revenue gap through the timely disbursement of the Good and Service Tax (GST) compensation has adversely affected the fiscal space of the State. The fiscal deficit figured as per the accounts during 2018-19 is 3.4% of the GSDP, which is above the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM) ceiling of 3%, according to L. Anitha Kumary and N. Ramalingam, Associate Professors, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT). Though this is budgeted as 3% during the next two years, the experts say in the analysis titled “Dwindling revenue and galloping expenditure in pandemic times” that due to the COVID-19 impact, the likelihood of not meeting the target is more.  A flat 30% fall of revenue receipt has been noted in the provisional accounts. The State has lost Rs. 5,715 crore in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. Tax revenue has been seriously hit by a shortfall of 51% due to the lockdown. The revenue expenditure has swelled by 15% in the first quarter of 2020 compared to 2019. A rise of 66.7% in the case of subsidy expenditure and 21.8% in capital expenditure has been noted along with the borrowings going up by 112%. Revenue deficit up Revenue deficit has shot up disturbingly to 138.9% in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Salary cut plan deferred||Government employees and teachers will get full-month’s salary in September after five months as the decision to further deduct a month’s salary over the next six months has been deferred to hold talks with unions. The move follows a directive from the CPI(M) State secretariat to Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac to hold talks with the unions on repayment of one-month’s deducted salary and to deduct a month’s salary as decided by the Cabinet to overcome the financial crisis. With elections round the corner, the concerns of Left unions and the statements of pro-UDF unions that they will seek legal measures and resort to an agitation have prompted the CPI(M) secretariat move. As the exchequer is facing a financial crisis following the pandemic and also the delay in getting Rs. 7,000 crore GST compensation from the Centre, the CPI(M) secretariat supported the views of the Finance Minister that a salary cut for the next six months cannot be dropped. Dr. Isaac was to convene another round of talks with the unions. A decision has also to be taken on the repayment of a month’s salary of employees and teachers deducted for five months. The Action Council of State Employees and Teachers has sought more concessions from the government if it goes ahead with another salary cut.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agri Bills: farmers in protest mode across State||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member and All India Kisan Sabha vice president S. Ramachandran Pillai (SRP) on Friday called for a united effort at the national level to resist the ‘anti-democratic and anti-farmer policies’ of the BJP-led government. The three farm Bills introduced by the Centre recently abysmally fall short of legal and constitutional principles, he added. He said the Bills would practically hand over the vulnerable agriculture sector to Indian and foreign corporates, Mr. Ramachandran Pillai said, inaugurating a sit-in outside Raj Bhavan organised by the Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi as part of a nationwide stir against the legislation. “'The decision to promote contract farming, for instance, will estrange farmers from farmlands and markets. Farmers will be relegated to the position of corporate labourers,” he said. In its hurried effort to get the Bills cleared by Parliament, the BJP government has disregarded parliamentary procedures and attempted to use powers which, in reality, it does not possess. The Centre is attempting to impose its anti-people, neo-liberal policies on the nation under the cover of the coronavirus pandemic, he alleged. “'It is true that there is a crisis in the sector. A majority of the farmers do not find farming a profitable venture. Agricultural costs have risen. But the flawed policies of the government are responsible for the crisis,” he said. Minimum support price Mr. Pillai drew attention to the M. S. Swaminathan committee recommendation that the minimum support price (MSP) should be fixed at 50% more than the weighted average of the production cost. “But the Centre has declined to implement it. No steps have been taken to increase productivity or ensure a fair price to farmers. These are the steps necessary to protect them,”' he said. Protests were organised under the aegis of the Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi in more than 250 centres in the State. Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi chairman Sathyan Mokeri presided.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 82, a relentless champion of progressive cinema||For someone who suddenly decided not to make films any more during his heyday in the late 1980s, K.P. Kumaran is very much active now, at 82. His film on poet Kumaranasan, Gramavrikshathile Kuyil, was ready for release when the COVID-19 pandemic struck. From Saturday, the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI) will be organising a week-long online film festival in his honour, showcasing six of his acclaimed works — Athithi, Aakashagopuram, Rugmini, Kattile Pattu , Thottam , and M.T. Vasudevan Nair-A Momentous Life in Creativity . Adoor’s comment The festival is being organised at a time of raging debates in independent cinema circles, following comments made by filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan in a recent interview in which he said that Mr. Kumaran, who shared the screenwriting credits with him for his debut film Swayamvaram, was merely a scribe who penned down the lines dictated to him. The comments had led to much criticism from film buffs as well as critics. ‘Unfit for reply’ Speaking to The Hindu on the eve of the festival, Mr. Kumaran said that Adoor’s comments did not deserve any reply. “I am known more for my own films than for Swayamvaram . Adoor has got all the deserved recognition for the film. So, it is unfortunate that he had to make these comments almost 50 years after the film was made. I was working in Life Insurance Corporation of India that time and the script was written at my home every evening after my work, with detailed discussions between us. I only have pity when I hear such comments,” says Mr. Kumaran. Mr. Kumaran was one of the first filmmakers from the State to win an international award, when his short film The Rock fetched the gold medal at the Expo film festival in Tokyo in 1972. His latest film on Kumaranasan comes more than a decade after he adapted Henrik Ibsen’s play Master Builder as Aakashagopuram . “I always wanted to make a film on Kumaranasan, who has not been given the honour deserving of his contributions. The communal upsurge witnessed in Kerala in 2018 and the discussions on social reform movements rekindled that wish in me. For someone who has lived through so many decades, I am sure that the regressive protest movement in 2018 would not have happened in the 1960s or 70s. Even the ‘vimochana samaram’ had a direct connection to the quest for political power, but this had many other dimensions of caste, patriarchy, and religion,” he says.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Draw of lots for reservation wards from Sept. 28||Draw of lots for the allocation of reservation in wards ahead of the local body elections in the State will be held from September 28 to October 6 in various centres, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said on Friday. The draw of lots in the 941 grama panchayats and 86 municipalities will be held from September 28 to October 1. The exercise will be conducted for the 152 block panchayats and 14 district panchayats on October 5. The draw will be held in the Kozhikode and Kannur Corporations on September 28, in the Kochi and Thrissur Corporations on September 30 and the Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam Corporations on October 6. District Collectors will supervise the draws in the three-tier panchayats. The Joint Director, Urban Affairs, will control the exercise in the municipalities, while the Director, Urban Affairs, will oversee the process in corporations. Reservations in five categories - women, Scheduled Caste women, Scheduled Tribe women, SC and ST - have to be finalised through the draws. Reservation for women stands at 50%. The SC/ST reservations are determined on the basis of the population of the two communities. All wards that were not reserved for women in 2015 will be earmarked for reservation this time. Wards reserved for SC women and ST women will be decided from the wards reserved for women. Wards reserved for these two categories will be decided by excluding those wards that were reserved for the SC/STs in 2010 and 2015. For women Lots will be drawn for determining the SC/ST reservation wards after finalising the wards reserved for the women.  District Collectors will supervise the draws in the three-tier panchayats.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) terms the probe politically motivated||The CPI(M) State secretariat on Friday said the Central Bureau of Investigation’s decision to investigate the LIFE Mission-UAE Red crescent agreement to provide free housing for 140 needy families in Thrissur was politically motivated. Fig leaf The development had occurred immediately after Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran demanded a probe into the agreement. The CBI had acted on his cue. The CBI had used a complaint by a Congress legislator as a fig leaf of an excuse to initiate an inquiry on its own into the matter. The party said the CBI had violated convention and acted in a politically partisan manner to cast the government and its programmes under a permanent pall of suspicion. The CBI had opened the probe without the sanction of the State government or a court directive. The move was a challenge to democracy. The Congress, which opposed the CBI’s politically partisan role in non-BJP ruled States, had no compunction when the BJP used Central agencies to discredit the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala. Political ethics The CPI(M) alleged that the Congress had traded of its political ethics for narrow political gains by aligning with the BJP against the LDF. The BJP had reciprocated by reining in the CBI probes into the Titanium corruption and Maradu riots, in which incriminated persons included United Democratic Front leaders.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Technology courses for jobseekers||The ICT Academy of Kerala, in association with NoRKA-Roots, has launched online courses in various technologies for overseas Malayalis rendered jobless by the COVID-19, enabling them to tap job opportunities in India and abroad. Norka Roots will offer 75% of the fee as scholarship. The entrance test to the courses will be held on the October 15. The last date for registration to the courses through the website ictkerala.org/course-registration/ is October 5. For details, contact- 0471-2700811/12/13; 80781 02119.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Offices told to follow COVID-19 protocol||District medical authorities have instructed heads of institutions to make sure that COVID-19 protocol is strictly followed at offices. The instruction comes on the heels of a September 22 government order pertaining to the functioning of the Secretariat and other government offices at full strength. Employees should take care to sanitise their hands while entering and leaving offices. Masks should cover the nose and mouth and should not be lowered when speaking, District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu said here on Friday. Gathering in groups to have food should be avoided, he said. People who experience fever, exhaustion, headache, body ache, respiratory difficulties, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste should go into room quarantine. If the symptoms persist, they should alert health officials and undergo COVID-19 tests. Even if the test result returns negative, the individual should remain in quarantine until the symptoms subside, the DMO said.  Masks should cover the nose and mouth and should not be lowered when speaking K.S. Shinu District Medical Officer
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sarabhai took India to a space of progress, says Kovind||At a time when the whole world was using space technology for military domination, Vikram Sarabhai firmly believed that it could, for a country of India’s size and diversity, provide a platform for fast-track development, President Ram Nath Kovind has said. The President was addressing, via videoconferencing, the valedictory function of the celebrations jointly organised by the Departments of Space and Atomic Energy to mark the birth centenary of Dr. Sarabhai, the father of India’s space programme and a great institution builder, on Friday.
26 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Haritha Karma Sena: applications invited||The city Corporation has invited applications from those interested in working in its Haritha Karma Sena as part of waste treatment at source. Individuals who have prior experience in waste treatment at source, institutions and Kudumbashree units can apply. Applications have to be submitted to the health officer before October 5. Contact Ph: 9447308048
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU issues BTech provisional certificates||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) on Friday commenced the issuance of provisional certificates for BTech students of the 2016-2020 batch, the results of which were announced last week.
26 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional BTech batch in CET||The government sanctioned an additional batch of BTech in Computer Science and Engineering in the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, on Friday. The batch having an intake of 60 students will come into effect from the 2020-21 academic year onwards.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping hope afloat||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heated argument||
26 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rainbow cropping provides assured income to farmers||The vicious cycle of groundnut monocropping in lakhs of hectares by investing large amounts, and all of it going waste due to recurring droughts, had become a routine in Anantapur district, pushing farmers into distress. To overcome this, some NGOs and the Zero Budget Farming concept had been advocating polycropping (Navadhanya), but lack of scientific approach had limited the practice to only a handful of fields. A successful experiment of ‘rainbow cropping’ (mechanised strip cropping) at the Agriculture Research Station in Rekulakunta has given a new hope to farmers. Designed by former head of the research station R. Veeraraghavaiah, the concept was being implemented on a trial basis for the last two years under the supervision of Principal Scientist B. Sahadeva Reddy .  Assured income As part of the method, rainfed crops are planted in the shape of a rainbow with crop foliage of different colours. A visit to the experimental field showed that the concept is suitable only for a single family-held small piece of land and is labour-intensive. Mr. Pavan Kumar said as the crops are diversified — oil seeds, millets, and pulses—rainbow cropping system ensures a complete food basket to farmers apart from an assured income. Failure of one crop can be compensated by the others, he said. The strips of crops in experimental plot are red gram, castor, jowar, bajra, korra, cowpea, and groundnut. Red gram, castor, jowar, bajra, korra, cowpea, and groundnut are sown in strips along the bordering rows of bajra/jowar. Rainbow cropping system recorded 709 kg/acre yield compared to 464 kg/acre of Navadhanya system and 530 kg/acre of groundnut moncropping.
26 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur RTA officials unearth car sale scam||The Road Transport Authority (RTA) officials in Anantapur unearthed a scam in which a gang changed the registration numbers of cars using a loophole in the online procedure of the department and sold them cheaply. The miscreants, who allegedly bought the cars on finance, made the financiers believe that they were stolen and even lodged police complaints claiming that the vehicles were missing. In the process, they reportedly evaded payment of lifetime road tax running into lakhs of rupees.Six such vehicles – four in Tadipatri and one in Kalyandurg and one in Owk of Kurnool district – were confiscated by the DTC Anantapur and RTO Anantapur DSM Varaprasad and their teams after verifying the old RCs by retrieving data from back-end servers. Some vehicles are said to be still running in Telangana and Karnataka.  Modus operandi Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad said they had chanced upon two vehicles that were re-registered using old registration numbers of vehicles that had gone out of the State taking the ‘No- Objection Certificate’. “They utilised a loophole in the software where if a vehicle owner obtains an NoC, the data related to that vehicle vanishes from the active screen/database,” Mr. Prasad said. Three data entry provisions given as part of customer convenience on APRTA Citizens’ Portal for uploading PDF version of RCs of vehicles coming from other States, conversion of those in transport category to non-transport category and entering data for all non-migrated vehicles by the owners before validating the facts with their thumb impressions, were misused. The miscreant, in likely connivance with the RTA staff, found out the numbers of the vehicles that had gone out of the State by taking NoCs and had only paper RCs. They uploaded fake scanned copies of the RCs to the portal and gave original engine and chassis numbers. Since there was no physical check, new vehicles got registered on old certificates and were sold at throwaway prices. The vehicles costing about Rs. 25 lakh, were sold for less than Rs. 15 lakh.
26 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 4 lakh samples tested in Anantapur||Over four lakh swab samples have been tested for COVID-19 in Anantapur district as of Friday. Of the 4,25,109 samples collected so far, results of 4,05,771 samples were declared. The total number of positive cases stands at 55,346 persons, of which 456 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Around 13,000 persons required hospitalisation while the rest were kept under home quarantine.  In Kurnool district, 205 new COVID-19 positive cases were registered in the last 24 hours and the cumulative number of positive persons went up to 55,250. Of them, 52,469 recovered and went home with 458 deaths recorded so far. Only 2,323 patients were being treated in hospitals and COVID Care Centres.
26 September 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC gearing up to compete with private cargo transporters||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) in Visakhapatnam is gearing up to give a tough competition to established private cargo transporters, if the present strategy of the corporation is any indication. The corporation, which was largely confined to movement of parcels and small goods to different parts of the State, prior to the lockdown, converted some of its passenger buses, which went off the roads due to the COVID-19 pandemic, into cargo buses. It came up with discounts, door pick-up and door delivery to woo bulk transporters. Both long distance buses and city services were confined to the depots in view of the lockdown and subsequent withdrawal of public transport in view of the pandemic threat. RTC continued with parcel service and cargo service till around mid-April. When it became clear that it would take quite a long time for the coronavirus to subside, the RTC authorities started converting some of the passenger buses into cargo services by removing the seats and altering the body by closing the windows. “A total of 30 buses in the 10 depots in the Visakhapatnam region have been converted into cargo buses and were pressed into service by April-end. There were no specific guidelines from the higher authorities and the local officials were given the discretion. The rates were fixed based on the prevailing rate charged by private transporters,” says A. Vijay Kumar, Deputy Chief Manager (Commercial), APSRTC Vizianagaram Zone. “Meanwhile, the authorities at our head office studied the market scenario of cargo operations and gave guidelines for fixation of rates earlier this month. We have entered into an agreement with a few companies for regular transport of their cargo to various districts in the State,” he says. These include branded wheat flour by a popular brand from Visakhapatnam city, transport of white cement from the stock points of the company, located opposite the airport, to various places in the State and cement of an Odisha-based cement plant from the stock point of the company at Ramabhadrapuram in Vizianagaram district, to various destinations in north Andhra. “A 5% discount is offered on the fourth booking to an individual or organisation, provided all four are on the same name.” adds Mr. Vijay Kumar.
26 September 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City of Destiny grieves SPB’s demise||The death of legendary playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam evoked grief from various sections of people in the city. Connoisseurs of music recalled their association with ‘Balu’, as he was popularly known, during his innumerable visits to the City of Destiny. SPB visited the city for several years to participate in the annual programmes organised by Perini Chanukya Memorial Cultural Trust, run by his friend Yugandhar. “I was asked to preside over a function held at the VUDA Children’s Theatre (old) in 1995, in which Balu was the chief guest. It was suffocating in the hall on that day and he announced a donation of Rs. 10,000 on the spot for provision of AC. That was my first meeting with Balu and after that we used to meet regularly, whenever he came to the city to participate in various functions,” recalls Prof. A. Prasanna Kumar, former Rector of Andhra University. “We used to meet at the Raja Lakshmi Foundation Awards, which used to be held in the city. In 2007, I was elected president of the Visakha Music Academy. I suggested that light music should be included in the category. The first award was given to Rao Balasaraswathi and the next one went to S.P. Balasubrahmanyam.”  SPB exuded confidence, when he sent me an SMS on August 10, saying he would return home soon. He had vast knowledge but was very humble. “I have never seen such gaiety and spontaneity in anyone else,” Prof. Prasanna Kumar said. “I grew up listening to SPB’s songs as he had began his singing career in 1966 and I was born in 1967. I wrote a song on ‘ Visakha Vaibhavam’ for ‘Padutha Theeyaga’ finals held in Visakhapatnam in 1998 and he sang it. He sang the songs, written by me, on doctors and policemen as COVID-19 warriors. He introduced me to K. Viswanath. He wrote the foreword for some of my books and unveiled some of them,” recalls Ramabhatla Nrusimha Sarma, AIR Announcer and popular commentator. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy expressed grief at the passing away of legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. He recalled that AU honoured him with the honorary doctorate ‘Kalaprapoorna’ in 2009. The Corporate Communications Department of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) had organised the finals of the popular programme ‘Padalani Undi’ at the Ukkunagaram Club on August 15, 2006. Y. Siva Sagar Rao, then then CMD, along with his wife Chinnamma Sagar, felicitated SPB. Balu sang a song written by Nandakishore, an officer of the VSP. He lauded the VSP for promoting Indian culture, recalls Dwaram Swamy of VSP. CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham expressed shock at the death of SPB. BJP leader Cheruvu Ramakotaiah expressed shock and said that Balu had sang over 40,000 songs in 16 Indian languages.
26 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People dread to take this stretch when it rains||The road under-bridge connecting the Puttur municipal areas in the south and its suburbs with a dozen villages in the north caters to the transport needs of over 30,000 people. Built nearly a decade ago, the connectivity is hailed by people of both the sides, who till then have been forced to cross the railway tracks over a stretch of three km at various points between the outers of the Puttur Railway Station. It also helps people avoid loss of time at the two manned level crossings on the busy Tirupati-Chennai railway line. Though their movements in criss-crossing the railway zone is made easy, the people are a worried lot if there is a light drizzle. Between June and November, the road under-bridge resembles a surging canal with a mix of drainage water from the upper areas. Most often, two-wheeler riders find it difficult to negotiate the road below the railway line with waist-deep water. Defunct motors The motors arranged to pump out the stagnant water by the municipal authorities do not function most of the time. The flooding waters even bar the pedestrians from taking the road whenever it rains heavily. The dribble of rainwater from the roof of the bridge makes things worse for the people. The residents of Gate Puttur and Church Compound dread to take the road under-bridge as they run the risk of spoiling their clothes. “We need a permanent solution, and not a temporary measure such as arranging motors,” says Mahesh, a resident of Gate Puttur. Plea to MLA A few other residents say that though they have taken the issue to the notice of Nagari MLA R.K. Roja, nothing has been done to alleviate the problem. The municipal authorities, on the other hand, say that except for pumping out stagnant water, the chances of a permanent solution look bleak. A senior official promises to take steps to pump out flood waters promptly and replace the defunct motors.
26 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Satyavedu’s bats are here to stay, says official||The Forest Ranger’s Office at Satyavedu on the Chittoor-Tamil Nadu border is a roosting place for thousands of bats, who have made the large banyan trees on the premises their home for many years now. The four giant banyan trees, each over 300 years old, stand guard as silent sentinels along with four huge tamarind trees, giving the premises an eerie atmosphere. Pandemic effect Officials say that some fruit bats first began roosting at the giant trees around half a century ago. Their population swelled considerably over the years, and they now number around 10,000. Till the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, residents of Satyavedu were not bothered about the bats, with some residents only mildly irritated about the bats due to their relentless screeching round the clock. However, as news spread about the origins of COVID-19, residents began to grow apprehensive about the bats, fearing that they were carriers of COVID-19. Forest officials began spreading awareness among the public, dispelling rumours circulating on social media. People living around the complex have become accustomed to the bats’ presence. “Immediately after sunset, the bats begin flying out of the trees in search of food. They cover a radius of several kilometres. Those who go out for a walk after dark can see bats swooshing right over their heads. A stranger to this place would be caught unawares. Those of us who live nearby the trees have grown used to the noise made by the bats, but it can be very unsettling for newcomers for surte,” locals said. Forest Range Officer G. Jaya Prasada Rao told The Hindu that co-existence with bats is unavoidable. “The gigantic trees are now home to thousands of bats. During the initial days of COVID-19, some people came to us with a proposal to drive away the bats. We told them it was impossible and also unwarranted. Later, they too realised that the bats are harmless. The incidence of hunting them has also come down drastically in the last six months due to fear of the virus,” Mr. Prasada Rao said. “They are here to stay,” he added. The FRO said that if not for the trees and the office compound, the bats would have certainly been killed in large numbers due to the COVID-19 threat.
26 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, 2 children die in accident||A woman and her two children were killed when a trailer of a tractor got delinked from the vehicle and collided with the scooter they were riding, at Bhakarapeta ghat section, 20 km from Tirupati, on Friday. According to the Piler Rural police, Jamuna (30), Meenakshi (12) and Deepak Kumar (8), residents of 184-Gollapalle village of Yadamarri mandal near Chittoor, had come to their relative’s house at Ithepalle a few days ago. The woman and her children were on their way to Bhakarapeta on the scooter, when the trailer of the tractor on its way to Srikalahasti got delinked on the ghat road and rolled down and collided with the scooter, before landing in the bushes. Jamuna and her daughter died on the spot while Deepak died on the way to hospital at Tirupati. The Bhakarapeta police registered a case.
26 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure fair deal to farmers, Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to ensure that every crop is procured through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and safeguard farmer’s interests by paying them the Minimum Support Price (MSP). A target of procuring 62 lakh metric tonnes of paddy as against the total production of 93.61 lakh metric tonnes in kharif season has been set for the officials. During a review meeting held here on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that RBKs would be serving as paddy procurement centres in near future. He instructed the officials to display the MSP of each crop at RBKs and educate farmers on the crops that need to be avoided and ways to maximise the yield for more profits. Stating that the State government procured crops like maize, corn, jowar, onion, tomato, banana, tobacco during the previous rabi season by spending Rs. 3,200 crore, the Chief Minister directed the AP Markfed to spend Rs. 3,300 crore for procurement of crops during the kharif through the market intervention fund and bail out farmers. The Chief Minister asked Joint Collectors to take responsibility of educating farmers about the government initiatives. The farmers should be told in advance about procurement at RBKs and local MLAs should also be roped in. The Chief Minister directed the Marketing Department (markfed) to purchase 30% of the crops in the villages and provide marketing facilities for the remaining 70%. He directed the officials to prepare crop plans and to focus on e-marketing platforms and integrate the purchase centres and agents data in the outer market to e-marketing platforms. He told the officials to promote sortex variety of rice and also keep the broken rice for value addition. He directed the officials to increase the CCI purchase centres to ensure proper marketing for the crops and to safeguard the farmers from suffering losses. The officials informed the Chief Minister that 10 varieties of crops were being procured in kharif at 3,000 centres. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy warned the officials against giving scope to any corruption in the procurement of crops and make a clear and transparent purchase benefiting the farmers. Minister for Agriculture Kurasala Kannababu, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswararao, Special Secretary for Agriculture Poonam Malakondaiah, Commissioner for Marketing Pradhyumna, Commissioner of Civil Supplies Kona Sasidhar and other officials were present.
26 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. college gets Rs. 90-lakh AICTE grant||RVR and JC College of Engineering, Guntur, has secured a grant of Rs. 90 lakh from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for research and infrastructure projects, according to principal A. Sudhakar. College secretary Rayapati Gopalakrishna said this would help the college become a centre of excellence in engineering research.
26 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed as auto collides with oil tanker at Tallarevu||Three persons, including two visually challenged, died on the spot in a road accident on the Yanam-Kakinada highway at Tallarevu village in East Godavari district on Friday. The accident occurred when an autorickshaw by which they were travelling collided with an oil tanker. The driver of the autorickshaw, one of the deceased, was said to be a minor. The other two deceased were identified as B. Ganga Rao (31) of Dhraksharamam and T. Surya Pawan Kumar (25) of Addateegala area. Both were visually challenged and travelling from Yanam to Kakinada when the accident occurred. The driver of the oil tanker received minor injuries. The bodies were sent to Government General Hospital in Kakinada for post-mortem examination, said Coringa Sub-Inspector Y. Satish.
26 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State gutkha racket busted, four held||The Kakinada police on Friday arrested four persons and seized gutkha worth Rs. 35 lakh during a raid while the gang was unloading the gutkha at a fish tank godown at Toorangi village in East Godavari district. In a press conference held on Friday, Kakinada in-charge DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said a gang of eight persons was found to be involved in the illegal transportation and trade of the gutkha by procuring it from Odisha. The gutkha was transported by road by stuffing it in bags containing paddy husk. The four persons arrested on Friday have been identified as Nunna Harinath, K. Satyanarayana, Ryali Vara Prasad and Ganesh of Odisha. “Cases have been registered against all eight persons. The four persons arrested on Friday have been produced before a local court. The search is on for the rest of the four accused in the case,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Police also seized a lorry in which the gang transported the gutkha from Odisha and an auto-rickshaw.
26 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPB was not just a singer, but a multifaceted personality||Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam was born in an orthodox Telugu Brahmin family on June 4, 1946, to Sambammurthy and Sakuntalamma. The legendary singer, popular among his admirers as Balu, had been an ardent music lover right from his childhood days, closely observing his father, a Harikatha artiste. While pursuing his engineering course (AMIE) in Madras (now known as Chennai) in 1964, he was adjudged winner (best singer) in a local music competition, wherein legendary singer Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao was the judge. SPB had etched his name in the Guinness World Records by singing 40,000 songs in 16 Indian languages. In 1966, veteran Telugu actor Padmanabham had given Balasubrahmanyam a chance to sing in his film, ‘Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramanna’. The music director of the film was S.P. Kodandapani, whom Balasubrahmanyam considered his mentor and even named his recording theatre in Chennai after him. Balasubrahmanyam was a versatile singer, music composer, actor, dubbing artiste, film producer and TV anchor. He sang for three generations of South Indian heroes such as N.T. Rama Rao, Akkineni Nageswara Rao, M.G. Ramachandran, Sivaji Ganesan, Rajkumar, and Vishnuvardhan and later for Krishna, Sobhan Babu, and Krishnam Raju, and thereafter (during 1970s and 1980s) for Chiranjeevi, Nagarjuna, Balakrishna and Venkatesh in Telugu and Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth and other heroes in Tamil. He also sang for present-day heroes in Tollywood such as Jr. NTR, Maheshbabu, Pawan Kalyan, Raviteja and Allu Arjun. National awards Balasubrahmanyam made a foray into Bollywood with a bang. His popular numbers in ‘Ek Duje Keliye’ won him the second national award. His first national award was for the Telugu film ‘Sankarabharanam’, which he considered as his career best. He had won four more national awards for the films ‘Saagara Sangamam’ and ‘Rudraveena’ (Telugu) , ‘Sangeeta Saagara Ganayogi Panchakshari Gavai’ (Kannada), and ‘Minsaara Kanavu’ (Tamil). He had received seven Filmfare awards and 25 Nandi awards presented by the Government of Andhra Pradesh. He had also received the NTR National Award in 2012 and the ‘Indian Film Personality of the Year’ in 2016. Record of sorts Balasubrahmanyam also held the world record for recording 21 songs in one day (from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.) in Kannada for music director Upendra Kumar on February 8, 1981. He had also recorded 19 Tamil songs in one day and 16 Hindi songs in a single day, a record envied by his contemporaries. Balasubrahmanyam had become the voice of actor Salman Khan in the 90s singing for him in most of his films. ‘Maine Pyar Kiya’ and ‘Hum Aap ke Hai Kaun’ songs had helped him establish firmly in the Bollywood. He made a comeback in 2010 with a song for Shahrukh Khan’s ‘Chennai Express’. Balu had acted in about 75 films in three South Indian languages, which included 38 in Telugu. He had lent his voice for Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth, Anil Kapoor, Girish Karnad, Gemini Ganesan, Vishnuvardhan and Salman Khan when their films were dubbed into Telugu. He had lent his voice to the protagonist of the film ‘Gandhi’ played by Ben Kingsley when the Oscar-winning film was dubbed into Telugu. He had taken upon himself the task of spotting young talent by hosting ‘Paadutaa Teeyaga’, a reality-based Indian singing competition in Telugu, telecast on ETV Telugu.
26 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pal recollects college days in Nellore||People from different walks of life mourned the demise of the son of the soil, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who sang more than 40,000 songs in a career spanning 52 years. His death on Friday left every house in Simhapuri in gloom as the singer had a special bond with the city. Former YSRCP Floor leader in Parliament Mekapati Rajamohan Reddy described the legendary singer as a multifaceted personality committed to social cause. “Balu considered friendship as immortal,” said Chandramouli, who had studied with the legendary singer in V.R. College. “We used to gather near Saptagri lodge and chat everything under the Sun,” he added. “SPB never forgot to keep in touch with his friends and relatives here,” said a group of friends, unable to come to terms with the his death after winning the battle against COVID-19. Veda students in tears Students of the Veda school run by the Kanchi peetham here were in tears. Balasubrahmanyam had donated his ancestral home to the peetham in memory of his parents. He had also instituted an award in his name to honour outstanding film personalities as also social activists.
26 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw ‘anti-farmer’ legislations, demands AIKSCC||Farmers under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) staged a demonstration outside Prakasam Bhavan here on Friday, demanding withdrawal of the three ‘anti-farmer’ pieces of legislation which they feared would deprive them of a remunerative price for their produce. AIKSCC Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao said that farmers’ organisations would not rest until the controversial pieces of legislation — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill were withdrawn, as the bills enable corporates to fleece farmers. Farmers will not accept the opening up of the farm sector to big corporate houses as the same would push small farmers into starvation, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam State vice-president P. Narasimha Rao. Farmers suffered huge losses by raising social forestry plantations as the big corporates drove down the prices for subabul and eucalyptus in violation of the prices fixed by the State Government, Social Forestry Growers Association State secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy said. Those who had grown Tulasi (Ocimum tenuiflorum) in hundreds of acres in the district suffered losses after the seed supplier disappeared at the time of harvest, leaving growers in the lurch, said CPI(ML) district secretary Lalitha Kumari.
26 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South coastal A.P. sees 11 more COVID deaths||Coronavirus continued to rattle south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 11 more patients succumbed to the pandemic in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 445 in Prakasam district with eight more deaths. In Nellore district, three more patients lost the battle against the virus, taking the toll to 436, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Friday night. On the bright side, recoveries outnumbered new cases by over 100 in the two districts in the last 24 hours. As many as 1,379 patients recovered from the virus, while 1,265 persons contracted it during the period. As a result, the cumulative number of confirmed cases rose to 97,036 in the region with Nellore district accounting for 51,593 positive cases and Prakasam district 45,433 cases. The active cases in the two districts marginally declined to 14,509, including 10,564 in Prakasam district. As many as 82,082 patients in the two districts have been cured of the disease, including 47,648 in Prakasam district.
26 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trace Tekkali youth: JSP||JSP Tekkali in-charge Kaniti Kiran on Friday urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to trace the whereabouts of three residents of the town who went missing in Libya. Mr. Kiran interacted with the family members of B. Venkata Rao, B. Joga Rao, and B. Danayya, who had gone to Libya to work as welders. Speaking to the media later, he said they had visa till they booked return tickets, and went missing later.
26 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Malayappa rides Suryaprabha Vahanam||Lord Malayappa rode Surya Prabha Vahanam, donning the role of Kesava Murthy, on the seventh day of the ongoing annual Brahmotsavams at the Tirumala temple on Friday. Sun symbolises energy and vigor and devotees believe that having a glimpse of the deity on the refulgent vahanam wards of illness and bestows upon a long life. Prominent among others who took part in the rituals include Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer A.K. Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti and member trustees Ananta, Siva kumar, Govind Hari, D.P. Ananth, Sekhar Reddy, Prashanti Reddy and other officials. In the evening, the erstwhile mirasidars of the Kalyanakatta made the customary presentation of the golden umbrella to the deity. The ritual is usually performed the preceding day of the Rathotsavams during the Brahmotsavams. The Lord rode Chandraprabha Vahanam in the night.
26 September 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to release darshan ticket quota today||The TTD will release the online quota of Rs. 300 special darshan tickets for October from 11 a.m. on Saturday. Taking cognizance of the curbs imposed owing to the pandemic, the TTD has been issuing 13,000 online tickets daily. However, no decision has been taken on free darshan tokens and the TTD is expected to take a call on this by the month-end.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban on exports may bring down onion price in domestic market||With the Centre imposing a ban on exports of onions following the shortage and sudden increase in prices in the domestic market, the prices are likely to come down, giving the much-needed relief to consumers. The farmers, on other hand, are unlikely to be impacted immediately as the export varieties such as KP onion (rose onion) is expected to reach the markets in January next year. According to information, KP onion, grown in 5,000 acres in YSR Kadapa and Prakasam districts, was exported to Bangladesh last but one year ago. The farmers take up this variety in November- December. The crop is harvested from January onwards. So, the farmers are unlikely to be impacted unless the prohibitory orders imposed on the exports were in vogue in January- February next year, says an official who did not want to be quoted. “But, the ban will bring down the prices as other varieties,which are usually exported from other States, will hit the domestic markets,” he says. The average price of the onions has touched Rs. 40 per kg. A months ago, 6 kg onions were sold at Rs. 100. Prices at the markets in Nashik district in Maharashtra, which were in the range of Rs. 1,500 per quintal in March, have since appreciated to Rs. 3,000. In Andhra Pradesh, the highest price is Rs. 3,400 per quintal, and the model price has touched Rs. 2,100 per quintal. The reason behind the spurt in the prices is fall in arrivals. Also, the prices at Lasalgaon, biggest supplier of onions in India, have appreciated significantly. Heavy rains have damaged the crops. Hence, the ban on exports will improve the arrivals in the domestic market, sources say. Different varieties The farmers cultivate different varieties of onions in the State depending upon the season. During the kharif, Bellary red, Puna red, Agrifound dark red varieties are cultivated. And, during the rabi, light red varieties such as Agrifound light red, Red -3, Prema (east west) and Red diamond (jindal) are grown. As much as 44,282 hectares is under onion cultivation in the State which produces 10,02,320 metric tonnes (MT) of onions.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Egg prices recover slowly, thanks to doctors’ advice to build immunity||The prices of eggs, which plummeted during the initial days of the lockdown, are now witnessing a steady recovery. Traders say production has fallen by 1 crore eggs per day, thus creating a scarcity in the market and helping to push up prices Consumption across the State has increased considerably following advice from doctors to make eggs a part of one’s daily diet in order to build immunity against the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the poultry sector is struggling to meet the growing demand, due to reasons such as shortage of hens. Decline in numbers Poultry farmers did not replace around 50 lakh ‘spent hens’ due to mounting losses that they suffered during the early stages of the COVID-19 lockdown. Consequently, the population of egg-laying birds has come down to around 3.50-3.75 crore in the State, which has taken a toll on production. Prices plummeted to Rs. 2.50 per egg in February. In May, the price of an egg fluctuated between Rs. 2.70 and Rs. 3.20 per piece. Prices began picking up steadily from July and now, the price of an egg is around Rs. 6 per piece in the retail market. National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) zonal chairman Kutumba Rao said that consumption has shot up across India, with supply languishing far behind demand. The road ahead “Farmers did not replace around 50 lakh birds last year due to a sluggish market. Another 50 lakh to 1.80 crore birds were not replaced this year in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. Effectively, the bird population has come down to 3.5 crore to 3.75 crore. So, the production will be around 3 crore to 3.25 crore eggs per day. It will take another four to five months for total replacement and improved production. Still, compared to other States, egg prices are lower in Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Andhra Pradesh Poultry Federation general secretary P. Subba Reddy said that the poultry industry has taken the maximum hit as wholesale prices have slipped below the break-even level due to rising inventories. About one crore birds were either sold or culled as the farm owners were unable to bear the losses during the initial phases of the lockdown. Adverse rumours regarding eating of poultry items had badly affected the sector and chicken was sold at throwaway prices. Now, apart from awareness among people, reduction in prices and subsequent stabilisation of feeding price has also helped the farmers. Feed price, which had increased from Rs. 17 to Rs. 27 per kg, has stabilised again,” he said.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||He will live in people’s hearts, says Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday condoled the death of noted playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. Mr. Harichandan said Balasubrahmanyam was in the hearts of crores of people across the globe by singing songs in 16 languages, predominantly in Telugu, Hindu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and other languages. Place in Guinness Book A legend in the music field, Balasubrahmanyam received several awards for his contribution to the Indian film industry, the Governor said, and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. He found a place in the Guinness World Records for recording more than 40,000 songs. In his condolences, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Balasubrahmanyam had enthralled the connoisseurs and common people alike for over five decades.” Expressing his profound grief over the demise of the legendary singer, the Chief Minister conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. ‘Immensely talented’ Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, in his condolences, said, “In a career spanning five decades, Balasubrahmanyam had been a stage artiste, a playback singer credited with singing over 40,000 songs, an actor, and a dubbing artiste. He was a recipient of the Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan awards, and several national and State level awards, which speak volumes about his talent. He will continue to live in the hearts of the people through his songs,” said Mr. Naidu. ‘Versatile artiste’ Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, and Adviser to the Government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy expressed shock over the demise of Balasubrahmanyam and said that he was an amazingly versatile artiste.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for UPSC exams||Elaborate arrangements have been made for smooth conduct of the Civil Services (preliminary) examinations 2020, being conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The examination will be held on October 4 (Sunday). In a statement on Friday, Principal Secretary to the government (political), Praveen Prakash, said the examinations would be conducted in morning (9.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m.) and afternoon (2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.) sessions in 68 venues of four cities -- Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, and Anantapur. The respective District Collectors would be the coordinating supervisors for the examination. As many as 30,199 candidates would appear for the examination, he said. Frisking of the candidates at the exam centres would be done away with this year to avoid physical contact in view of the COVID-19 protocol of physical distancing.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manual on renewable energy sources released||Minister for Energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Friday released a handbook containing comprehensive information on small renewable power gadgets to ultra mega power plants brought out by the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP). The Minister appreciated the NREDCAP efforts in providing detailed information for the benefit of the small farmers and to big investors as well. He said the idea was to enable the utility segments such as agriculture, and commercial and industrial sectors to avail themselves of the benefits of renewable energy and electric mobility. NREDCAP is the nodal agency for promotion of all renewable energy programmes and electric mobility in the State. Energy Secretary N. Srikanth explained the policies and progress achieved in the renewable energy and electric mobility segments. He said the NREDCAP had so far installed 8202.6 MW solar, wind, mini hydel and biomass power plants, besides taking up the DPR study of pumped hydro storage power plants at seven locations. Future plans The government also had plans to set up 10,000 MW solar power capacity plant to meet the requirement of the agriculture sector, and had identified locations in Anantapur, Kadapa and Kurnool districts. The tender notice and documents were referred to the Judicial Review Committee for 6050 MW capacity initially, he added. Mr. Srikanth said the handbook was very useful to people keen on switching to cost-effective and eco-friendly mode of energy.
26 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MoU signed||Minister for Industry, Commerce and Information Technology M. Goutham Reddy has said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on equipping the youth in the State with 21st century skills. Speaking while participating through a video conference in a programme where the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) signed Memoranda of Understanding with Dalmia Bharat Foundation (DBF), NSE Academy Limited and National Research Develeopment Corporation for partnerships in running the proposed skill colleges that would offer industry-aligned courses. APSSDC Chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy, Special Chief Secretary, Skill Development and Training Department G. Anantha Ramu were present.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||340 new cases take tally to 49,101||In yet another lowest single-day spike, the district reported 340 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 49,101 as per the district COVID-19 bulletin released on Friday. The death toll also rose to 383 with three more persons succumbing to the virus. Since the last 10 days, the district saw lowest-single day spikes with 325 cases on September 16 and 150 on September 21. According to the COVID-19 bulletin, as many as 372 persons recovered after testing positive in the last 24 hours. The recoveries, include not just those who were treated in COVID-19 hospitals and COVID care centres, but also those who were in home isolation. The number of active cases is 4,195 and the number of discharges or recoveries is 44,523 by Friday. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal, Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that the number of very active clusters in the district is 54, while active clusters are 24. The dormant clusters have increased to 640. Already 192 clusters were denotified, he said.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC resumes partial services to Odisha||The APSRTC authorities have resumed partial inter-State bus services to Odisha from Visakhapatnam, on Friday. The bus services were resumed to Nowrangpur, Onakadilli, Gunpur, Damanjodi, Jeypore, Indravati and Parlakhemundi. 550 buses According to sources there are now 550 buses, including 320 city buses, operating in Visakhaptnam region. The number has gone up since August 19. Similarly revenue which was Rs. 20 lakh a day has gone up to Rs. 30 lakh. The number of passengers travelled in buses on Thursday stood at 79,842. Authorities are screening every passenger with thermal scanners at the bus station and sanitisers are being placed at the entrance.  Timings Arrival and departure timings of the inter-State bus services to Odisha are: Nowrangapur: departure 4.30 a.m., arrival - 1.30 p.m. Onakadili - departure 5 a.m., arrival 12.45 p.m. Gunupur - departure 4 a.m., Damanjodi - departure 1.45 p.m. arrival 7 p.m., Jeypore departure - 2.20 p.m., arrival 5.20 a,m., Parlakhemundi - departure 7 a.m., arrival 12.45 p.m. and Indravati - departure 8.30 p.m., arrival 7.30 p.m.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 held, property recovered||The city police (Crime Wing) arrested six persons, including three women, on Friday for allegedly committing theft of iron and scrap materials in a company at Malkapuram area on August 31. Based on the complaint, special team formed by Malkapuram police arrested all the accused involved in the offence at Pedagantyada and recovered stolen property worth Rs. 60,000 from them.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU exams rescheduled||Director, School of Distance Education, Andhra University, P Hari Prakash on Thursday said that B.A./ B.Com./B.Sc. examinations for the academic year 2019-2020 have been rescheduled. He said that the third year examinations will commence from October 10 (2 p.m. to 5 p.m.), while the second year examinations will start from October 28 (2 p.m. to 5 p.m.). He added that the first year examinations will be held from November 9 (2 p.m. to 5 p.m.).
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB cracks the whip on illegal sand mining||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted a special drive against the illegal sand mining and seized 244.8 tonnes of sand in the city. Following instructions from Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, the SEB teams conducted raids from 10 p.m. on September 24 to 6 a.m. on September 25. Nine lorries allegedly used to transport the sand were seized under MVP, Malkapuram, Kancharapalem, Duvvada and Pendurthi police station limits, the officials said. According to the police officials, the SEB teams since May 20 have booked 120 cases of illegal sand mining.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three die in two accidents||Three persons died and two others were injured in two road accidents here on Friday. Two persons died after two motorcycles collided at high speed on BRTS Road at Marripalem area on Friday. While one person died on the spot, another one died while undergoing treatment in a hospital, sources said. The pillion riders of both the vehicles suffered injuries. In another accident, Raju (32) of Burma Colony died after reportedly hit by an auto-rickshaw near Urvasi Junction in the city. The incident reportedly occurred when Raju was returning home from the fishing harbour area. A case was registered.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains from Sept. 30||Additional special train services will be operated by East Coast Railway (E Co R) between Khurda Road and Ahmedabad, via Vijayawada and Balharshah, on Wednesdays from September 30 to October 24. These trains will have stoppages at Srikakulam Road, Vizianagaram, Kottavalasa, Duvvada and Anakapalle, Rajahmundry, Elluru and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh.
26 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister recovers from COVID-19||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, who contracted COVID-19, recovered and tested negative here on Friday, a release said. The Minister’s son, Siva Sai, who also tested positive, too recovered, it said.
26 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cultural outfits in Vizianagaram mourn singer||Noted playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who died of prolonged illness in Chennai on Friday, had a special attachment with Vizianagaram. His demise shocked many music lovers and representatives of various cultural organisations. Gurajada Samskritika Samakhya general secretary Kapuganti Prakash said Balasubrahmanyam was a great human being and lover of books. “He used to visit the house of ‘Mahakavi’ Gurajada and recall the social reformer’s literary contribution,” Mr. Prakash said. Former Minister Sujay Krishna Ranga Rao, Vizianagaram former MLA Meesala Geeta recalled their personal association with the legendary singer. “SPB will continue to live forever in the hearts of people through his melodious songs,” said Ms. Geeta. The Gurajada Samskritika Samakhya had presented him an award on November 30, 2017. Earlier, he was presented the Atreya Smaraka Kalapeetham award in the year 2001. At Ramanarayanam In his tributes, NCS Charitable Trust founder Narayanam Srinivas said that SPB sang on the occasion of ‘maha harati’ offered to Sri Abhaya Anjaneswamy on the premises of Ramanarayanam temple in Vizianagaram district.
26 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tricycles given away by Gurudeva trust||Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust on Friday distributed 60 tricycles among the physically challenged persons. On the occasion of its 20th anniversary, the trust also distributed essential commodities and clothes to those who lost their livelihood due to lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, said Trust founder Raparthi Jagadish Babu. He said that artificial limbs would be distributed free of cost to them in the first week of October. He promised help to the elderly persons and orphans also.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime rate down by 4% during YSRCP tenure, says Sucharitha||The crime rate in Andhra Pradesh has come down by 4% after the YSRCP assumed the office, Home Minister M. Sucharitha has said. However, she expressed concern over the atrocities against the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Addressing the stipendiary cadet trainee sub-inspectors (Civil, AR and APSP) of the 2019 batch during their ‘Dikshant Parade’ (passing out parade) at the Police Training College here, Ms. Sucharita said the Andhra Pradesh Disha Act that ensures justice to the victims of atrocities against women is one of the best achievements of the government. Disha Act Taking this forward, she said, the government has set up 18 Disha police stations across the State and established women-friendly helpdesks at all police stations, making it easy for women to seek police help. The Home Minister, along with DGP D. Gautam Sawang reviewed the parade in which 273 cadet sub-inspectors including 55 women participated. Ms. Sucharita said five new IPS officers are getting allotted to the State, while 25 DSPs are getting ready to join the service after training. As many as 273 SIs in Civil, Armed Reserve and A.P. Special Police wings will join the service, along with 1,591 constables. Around 14,000 persons have been recruited for the Mahila Police wing of the village and ward secretariats. “The State government is setting up three forensic science laboratories in Visakhapatnam, Amaravati and Tirupati to ensure speedy and accurate crime detection,” said Mr. Sucharita. Speaking on the occasion, the DGP said technology is being used to check crime rate. “ The Police Seva app which provides 87 services is receiving good response,” said Mr. Sawang.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die after consuming ‘adulterated’ arrack||Two persons died after reportedly consuming adulterated illegally distilled (ID) arrack in the Kinaparthy area of Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam district, late on Thursday night. However, the Koyyuru police said that they were yet to get a clarity in the case. They suspect that the arrack which the duo consumed might have been laced with harmful chemicals such as pesticide. The deceased have been identified as J. Balaraju (33) from Bheemavaram village in Koyyuru mandal and P. Venkataratnam Naidu (44) from K.D. peta mandal. Both were said to be have been friends. According to sources, the duo reportedly consumed the arrack at around 6 a.m. on Thursday and fell sick after some hours. They were shifted to a hospital where they died on Thursday late night. “As of now, we have registered suspicious death cases. We are waiting for the post-mortem report which will give some clarity in the case. If traces of pesticide are found in the bodies of the victims, we will investigate the case from other angles,” said a police official of Koyyuru police station.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourcing employees booked for stealing jewellery from dead bodies||The Alipiri police of Tirupati on Friday registered a case against an outsourcing Class IV employee and his four other accomplices, involved in the alleged theft of gold jewellery from the dead bodies at the COVID hospital attached to Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences. According to SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, the theft of gold jewellery from the body of a COVID patient on the hospital premises came to light on Thursday, after the victim’s kin complained about it. With the help of the CC camera footage, the accused was identified and handed over to the Alipiri police. “During the interrogation, the accused had revealed four more names to the police,” she added. The Alipiri police said the prime accused was identified as Sunil, an outsourcing worker with the SVIMS, attached to the COVID hospital. The deceased’s kin maintained that when the patient was admitted to the hospital, he was wearing gold jewellery, including a gold chain and a ring, and that they went missing while shifting his body to the mortuary. Further investigation is on. Meanwhile, a police officer said that the issue which had created a flutter attracted the attention of Minister for Health Alla Nani, who spoke to the SVIMS authorities, prompting them to lodge a complaint. Digital surveillance In view of the incident, steps would be taken to improve digital surveillance at the wards and other vital zones on the hospital premises, he said.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CET in November for admission to IIITs||“The examination will be tentatively in the first or second week of November,” he said. Six of the top 10 rank holders in the ICET-2020 belong to the SC and ST sections, and four among the 10 toppers are girls. The toppers are Daruri Phanith, Rayudu Abhiram, B. Subhasri, Avinash Sinha, Vemula Anil Kumar, Sekharamantri Avinash, Koilada Lokeswari, Shitti Venkatesh, Sarvani GDS and Gongada Lakshmi Lavanya in that order. Of the total 64,884 candidates who registered for ICET-2020, 51,991wrote the test and 40,890 of them passed (78.6%). Sri Venkateswara University conducted the test on behalf of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). Vice-Chancellor Satish Chandra was the Chairman and M. Srinivasa Reddy was its convener. The ICET notification inviting applications from students seeking admission into MBA and MCA courses was released on February 29 and the examinations were conducted on September 10 and 11 in 75 centres. As many as 352 colleges in the State offer courses in MBA. These colleges have 44,084 seats, besides 31,368 convener seats. Similarly, 130 colleges in the State have 8,558 seats, besides 6,229 convener seats, in the MCA courses. The Minister said that the results were released in a record two weeks. Second chance for COVID-hit students Referring to the EAMCET that was completed on Friday, he said a total 1,56,899 students had appeared for the engineering stream and 75,834 candidates had written the test for admission into agriculture and medicine streams. The Minister said that 21 COVID-19-infected students could not write EAMCET. Six students could not write ICET for similar reason. They would be given one more chance to write the test on October 7, he added.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco-warriors||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In protest mode||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to school||
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Placement drive on Sept. 30||The Krishna district police and the PVR Group will jointly conduct a recruitment drive in the town on September 30. Candidates with SSC, ITI, diploma and degree qualifications and natives of Nandigama and neighbouring villages can attend the interviews. Representatives of various companies across the State will participate in the drive, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Senior police officers and represntatives of PVR Group on Monday discussed on organising the placement drive.
26 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Slain Maoist cremated before police reached the place||A day after handing over the bodies of three "Maoists", who were killed in Wednesday's "exchange of fire" in Charla mandal, the police tried to bring back their bodies to the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam for re-postmortem on Friday, but in vain. Acting on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by Civil Liberties Committee State president G. Laxman, the Telangana High Court had on Thursday ordered a re-postmortem examination of the bodies of the three persons — a man and two women — allegedly Maoists, killed in Wednesday's "exchange of fire" in Charla mandal. As per the High Court orders, the police dispatched a team to Gannapuram gram panchayat in Andhra Pradesh's Kukunoor mandal from where the slain woman dalam member Madakam Mangi hailed, police sources said. By the time the police reached the village, her body was cremated by her family members in accordance with their customs. Efforts by the local police to bring back the bodies of the remaining two dead "Maoists" including the Charla LGS commander Sodi Jogaiah of Kistarampadu and Madakam Malli, the Maoist dalam member, of Chennapuram, in Bhadrachalam Agency proved unsuccessful, police sources added. The sources said the prevailing volatile situation in the border villages hampered the efforts of the police in reaching the remote villages in the restive border region. Bhadradri-Kothagudem Additional Superintendent of Police (Operations)/OSD V Tirupathi said efforts were on to bring back the bodies of the two slain Maoists from their native villages located about 20 to 25 km in the forest fringe areas in Charla mandal to Bhadrachalam for re-postmortem, as per the High Court orders. Poor mobile connectivity and location of the two villages in interior areas bordering Chhattisgarh caused the delay, the police official said.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Void made by SPB’s death can never be filled: CM||Politicians across parties expressed deep shock at the demise of legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam and offered condolences to the family members. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed deep shock and said that Balu, as SPB is affectionately called by his fans, won fans all over the country with thousands of melodious songs. The CM said it was unfortunate that best efforts by doctors could not save him. He said the void created by his death could never be filled and praised his contributions as a playback singer, composer, and actor. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said she was deeply saddened and heartbroken. “Through his inimitable versatility and soulful singing, SPB garu had mesmerised millions of fans all over the globe for almost five decades,” she said. “His demise is a great loss to the nation and to the field of art and music.” TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy expressed condolences to the family and said his voice will live forever. In separate statements, they said the singer regaled music lovers across the country with his mellifluous voice in all languages. They said his versatile rendering of songs brought him fans across generations and they would ensure his voice lives among Telugus and music lovers of all languages. BJP president Bandi Sanjay said SPB regaled millions of music lovers across generations with this versatility. He will forever remain in the hearts of people as long as music exists. He offered condolences to the bereaved family and millions of his fans. Former CM of Andhra Pradesh K. Rosaiah recalled his association with the late SPB and said he has several memories of attending his shows over several decades.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Forever in our heart’, social media mourn SPB’s death||Melodies, memories, movie clips and playlists filled the timelines on social media as the nation mourned the passing of Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam on Friday. On Twitter, #SPBalasubramaniam, Om Shanti, RIP SPB were the top trends from the time the news of his death was announced by the private hospital in Chennai. While celebrities and movie personalities paid tributes to the versatile singer who sang for an unknown actor called Laxmikanth (Ye divilos virisina parijatamo) as well as Salman Khan (Aja shaam honey ayi), it was left to social media to show how much the singer was loved. One social media user tweeted: “SPB sang 41,230 songs in total. Even if one sang 1 song a day all days of the year with no breaks it would take 113 years to sing all his songs.” Another twitter user made a different calculation: “74 years * 365 days = 27010 days He sang more than 40k songs in his career Averaging his songs with no of days he lived = 1.5 song per day. We may miss your physical appearance but you will be there forever in our heart.” “There is no death for an artist. His voice would continue to stay immortal in this world. Till music exists, his songs would occupy our playlist,” wrote another, summing up the mood of the nation. “A singer with one of the most soulful voices, who was a part of my childhood watching singing shows is no more! Just when I thought 2020 couldn’t get any worse,” wrote Mithun Shenoy on the microblogging site about the singer. SPB and SP Balasubrahmanyam were also one of the top trending searches on Google as news of his becoming critical on Thursday night triggered rumours about his health.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telugu cinema grieves Balasubrahmanyam’s demise||The Telugu film industry mourned the passing away of singer-actor S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, recalling the legacy he left behind and his humble persona that they will fondly remember. Actor Chiranjeevi called it the darkest day for the world of music: “I owe my success greatly to Balu garu’s voice, through the numerous and memorable songs he had sung for me. When the world of music wondered who would succeed the legendary Ghantasala garu, there came one of the brightest stars of the galaxy in the form of Shri SPB,” he stated. Actor Venkatesh recalled working with SPB in films such as Prema and Pavithra Bandam and offered his condolences to the family. Nagarjuna tweeted, “As the memories of conversations with Balu garu come flooding back, so do the tears,” and recalled getting a call from SPB after the latter watched Annamayya, and added that the singer was an integral part of his life. Condolence messages poured in from actors Mahesh Babu, NTR, Nani, Varun Tej and several directors, producers, music composers and singers.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cable stayed bridge opens to traffic||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao inaugurated the cable stayed bridge on Durgam Cheruvu on Friday. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy was the chief guest. The bridge, touted as one of its kind in the country, has been constructed as part of the Telangana government’s flagship Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). It is set to ease traffic towards Hi-Tec City, reducing commute time between Jubilee Hills and Madhapur by 20 minutes. The distance from Mind Space to Jubilee Hills stands reduced by two km with the launch of the bridge, a statement from executing agency L&T said.  Launched along with the bridge was the four-lane elevated corridor that facilitates traffic from Road No. 45 up to the bridge. The cost of both the structures together is over Rs. 334 crore.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Musical symphony by the Army today||Cable stayed bridge on Durgam Cheruvu will be the venue for a musical symphony by the Indian Army band that is set to enthral people at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, to mark the iconic bridge’s opening. MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar informed about the same, and invited people to enjoy the live performance of the ‘Army Ceremonial and Symphony Band’ with a spectacular lighting on the bridge, and lake water as the backdrop. The performance, lasting for 45 minutes, is intended to express solidarity with Indian soldiers posted on the Northern Borders and ‘Corona Warriors’ from GHMC Sanitation wing. Starting with ‘Vande Mataram’, the band will play several patriotic, Indian and western songs and music and end the night with rendition of ‘Jai Ho’. After the Army Band, another local Hyderabad band led by Anisha will render Indian and western songs to keep the public entertained. Vehicle movement is restricted on the bridge during the weekend, hence the public may watch the performance from the other side of the carriageway, Mr. Arvind Kumar said. The L&T authorities have claimed it as the “world’s longest pre-cast segmental span” of 233.85 metres in concrete for a cable stayed bridge. Except the cables, which were procured from Germany, everything else is sourced from India.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘What did you gain by killing him?’||“ Tananu champi nuvu em sadinchav daddy ? (What did you gain by killing him?)” This was the question put by an inconsolable D Avanthi Reddy (23) to her father D. Laxma Reddy, who abducted and killed her 28-year-old husband on Thursday. She said that her father could have ‘succeeded’ in taking away her husband Chinta Yoga Hemanth Kumar, physically from her, “but you cannot take away my love for him, you cannot annul our marriage. All your money could not buy my husband’s love for me. You lost your daughter as well.” While waiting at Osmania General Hospital morgue to take her husband’s body home, Ms. Avanthi said that on Thursday afternoon, her maternal uncle Yugandhar Reddy and cousin took him (Hemanth) in the car, while she managed to jump out and run on the road to save her life. “They came to our house in the guise of seeing me and immediately forced us into a car saying we were being taken to my parents’ house at Chandanagar. When the vehicle took a different route, we jumped out. Somehow I managed to escape, but my uncle Yugandhar and others held and took him away in another vehicle,” she said. Ms. Avanthi ran barefoot till Gopanpally Tanda crossroads to save her life. Ranjith (her cousin) snatched their mobile phones and turned them off, she said. “The passers-by were not helping me, and moreover they did not bother to stop the vehicle and save my husband. Even the driver of an autorickshaw which I boarded, asked me to step down after seeing the family members chasing me,” the engineering graduate said. “Till my in-laws arrived, I was helpless and sitting on the road, and later went to the police station in patrol vehicle” Ms. Avanthi said, adding that her parents had threatened to kill Hemanth. They believed he married her only for their property.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farmers stage protest against farm Bills||The nationwide farmers protest against passage of three Bills in Parliament spilled onto the streets of Hyderabad on Friday. Dozens of farmers and farm activists staged a noisy protest near Aayakar Bhavan against the Central government’s moves to dismantle the farm produce market in the country. “How will the small farmer who owns 2 acres of land find a buyer for his produce without a market? Without middlemen big traders will team up and then they will dictate low prices for farmers and high prices for consumers,” said Chada Venkat Reddy State secretary of Communist Party of India. The protest organised under the banner of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) saw activists flying flags of myriad hues but chanting one slogan against the three Bills. “Politicians and businessmen are the only people who will benefit from these three laws. Today’s protest is just a sample. All thinking people and farmers are with us. We will see to it that the Bill is scrapped,” said social activist Krishna Kumari addressing the gathered protesters. Sarampally Mallareddy, farmer union leader from All India Kisan Sabha and member of CPI (M) State Committee said: “The farmers understand that with these three Bills, the Central government is washing its hands from providing guarantee of Minimum Support Price — which is what the farmers have been demanding.” In Khammam, the farmers’ organisations owing allegiance to the AIKSCC took out a huge tractor rally here on Friday. Scores of farmers from various parts of the district took part in the tractor march. A cavalcade of tractors passed through the main streets of the town as part of the protest march that culminated in a meeting at Sri Sri Circle on the outskirts of the town later in the day.  (With inputs from Special Correspondent in Khammam)
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CoE launched at NIMS||The State’s first molecular lab and Centre of Excellence (CoE) on SARS COV- 2 testing was launched at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Roche Diagnostics India announced on Friday. The CoE was inaugurated by Health Minister Eatala Rajender. “This high throughput instrument offers improved operating efficiency, flexibility and fastest time-to-time results,” a statement said. Mr. Rajender said testing capacity would go up to 3,000 samples per day, now.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sees 2,381 COVID cases||The State recorded 2,381 cases on September 24 (Thursday), taking the total number of cases to 1,81,627. The number of fatalities recorded on Thursday were 10, spiking the total number of deaths to 1,080. While as many as 57,621 persons were tested, the reports of 1,659 were awaited. Of those who were tested, 57,621 were primary contacts and 6,914 were secondary contacts. A total of 27,41,836 samples were tested till Thursday. The trend of areas under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits recording the highest number of cases in Telangana continued with as many as 386 persons testing positive, a rise from 308 as recorded a day before. Meanwhile, Sangareddy district recorded 50 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri 193, Nalgonda 132, Karimnagar 119, Siddipet 86 and Warangal Urban 83 cases.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Polls on Oct. 9 for Nizamabad LAC MLC seat||The Election Commission has announced schedule for election to the Legislative Council Nizamabad Local Authorities’ Constituency. The election will be held on Oct. 9 and counting of votes on Oct. 12. The election process should be completed by Oct. 14. The seat fell vacant after TRS MLC Bhupathi Reddy, who switched loyalties to the Congressbefore the previous Assembly elections, was disqualified. Former MP K. Kavita filed nomination on behalf of TRS but election had been put off following COVID-19 outbreak. Ms. Kavita’s election is a formality as the TRS has absolute majority in terms of elected members in different local bodies under the constituency.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth seeks new rail line||TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to expedite the new Railway line proposed between Krishna (Makthal) and Vikarabad via Kodangal, apart from extension of MMTS from Secunderabad to Medchal; from Umdhanagar Railway Station to RGIA and from Secunderabad to Malkajgiri. In a Zoom interaction with the Minister on Friday, Mr. Reddy said there was a proposal for a green field Railway line between Krishna and Vikarabad via Kodangal and the State government also had agreed to give matching grant. The line will immensely benefit this backward area and requested him to allot sufficient funds. Extension of MMTS from Umdhanagar to RGIA will help thousands.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two new SCCL Directors appointed||Two new Directors – B. Veera Reddy (Planning and Projects) and D. Satynarayana Rao (Electrical and Mechanical) -- have been appointed on the board of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. Mr. Veera Reddy has been working as General Manager of Adriyala longwall project and Mr. Satyanarayana Rao as General Manager (Electrical and Mechanical) for underground mines.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Maoists call State bandh||The Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Friday appealed to people to observe bandh in the State on Monday, protesting against the recent ‘killing’ of eight of its members in Asifabad Kumram Bheem and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. Describing the exchanges of fire between police and Maoists as fake encounters, CPI(Maoist) Telangana State Committee secretary Jagan called upon people to condemn the ‘killings’ and fight against ‘TRS government’. Of late, the Maoists had not indulged in any attacks on police or TRS leaders. Still the ‘TRS government and police’ were resorting to ‘fake encounters’, he said in a statement. Rights activists and organisations should find out facts over these ‘killings’ and ensure persons responsible for the deaths secured punishment, he stated. All the slain Maoists Shankar, Srinu, Ayithu, Chukkalu, Baji Rao, Jogaiah, Raje and Lalitha belonged to Adivasi and oppressed sections. After catching the Maoists, the government killed them instead of sending them to prisons as per the law, Jagan charged. TRS had misled people claiming that ‘Maoists’ agenda’ was ‘their agenda’. Soon after coming to power, Telangana Rashtra Samithi government began serving imperialists, capitalists and brokers. He said police caught Shankar in September when he went to hospital due to ill health and eliminated him in Devarlagudmen. Four days later, unarmed Srinu and Ayithu were caught and killed, Jagan said.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP is blind to farmers’ interests, says Kharge||Senior Congress leader and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Mallikarjun Kharge has charged the Central government with being blind to the facts on the Farmers Bills that were nothing but a death warrant for small and marginal farmers. At a press conference here, Mr. Kharge said the way the bills were passed in the Parliament showcase the government’s contempt for democracy and respect for the Parliament. The entire opposition is against the present form of bills but the government is least bothered. He also commented that the courts too were not acting judiciously these days. “I don’t want to comment on the courts functioning,” he said. The former Union Minister argued that the bills will end the Mandi system (of selling produce at agricultural market yards) with little option for farmers but to enter into the clutches of the corporates. Mandis acted as an alternative for gaining good price collectively and where they had support in the form of MSP. Mr. Kharge, who was here as part of the Congress campaign against the bills, also questioned how would it benefit the small and marginal farmers who constitute 83% of farmers, who prefer to sell at nearest market.
26 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad participates in Shoe Strike||The Hyderabad Shoe Strike, initiated in solidarity with the Global Shoe Strike, has received 1,200 entries in the form of footwear with messages. The shoe strike is a novel form of protest in place of the annual Global Climate Strike initiated by teenage climate activist from Sweden, Greta Thunberg. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the protest allows the participants to send their pairs of shoes tagged with messages to represent them.
26 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘It’s not father’s love’||Amruthavarshini, wife of Pranay, who was killed at Miryalaguda after the inter-caste marriage, renewed her fight for justice on Friday. Two years after the September-14 incident, in which her dalit husband Perumalla Pranay Kumar was hacked to death, her hashtag #JusticeforPranay has an addition now, in #JusticeforHemanth. Learning of the killing of Hyderabad-based interior designer Hemanth Kumar, allegedly by family members of his wife Avanthi Reddy, she took to social media to express her thoughts. “When someone is at loss, at least now, stop defending the ‘act of murder’ and giving it a label called father’s love. As long as there are people to support the killings, such persons will grow in strength but not lessen,” she wrote. Amrutha’s two-year experience since Pranay’s murder, had several twists and turns, starting with the bail for her father T. Maruthi Rao, the prime accused, his alleged suicide in Hyderabad, the allegations around property, and the most-recent one being 'Murder', a film based on the saga by Ram Gopal Verma, without the consent of the victim’s family. Her petition to the Nalgonda Special SC/ST Court to stall the movie said the content in the film would create prejudice among people as the case was in the court. Hearing in the murder of Pranay was scheduled for Friday, but as accused two Subhash Sharma, who is in Rajahmundry for other cases, could not be brought, it was postponed. “Almost 90% of arguments are complete,” an official said. “It has been two years (since Pranay’s murder). How is our legislation, what is the law doing? Such murders continue to happen..,” she put.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU to release first cut-off list for UG courses on Oct. 12||Delhi University’s first cut-off list for merit based undergraduate courses will be released on October 12, the university announced in a notification on Friday. Admissions under the first list will remain open for three days until October 14, following which applicants will be given two days time to register with the respective colleges and make payments against the first cut-off by October 16. Given the higher scores in the CBSE board examinations, cut-off scores this year are expected to be higher than last year. The university will be releasing five cut-off lists with the second list scheduled to be open from October 19 to October 21, the third list from October 26 to October 28, the fourth list from November 2 to November 4, and the fifth list from November 9 to November 11. Admissions against special cut-offs will be open from November 18 to November 20. In case of vacant seats, the university may announce more cut-offs. Dates for the release of merit lists for entrance-based courses as well as all postgraduate courses were also announced. The first list for entrance-based UG courses will be announced on October 19 and the first list for entrance and merit-based PG courses will be released on October 26. The session for such courses will commence on November 18, the notification also states. 3.53L paid applications This year, DU saw the highest number of applications ever for its UG courses with 3.53 lakh paid applications. Compared to last year, there were nearly a lakh more people who applied to courses this year.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||First look: RRTS trains to run at 180 kmph||The first look of Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) trains was unveiled here on Friday. The state-of-the-art RRTS rolling stock will be the first-of-its-kind in the country with a design speed of 180 kmph, said the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC). The entire rolling stock for the 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, the first such corridor being implemented in India aimed to bring down travel time between Delhi and Meerut to an hour (one-third of the 3-4 hours taken by road), will be manufactured at Bombardier’s Savli plant in Gujarat. The prototype is scheduled to roll off the production line in 2022 and will be put into public use after extensive trials. The NCRTC will procure 30 train sets of six cars each for operating regional rail services on the entire corridor and 10 train sets of three cars each for operating local transit services in Meerut. “Infrastructure is one of the five pillars of Atma Nirbhar Bharat envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is a matter of great pride that these high-speed, high-frequency commuter trains for RRTS are entirely being manufactured under the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy,” said Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, while unveiling the train’s first look. Economic boost He added that the environment friendly and energy-efficient trains would improve the quality of life in and around the NCR by accelerating economic growth, creating economic opportunities and at the same time reducing air pollution, carbon footprint, congestion, and accidents. “RRTS rolling stock will be energy-efficient with about 30% regeneration during braking. NCRTC has awarded the rolling stock work with an integrated long term comprehensive maintenance by the manufacturer, thus leveraging the benefits of life cycle costing. I am confident that RRTS will prove to be transport backbone for the people of NCR and will define a new benchmark in the transport sector enabling the overall growth of the region,” said NCRTC Managing Director Vinay Kumar Singh. Inside-out According to the NCRTC, the RRTS trains have radiating stainless steel outer bodies, are aerodynamic, lightweight and fully air-conditioned. Each car will have six automatic plug-in type wide doors — three on each side — along with a Business Class coach, which will have two doors on each side. The RRTS trains will have transverse 2x2 seating with adequate legroom, optimised aisle width with grab handles and grab poles for a comfortable journey for standing passengers, overhead luggage rack, mobile and laptop charging sockets as well as onboard Wi-Fi among other commuter-centric features. They will also be equipped with lighting and temperature control systems and dedicated wheelchair space located near the train doorway for easy access. According to the NCRTC, designed keeping in mind high-acceleration and high-deceleration that the train needs to undergo given the maximum operational speed of 160 kmph and stations at every 5-10 km, trains would run under Automatic Train Operation (ATO) to provide a smooth ride with precise stopping accuracy and will also save energy. Push buttons for the selective opening of doors on need basis will also be provided to eliminate the requirement of opening all doors at every station. A Business Class per train will have spacious reclining seats, which will be accessible through a special lounge at the platform-level in addition to one reserved coach in every train for women passengers. One of the three prioritised RRTS corridors being implemented in phase-1 where construction is on in full swing, civil construction work on about 50-km long section of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS, between Sahibabad and Shatabdi Nagar in Meerut is on in full swing, including the construction of four stations — Ghaziabad, Sahibabad, Guldhar and Duhai. The priority section of the corridor is targeted to be commissioned in 2023 while the entire corridor will be commissioned in 2025. According to the NCRTC, while pre-construction activities are under way on the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB corridor and its DPR is under active consideration for sanction by the Centre, the Detailed Project Report of the Delhi to Panipat RRTS corridor is also under active consideration of the respective State governments for approval.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Boy, 2 others killed in bus accident||Three people, including a minor, were killed and several others injured after a cluster bus lost control in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Thursday night, the police said on Friday. They said they received a call at 9.30 p.m. regarding the incident and a team was sent to the spot opposite Nand Nagri Bus Depot. The bus was going towards the flyover near ITI, Nand Nagri, an officer said. “Eyewitness and passengers informed that while going down the Mandoli flyover towards Bhaupura Border at main Wazirabad Road, the driver lost control of the vehicle,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya, adding that the bus hit a truck and an egg cart. The victims were shifted to SDN Hospital where Ravinder (22), a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad, Karan (12) from Mandoli, and one unidentified person (40) were declared brought dead, the DCP said. The injured — Kanchan (35) from Mandoli, Satish (45) and Sujeet (16) from Loni — are undergoing treatment, the police said. The driver is siad to be absconding. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and efforts are being made to arrest him, they said. Locals vandalise bus After the incident, the locals gathered at the spot and allegedly vandalised the bus. They created chaos at the spot. However, police said that the situation is now under control.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Truck loaded with 275 kg of marijuana seized||Delhi Police’s Crime Branch unit has seized a truck loaded with 275 kg of marijuana worth more than Rs. 15 lakh and arrested two members of the racket on Friday, officials said. The accused have been identified as Shaik Suban (39) and Sheikh Sadak Hussain (31), both residents of Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh, who work as truck drivers, they said. They always carry the consignment in a hidden chamber of the truck, specially constructed for the purpose, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rakesh Paweriya said: “We received information on early Friday morning that some persons are coming to Delhi in a truck carrying marijuana, which is to be delivered to a person in Jhilmil Industrial area. Accordingly, the accused were apprehended and our team recovered 275 kg of marijuana from the cavity of the truck. The seized consignment is worth more than Rs. 15 lakh.” During interrogation, the duo disclosed that they were handed over the consignment at Kurnool by the truck owner, who instructed them to deliver it to a person at Jhilmil Industrial area, he added. The accused further told police that due to poor economic condition at their houses, they wanted money. When they came in contact with the owner of the truck, he told them to deliver marijuana in Delhi and other States on the pretext of paying them Rs. 10,000 per visit, which they agreed to, the DCP said, adding that further investigation is under way.  Duo disclosed that they were handed over the consignment at Kurnool by the truck owner, who instructed them to deliver it to a person at Jhilmil Industrial area   Rakesh Paweriya DCP
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Second phase of online school admission begins||The Delhi government announced that it has started the second phase of its online admission process for “non-plan admission” to Classes VI-IX and XI on Friday. The government said the second phase of admission has been launched to address the concerns of parents who could not get their wards registered for online admission. The registration is open till October 3 and will be completed by Oct. 15 for Classes IX & XI and October 26 for Classes VI to VIII. In the first phase, the total number of online applications received by the Directorate of Education for Classes VI to XII is 64,995. Out of these applicants, 64,450 have been allotted school till date. “The link for submission of the online registration form is available on the home page of the department’s website www.edudel.nic.in . Applicants, who have applied earlier in the first phase and allotted schools or who are already studying or passed the previous class from govt./ govt. aided schools of the directorate, are not eligible to apply,” the government said in a statement. A centralised helpline has been issued for admission related queries. The helpline numbers 1800116888 or 10580 will be functional from 7.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. on all working days.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constables donate blood to rape victim; man held||Three Delhi Police Constables donated blood to a pregnant rape victim and also arrested the accused in the case, said officials on Friday. On pretext of marraige Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, on September 1, a 20-year-old nine-month pregnant woman approached the police stating that she was raped by a man on the pretext of marriage. She also told them that after the incident, the accused escaped to Jharkhand. Next, Sub-Inspector Nitesh registered a case on charges of rape and arrested the accused from Jharkhand on September 3, Mr. Thakur said. The accused had also promised the woman a job in Delhi, the officer said. “Due to this trauma in pregnancy period, the victim suffered blood loss and her health condition deteriorated. No one from her family was available for taking her care,” Mr. Thakur said. At this point, Ms. Nitesh admitted the girl to AIIMS and three Constables — Yogesh, Rahul and Sandeep — donated blood for her recovery, the DCP said. On September 19, the victim gave birth to a baby girl and the condition of both the mother and child is said to be stable.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||7 women held for snatching||Seven women have been arrested for allegedly trying to snatch a woman’s purse and threatening her upon resistance in Kotwali, the police said on Friday. DCP (North) said all the accused are from Mayapuri. A 38-year-old woman from Haryana’s Bawal, who runs an apparel shop in her village, complained to the police that the incident happened when she had come to Chandni Chowk to shop. She was sitting at a spot near Lal Qila chowk at 3.30 p.m. when the accused came and sat beside her. “After a while, the victim realised that one of them [accused] was trying to cut open her bag and steal her purse. When she objected, they threatened to slit her neck and then they tried to flee the spot,” Mr. Alphonse said. However, the woman raised an alarm after which passers-by nabbed the miscreants. The purse has been recovered from their possession, an officer added.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||4 policemen suspended for selling drug||Four policemen have been suspended for allegedly misreporting the quantity of marijuana seized from a peddler and for further selling the drug, said officials on Friday. Bribe from peddler  The policemen — two Sub-Inspectors and two Head Constables of Jahangirpuri police station — also took bribe from the peddler. On September 11, a raid was conducted by a team from Jahangirpuri police station at a house in their jurisduction during which approximately 160kg of marijuana was seized. The accused drug peddler — Anil — was arrested for procuring the contraband from Odisha. However, the peddler was later let off after the accused policemen settled the matter with him. The accused officers officially reported that only 1kg of drug was seized from Anil and later sold off the remaining quantity. An inquiry into the matter is still under way, the officer added. When the matter came into notice, an inquiry was initiated during which Anil was also questioned and subsequently, the names of four policemen involved in the raid came to notice. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-west) Vijayanta Arya said an inquiry into the matter is being conducted by ACP (Operations).
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man involved in 50 criminal cases held||A 44-year-old man involved in 50 criminal cases has been arrested, the police said on Thursday. They said another man has also been held in connection with the case. DCP (North) said the accused has been identified as Sanjay Kumar. The police said on September 23, a woman complained that two men had snatched her gold chain following which a case was registered. During probe, it was found that several cases of snatching have been reported on the same stretch and to keep a check, staff in plain clothes was deployed. CCTV footage and technical surveillance helped police arrest the accused.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||DDA carries out demolition drive near Dhobi Ghat, clears 2.5-acre land||In a bid to remove encroachment from the Yamuna floodplains, the DDA has carried out a demolition drive near Dhobi Ghat where a 2.5-acre land got cleared. Officials maintained that the decision was taken at a special task force meeting in compliance with orders of the NGT. Officials claimed that the residents were “repeatedly told to clear the site but nothing happened”.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||BMC violated all laws, says Kangana’s lawyer||Senior advocate Birendra Saraf, representing Kangana Ranaut, on Friday told a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathwalla and R.I. Chagla in the High Court that the photographs submitted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) weakens its case against the actor. Mr. Saraf said, “Demolishing of her bungalow is a case where all laws and provisions have been thrown out.” He said the act of demolishing alleged illegal alterations in the actor’s bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra was a “malafide action as my client had a difference of opinion and ideology with those in power”. Mr. Saraf said the timing of the action by the corporation “supports my case and clearly shows that there is malice in fact and law on the part of the civic body authorities”. He added, “Ms. Ranaut is at loggerheads with the Maharashtra government over some issues. She has displeased a party in power with her open views. She had to face death threats and seek special protection from the Centre. [Shiv Sena MP] Sanjay Raut has made derogatory statements against Kangana on TV channels. He said Kangana needs to be taught a lesson. On the same day that Mr. Raut made the remarks, an officer from the BMC visited the property and entered it without prior notice. The timing of the visit assumes relevance.” On Friday, Bhagyavant Late, the designated officer of H West ward, filed a rejoinder with photos of the office at the actor’s bungalow. Mr. Late said the photographs showed unauthorised construction. The 58-page document said, “The petitioner [Ms. Ranaut] was carrying out extensive work on her premises [with six workmen] and had made substantial alterations and additions contrary to the approved building plan. Action under Section 354 A (power of designated officer to stop erection of building or work commenced or carried on unlawfully) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act was fully justified and allegations of malafides in law are unwarranted and false.” It added, “The first inspection report recorded the presence of workmen and work going on in the said property and bags filled with construction waste, but contained no details of the ongoing work. Based on the report, an inspection was carried out on September 7 and it was found that unlawful additions and alterations had been carried out contrary to the sanctioned building plans.” Mr. Saraf argued for two hours and will continue with his arguments on Monday.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||Plea seeks benefits under health scheme for all COVID-19 patients||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court recently issued a notice to the State government after a plea sought benefits under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana for all COVID-19 patients and not just for those on ventilators. A Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Om Prakash Shete, the former head of the Chief Minister’s Medical Assistance Cell, on September 7. It stated that the government through a GR on August 4, 2016, introduced the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, which provided free medical treatment to people below poverty the line, beneficiaries under the Annapurna scheme, orange and yellow ration card holders, farmers from 14 suicide-prone districts, students from government residential schools, senior citizens and women from shelter homes and orphanages, and journalists and their families. The plea said, “Due to the highest number of COVID 19 patients, there are no beds/space in government hospitals. On May 23, 2020, there was a government resolution, where the State included COVID-19 patients under the scheme. The category pertains to COVID-19 situation included in Schedule ‘A’, which is limited only to patients with critical care i.e. with ventilator assistance and other life support systems. When common COVID-19 patients, who are otherwise eligible as beneficiaries under the scheme, approached an empanelled hospital, they were not bestowed with the benefits of the scheme.” The plea said the “non-application of mind of authorities and non-inclusion of all COVID-19 patients” led to common people requiring to pay huge medical bills at private hospitals. The reason they get admitted to private hospitals is the lack of availability of beds in government hospitals. The PIL sought a direction to the State to provide free medical aid to COVID-19 patients at private hospitals under the scheme. The court has posted the matter for September 30.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||Non-implementation will amount to betrayal of farmers: Fadnavis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said not implementing the farm Bills in Maharashtra would mean nothing less than a betrayal of farmers. He said it was the Congress that had included these Bills in its 2019 election manifesto. “How can the party oppose it now? The party should have said that it would implement the Bills if it comes to power and oppose them if another party comes to power,” he said. Congress leader H.K. Patil, who is on his first visit to the State after being appointed Maharashtra in-charge, said party leaders will be meeting Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to hand over a memorandum, demanding the withdrawal of the Bills, on Monday. “This is nothing but lies by the BJP that these Bills were part of the Congress manifesto. We never promised such draconian laws,” he said. The Maharashtra Congress is starting a month-long online campaign against the Bills from Saturday. The party will also observe October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, as Kisan Majdoor Bachao Divas and launch a month-long signature campaign.
26 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB quizzes actor Rakul Preet Singh||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday questioned actor Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, and Dharma Productions’ executive producer Kshitij Ravi, in the drugs probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The NCB has asked Ms. Prakash to appear before it again on Saturday, when it would also be recording Ms. Padukone’s statement, an official said. Ms. Prakash was questioned for about seven hours. Mr. Ravi, who was taken to the NCB guest house from his residence in Versova in the morning after he returned to the city, had not come out till late in the evening.
26 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police fail to recover murdered man’s body||The Kasarvadavali police failed to recover the body of Rakesh Patil, the son of a Shiv Sena corporator from Shanti Nagar in Thane, on the second day of search in Vashi creek on Friday. “We searched for the body the whole day before calling off the operation. We took the help of local fishermen, the fire brigade and disaster management officials, but the body was not found. The body might have got washed away,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, Thane, Subhash Burse, said. Rakesh, son of corporator Manik Patil, went missing from his house in Vijay Nagar in Wagle Estate along with 3.5 kg of gold on September 20. The same day, Mr. Manik Patil registered a missing person’s complaint with the Kasarvadavali police. On September 24, the police found the victim’s two-wheeler in the possession of Gaurav Singh, the driver of Rakesh’s stepbrother Sachin. Mr. Singh said Rakesh and his father had recently patched up after a property dispute and this angered Sachin, the son of Mr. Manik Patil’s third wife. Mr. Singh said Sachin took Rakesh to a bungalow belonging to Mr. Manik Patil in Wagle Estate on September 19. “Sachin and Rakesh had an argument while having alcohol and they later went to sleep. The next morning, Sachin shot him dead and dumped the body in a sack and threw it in Vashi creek,” an officer from the Kasarvadavali police station said. Mr. Burse said the police are on the lookout for Sachin who is on the run.
26 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Marathas stage protests outside tehsildar offices||The Maratha Kranti Morcha on Friday staged simultaneous protests outside 13 tehsildar offices in Raigad district, demanding steps by the State government to vacate the Supreme Court’s stay order on Maratha reservation. The group called for a freeze on government recruitment drives till the community gets justice. The protests were held outside tehsildar offices in Panvel, Karjat, Uran, Mhasla, Khalapur, Alibaug, Roha, Shrivardhan, Mahad, Poladpur, Tala, Mangaon and Pen in the district. Vinod Sabale, Raigad coordinator of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, said, “In many high-profile cases, when the Supreme Court refers a case to a larger Constitution Bench, it is transferred without any stay. In our case, the reservation got stayed. This is injustice. We had received justice after fighting for around 35 years. In 2018, we finally received 16% reservation, but the next year, it was reduced by around 4% by the High Court. Yet, we made a compromise.” Mr. Sabale said the Chief Minister had assured the community that a solution would be found, but then the government announced the recruitment process to appoint 12,500 police personnel. He said, “Over this period, 42 youths have committed suicide in the fight for the reservation. It is not an easy struggle. We have requested the government to stall the recruitment process till we get justice.” He said if the government does not take cognisance of their problems, then they will be forced to intensify their protests.
26 September 2020||Pune,||‘MVA govt. opposed to enacting farm, labour Bills’||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday clarified that the Maharashtra government had no plans of implementing the contentious farmer and labour Bills passed by the Narendra Modi-led Central government. Mr. Pawar’s statement in Pune came in the backdrop of protesting farmer outfits, who demonstrated against the Bills as part of the shutdown called by the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Samanvay Samiti. “What was the need [of the Modi government] to pass these Bills in such a hurry? They do not seem to be beneficial to farmers. Several farmer outfits across the country have vehemently opposed them. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), along with several other political parties, are strongly opposed to it as well,” said Mr. Pawar, speaking on the sidelines of a COVID-19 review meeting in the city. He said while the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was currently studying the legalities, the fact that they were pushed through Parliament cast aspersions on whether they would ultimately be beneficial to farmers. Growing opposition Farmer outfits, including the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) and the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), staged protests across the State, burning copies of the Bills while raising slogans against the Modi-led government. Protests were prominent in Kolhapur and Buldhana – both strongholds of the SSS, as well as Nanded, Jalna and Ahmednagar. “The AIKS has staged protests in 21 districts of Maharashtra on Friday. We have made a  bonfire of the Bills and protested in front of tehsil and Collector offices while staging rasta roko. It is heartening to see that the ruling parties, the NCP, the Shiv Sena and the Congress are also participating wholeheartedly in these protests,” said Ajit Nawale, State Secretary, AIKS. Dr. Nawale said the Centre had cleverly couched the Bills as a means of ‘freeing’ the farmers from the exploitative practices of the agricultural committees. “However, in reality, the Centre is washing its hands of its responsibility of looking after the welfare of farmers by subjecting them to the whims of the corporates,” he said, adding that under these Bills, market committees are to be dismantled, which will thereby destroy the system of guaranteed prices to farmers.  The Centre is washing its hands of its responsibility of looking after the welfare of farmers Ajit Nawale State Secretary, AIKS
26 September 2020||Pune,||Shetti: will offer support if Centre promises MSP||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Friday reiterated his opposition to the Centre’s farm Bills and said destroying the system of agricultural produce market committees (APMC) and replacing it with contract farming did not guarantee that farmers would not be exploited. Speaking in Kolhapur, Mr. Shetti said he is willing to support the Bills only if Prime Minister Modi announces a minimum support price for farmers. “The Centre must understand that our protest is not merely a political agitation. We are upset as there is a sinister intent behind passing these three Bills, which the Modi government could do so only on the strength of a brute majority,” said Mr. Shetti, who burnt copies of the Bills while his party workers staged protests across Maharashtra. He said around 30% of the foodgrains produced in the country are procured by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) through APMCs. He said, “The Centre purchases agricultural commodities with a minimum guarantee. That is their responsibility. It acts as a base for farmers.” Mr. Shetti said farmers are worried about what would happen to their MSP once the corporates took over. He said, “Farmers in Maharashtra have not been hit hard yet. So, there is relative peace here. But in Bihar, farmers are selling maize at Rs. 1,100 per quintal even though the guaranteed price is Rs. 1,850 per quintal. Who is responsible for this?” Mr. Shetti said there was widespread anxiety that the FCI and NAFED would be sold to corporates. Given that 80% farmers in India are smallholders, Mr. Shetti said they were extremely vulnerable to corporate exploitation.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Strong line of defence||
26 September 2020||BEIJING,||China aims to make 1 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses a year||A Chinese health official said on Friday that the country’s annual production capacity for novel coronavirus vaccines will top 1 billion doses next year, following an aggressive government support programme for construction of new factories. Capacity is expected to reach 610 million doses by the end of this year, Zheng Zhongwei from the National Health Commission said. “Next year, our annual capacity will reach more than 1 billion doses,” he said at a news conference. American pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna aim to produce a billion doses each in 2021 as well. Mr. Zheng said distribution of the vaccines would prioritize groups such as medical workers, border personnel and the elderly before they are made available to the general public. China has promoted the construction of vaccine testing facilities and manufacturing plants, and assigned independent monitors for their assembly. 11 candidates China has 11 vaccine candidates in human trials, with four of them currently in the third and final trials. One of those is CoronaVac, made by the private company SinoVac, which is already rolling off the factory floor at a bio-secure facility outside Beijing. SinoVac’s Chairman, Yin Weidong, said Thursday that the factory was built in months, and more could be constructed if demand is sufficient. Some nations are pooling vaccine efforts to ensure success against the disease. More than 150 countries are setting up the COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX, under the World Health Organization. WHO sets goal Their target is to make 2 billion doses to inoculate 20% of the world’s population. The Director-General of WHO, Tedros Ghebreyesus, said earlier this month that “the goal must be to vaccinate some people in all countries, rather than all the people in some countries.”
26 September 2020||OAKLAND,||Facebook critics start rival, independent ‘oversight board’||A group of prominent Facebook critics, including one of the social network’s early investors and a journalist facing jail time in the Philippines, are launching their version of an “oversight board” to rival the company’s own. The group says Facebook is taking too long to set up its oversight panel, which they argue is too limited in its scope and autonomy. The critics, who include early investor Roger McNamee, Filipino journalist Maria Ressa and Shoshana Zuboff, author of “Surveillance Capitalism,” are warning that Facebook is already being used to undermine the integrity of the U.S. presidential election and are calling for “proper independent scrutiny” of the company. The group says it was started to sound the alarm about Facebook’s role in the coming election. The announcement on Friday comes a day after Facebook said its own, quasi-independent oversight board, which has faced numerous delays since the company announced its creation in 2018, will launch in October. Facebook’s own panel is intended to rule on thorny content issues, such as when Facebook or Instagram posts constitute hate speech. It will be empowered to make binding rulings on whether posts or ads violate the company’s rules. Any other findings it makes will be considered “guidance” by Facebook. Its 20 members, which will eventually grow to 40, include a former Prime Minister of Denmark, the former editor-in-chief of the Guardian newspaper, along with legal scholars, human rights experts and journalists, such as Tawakkol Karmanm, a Nobel Laureate and journalist from Yemen, and Julie Owono, a digital rights advocate.
26 September 2020||LONDON,||Police officer shot dead at custody centre in London||A British police officer was shot dead in the early hours of Friday by a man who was being held at a custody centre in south London. Police said the incident occurred around 2.15 a.m. while the man was being detained at the Croydon Custody Centre, where arrested suspects are processed. The unnamed officer was treated at the scene for injuries but died in hospital. The 23-year-old suspect is thought to have then turned the gun on himself. He was taken to hospital with a gunshot wound and is in a critical condition. Officers did not open fire. “A murder investigation is under way and officers are working at several crime scenes to secure evidence and to establish the facts of what happened,” said London police chief Cressida Dick, who described the incident as “truly shocking”. “Early indications are that the suspect shot himself. This has not yet, of course, been established as a fact.” Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “My deepest condolences go to the family, friends and colleagues of the police officer who was killed in Croydon last night. We owe a huge debt to those who risk their own lives to keep us safe.” The killing of an officer is a rare event in Britain, where the vast majority of police remain routinely unarmed. The BBC said only 16 other London police officers had been killed by a firearm since Second World War. “This is a sad day for our country and another terrible reminder of how our police officers put themselves in danger each and every day to keep the rest of us safe,” said Home Secretary Priti Patel. The last officers to be shot dead while on duty were unarmed police constables Fiona Bone, 32, and Nicola Hughes, 23, in 2012.
26 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Mahinda to discuss fishermen’s concerns with Modi||Following a meeting with Sri Lanka’s northern fisher leaders, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has promised to take up their concern over “trespassing Indian trawlers” with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the virtual summit scheduled on Saturday. “Our fisher leaders from the Northern Province raised the issue of Indian trawlers poaching in our waters, and using banned fishing practices, often damaging the boats and fishing nets of Sri Lankan fishermen. PM Rajapaksa said he will take up the matter with PM Modi,” Sri Lanka’s Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda told The Hindu on Friday. “There is a fear that our Navy may not be arresting them fearing the Indian fishermen might be carriers of the coronavirus,” he added. While Sri Lankan Navy arrested 210 Indian fishermen in 2019, only 34 have been arrested so far this year. Some fisher leaders, including from Point Pedro, point to a “persisting problem” of Indian trawlers, but others note that the number of trespassing bottom-trawlers has come down considerably, especially after Sri Lanka introduced tougher laws and stiff fines for foreign vessels. “There are also some local fishermen who engage in banned fishing practices. PM Rajapaksa has promised to look into that as well,” said Annalingam Annarasa, leader of the federation of fisher cooperative societies in Jaffna, after Friday’s meeting. Complaints of Indian fishermen, most originating from Tamil Nadu, will likely be one of the issues taken up by the two leaders in India’s first virtual summit in the neighbourhood. Bilateral cooperation, including development partnership, regional security, COVID-19 response and the political situation are expected to be discussed. Sri Lanka’s Tamil leadership has expressed hope that the leaders will discuss the pending Tamil question, especially in the wake of some in government calling for abolition of provincial councils, the only structural guarantee so far of a measure of power devolution to the provinces. Closest neighbours R. Sampanthan, the Trincomalee MP and leader of the Tamil National Alliance, said the TNA very wished that India-Sri Lanka relations are further strengthened and that they “continue to be closest neighbours of each other, in every possible way”. “We are historically, culturally, religiously linguistically very closely associated with each other. This relationship, in my view, will be greatly strengthened by a negotiated peaceful resolution of the national issue in Sri Lanka relating to the Tamil question,” he told The Hindu on the eve of the leaders’ meeting. “We fully support PM Modi’s message conveyed to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa that the Tamil question must be addressed on the basis of justice, equality and dignity. We want a solution on that basis within the framework of a united, undivided, indivisible Sri Lanka. And we do sincerely hope that the strengthening of relations between India and Sri Lanka will contribute towards the achievement of that objective and will further strengthen our friendship,” he said.
26 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. proposes changes to student, media visas||In line with the Trump administration’s progressive restrictions on visas, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has proposed a rule limiting the duration of initial admission for foreign media (I visas), students (F visas) and exchange visitors (J visas). The rule proposes fixed time periods and extension periods for the three visa categories, which currently operate under the “duration of status” framework. Under the present system, visa holders in these categories are allowed to remain in the U.S. for as long as the conditions of admission are met (for example, as long as an F visa holder is enrolled in a university and meeting other conditions). This rule, if finalised, will change that. Under the new proposed rule, F and J students would be admitted for an initial period of four years only (the normal duration of an American undergraduate degree). This rule is likely to mean that Ph.D. students — who typically need more than four years to complete their programme in America — will need to apply for extensions. There are some exceptions to the four-year rule. The duration of stay will be two years for those from countries with visa-overstay rates greater than 10% and those non-U.S. citizens either born in or holding citizenship of a country on the State Sponsors of Terrorism list. F and J students already admitted will have their “duration of status” (i.e., “D/S” is stamped at the port of entry in travel documents) terms converted to a term ending with the end of their programme (not to exceed four years) if and when the proposed DHS rule becomes final. Most countries with the highest over-stay rates are from Africa and none are in Europe (U.S. fiscal year 2018), according to a analysis done by immigration firm Boundless. “The significant growth of the F, J and I visa programs has necessitated this proposed update to ensure the integrity of the U.S. immigration system, but this rule does not propose changes to the underlying requirements to qualify for these non-immigrant classifications,” a DHS press statement said. As per the proposal published in the federal register, the rule would help limit fraud in the F-1 programme. For the media visas, under the proposal foreign journalists would have to apply again at the end of their limited duration of stay for an extension “at which point immigration officers can review their activities in the United States,” the proposed rule says. President Donald Trump has had a strained relationship with the media and the current rule could theoretically place journalists who have written critical pieces on the president or administration in a vulnerable position. Foreign media visa holders will initially be admitted for a period not exceeding 240 days with “an opportunity to extend their stay for a maximum of 240 days based on the length of relevant activities,” the statement said. Theproposed rule is open to the public for commentsuntil October 26, 2020.
26 September 2020||London,||‘No decision on Assange extradition before U.S. poll’||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will have to wait until after the U.S. election to find out whether he will be extradited to face espionage charges there, the British judge presiding over his hearing said on Friday. Mr. Assange faces 18 charges in the U.S. relating to the 2010 release by WikiLeaks of 5,00,000 secret files detailing aspects of military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. Evidence in the extradition hearing at London’s Old Bailey court is due to close next week, but Judge Vanessa Baraitser agreed to Mr. Assange’s lawyer’s request for time to prepare his closing arguments. “Evidently it seems unlikely we will be able to get judgment before November 4,” lawyer Edward Fitzgerald, representing the Australian, told the court. “You have to bear in mind there is an election and the future is uncertain.” Mr. Fitzgerald claims the move to extradite his client is politically motivated under President Donald Trump, telling the court that some aspects of his defence, linked to the President, “would be worse if Mr. Trump was there”. Judge Baraitser concluded that “one way or another my decision is likely to go after the election in the U.S.” and gave the defence four weeks to prepare their arguments, and the U.S. government a further two weeks. Washington claims Mr. Assange helped intelligence analyst and whistleblower Chelsea Manning to steal the documents before exposing confidential sources around the world.
26 September 2020||PARIS,||Terror probe opened after two stabbed in Paris||French terrorism authorities are investigating a double-stabbing outside the former Paris offices of a satirical newspaper where a dozen people were killed in 2015, and two suspects have been arrested in Friday’s violence, authorities said. France’s counterterrorism prosecutor said authorities suspect a terrorist motive because of the place and timing of the stabbings- in front of the building, where Charlie Hebdo was based until the Islamic extremist attack on its cartoonists and at a time when suspects in the 2015 attack are on trial across town. Prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said that the chief suspect in Friday’s stabbings was arrested, along with another person. Mr. Ricard said the assailant did not know the people who were stabbed, two workers in a documentary production company who had stepped outside for a smoke break.
26 September 2020||BRUSSELS,||EU leader hits out at U.K. on post-Brexit plan||European Union leader Charles Michel used the virtual pulpit of the U.N. General Assembly on Friday to lash out at Britain for its threats to renege on parts of the withdrawal treaty it signed with the EU and warned that the 27-nation bloc won’t back down in the final weeks of acrimonious talks on a free trade deal. Mr. Michel made unmistakable references to the U.K. when he said that “respect for treaties, a basic principle of international law, comes to be considered optional even by those who, until recently, were its historical guarantors.” “All this in the name of partisan interests.” he said.
26 September 2020||CAIRO,||At least 13 people drown in migrant shipwreck off Libya||At least 13 migrants trying to reach Europe drowned in the Mediterranean Sea when their small dinghy capsized off the coast of Libya, the United Nations reported on Friday. Libyan fishermen spotted the sinking boat late on Thursday, said the International Organization for Migration. They managed to pull 22 people from the water, including those from Egypt, Bangladesh, Syria, Somalia and Ghana.AP
26 September 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Sept 25, 2020 (AFP) -||Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed on Friday a pact with the U.S. against interfering in each other's elections, just weeks before the U.S. polls. He called for the two nations to “exchange guarantees of non-interference in each others' domestic affairs, including polls,” and particularly noted the use of “information and communication technologies”.AFP
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sowing seeds of doubt||In June 2020, 55-year-old Shingara Singh in Fatehpur village in Patiala, Punjab, sold his spring season maize crop at Rs. 700-Rs. 800 per quintal, far below the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs. 1,850/q fixed by the Central government for the season’s crop. He says private traders buy the produce at a much lower price than the MSP. In the upcoming Rabi (winter) season, Shingara is hoping to get a remunerative price for his wheat crop. In Punjab and Haryana, the Central government purchases wheat and paddy (rice) at the MSP, which gives farmers an assured market and return. But Shingara is worried that following the passage of the farm bills in Parliament last week, even wheat and paddy will face the same fate that crops that are not purchased by the government agencies of the State or the Centre face. The Central government says the three bills — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill — are aimed at transforming agriculture in the country and raising farmers’ income. The provisions of the bills, it says, will enable barrier-free trade in agricultural produce and empower farmers to engage with investors of their choice. ‘I can’t trust private players’ But farmers are not convinced by the government’s promises. In both Punjab and Haryana, farmers are up in arms against the three farm bills. They fear that they are a step towards abolition of the MSP regime, leaving farmers to suffer possible exploitation at the hands of big corporate houses. And the fear is not limited to any one group of farmers; it is shared by marginal, small and large/ other farmers. While marginal farmers (those cultivating upto two and a half acres of land) and small farmers (those cultivating upto five acres) fear that they will be completely pushed out of agriculture, large farmers (cultivating over five acres) feel they may be able to ride it out for a few years, but will eventually find it difficult to stand up to multinational corporations and big traders. Shingara is wary of dealing with private companies. His fear is rooted in his experience of trading with a company. He started sowing barley crop around eight years ago after a liquor manufacturing company near his village offered to buy his crop. “The company makes beer. People from the company came to our village and wanted us farmers to cultivate barley. They said the company would purchase our produce at a higher price than the MSP. Initially, for two-three years, they did pay us Rs. 400 above the MSP. But later, when several farmers started sowing the crop and supply increased, they were reluctant to buy the produce at that assured price. On the pretext of quality, they either rejected the produce or paid us a lower price. After 2015-16, I stopped cultivating barley,” he says. Dilbag Singh, 44, another farmer from the same village, who has over 15 acres of family land, speaks of a similar experience that left him poorer. “A local pea processing industry asked me to plant green peas. In 2012, representatives of the company approached me and said they would pay Rs. 8.5 per kg. They prepared some documents as well. I planted the crop. When the crop was ready, I took a tractor trolley with around 100 bags (50 kg each) of produce to their unit, but they were unwilling to buy my crop citing poor quality. It was only after the intervention of local farmer outfits that they purchased my crop. Later, I sold the rest of my crop that I had sown in five acres of land at Rs. 2-Rs. 3 per kg in the local mandi (market place). I had to bear heavy lossses,” he says. “I can’t trust them anymore.” The story is no different in other parts of the State. In Tibba Tapprian village in Rupnagar district, Dharmpal Singh, who owns close to three acres of land, says he sold 25 quintals of maize crop at Rs. 800/q at the Balachaur mandi a few days ago. “The government announces the MSP, but what’s the use if I have to sell my crop below the MSP? Government agencies should buy farmers’ produce at the MSP or make it legally mandatory for private traders to purchase crop at the MSP,” says the 56-year-old. A senior government official points out that the government did not intervene as maize is not distributed under the Public Distribution System (PDS). “Government purchases only those crops that are distributed under the PDS. Maize is not among those crops,” says Gurvinder Singh, Joint Director at Punjab’s Agriculture Department. Surjit Singh, 65, fears that mandis under the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) will gradually vanish if private trade is allowed without any government regulation. “Trade within the mandi through the arthiya (commission agent) is taxable, which includes rural development fee, market fee and the commission of the agent. But after these bills, no taxes will be levied on trade outside the regulated mandis,” he says. “That means private traders and companies can offer a higher price to farmers as they won’t have to pay tax. Once they start offering a better price to farmers than what is offered in the mandis, it is but natural that farmers will be inclined to sell their produce to them. And over time, with trade outside the mandis growing, the mandis will eventually disappear. As I stand against the new bills, I have decided I’ll sell my crop of Basmati rice only through the mandi. But for how long will I be able to do this? I can negotiate with private traders or companies to some extent because I have better resources than the small and marginal farmers (he owns over 25 acres of land in Patiala’s Lachkani village). Yet, against the big corporate houses, it will be a losing battle,” he says. A strong, age-old bond While the government says farmers can now trade anywhere, Gurmukh Singh, 47, asks how that will be possible as they cannot afford the hefty transport costs. Gurmukh is a small farmer with around four acres of family land in Lachkani village. He has sown paddy in his field. With hardly any resources to store or transport his produce, he is extremely worried. “Once I harvest my crop, I sell it at the local mandi. Even if I get a higher price from private traders in some faraway place, it won’t be easy for me take my produce there. I do not have the capacity or resources to trade my crop at distant places. So, even if the bills promise us the freedom to sell anywhere, it seems a distant dream in practice,” he says. “Moreover”, he adds, “I can’t leave my commission agent for private traders. The relation with my arthiya goes back generations. Whenever I am in need, I get money from him. He pays me in advance for the crop that is to be harvested. Such a relationship based on trust will be difficult to establish with private traders or companies.” In Patiala’s Ranbirpura village, Avtar Singh, who owns two and a half acres of land, is equally grateful to his commission agent. “I have already taken an advance of Rs. 1 lakh from him for the paddy crop that I had planted this season. It would have been next to impossible for me to cultivate my farm if my arthiya had not given me the advance. He gave me an advance only because he is assured that my paddy crop, which I’ll sell through him, will be purchased by government agencies at the MSP. If the government stops purchasing paddy or wheat at the MSP, I don’t think I’ll be able to cultivate any crop on the farm. No one will give me an advance or offer any financial help without a tangible guarantee,” he says. Avtar fears that once the parallel private market starts functioning outside the regulated market, there will eventually be no MSP in that market. “The government should come out with another bill making MSP a statutory right of the farmers,” he says. Commission agents and labourers working in grain markets have their own concerns about the new bills. “The government has announced the MSP for several crops but it is only for wheat and paddy that farmers actually get the MSP. And that’s because the government buys it. For instance, this year, government agencies purchased wheat at an MSP of Rs. 1,925/q during the official procurement. But now, after government purchase, the wheat is being bought by private traders at Rs. 1,600/q-Rs. 1,650/q in the mandi here. The government, it seems, wants to remove us from the market,” says Mulk Raj Gupta, president, Arthiya Association, Patiala new grain market. “But they possibly don’t realise how many people are generating employment in this entire chain, be it labourers, staff at shops, employees of market committees or others,” he says. In the grain market, Badri Mukhiya, 45, who hails from Bihar, ropes in labourers from his State. He says he has been coming to Punjab since 1990, but is now worried after hearing that work at the mandi could reduce. Work includes loading and unloading of produce and cleaning of grain. “If farmers stop coming to the mandi altogether or even if fewer farmers come, there will be less work. The livelihood of at least 20 people and their families who are associated with me is dependent on the work we do here. We earn around Rs. 400 a day, but we will have to return to our native place if there’s no work. Everyone is worried,” he says.  Concerns and responses Agricultural experts have expressed their reservations about the bills as well. Lakhwinder Singh, Professor of Economics and Coordinator at the Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies at Punjabi University, Patiala, has been mapping rural Punjab for decades. He says these bills have generated a lot of suspicion as they were passed through the ordinance route. “The new bills state that the foodgrain trade will be in the hands of private traders. But no safeguards have been enacted. The majority of farmers in India are small and marginal farmers. They usually wait for the crop to be harvested in order to fulfil their basic needs. They don’t have the capacity to trade the food at distant places. Therefore, the claim that farmers will have the freedom to sell does not hold true. Giving private players the freedom of foodgrain trade without any regulation will eventually lead to the emergence of monopolies, oligopolies or a cartel system,” he says. Noted economist and professor at the Ludhiana-based Punjab Agricultural University, Sukhpal Singh, points out that 86% of Indian farmers have less than five acres of land, and 67% of farmers have less than two and a half acres of land. “These are the victims of the grave economic crisis. How can these small farmers sell their produce in other markets? What is the purpose of new markets if small farmers cannot participate in them? How will the new private markets operate? These new markets will not have any regulation and they won’t be taxed by the State government. State governments will regulate only the already running markets. In Punjab, for instance, these markets levy 8.5% tax, including 3% market fee, 3% rural development fund, and 2.5% commission of the commission agents. Thus this year, the tax is around Rs. 155/q on paddy and about Rs. 164/q on wheat. This means that due to non-tax on private purchase, the purchase of paddy and wheat will be cheaper for private buyers to the extent of Rs. 155-Rs. 164/q. Initially, even if private markets offer farmers Rs. 55/q-Rs. 64/q on paddy and wheat purchases, they (private traders) would still get a profit of Rs. 100/q. Government procurement will be affected as farmers will be inclined towards private markets. As the volume of purchase increases in the new system, the government will reduce its purchase target. Gradually, government procurement will be negated. In such a situation, the prices of crops in private markets will be reduced,” he says. In response to all these concerns, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a series of tweets in English, Hindi and Punjabi that MSP will continue. “Government procurement will continue. We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations,” he tweeted. He added the government was bringing in these provisions as middlemen have been bullying farmers for years. Union Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has also tried to allay fears. He said the APMC system will continue. Alleging that the Opposition was trying to mislead the country, Tomar said, “Farmers, so far, were forced to sell their produce in mandis. In Punjab there’s 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, through these bills, the farmers will be able to sell their produce even outside the ambit of the mandi.” The distance between traders and farmers will reduce now, Tomar told Parliament. “If a trader will visit a village, farmers of that village will assemble at one place to sell their produce. [The] trader will fix the rate of purchase after discussing with farmers. The trader will purchase the produce and take that away in a truck. Farmers will not have to go anywhere to sell their produce,” he said. Playing politics over the bills Despite the government’s assurances, concerns persist, and not only among the Opposition parties. After initially supporting the ordinances pushed by the National Democratic Alliance government, Shiromani Akali Dal, an old alliance partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party, decided to take a U-turn on the issue. The Akali Dal’s lone representative in the Union Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, quit the Cabinet in protest against the bills. In her resignation letter to the Prime Minister, Badal wrote, “In view of the decision of the Government of India to go ahead with the Bill on the issue of marketing of agricultural produce without addressing and removing the apprehensions of the farmers and the decision of my party, Shiromani Akali Dal not to be a part of anything that goes against the interests of the farmers, I find it impossible to continue to perform my duties as a minister in the Union Council of Ministers.” The Akali Dal has also accused the Congress government in Punjab of “double speak” on the issue. The Congress government in 2017 amended the State APMC Act after coming to power in Punjab to include provisions similar to those in the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Akali Dal claimed. According to the State Act, trade can be done only after obtaining a licence from the government in its mandis under the Punjab Mandi Board or the private mandis. However, according to the Centre’s new farm bills, no licence from the State government is required; any PAN card holder can engage in trade. Besides, no private or government mandi is required for trade under the new farm bills. Trade can be done outside the physical premises of markets or deemed markets notified under various State agricultural produce market laws. The ruling Congress party, on the other hand, accused the Akali Dal of misleading people on the farm bills and asked the party to part ways with the NDA. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said that the Akali Dal’s claims of standing shoulder to shoulder with the farmers are hollow as long as it remains a part of the Central government. In neighbouring Haryana, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, whose Jannayak Janta Party is part of the coalition government with the BJP, has made it clear that while there’s no mention of doing away with the MSP in the farm bills, he will quit if the MSP is indeed discontinued. That leaves a question mark on the alliance. While parties spar with one another, farmers are concerned about the present. On September 25 afternoon, hundreds of angry farmers sat on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway at the Shambhu border of Punjab-Haryana, protesting against the bills. Jasbir Singh, 55, who owns two and a half acres of land in Kutha Kheri village in Patiala’s Rajpura Tehsil, says he has enough cash in hand to undertake farming operations. “But after harvesting my paddy crop, I’ll be needing money for sowing wheat in my field. It’s only my arthiya who will give me an advance. If mandis go redundant and arthiyas go away, how will I sustain myself? I am under a debt of about Rs. 2.5 lakh. I don’t think I have a choice but to sell my land,” he says as he drops his head in despair.  Once I harvest my crop, I sell it at the local mandi. Even if I get a higher price from private traders, I do not have the resources to trade my crop at distant places. So, even if the bills promise us the freedom to sell anywhere, it seems a distant dream in practice. Gurmukh Singh, 47 Farmer, Lachkani village, Patiala   How will the new private markets operate? These new markets will not have any regulation and they won’t be taxed by the State government. Sukhpal Singh Economist and professor at the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Parliamentary scrutiny on the back burner||There must be triumphant laughter in the resting places of those who argued in the 1940s that India is not suited for parliamentary democracy. Their reasons varied from the political culture to the proverbial social diversity of India, or even the Gandhian idea of swaraj that were construed as not easily amenable to forge representative institutions characteristic of parliamentary democracy. Providing the lead At the same time, there were others who forcefully defended the appropriateness of parliamentary democracy for India on grounds of representativeness, responsiveness and accountability. They argued that the wielders of power have to continuously demonstrate their responsiveness to public interest on a day-to-day basis in this dispensation; that even a small minority can play a significant role, and that those who wield public power would be subject to a close audit of their actions at the level of their constituencies. There is a running thread across the Constituent Assembly Debates that Parliament at the Centre and legislatures in the States would be the key institutions around which parliamentary democracy in India would revolve. While the State legislatures in India have tended to largely imitate Parliament, without evolving an institutional culture of their own to this end, much rested on Parliament to provide a lead in this regard. While there were a few buds of hope in this regard at times, they seem to be withering far too early. Committee system Over the years, the Indian Parliament has increasingly taken recourse to the committee system (as its counterparts did elsewhere). This was not merely meant for house keeping, to enhance the efficacy of the House to cope with the technical issues confronting it and to feel the public pulse, but also to guard its turf and keep it abreast to exercise accountability on the government. Some committees such as the Estimates Committee and Public Accounts Committee (that even go back to the colonial period) have a commendable record in this regard. The executive in independent India, irrespective of the parties in power, was not very disposed to committees of scrutiny and oversight, sometimes on the specious plea that they usurped the powers of Parliament. This was far from the case. They were guardians of the autonomy of the House: the committees of scrutiny and oversight, as the case with other committees of the House, are not divided on party lines, work away from the public glare, remain informal compared to the codes that govern parliamentary proceedings, and are great training schools for new and young members of the House. In the discharge of their mandate, they can solicit expert advice and elicit public opinion. The officialdom in India has often attempted to take cover under political masters to avoid the scrutiny of committees. Besides the standing committees, the Houses of Parliament set up, from time to time, ad hoc committees to enquire and report on specific subjects which include Select Committees of a House or Joint Select committees of both the Houses that are assigned the task of studying a Bill closely and reporting back to the House. Some faultlines While there is much to commend about the routine working of the parliamentary committee system in India, it has not been creative or imaginative. The presiding officers of the Houses who had to give up leadership in this regard have tended to imitate changes and innovations done elsewhere (such as in Britain). The chairman of the Rajya Sabha, being the Vice-President of India, cannot probably distance himself much from the stance of the Cabinet, but even when it comes to the Lok Sabha, very few Speakers, with exceptions such as G.V. Mavalankar, P.A. Sangma and Somnath Chatterjee, have taken cudgels with their party leaders to uphold the autonomy of the House. However, ground was broken in 1993 when 17 Committees (later increased to 24) of Parliament, the Departmentally-related Standing Committees (DRSCs), drawing members from both Houses roughly in proportion to the strength of the political parties in the Houses, were set up. They were envisaged to be the face of Parliament in a set of inter-related departments and ministries. They were assigned the task of looking into the demands for grants of the ministries/departments concerned, to examine Bills pertaining to them, to consider their annual reports, and to look into their long-term plans and report to Parliament. A gradual marginalisation It is important to point out that committees of scrutiny and advice, both standing and ad hoc , have been confined to the margins or left in the lurch in the last few years. Data by PRS India brings this out eloquently. While 60% of the Bills in the 14th Lok Sabha and 71% in the 15th Lok Sabha were wetted by the DRSCs concerned, this proportion came down to 27% in the 16th Lok Sabha. Apart from the DRSCs, the government has shown extreme reluctance to refer Bills to Select Committees of the Houses or Joint Parliamentary Committees. The last Bill referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee was The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Second Amendment) Bill, in 2015. Some of the most momentous Acts of Parliament in recent years such as the radical overhaul of Article 370 that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divided the State into two Union Territories were not processed by any House committee. Given their large-scale implications and the popular protests against them, the three Bills related to agricultural produce and the three labour Bills that overhauled conditions of work, terms of employment, grievance redress and social security in the monsoon session of Parliament were cases that definitely deserved to be scrutinised by Select Committees of the Houses. But the government used its majority in both the Houses of Parliament and steamrolled the Bills (with hardly any discussion), amid the predictable din and noise that a fragmented Opposition could mount. Setting aside a culture There is no dearth of scholarly literature to suggest that the committee system has greatly enhanced the capacity of Parliament to carry out its mandate. So, why has the ruling dispensation neglected this? One of the reasons given at this point in time is the novel coronavirus pandemic and the urgent need to enact safety measures. The argument of urgency seems spurious given the fact that some of the most controversial Bills introduced in the House, such as relating to labour and the farm sector, were vehemently opposed by the groups concerned and clearly aimed at market reforms. If it is urgency, then the Women’s Reservation Bill, on which there was a broad consensus in the House, should have come up upfront. Clearly, this regime is not disposed to a reflection and reconsideration of Bills proposed in the House. It does not seem to believe that the primary role of Parliament is deliberation, discussion and reconsideration, the hallmarks of democratic institutions, but a platform that endorses decisions already arrived at. Further, what is ominous is the encroachment into the powers of a State that some of these bills reflect, and the reinforcement of the central authority they portend. Valerian Rodrigues is a former professor at Mangalore University and Jawaharlal Nehru University
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Doha-Kabul journey as a road to nowhere||Finally, after numerous false starts, the representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban could meet in Doha recently ( picture ). It was a tough road from Kabul to Doha for all three actors involved — the Afghan government, the Taliban, and, most importantly, the United States. Now, that they have met in Doha, the road back to Kabul will be more challenging, given the inherent differences on the Afghan endgame among these three actors. Some red flags First, as one could observe from the statements made by Abdullah Abdullah (chairperson of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation and overseeing the government’s peace efforts) and Mullah Ghani Baradar (the Taliban’s deputy leader), their endgame in Afghanistan appears substantially different, and even contradictory. Consider the following. Abdullah Abdullah was referring to an Afghanistan with democracy as the basis, with liberal values and equal rights for everyone, including the minorities and women. Mullah Baradar’s position is more straightforward: an Islamic emirate in Afghanistan. Keeping the theological and theoretical assumptions of a democracy and an emirate away, do these two representatives refer to something that means the same Afghan endgame? Are there at least complementarities in what each wants to achieve, and how they see the future of Afghanistan? Unfortunately, given history, the Taliban’s version of an Islamic emirate will be in direct contradiction to what the Afghan government wants in terms of democracy, human rights and equal rights for women and minorities. Striking a middle ground may be difficult, even impossible. Furthermore, this would be a deal-breaker. Exit America Second, how involved will the U.S. be once intra-Afghan talks take shape? The U.S. endgame in Afghanistan is not aimed at a political settlement in and for Kabul. Instead, the U.S. looks at an exit from Afghanistan, as early as possible, preferably before the forthcoming U.S. presidential elections. The U.S. should remain committed to the intra-Afghan process and ensure both sides, especially the Taliban, sticks to the political plot. Unfortunately, the U.S. will not. U.S. President Donald Trump will declare an American victory in Afghanistan in the next few weeks. He would state the following as the American achievements: The al-Qaeda in Afghanistan is neutralised, the Taliban has severed its relationship with all external actors, the killing of Osama bin Laden, elections and democracy in Afghanistan, and, finally, an intra-Afghan dialogue. Topmost on his achievement list would be the job done in Afghanistan, announcing the withdrawal of all American troops, before Christmas or the New Year. After West Asia, Afghanistan would be Mr. Trump’s major achievement. Third, the American exit from Afghanistan – physically and politically, would rupture the intra-Afghan dialogue process. The Afghan government has not only been reluctant from the beginning to engage with the Taliban but is also divided within in terms of how it sees the Taliban. While leaders like Abdullah Abdullah and Amrullah Saleh (Afghanistan Vice-President) are on the extreme side in terms of how they would loathe sharing power with the Taliban, others including President Ashraf Ghani would have reservations. The Afghan leadership was pressurised by the U.S. and even threatened with an aid cut, to get on to the road to Doha. The Loya Jirga that the Afghan government organised recently on the subject was under American pressure, to create a consensus in starting a dialogue with the Taliban. This is what the Afghan Peace Council has been tasked to and has been grappling with — to find an answer and a middle ground. Outside the Afghan government, there reservations among multiple sections – the minorities and women. The last few years and elections have created certain institutions of democracy and liberal notions that make many Afghans look at their future beyond the tribal and religious orders. For them, negotiating with the Taliban and reaching a middle ground will be a tough assignment. The Taliban spells violence Fourth, what does the Taliban want? Is it looking forward to sharing power in Kabul and taking part in an electoral process? Is it looking forward to working with the Afghan institutions and abiding by the legislation and parliamentary norms? Is it looking at creating an equal and egalitarian society in Afghanistan? There is an element of naiveté among those who believe that the Taliban is transformed and will find middle ground with the Afghan government. For the Taliban, it would be nothing short of an Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Period. Fifth, the Taliban has been waiting for the last two decades for international troops to leave. It would wait for a few more months to see the last American soldier exit Afghanistan. Then, it would return to what it knows the best — violence. Aimed at three actors (the international troops, the Afghan government and the Afghan people), the Taliban has been employing violence as the primary strategy to achieve what it has wanted. Despite the February 2020 agreement with the U.S. in Doha, the Taliban never stopped from using violence. Available data would suggest that there has been no let-up in violence since February 2020, and in the process, the Taliban has got what it has wanted: the release of all Taliban prisoners. Once the Americans leave, it would go back to the strategy that has yielded maximum dividends — violence. As one could observe during the last week, violence continues today, even during the post-Doha meeting between the two actors. Also, until now, it has not agreed to a ceasefire; it will not in the near future. The regional game Sixth, the return of the regional great game. Pakistan, Iran, China, Russia and India all have stakes in Afghanistan, and have made it clear through the multiple dialogues on Afghanistan (bilateral, trilateral and quadrilateral). As long as American troops and interests remain in Afghanistan, their role would remain limited. Now, one should wait and watch on how the regional great game in Afghanistan is played, and how it has shaped the Afghan endgame. The last point would be how history would judge the American intervention in Afghanistan in the last two decades. Is the U.S. leaving Afghanistan in 2020 any better than how it saw it when it invaded the country in 2001? Or has it made the situation worse? To conclude, if the road from Kabul to Doha was tough, the return would be even tougher and more complicated. It is also possible that the Doha-Kabul journey could be a road to nowhere. D. Suba Chandran is Professor and Dean, School of Conflict and Security Studies, and Head, Conflict Resolution and Peace Research Programme and Science Diplomacy Programme, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Code debate||Some laws are far too important and have far too much impact on the people to be passed in haste or without sufficient deliberation. The three codes aimed at consolidating diverse labour laws and ushering in reforms fall in this category. The codes were passed in both Houses after a limited debate and in the absence of the Opposition. The Industrial Relations Code, the Social Security Code and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, are an updated version of the respective Codes of 2019, which were scrutinised by a Standing Committee. Therefore, there is considerable merit in the argument that the fresh drafts, introduced a few days before their passage, ought to have been sent back to the panel for an assessment. It is significant that the most contentious feature — the increase in the threshold for an establishment to seek government permission before closure, lay-off or retrenchment from units that employ 100 workers to 300 — was not found in the 2019 draft, but has been introduced now. This gives establishments greater freedom in their termination and exit decisions. No one disagrees with the basic objective of amalgamating, simplifying and rationalising labour laws. However, the very fact that it involves a voluminous body of legislation should have meant that the final version was widely discussed with the stakeholders, and given sufficient time and opportunity to give their views. The root of the idea of consolidated labour codes goes back to the June 2002 report of the Second National Commission on Labour. The broad vision has been to give an impetus to economic activity without adversely affecting the interests of workers. Whether this is adequately reflected in the new provisions will be tested by the experience of administering the Codes. A positive feature is that the Social Security Code promises the establishment of social security funds for unorganised workers, as well as gig and platform workers, and also says their welfare would be addressed by the National Social Security Board. A contentious section allows the appropriate government to exempt any new factory from all provisions of the Code on occupational health, safety and working conditions. The threshold for considering any premises as a factory has also been raised from 10 to 20 workers without the use of power, and from 20 to 40 with power. It is significant that almost all major trade unions are opposing the new codes. This reflects a genuine fear that expansive powers of exemption have been conferred on the respective governments and there has been excessive delegation of rule-making powers. The threshold for lay-offs, as well as for various social security schemes can be raised by executive order; safety standards can be changed. There is much reason to fear that conferring wide discretion to the central and State governments may not be conducive to the interests of workers.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Cess pool||The latest audit of the Union Government’s accounts tabled in Parliament this week reveals that the Finance Ministry quietly retained over 40% of all cess collections in 2018-19 in the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI). As many as 35 different cesses, levies and charges yielded Rs. 2.75-lakh crore in the year, but just around Rs. 1.64-lakh crore was remitted to the specific reserve funds for which these cesses were levied. This not only helped understate India’s revenue and fiscal deficit numbers but also meant that the purposes for which Parliament approved such cesses — be it health, education or infrastructure development — were not met. The CAG of India has, not for the first time, urged the Finance Ministry to take immediate corrective action. Over 10 years, not a paisa of the Rs. 1.25-lakh crore of cess collected on crude oil was transferred to an oil industry development body it was meant to finance. Part of the hefty cess collected as additional excise duties on petrol and diesel, ostensibly to finance roads and infrastructure, was similarly retained in the CFI. The GST Compensation Cess, over which the Centre and several States have now locked horns, was not spared either, with Rs. 47,272 crore not remitted to its rightful account over the first two years of GST. Worse, compensation cess transfers to States were accounted as Grants-in-aid to States, distorting the Centre-States fiscal math. A new 4% Health and Education Cess on income tax was partly deployed towards education, but no fund was created for health. Ditto with a Social Welfare surcharge levied on customs. None of these lapses can be considered inadvertent. It is no secret that the Centre’s reliance on cesses and surcharges to raise revenue has increased significantly since the States’s share of the divisible pool of taxes was raised to 42% in line with the 14th Finance Commission’s suggestions. Cess receipts are not part of this pool and though it is arguable whether such levies are in sync with a nation trying to simplify its tax regime, their intended use to fund specific public spending needs serves as an acceptable rationale, provided it is adhered to. With a climate of distrust hovering over India’s federal polity — be it over the GST compensation dispute or the passage of Farm sector Bills without taking States on board — it is critical for the Centre to rebuild bridges. Cesses, starting with the excise duties on petrol and diesel, need to be rationalised, even if just to provide succour to a citizenry whose incomes and job prospects have been pummelled by the pandemic and a shrinking economy. Finally, absolute transparency is needed in the management of cess receipts so that Parliament and the people do not need to wait for audit findings to learn of this subterfuge.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI lists LIC, GIC, New India as systemically important||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has identified the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC) and The New India Assurance Co. as Domestic Systemically Important Insurers (D-SIIs) for 2020-21. Given the nature of operations and their systemic importance, the regulator has asked the three public sector insurers to raise the level of corporate governance, identify all relevant risks and promote a sound risk management culture. As D-SIIs, they will also be subjected to enhanced regulatory supervision, IRDAI said in a statement. Too big to fail D-SIIs refer to insurers of such size, market importance and domestic and global interconnectedness whose distress or failure would cause a significant dislocation in the domestic financial system. Their continued functioning is critical for the uninterrupted availability of insurance services to the national economy. D-SIIs are perceived as insurers that are too big or too important to fail. Such a perception and the expectation of government support may amplify risk taking, reduce market discipline, create competitive distortions and increase the possibility of distress in future. Thus, D-SIIs should be subjected to additional regulatory measures to deal with the systemic risks and moral hazard issues, IRDAI said. Size in terms of total revenue, including premium underwritten and the value of assets under management are among the parameters on which the insurers are identified. IRDAI said it will list D-SIIs on an annual basis.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘One-third of funding by AIIB has gone to India’||Out of the $20 billion in loans issued by the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), about $6 billion has gone to India, the bank’s second-largest shareholder after China, says  D.J. Pandian  , who, as the lender’s vice-president of Investment Operations, oversees all sovereign and non-sovereign lending in South Asia and Southeast Asia. Before moving to Beijing, Mr. Pandian spent 35 years in the Indian Administrative Service. Excerpts:  How has the AIIB been involved in infrastructure projects in India so far? As far as India is concerned, the pipeline of projects is very strong. We have supported around $5 billion worth of projects in India. The bank will complete 5 years in January 2021, and we may add another $1 billion in India by then, and maybe it will be $6 billion in total. The bank has just started, building up the team and policies. Out of the total $20 billion of projects approved, $6 billion has come to India, which is almost one-third. We are supporting unique projects, including the Chennai Metro Corridors 4 and 5 and Chennai Peripheral Ring Road, which are at an advanced stage, and the Grand Anaicut scheme to modernise the canal system in the Cauvery delta region which we are preparing with the government of Tamil Nadu, which will help save almost 20% of water leakages. The Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System is a high-speed rail that will reduce travel time from 3-4 hours to within one hour. This is being co-financed with the Asian Development Bank. In June, the AIIB announced a $750 million loan to India for COVID-19 assistance. Are there other projects being considered this year? There are at least two regular investment projects which we can take up to the Board in the next 2-3 months. One is a power transmission line project in Assam which is around $300 million, and the other is the Delhi-Meerut high speed rail which is $500 million. Also, we may look at two cities in Punjab, Amritsar and Ludhiana, for water supply municipal rejuvenation projects. In July, President Jin Liqun said on current India-China tensions, that the bank’s decision-making is only based on economic merits; will the problems between the two biggest shareholders impact the bank? President Jin is absolutely right. We are apolitical. Our decisions are based on the merit of the project, not on what is happening, or on internal or external problems. China is the largest shareholder; so some in India, including the Opposition, have criticised the government for taking loans in June, saying you’re a Chinese bank... This is a lesson for us, that we need to educate people about what the bank really is, and build our brand. We are very, very, apolitical. We are a multilateral bank of 103 members, of which 77 are active members. All of Europe are Bank members. Canada, Australia, New Zealand are also members. The Vice President of Investment Operations is an Indian! How has COVID-19 changed the projects for AIIB? We have already been able to build up a pipeline of projects in Asia. Those conventional infrastructure projects that were already at an advanced stage, we were able to bring it to the Board for approval. As soon as the COVID response facility was set up, when it began as an emergency response led by the World Bank, we have also committed almost $13 billion, of which so far we have approved $6 billion. This is for both health preparedness and to provide liquidity to the governments so that they can buy equipment, particularly medical equipment, and enlarge hospital facilities to take care of their immediate requirement. Initially, the idea of social infrastructure was not the focus of the bank, but we cannot avoid this any more; we are going to do that but we need to build up expertise within the bank to do health care and other social infrastructure projects.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Harley exit to impact about 2,000 jobs across dealerships’||Automobile dealer body FADA on Friday said the closure of Harley-Davidson’s operations in India would lead to job losses for up to 2,000 workers across the brand’s 35 dealerships. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said that besides job loss, the exit of the American cult bike maker would also lead to a loss of up to Rs. 130 crore for the brand’s dealer partners. ‘Not informed’ “Harley-Davidson has not informed any of its dealer partners about its closure plans and dealers are yet to receive any official communication,” FADA President Vinkesh Gulati said. With a luxury brand like Harley, setting up its dealership costs anywhere between Rs. 3-4 crore, and with a total of 35 dealerships, Rs. 110-130 crore will go down the drain, Mr. Gulati said. “Luxury two-wheeler dealership on an average employs 50 people. With 35 Harley dealers, around 1,800-2,000 people at dealerships will lose their jobs,” he added. Moreover, there will be customers who will not receive glitch-free service as spares will now be in shortage, Mr. Gulati noted.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||CFO optimism falls to record low amid COVID-19, shows survey||The optimism level among chief financial officers about India’s financial and macro-economic conditions during the third quarter this year has witnessed a decline of 15% and touched a record low level, according to a survey. Dun & Bradstreet Composite CFO Optimism Index showed a decline of 15% on a quarter-on-quarter basis to 74.2 during Q3 2020, bringing the index to a record low. Financial performance The survey covered nearly 350 chief financial officers (CFOs), who were asked a set of questions regarding the financial performance of their companies and the overall macroeconomic scenario for the corporate sector in the forthcoming period. “The steady rise in total infected cases and the spillover effects of the lockdown measures have undermined the optimism levels,” said Arun Singh, Global Chief Economist, Dun & Bradstreet.  “Moreover, the psychological impact of COVID-19 is having a bearing on the confidence levels of both businesses and consumers alike,” he added. Further, the lack of space for demand stimulus coupled with subdued consumer demand have constrained the pace of economic activity, Mr. Singh said. As per the survey, the macroeconomic scenario sub-index value at 87.5 is the lowest in nearly seven years, as the index was at its lowest value of 77.5 during Q4 2013. The financial performance sub-index is at its lowest value of 67.1 during the third quarter this year. The percentage of CFOs expecting an increase in the operating margin (21%) and liquidity position (20%) of their companies is the lowest ever. Besides, CFOs indicating a need for raising short-term funds (22%) and long-term funds (15%) is also at the lowest level, as per the survey.  Dun & Bradstreet Composite CFO Optimism Index showed a 15% drop q-o-q to 74.2 during Q3 2020
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aurobindo to buy GMR’s KSEZ stake for Rs. 2.610-cr.||GMR Infrastructure on Friday said the 51% stake it holds in Kakinada SEZ (KSEZ) through a wholly owned subsidiary is being sold to Aurobindo Realty and Infrastructure (ARIPL), in a Rs. 2,610-crore deal. As part of the transaction, the 100% equity of Kakinada Gateway Port (KGPL) held by KSEZ will also be transferred to Aurobindo Realty, a GMR Infrastructure release said. Total consideration for the sale of equity stake as well as the sub-debt in KSEZ is Rs. 2,610 crore. Of this, Rs. 1,600 crore would be received on the closing date and the balance in the next 2 to 3 years contingent upon certain milestones. The proceeds will help reduce GMR Group debt. KSEZ is implementing a port-based special economic zone project at Kakinada in A.P. Kakinada Gateway Port has the concession granted by State government to set up a greenfield commercial port in Kona village in the district, the release said.
26 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘COVID-19 may spur growth for e-grocers’||Online grocery experienced COVID-19 induced tailwinds and the space may witness high growth, according to a report, 'Online grocery: What brands need to know’, released on Friday. Driven by the rise in organic adoption during the pandemic, e-grocery has seen a surge in recent months with the gross merchandise value rising about 70% in June compared with January, as per the study jointly conducted by Redseer Consulting and BigBasket, the online grocer. Online grocery was a $1.9 billion market in 2019, and could likely be the next battleground for growth, expanding to $18 billion-plus by 2024, the study said. It added that e-grocery had been surging and would remain steady for the rest of 2020, to reach more than $3 billion. Hari Menon, co-founder and CEO, BigBasket, said, “The industry saw a 70%+ average recurring revenue jump in the last quarter across categories”.
26 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex gains 2.3% on stimulus package hopes||Expectations of a stimulus package from the government ahead of the festive season propped up market sentiment as benchmark indices gained more than 2% on Friday after plunging almost 3% a day earlier. The S&P BSE Sensex gained 835 points, or 2.28%, to 37,388.66. Top gainers included Bajaj Finserv, HCL Technology, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank and L&T. All the stocks in the 30-share Sensex reported gains. The NSE Nifty 50 also rose 245 points, or 2.26%, to 11,050. “The equity markets recovered quite a bit of lost ground from the previous day,” Dr. Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management, said. “Expectations of a further fiscal package from the government ahead of the festival season is a factor that may endow the markets with some strength.”  Stating that rising volatility was a sign of caution, Nirali Shah, senior research analyst, Samco Securities, said, “The market is now trying to impersonate the grim ground-level realities by reacting sharply to any negative global clues.” “Markets are expected to remain under pressure in anticipation of immense liquidity being sucked out as long as the IPO party is still on... Investors should be wary of subscribing to IPOs and should look at some only from a listing gains perspective,” Ms. Shah said.
26 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic-hit tour operators seek relief||The Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), which represents more than 1,700 tour operators for inbound tourists, has sent an SOS to the Ministry of Tourism seeking relief measures amid “zero business, zero billing, zero cash flow” since the nationwide lockdown that started in March. In a memorandum to Meenakshi Sharma, director general, Ministry of Tourism, the association pointed that the industry was on the ‘brink of closure’. “The closure has led to direct economic loss of Rs. 6 lakh crore and indirectly the economy has lost Rs. 15 lakh crore, which is about 9-10 % of the economy. In terms of employment, more than 4 crore jobs have been lost [in the sector],” IATO said. The association has sought that tour operators be provided special non-collateral, interest-free, long-term loans under the MSME loan scheme. Further, tour operators, travel agents, tourist transport operators should be given a one-time financial grant of 75-80% of the gross salary amount paid to staff, on the basis of the FY19 balance sheet, IATO said.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Faceless I-T’ comes into operation||The government on Friday issued a notification operationalising ‘Faceless Income Tax Appeals’ system which seeks to honour honest taxpayers of the country and promote transparency in tax collection. Under faceless appeals, all Income Tax appeals will be finalised in a faceless manner under the faceless ecosystem with the exception of appeals relating to serious frauds, major tax evasion, sensitive and search matters, international tax and Black Money Act, the Finance Ministry said in a statement.  In recent years, the Department has carried out several reforms for simplification of the tax process and ease of compliance.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Rana Kapoor fined Rs. 1 cr. for non-disclosure||Markets regulator SEBI on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore on Rana Kapoor, former MD and CEO of Yes Bank, for not making disclosures about a transaction with Morgan Credit. By not disclosing the transaction to Yes Bank’s board of directors, Mr. Kapoor had ‘created an opaque layer’ between him and stakeholders, SEBI said in an order. Morgan Credits, a promoter entity of Yes Bank, had raised Rs. 950 crore from Reliance MF, via unlisted Zero Coupon NCDs in April 2018. Mr. Kapoor, also a promoter of Yes Bank, entered into an agreement as a ‘guarantor’ for the transaction with Morgan and Milestone Trusteeship Services.
26 September 2020||Chennai,||Equitas SFB cuts IPO size to Rs. 280 crore||Chennai-based Equitas Small Finance Bank (SFB) has almost halved the size of its initial public offering (IPO) to Rs. 280 crore citing the current market conditions. On Friday, Equitas SFB filed a draft red herring prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Board of India to raise up to Rs. 280 crore by way of fresh issue of shares and offer for sale up to 7.20 crore equity shares. In a regulatory filing, the bank said the size of the fresh issue had been reduced to Rs. 280 crore from Rs. 550 crore. The lender plans to utilise the proceeds towards augmenting Tier-I capital base to meet its future capital requirements.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages DRL launches generic of Precedex||Dr. Reddy’s has unveiled Dexmedetomidine Hydrochloride in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, a therapeutic equivalent generic version of Hospira’s Precedex (dexmedetomidine hydrochloride) in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, in the U.S. Used for sedation of patients, the Precedex brand and generic market had U.S. sales of about $210 million MAT for the 12 months ended June 2020, DRL said.
26 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages Hetero unveils Favivir 800/200 pack||Generic pharma firm Hetero has introduced Favivir 800/200, a pack containing 16 tablets of Favipiravir 800 mg and two tablets of Favipiravir 200 mg, for treatment of mild-to-moderate symptomatic COVID-19 patients. This follows DCGI approving higher strength of Favipiravir (800 mg) and is aimed at enhancing patients’ adherence to the treatment regimen. The pack is priced at Rs. 2,640, the company said.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaw, Rabada help an inspired Delhi Capitals crush Super Kings||A commanding batting display led by Prithvi Shaw (64), backed up by disciplined bowling efforts from Kagiso Rabada (three for 26) and Axar Patel (4-0-18-1), powered Delhi Capitals to a 44-run win over Chennai Super Kings at the Dubai International Stadium on Friday. Chasing 176, the Super Kings produced yet another sub-par batting performance and never seemed in the hunt at any point. Openers M. Vijay and Shane Watson struggled and fell cheaply as Super Kings scored just 35 in the PowerPlay. Faf du Plessis and Ruturaj Gaikwad were sluggish too before the latter was run out. From overs 6-10, the Chennai side managed only 12 runs. With left-arm spinner Axar and leg-spinner Amit Mishra bowling, it was surprising to see the left-handers — Sam Curran and Ravindra Jadeja — sitting in the dugout. Perfect balance Earlier, having been put in, Shaw mixed caution with aggression to come up with a knock of 64 (43b, 9x4, 1x6) as Capitals posted 175. Shikhar Dhawan (35, 27b, 3x4, 1x6) and Rishabh Pant (37 not out, 25b, 5x4) chipped in with useful contributions. Shaw and Dhawan added 94 for the opening wicket, the duo going after the Super Kings spinners after the PowerPlay overs yielded only 36. The 20-year-old had luck on his side as replays showed he had got a faint inside edge off the second ball of the match, which neither M.S. Dhoni nor Deepak Chahar seemed to be aware of. Super Kings brought in pacer Josh Hazlewood for Lungi Ngidi and the Australian was right on the money, stifling the Capitals openers. However, once the PowerPlay was over, Shaw wasted no time as he attacked Piyush Chawla, hitting four boundaries through cuts and drives in the leg-spinner’s first two overs. At the other end, Dhawan greeted Ravindra Jadeja with a six and a four off his opening over. Shaw then swept the left-arm spinner on the leg-side for a maximum. In the four overs after the PowerPlay, the two batsmen amassed 52 runs to take Capitals to 88 at the halfway stage and set the stage for a big finish. However, Chawla struck twice in the next two overs, removing the openers. Dhawan was trapped leg-before trying to play a reverse sweep. Shaw was stumped after he inside-edged on to his pads and the ball rolled back to Dhoni. The quick wickets helped the Super Kings arrest the momentum as only 36 came from overs 11 to 15. However, Hazlewood, who had gone for only seven in his first two overs, faced the fury of Pant's blade, conceding 21 off his last two as Capitals established a firm grip over the proceedings. It didn't loosen till the end.
26 September 2020||Paris,||Nadal eyes absent Federer’s record, 15 years after first Roland Garros crown||The undisputed king of clay, Rafael Nadal is one title away from matching Roger Federer's all-time Grand Slam record (20), but 15 years on from the Spaniard's first French Open triumph he appears more vulnerable than ever at his beloved Roland Garros. Nadal owns an astounding 93-2 record in Paris dating back to his debut in 2005, when, still a teenager, he became the first player to win the French Open on his first attempt since Mats Wilander in 1982. Fast-forward to the present day, and his 19 Grand Slam crowns — a record 12 of which have come at Roland Garros — coupled with Federer's absence after knee surgery leave him on the brink of history at a venue where he has won each of the past three years. Various factors Yet a multitude of factors, mostly beyond his control, have conspired against Nadal and offered hope to his chief rivals — Novak Djokovic and recent US Open winner Dominic Thiem. Boris Becker suggested the rescheduled tournament — pushed back from its traditional spring billing due to the coronavirus pandemic — will be tougher than usual for Nadal. Heavy conditions The heavier conditions could suit hardcourt players more and negate some of Nadal's lethal topspin, possibly aiding Thiem, who has finished runner-up in Paris twice in succession. Nadal will head into the French Open without a clay title under his belt for the first time, having lost in straight sets to Diego Schwartzman in the quarterfinals at Rome — his first tournament in six months. Djokovic’s take Despite the sense this is the least intimidating version of Nadal at the French Open in recent times, Djokovic remains adamant the 34-year-old is again the favourite to lift the Coupe des Mousquetaires. “The record that he has there, the history of his results, you just can’t put anybody in front of him,” said Djokovic, himself vying to add to his lone 2016 triumph at Roland Garros. “But, you know, definitely Diego showed that Nadal is beatable on clay,” added the Serb. Another championship run for Nadal, not accounting for potential walkovers, would take him to a century of match wins at the French Open. Only Federer, Serena Williams, Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert have hit triple digits in wins at a single major in the Open era.
26 September 2020||Dubai,||Anil sir asked me to back myself: Bishnoi||Kings XI Punjab’s young spinner Ravi Bishnoi said head coach Anil Kumble has advised him to always stay calm and back his skills as a bowler. The 20-year-old Bishnoi picked up three wickets in an emphatic 97-run win over Royal Challengers Bangalore in the IPL on Thursday night. “Anil sir has always asked me to back my strengths in bowling and skills. He asked me not to try too many things and to be cool and calm in the middle,” Bishnoi said at the post-match press conference. “Since we had a long camp before the IPL, I was preparing myself mentally as the skill level is the same for everyone here. So being mentally strong and brave was my main focus. “I told myself not to bowl loose deliveries which would allow them to attack me,” said the leg-spinner. Bishnoi was full of praise for skipper K.L. Rahul. “He is a class batsman with a good batting technique. Everybody wants to see his shots again and again.”
26 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Focus on Karthik’s leadership||Skipper Dinesh Karthik’s tactical nous will once again be put to test when KKR takes on SRH in its second IPL fixture here on Saturday. Once again, the batting position of KKR’s biggest hitter Andre Russell became the talking point in the 49-run loss to MI. The Jamaican, who was its highest run-getter last season, came in at No. 6, but by then the task had become extremely difficult. Eoin Morgan, roped in to bolster the wobbly middle-order, also could not do much as the asking rate had shot past 13 by the time he came in at No. 5. On a day its biggest buy Pat Cummins was not at his best in bowling but produced a cameo with the bat, Sunil Narine was given the ball only when his IPL ‘bunny’ Rohit Sharma was well set. SRH, on the other hand, lacked the strength and experience in its middle-order to cross the line against RCB. Opener Jonny Bairstow’s innings, and his partnership with Manish Pandey, was the only bright phase in the chase against RCB after skipper David Warner was run out in an unfortunate manner at the non-striker’s end. It remains to be seen whether Kane Williamson has recovered from his injury to bolster the batting department.
26 September 2020||Geneva,||Postponed CL games can be played in January: UEFA||UEFA will let Champions League group-stage games be played deep into January to complete any fixtures postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic. UEFA ratified emergency competition rules on Thursday that allow for seven extra weeks to make up games beyond the scheduled sixth and final round of fixtures on December 9. Any game which cannot be played by January 28 will be forfeited as a 3-0 loss by the team responsible for the failure. The same rules apply to the Europa League. Several clubs whose players tested positive for COVID-19 and had squads isolated in quarantine have forfeited games in recent weeks during the tightly scheduled qualifying rounds when there was little chance to reschedule games. The Court of Arbitration for Sport upheld UEFA’s decisions. However, those games were also not part of UEFA’s broadcasting deals worth more than €3.25b for its club competitions each season. Broadcasters are due rebates from UEFA totaling €575m for pandemic disruption and fewer knockout games last season.  UEFA also detailed how compensation could be paid to a home team if a group-stage game must be played in a neutral country because of travel restrictions imposed by the away team’s home nation. The compensation could amount to 10% of the fixed starting fee that UEFA pays to each club that qualifies — equivalent to €1.45m in the Champions League, and €275,000 in the Europa League.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gurpreet and Sanju win top AIFF awards||Indian men’s team goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu and women’s mid-fielder Sanju were on Friday declared the winners of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) Footballer of the Year awards for the 2019-20 season. This is the first time Gurpreet received the award, becoming the second goalkeeper after Subrata Paul in 2009 to be named the AIFF Player of the Year. “There was always a desire to reach this point and this is an award which I have always looked up to,” Gurpreet said.  Meanwhile, national women’s team midfielder Sanju was named the winner after an excellent season. Ratanbala Devi won the 2019-20 Emerging Women’s Footballer of the Year Award. Sanju said, “Personally, it’s a big milestone for me. This award is proof that all the work we have been putting in over the last few years has indeed paid off.” Mid-fielder Anirudh Thapa was named the Men’s Emerging Footballer of the Year.
26 September 2020||SYDNEY,||Langer calls Dean Jones ‘the stuff of legend’||Australian cricket was reeling on Friday at the shock death of Dean Jones, with national coach Justin Langer leading tributes to a player he called “the stuff of legend”. Langer revealed he was on the cusp of recruiting Jones into his coaching set-up for next year’s World Cup. “I was talking about getting Deano in to help us with World Cup stuff as a mentor and coach, sadly that’s not going to happen,” Langer told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. “(But) the legacy he leaves to Australian cricket and Australian cricketers won’t be lost on us.” “It’s part of legend in Australian Test cricket, the brotherhood of the baggy green, his 200 in Madras and the way he batted with AB (Allan Border), yeah, stuff of legend,” said Langer. Jones’ dashing strokeplay inspired generations of batsmen, including current power-hitter Glenn Maxwell. “Incredibly shocked by the news that Dean Jones has passed away. Had a poster of the great man in my room as a kid,” Maxwell tweeted. “Deano” was remembered as a fierce competitor whose knockabout demeanour concealed a keen cricketing mind bursting with innovative ideas. “The cricket world is shattered today for it has lost one of its greatest characters, a totally original maverick talent whose contribution went far beyond mere statistics — however excellent they were,” the Brisbane Courier-Mail wrote. The ABC’s Russell Jackson said Jones’ daredevil batting helped Australia win the 1987 World Cup. “Jones could be subtle and brutal in the space of a minute. He dictated terms, using the width of his crease and the full 360 degrees to set new standards,” wrote Jackson. “Nobody batted like Deano. Nobody danced down the pitch to take the game on like Deano. Nobody provoked bowlers like Deano. Nobody could talk like Deano,” wrote The Australian.   Sydney Morning Herald’s Andrew Wu admitted Jones was one of the few athletes that could make him set aside journalistic impartiality and embrace his inner fanboy. “Deano was the player you wanted to be.”
26 September 2020||Paris,||Virus slashes crowd size once again||Already repeatedly trimmed, crowd sizes at Roland Garros have been reduced once again — to just 1,000 spectators per day — because of the worsening pandemic here. The new limit, reduced from 5,000 per day, was first announced by Prime Minster Jean Castex on Thursday night. His office confirmed on Friday that the reduction relates only to spectators, not to players, coaches, organisers and others working at Roland Garros, as Castex first said, causing initial confusion.
26 September 2020||BENGALURU,||Kohli takes blame for heavy defeat||Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli accepted his share of blame for his side’s heavy defeat to Kings XI Punjab in an IPL contest at Dubai on Thursday. Kohli dropped two sitters, with K.L. Rahul on 83 and 89. The misses allowed KXIP to post a mammoth 206/3 — a target which proved to be out of reach for RCB. “It doesn’t help to drop a set batsman twice in two overs. These things may look small, but I want to take my example and make all of us understand how important these things can be. We were looking to restrict them to 175-180. I dropped a couple of chances, which doesn’t help. The game gets away from you very quickly. The momentum gets away from you. We left ourselves with a bit too much to chase,” Kohli said, in an RCB video. KXIP head coach Anil Kumble praised Rahul, whose unbeaten 69-ball 132 accounted for more than RCB’s team total. “It was a fanatic innings from Rahul, which set the tone for the game. It looked as though he was batting on a different pitch, because it was not easy to score runs. He made it look so easy,” said Kumble.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||His mercy has no limit||The Supreme One has five forms — para, vyuha, antaryami, vibhava and archa. As antaryami, He is resident in every one of us. Vedanta Desika, in his Varadaraja Panchasat, marvels at Lord Narayana’s compassion towards us, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. His abode is Sri Vaikuntha, the place where there is nothing but joy. And yet He chose to stay inside the cramped space of every person’s heart (sushiram susukshmam). And this heart is in a body, which is antahkalebaram — impure. And yet He chose to dwell inside such a body, which is entirely due to His mercy, says Desika. Paramapada is His abode, and the name itself implies that there is no other place superior to it, and yet He who should be there, is glad to be inside our hearts. And yet, the Lord is not content with this alone. He takes avataras, to save us. He gave us the Sastras, to show us the right path. But since we paid no heed to any of His instructions, but continued to do as we pleased, He assumed vibhava avataras, for our sake. As Rama and Krishna, He lived in our midst, to show us the right path. Had He not come down, we would have said it was easy for Him to lay down rules, but they were too difficult to be followed. So He came down and lived on this earth. When a child falls ill, mother takes a medicine, so that its healing effect will reach the child through her milk. The Lord, likewise swallowed a medicine for our sake. That is, He adhered to the same Sastras, while He lived on this earth, to show that it was possible for a human being to keep to the right path. Avatara means He descended, for He was indeed coming from a higher plane, when He came to this earth. Pillai Lokacharya says that the earth was the place He jumped into, to save us.
26 September 2020||Auckland,||NZC gets nod to host intl. teams||New Zealand Cricket (NZC) has received the green light from its government to host international cricket during the coming summer, which comprises series against the West Indies and Pakistan, CEO David White said on Friday. NZC had been working to implement bio-secure bubble, similar to the one the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) created successfully, in the recently concluded season in order to resume international cricket in the country post the coronavirus-forced hiatus.
26 September 2020||Dubai,||Fined Rs. 12 lakh for slow over-rate||Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli has been fined Rs. 12 lakh for slow over-rate during the match against Kings XI Punjab. “As it was his team’s first offence of the season under IPL’s Code of Conduct relating to over-rate offences, Kohli was fined Rs. 12 lakh,” the IPL said in a release.
26 September 2020||Melbourne,||Australia reschedules series against Afghanistan, NZ||Cricket Australia on Friday postponed a one-off Test against Afghanistan and an ODI series against New Zealand, citing complexity of scheduling international matches during the global coronavirus pandemic. Australia was to host Afghanistan later this year at Perth in November while the Kiwis were to arrive in January 2021 but both the assignments have been postponed to the next summer (2021-22). “Cricket Australia looks forward to working with our good friends at the Afghanistan Cricket Board and New Zealand Cricket to deliver the matches at a time when, hopefully, the restrictions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic have eased,” CA’s interim chief executive officer Nick Hockley was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||SCOREBOARD||DELHI CAPITALS   Prithvi Shaw st. Dhoni b Chawla 64 (43b, 9x4, 1x6), Shikhar Dhawan lbw b Chawla 35 (27b, 3x4, 1x6), Rishabh Pant (not out) 37 (25b, 5x4), Shreyas Iyer c Dhoni b Curran 26 (22b, 1x4), Marcus Stoinis (not out) 5 (3b, 1x4); Extras (lb-5, w-3): 8; Total (for three wkts. in 20 overs): 175.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-94 (Dhawan, 10.4 overs), 2-103 (Shaw, 12.2), 3-161 (Shreyas, 18.6).   SUPER KINGS BOWLING   Chahar 4-0-38-0, Curran 4-0-27-1, Hazlewood 4-0-28-0, Chawla 4-0-33-2, Jadeja 4-0-44-0.   CHENNAI SUPER KINGS   M. Vijay c Rabada b Nortje 10 (15b,1x4), Shane Watson c Hetmyer b Axar 14 (16b, 1x4, 1x6), Faf du Plessis c Pant b Rabada 43 (35b, 4x4), Ruturaj Gaikwad run out 5 (10b), Kedar Jadhav lbw b Nortje 26 (21b, 3x4), M.S. Dhoni c Pant b Rabada 15 (12b, 2x4), Ravindra Jadeja c Mishra b Rabada 12 (9b, 1x4), Sam Curran (not out) 1 (2b); Extras (lb-1, w-4): 5; Total (for seven wkts. in 20 overs): 131.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-23 (Watson, 4.2 overs), 2-34 (Vijay, 5.6), 3-44 (Ruturaj, 9.1), 4-98 (Jadhav, 15.4), 5-113 (du Plessis,17.2), 6-130 (Dhoni, 19.3), 7-131 (Jadeja, 19.6).   DELHI CAPITALS BOWLING   Rabada 4-0-26-3, Axar 4-0-18-1, Nortje 4-0-21-2, Avesh 4-0-42-0, Mishra 4-0-23-0.   Toss: CSK.   Man-of-the-Match: Prithvi Shaw.   DC won by 44 runs .
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 10:24 IST,||Sudoku - September 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A whiff of Park Street||I had been dreaming about the food of Kolkata just before the pandemic locked us all in. We had planned to travel in April, and I was looking forward to all kinds of porky delights, especially at a restaurant called Mocambo, which I used to frequent. But as we say in the Hindi heartland: that was one day, and this is another. I am still weaving — and unravelling — my Kolkata plans. One day soon, I tell myself. Just when I was giving up all hope, our foodie friend from Gurugram asked me if I had tried out a place called Park Street Khana. I hadn’t . So, I immediately checked their menu. It had a lovely mix of Anglo-Indian, Bengali, and other dishes. There were home-made sausages, country captain chicken, and tenderloin pot roast. And there was, to my utter delight, baked rasgulla , a divine sweet that I lost my heart and willpower to when a friend from Kolkata got it for us several years ago. We thought we’d mix and match, so we asked for a plate of chilli pork, maacher kalia, and mutton stew. Everything on the menu costs Rs. 599, barring the prawn malai kari at Rs. 699, and the rasgulla and shahi tukda , at Rs. 300. It was a wonderfully satisfying meal. I loved the stew and the pork, and though I am not much of a fish eater, I enjoyed the gravy of the fish. The pork was not cooked in the Oriental style, but with barbecue sauce and a few other condiments. The mutton stew had a light, mildly sweet sauce, which I liked. The meat pieces were soft, and went well with all the veggies – potatoes, carrots, et al — and the the sauce had been flavoured with bay leaves, sliced ginger, and garam masala. The kalia had bekti filets in a curry of fried and ground onions, pureed tomatoes, and beaten yogurt, sprinkled with raisins. I focused on the pork, which was a dry dish of stir fried pieces. Some were deliciously soft, but a few were a bit too chewy. The meat had been tossed with pieces of capsicum, tomatoes, onions, and baby corn. Of course, the piece de resistance was the rasgulla . There were six juicy sponge balls in thick and creamy, sweetened milk, topped with nuts. I had two, and sighed in contentment. Later, I had a conversation with the hand wielding the karchi . Antara Daniels started this home delivery service on August 22. Park Street Khana has its own delivery mechanism, and supplies to Delhi, Noida, and Gurugram (call 9810842901). “This is a venture that mum (Leena Daniels) and I started. We do all the shopping of ingredients including meats and fish, all the cutting, cooking, packing. We have our own delivery person who is sanitized for every trip,” she says. Most of the recipes, she adds, come from the family, which is a wonderful confluence of cultures —her paternal grandmother was a Bengali and grandfather, a Tamilian from Pondicherry. Her mother is Anglo Indian, with English and Mexican ancestors. “Hence, our menu comprises Anglo-Bong food,” she says. Their menu includes mutton kosha , chicken vindaloo, mustard fish, shammi kabab, daab chingri . I have started dreaming of Mocambo’s pork schnitzel again. The writer is a seasoned food critic
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Savage X Fenty: While we are still waiting on a new album from Rihanna, she has fans occupied with a fashion show launch of lingerie from Savage X Fenty. In true RiRi fashion, the models are diverse in race and body type; performers include Travis Scott, Bad Bunny, Normani and Lizzo. Each Instagram post on @savagexfenty is preceded by a cover image warning of bold, confident, unapologetic content. On Amazon Prime Video on October 2.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||AR for Mumbai walls||Art curator and ‘sari man’ Himanshu Verma’s Red Earth organisation has a new portal for affordable Indian art. Find everything from paintings and sculptures to prints, Nathdwarapichvaisand Cheriyal paintings. At art.readearthindia.com. Meanwhile, fans of Hindi cinema can see the Bollywood Art Project come to life on Snapchat. BAP relives classics likeMughal E Azam andDil Chahta Haithrough AR Lenses connected to murals across Mumbai. Look out for iconic actors like Sridevi and Irrfan feature via the Lenses.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Florals and athleisure||Péro’s Autum-Winter collection, D I S C O 2020, is inspired from the fashion of the 1970s, and helps “us forget all that is happening around us and break free”. Expect geometric patterns, sequins following textile patterns, and hand embroidered wool flowers. Textiles have been developed in various regions of India: cotton stripes and checks from West Bengal, mashru stripes from Gujarat, and handwoven silks from Bhagalpur, amongst others. Expected at Ogaan stores mid-October; glimpses at @ilovepero on Instagram
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||DIY meals or Avartana?||If you’re in Chennai, ITC Grand Chola has reopened Avartana, their contemporary fine dining South Indian restaurant. Choose from multi-course meals — Maya, Bela, Anika, Tara and Jiia — to suit different palates and price points. From Rs. 2,000 plus taxes. From 6 pm to 8 pm. Staying with a friend and prefer to order in?The hotel offers DIY meal kits with ingredients for two — just follow the instructions and serve hot. There’s Thai curry,khao suey, ravioli, shepherd’s pie and more. From Rs. 1,150.22200000
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Indian Premier League: Empty stands and canned cheering make for a strange IPL-watching experience. While pre- and post-game analysis hasn’t changed, the frenzy that marks each game, especially from the home crowd, is what defines this sporting event. However, with 20 crore people tuning in to watch the opening match, organisers and advertisers are a happy lot.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Wunderhaus presents||Auroville-based label Wunderhaus and architect-turned-artist M Kalaivani — known for her cyanotype printing — of the brand 56th Day, present a fashion show of their collaborative collection this Sunday at Coromandel Café in Puducherry. Called Moonsigns, it will feature unisex clothing with nature-inspired prints on handloom garments. The show will be choreographed by Kedar Madulla, founder of Wunderhaus, with music by Marc Morais. On Instagram @wunderhaus.residency
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||For folk’s sake||This Saturday evening, tune in toTogether, Louder, Stronger, a virtual event organised by Anahad Foundation and Believe Entertainment. The lineup includes indie musicians and playback singers, and outfits like Mame Khan, Shaan, Jonita Gandhi, Benny Dayal, When Chai Met Toast, Bhuvan Bam, and Nithyasree Mahadevan, among others. The NGO’s work focusses on conserving heritage folk music and creating sustainable livelihoods for the artistes. From 6.30 pm on YouTube and Facebook. Details: anahad.ngo
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The AD Weekender||AD India's first virtual festival curates home tours, masterclasses, performances, webinars and conversations for an immersive weekend that will stream live on social media. Go from the chic lake-view home of Hong Kong-based designer Andre Fu to Geoffrey Bawa’s tropical garden estate in Sri Lanka. Experience a virtual walkthrough of Vastrakala embroidery atelier in Chennai, founded by Jean François Lesage. And Mira Nair talks about the making of her latest seriesA Suitable Boy. Details: architecturaldigest.in
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Gandhi state of mind||October 2 marks the birth anniversary of the father of our nation. While government events haven’t been announced yet, the Communist Party of India has said the day will be a “celebration of secularism and plurality of the Indian democracy”. For OTT regulars, there are some new releases —Khaali Peeli(Zeeplex and Zee5),Serious Men(Netflix) andNishabdham(Amazon Prime Video). Carrying forward Gandhi’s legacy of khadi, the Crafts Council of India will present the Kamala Awards on October 3. Watch on Facebook.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Oliver Jeffers to his daughter||Hope is a feeling that is in short supply these days. The Covid-19 curve only seems to be interested in ascent. The sky has turned a dystopian orange in some parts of the world. Governments say that ‘there is no data’ and use the pandemic to detain those who dare voice dissent. Optimism has been shoved to a corner by fear, distrust and guilt. Our children ask when they can go back to school, when they can see their grandparents, when things will be normal again. And the adults have no answers. We’ve possibly never had the answers, but once upon a time at least we could Google them. It is into this landscape that renowned Irish author-illustrator Oliver Jeffers brings out a new illustrated book, What We’ll Build: Plans for Our Together Future .  Modern family  Build. Together. Future. Words that connote the very hope that has been relegated to a corner. Jeffers’ latest is dedicated to his two-year-old daughter, Mari. I loved the lyrical quality of his writing and the illustrations that invoked a sense of familiarity. I asked the writer if he’d felt a certain pressure to write a book for Mari, after publishing Here We Are for his son, Harland, in 2017. “It occurred to me that I’d make a book for her before she could speak, so I thought I’d have enough time before she asked for a book,” he says. “I didn’t really know when I’d write a book for her, but as soon as she came along, I found myself in a similar although different situation as I had been when Harland arrived. Without intending to, I started thinking some of these thoughts and writing them down.” And from those thoughts emerged What We’ll Build . Jeffers says that there’s been a shift in mindset around his own understanding of what a family is, between these two books. “I was grappling with the reality of explaining the world as it is right now to my children. What We’ll Build has a central idea of a partnership between two people looking towards the future together. If Here We Are is about explaining the world as it is, [this book] is about how we change it.” The multi-hyphenate acknowledges that it is definitely more difficult to feel hopeful right now than it has been in the past. And while parents and educators often use his books as a starting point for conversations around grief ( The Heart and the Bottle ), greed ( The Fate of Fausto ) and friendship ( Imaginary Fred ), in his own home, books are very much in the realm of classic storytime. He shares that his children are more interested in spontaneous stories told on the fly and that his partner is much better at the form than he is.  Respect for creators  Jeffers is one of numerous children’s book creators who offered joy, comfort and pleasure to many during the initial months of the pandemic through his online storytelling session (#StayAtHomeStoryTime). Creators like Mac Barnett, Carson Ellis, and #ThodaReadingCorona sessions in India have been viewed by thousands of children, providing some respite in the otherwise long, seemingly never-ending days, and a break for their caregivers. To me, these thoughtful sessions and their warm reception drove home the point of just how essential creators of children’s literature are in today’s world. And yet, they are rarely given the importance and respect they deserve. Creating books for children is still seen as a hobby, something ‘cute’ one does on the side. Jeffers admits that he’d gotten used to hearing such comments himself, and what really made him look at things differently was a conversation with Bono. Yes, the Irish singer-songwriter-philanthropist. He shares an anecdote from a time he was collaborating with U2 and the singer didn’t know who he was. “He asked what I did and I said I write books for kids. I was used to the ‘Oh, that’s sweet’ reaction, but without missing a beat, Bono said, ‘Oh, what a huge responsibility!’ I was like ‘Excuse me?’ and he said, ‘Yeah, you are a human being’s first counterpoint to their cultural world. That’s a huge responsibility’.” If he feels the weight of that responsibility, Jeffers doesn’t show it in his new book. It has the lightness, beauty and deft touch of humour that we have come to look forward to in his work. My favourite lines from the book are:  A place to stay when all is lost, to keep the things we love the most.   We’ll put these favourite things beside, the earlier love we set aside.   I think that we may want them later   When times are hard and needs are greater.  Those hard times are now. And What We’ll Build is just the book we need for it.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown money-makers||While others bemoan how this lockdown has incapacitated them, you can mint money, especially off these moaners. A countdown of careers that are flourishing like fungus. 5.Cultural Vultural Workshopper:  Count on your fingers, toes, strands of hair, how many online workshops you’ve been propositioned with — to make you draw, dance, sing, cook like a pro in four hours flat. You now have to discover a skill you can entice people to learn. You have shown amazing aptitude of late for binge-watching web series on your sofa, falling asleep into the chips. ‘Join my workshop,’ you can proclaim, ‘On Deep Relaxation of Mind and Body. Book now! Only one seat left (the sofa)’. Such truth. 4.Resume Rockstar:  If you can’t find a job, advise others on getting a job. Always works. Charge exorbitantly to fabricate their CVs. ‘Guaranteed to get you to the place of your dreams.’ (Sleeping on the sofa, watching daytime soaps is a dream, right? Remember, stick to the truth.) No one will question why, with your genius in creating resumes, you haven’t landed yourself a job. Panic, like love, is blind. 3.Love Your Bodyist:  Loads of people want to lose weight. Loads more are telling them how to. You can offer: ‘Lose weight naturally.’ (That takes months, you can keep charging.) Or create an exotic fad: The only-purple-food/ sweat-reabsorbing / intermittent bingeing/ Scandinavian/ Quiliwillian way. Spout science you’ve made up on the spot to back up ridiculous claims. ‘Three hours of eating your hair is the latest breaking-news diet. Find out how to, only here!’ 2.Child (Parent) Expert:  We parents are a hyper lot, and if not, we can easily be persuaded to be. Over-commit in your headline: ‘Make your toddler the next Elon Musk — enrol now!’ Or ‘The 5 things only parents of successful kids do.’ (The five hours of your workshop – duh.) Anything to do with the offspring sets off our mush-hormones. ‘How to love your child more’ or ‘Parenting mistakes to avoid’ We will be sobbing our way through our stampede to enrol. 1. Top-Class Alarmist: And the winner is a profession that has been collecting likes since caveman times, when he who sounded the alarm, perched precariously on a tree, banged his drum when a flesh-eating beast (or firefly) approached. Alarmists are in high demand in the social media era. You can start by re-tweeting panic willy-nilly, and then starting a YouTube channel to threaten: ‘You will die’ (insert appropriate cause from the following) ‘from unbleached vegetables, vaccines, immigrants, screen time… not forwarding this forward’. If all else fails, enrol for my upcoming workshop on Finding Your Inner Fool. Enrol now, only one seat left! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on site||Online shopping for art is not a new beast. In fact, art portal Saffronart (launched in 2001) announced their whopping sale of Rs. 35 crore for a 1974 Gaitonde painting at their 300th auction held earlier this month. With the wine and cheese evenings at galleries becoming almost non-existent during the pandemic, the entire art market has migrated to an online experience that is undoubtedly two dimensional. Starting afresh Launching a new venture in these difficult times appears almost scatological and yet, Prinseps, an online auction house launched in 2017, is all set to open their new season with a virtual gallery and auction sales this November. “The luxury market relied heavily on the shopping experience of consumers at luxury stores or malls,” observes founder-director Indrajit Chatterjee, adding, “This traffic has reduced dramatically. We feel we are ideally positioned to offer the same experience via our online platform so we are aggressively pursuing it.” Ranjit Hoskote, poet, cultural theorist and curator, says that there can be no substitute for being in the physical presence of the artwork. However, online galleries have amplified our access to collections across the world. “We may never visit Saturn or Uranus, and rely on space probes to relay impressions of these planets to us, do we not? Let’s approach online viewing in the same spirit,” he suggests. The idea is to present buyers with a wide price range between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 10 crore. Thepiece de resistanceis a 16-carat antique cushion-cut Burmese ruby ring (Rs. 56 lakh). Also on offer are idyllic landscapes on canvas by Atul Bose, who sprung to fame through his association with Academy of Fine Arts in Kolkata, and whose delicate, small-format nude studies have sold at Sotheby’s. Oils on canvas and watercolours from the estate of Bhanu Athaiya — the first Indian to win an Oscar (costume design for Richard Attenborough’s 1982Gandhi) — come up for auction for the first time in almost 70 years. Stronger together Meanwhile, galleries are grouping together to make it easier for the harried collector to browse for art. The Art Platform India (TAP), which went live on September 2, is a partnership of around 13 galleries from across the country, who have come together to accent their visibility. They hope to appeal to a wider audience with a choice of works, with the follow-ups being done on a personal level. “During the lockdown I realised we all needed a collective effort and that was how the idea of this platform was born,” says Sharan Apparao, of Chennai’s Apparao Galleries, who is showcasing the work of artist Alwar Balasubramaniam, known for playing with the dualities of presence and absence. “This format accessibly brings the latest in contemporary Indian art to viewers in the comfort of their own homes,” adds Bhavna Kakar, founder-director of Delhi-based Latitude 28. They are currently hosting Waswo X Waswo’s exhibition of ‘staged’ hand-painted photographs made collaboratively with Rajasthani miniaturists Rajesh Soni and Shyam Lal Kumar. “The primary market becomes more transparent online and helps buyers make informed choices,” shares Tunty Chauhan, director, Gallery Threshold. Showcasing artists like Anindita Bhattacharya, V Ramesh, Indrapramit Roy and Rahul Inamdar, the Delhi gallery focusses on art ideas and discourse. While the online space has been well received by most, there is an expectation and a yen that younger galleries and those located outside the metros would also get to dip into the collaboration. A general criticism floating around the art vine is that the same names appear to crop up even online. “One would have expected that an online presence would shift focus a bit from the city-centric galleries and artists,” concludes Kolkata-based curator Nanak Ganguly.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The man who scripted Co-optex’s turnaround||IAS officer TN Venkatesh, 44, has been wearing colourful ikat and handloom shirts to work for some years now. It isn’t unusual to find his colleagues sporting them too. The outgoing MD of Co-optex, the Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society Ltd (established in 1935), has always liked to lead by example. “My wardrobe changed. Barely 30% of it comprises formal shirts now,” he admits. Early influences As a child, Venkatesh was surrounded by experiences that defined his love for fabrics. He remembers his mother wearing Devendra and Madurai s ungudi saris, and the many textile mills he saw in Maharashtra (his father worked in the Department of Posts). In Bombay, he accompanied his mother and aunt on their sari shopping trips to Dadar and Chembur. “I noticed floral and Mughal motifs that I would recreate on paper, the screen prints of Garden Vareli... that is where I developed a fascination for textiles. I wanted to know how these fabrics were made,” says Venkatesh, who moved to Delhi when he was 16. “During our holidays, we would travel to the East and my mother would pick out Bengal cottons from Gariahat. I decided that when it was time to work, I would like to deal with such weaves,” he recalls. Textile trails down South And so, after stints as Pollachi sub-collector (2003-2005), Karur collector (2007-2009), and at the Department of Education and Commercial Taxes, he came to Co-optex in 2014. In Karur, he realised handloom did not mean just saris; possibilities included bed linen and home furnishing. “I learnt the difference between powerloom and shuttleloom, and why handloom still retains an aesthetic value,” says Venkatesh, who also organised textile trails with handloom enthusiasts. At Co-optex, he began by touring weaving clusters within the state and outside. “I developed great respect for weavers who translated motifs on to fabric. I’ve visited 25 clusters in the country so far, because the best education is spending time with the artisans,” he says. In fact, Venkatesh focussed on bringing changes in loom design technique and design intervention. The result shows in the new colour and design palette of Co-optex. Designers from outside Tamil Nadu have always spoken with reverence for the state’s weavers’ ecosystem, he adds. “Here, a predominant part of weaving is within the co-operative fold. Tamil Nadu supports close to 70,000 people in the weaving and pre-and post-weaving process.” At Co-optex, 40% of a product’s cost goes to the weaver. This is also said to be the reason why there were few distress calls during the lockdown from Tamil Nadu’s weavers. Being sustainable Among the things Venkatesh is happy about during his tenure is that he instilled in his colleagues a deep pride for the brand. “We expanded their knowledge base. From Thirubuvanam and Koorainadu to Dindigul and Paramakudi, they can now identify weaves.” He also conducted knowledge-enhancement sessions for customers across cities, speaking about textiles and motifs, followed by a sale. The last stop before the lockdown was in Bhubaneswar. “We would do sales of up to Rs. 11 lakh. My colleagues saw that engaging with people helped. It was a trickle-down effect,” he says. From the bottom up Venkatesh says he believes in a system that “evolves from below”. “The main stakeholders — the weavers and designers — were involved in decision making. We modernised 50 showrooms in the last six years, and the improved ambience has made a difference,” he says. For instance, the Thillaiyadi Valliammai showroom in Egmore has seen annual sales go up from Rs. 4.62 crore in 2017 to Rs. 7.85 crore in 2019. In 2018, work began to renovate the showroom. “We changed the elevation to represent a floral jacquard weave and the shuttles used in weaving. This was our premium store and I wanted a different aesthetic for it,” says Venkatesh. He also harnessed social media; the Co-optex page on Instagram has over 25,000 followers now. Most recently, he conceptualised the Handloom Cafe in Egmore, featuring handloom motifs and artefacts, and serving simple food and good coffee. As Venkatesh steps down from a successful stint, he is grateful for the opportunity to have experienced up close a field that first charmed him as a child. And that while Co-optex is known for its bedsheets and towels, people are now aware that “it also makes brilliant saris”.  I’ve visited 25 clusters in the country so far, because the best education is spending time with the artisans
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Hello Kitty||Popular films and literature deal with a false dichotomy between ‘mass’ themes and ‘female’ themes, with the latter often locked into overtly feminist or rom-com boxes expected to attract only female interest. Given these rigid compartments, new Hindi cinema’s light-hearted and entirely ‘mass’ focus on middle-class women and their desires, both sexual and material, is a breath of fresh air. Netflix release Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare from writer-director Alankrita Srivastava (of Lipstick Under My Burkha fame) is the latest in a series that memorably includes Suresh Triveni’s Tumhari Sulu.   Dolly Kitty… builds upon a theme used in the 2019 film Dream Girl, which too was centred on a cell centre catering to lonely men. Only there, it was the male protagonist who landed the job because of his ability to speak in a falsetto, which meant not only that the focus stayed firmly on the hero but also that the real women in these centres continued to be outside the pale of storytelling interest. This  film  has no such qualms. When Kajal becomes Kitty for the call centre, her first sexy-romantic chat makes her nauseous but she soon embraces her task with aplomb. Her reasons for liking her new job are equally interesting — she quits a leather factory because the supervisor treats her as less than human, whereas here, in a seedier job, her personal worth is appreciated, a nuancing that’s rare in pop culture. Kajal has refused marriage, left her small town in Bihar, and come to Greater Noida on Delhi’s outskirts to earn a living. Her delight when she throws herself on ‘her’ bed (in a shared room in a ladies’ hostel) is the sheer joy of personal space, the Woolfian ‘room of one’s own’. The joy is sweeter because it also means she doesn’t have to face her brother-in-law’s pawing. Later too, when Kajal realises she has unknowingly accompanied her colleague for a paid sex gig, she runs away. Yet, this is the same Kajal-Kitty who has to sweet-talk male callers into sexual gratification, a job that gets these women called randi or prostitutes. Not only is the film saying that sex callers needn’t be sex workers, it’s also saying that all women, regardless of their profession, are entitled to choose who they sleep with. Thus, Kajal’s cousin Dolly is frigid with her husband but when she chooses her lover, she is fine. Srivastava’s systematic dismantling of middle-class morality is a bold move under a political dispensation that unhealthily obsesses over supposed sanskari values, represented in the movie by the now inevitable and ominous moral-policing, saffron-waving gang, but the film’s greater significance is possibly its accurate identification of the enormous sexual frustration and loneliness that plagues Indian society, a frustration that clearly begets the recent rise in gratuitous violence, the hankering for older patriarchal hierarchies, and the extreme fixation with religion. Equally, the film traces the financial frustration unleashed by a relentless neoliberalism. Dolly pawns jewellery and even dips into her office’s petty cash box to buy clothes, baubles, an air-conditioner. The glitzy mall, Dolly’s crowded, kitschy flat, the fancier phone for which Shazia will change lovers — it’s a world forever beckoning with its bigger-better-more mantra; a siren call that women can succumb to as unapologetically as men and for which they needn’t be judged. The film conveys this constant middle-class anxiety to reach the next richer, posher rung and yet, interestingly, it’s not money that buys Dolly and Kitty freedom but their decision to shrug off bourgeois value systems, in effect suggesting that women are imprisoned more by the patriarchy than by the economy.  Dolly Kitty… doesn’t pull off this storyline with great cinematic finesse, given its structural flaws and lazy scripting. Greater Noida is hardly a village for everyone to turn up at the same event in a final scene of Hardyesque coincidence. Everything is crammed in — sexual dysfunction, Muslim lover, gender-confused child, dishonest builder — until it finally culminates with a giant, all-too-obvious artwork. Yet, showcasing that artwork and this theme is to take a stand today. Plotting the sexual and financial liberation of its protagonists from their claustrophobic middle-class mores while still locating them within that milieu is no small triumph. And, as cheesy as it is, one really must celebrate a mass movie that ends with a call centre established for lonely women!  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The designer is dead (long live the art director)||If there is one thing that the first-ever fully ‘digital’ Couture Week in India has proven, it is that the role of the designer has evolved beyond the traditional expertise of many fashion designers. Their collections’ ‘narratives’ — already subservient to the demands of social media — have become more important than the products they seek to sell. This feature, readers, will not give you the details of which designer showed which silhouettes, championed which crafts or embellishments, or how the models looked draped in yards of luxurious textiles. You only need to search Instagram and see that for yourselves. I simply wish to draw aside the veil between designer and consumer, created by the many demands of a digital showcase. Look beyond the story Haute Couture as the French have called it for centuries, has over the years taken on its own definition in India. This is a country many consider the last true bastion of handmade, handcrafted luxury in the world. Our handwoven textiles and painstakingly-crafted embellishments that take hundreds of hours by a single artisan, now seem to hold no inherent value on their own. All thanks to social media’s drive of democratisation and its constant craving for stories and narratives. Now, each designer must vie for the fickle attention of a large group of viewers who may not even be able to afford their creativity and artisanship. The irony. Without a narrative attached, real customers cannot see themselves in these clothes. Think of Gaurav Gupta’s excellently-inclusive choice of models; Rahul Mishra taking us to a renovated Tijara Palace, while few of us have had the privilege to travel in the past six months; Kunal Rawal using the iconic Asiatic Library in Mumbai; and Anju Modi evoking ancient Indian beauty rituals. Without these identifiers, the customer is lost. How sad. If this is the reality today, I congratulate Falguni and Shane Peacock for creating the most real and relevant digital experience among them all. They have their finger firmly on the pulse. Celebrity stylist Shaleena Nathani sashayed on to a fashion show set and fiddled with a model’s gown before sending her and others off on to the catwalk. As the video progressed, stylist Tanya Ghavri was spotted correcting a flawlessly worn dress, followed by Bollywood’s favourite stylists Aastha Sharma and Mohit Rai. This is Falguni and Shane Peacock talking directly to their fans. After all, which woman able to afford haute couture doesn’t dream of a Mohit Rai or a Shaleena Nathani fussing over her? Even with the return of JJ Valaya to the couture showcase — a designer who had his own website way before anyone even conceived of the idea in the early 2000s — the fact that he was the only one to talk directly to his viewers was eventually subsumed. By? The simple regularity of a beautifully-produced fashion show video. But no use crying over split silk. The reality is that today, few designers in India are able to synchronise their digital experience with e-commerce backup. And the very nature of e-commerce is antithetical to the tactile and sensory experience of Indian haute couture, of which consultations with the designer are an important part.  After viewing all 10 showcases over five evenings, I am left with a few simple questions: is every designer good at ‘storytelling’ in the way that Instagram demands they be? Should they be? As I end this feature with these queries, I would like to assure my peers in the fashion industry that I have not written it to mock their efforts. We are all learning as we enter a new digital age. I am here simply as a questioner, and I know very well that there are no right answers.  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Metallic and moulded||Let’s just say that after the minimalist, white scheme of the latest digital stores, Amit Aggarwal’s e-commerce platform, with its dark grey background, is refreshing. It offers just the right contrast to the strong metallic colours of his outfits — often bottle green, gold and silver. The Luxury Pret line begins with sheer, asymmetric shirts at Rs. 16,500 and his signature structured capes at Rs. 19,500. Couture starts at Rs. 42,500 for unstitched saris paired with metallic bustiers, moulded 3D hand-embroidered or lace blouses. The collections go all the way up to Rs. 5.25 lakh for elaborately-embroidered structuredlehengas— customisation details can be submitted in an online form or shared on WhatsApp. This goes beyond the lining, coverage and length options offered by other designers (like Gaurav Gupta, who launched his digital store recently). For those not bound by a budget, AA Exclusives features winged gowns, 3D skater dresses, and pre-stitched saris. This price-on-request section, unfortunately, has no descriptor or quick view for each garment. Users have to click and go into a new page to see each piece while browsing. That said, the site is easy to navigate, with tabs that introduce customers to the designer and brand, as well as a prominent press section. Aggarwal’s film from the recently-concluded India Couture Week is hosted on the home page.Up next:AM.IT, Aggarwal’s ready-to-wear collection. The diffusion line, launched in 2015, was created to “ensure natural and manmade textiles co-exist” and features handloom fabric from across the country.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Once upon a con man||Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s Ayyan Mani is a Dalit living on the fringes of Mumbai, in a one-room house with his wife and son. He is personal assistant to a decorated and arrogant Brahmin astronomer, Arvind Acharya (played by Nassar). But he isn’t one to let the lack of opportunity he grew up with pass on to the next generation in his family. The upcoming Netflix film, Serious Men, portrays Mani seething and glowing, in turns, with puffed-up ambition and an outrageous scheme to change his family’s fortunes — from “2G to 4G”. The film is based on Manu Joseph’s début novel (2010) of the same name, where the author dipped into many issues — class, caste, social mobility, and oppression, among other things — and wove them into what director Sudhir Mishra says is a wonderfully-satirical story. “In a strange way, it is a warm, human book, filled with love for its characters with all their idiosyncrasies,” says Mishra, over a video call that includes Siddiqui and Nassar. He says what also hooked him was the fascinating cast: “Mani, Acharya, and Mani’s son, and the whole mad journey they take. When we were shooting, I was reading the book, to be one with Manu in my head.” True to society Siddiqui has often played the underdog in Hindi films, the one who makes the most of a raw deal in good and bad ways. A recent example is another Netflix outing, Raat Akeli Hai . In Serious Men , he is in fine form, playing a man with a determined goal who presents his son to the world as a genius. “When choosing my films, my focus is usually on the director. There are some I want to work with, come what may, and Sudhir is one of them,” Siddiqui reveals, adding that the script was also a deciding factor. Nassar, too, was drawn to the script, which he found “simple but emotional, sensitive and deep”. He continues, “The characters represented society around me. Most middle- and upper-class people are just like Mani — they want their children to become what they missed out on. I saw my father in him. As for my character, we can see a lot of Acharyas around us.” Much of the film pivots around the conflicting ambitions, social status and power dynamics of the two men. “Theirs is a love-hate relationship. Mani admires Acharya too, he likes his elegance and attitude. He wants his son to be like him,” chips in Siddiqui. When Mani, almost invisible to those with power and prestige, is routinely called “moron, imbecile, knobhead” by Acharya, he responds with a name of his own for the priviledged class — ‘Serious Men’. From book to screen Translating this book to screen, with its specifically satirical tone, was tricky. How do you lens the complexity of caste oppression in contemporary India and create a film that is both profoundly troubling and bitingly funny? “It’s a temperament. If you can deal with something compassionately, yet have a sense of humour to be able to laugh at it by being with its characters and seeing their foibles, you can pull it off. It’s difficult, and how it happens is a mystery,” is Mishra’s response. Lockdown reaction The actors agree that releasing the film during the pandemic, on a small screen, has its benefits. “OTT has a huge reach and my films are going to a large audience,” says Siddiqui, who stayed upbeat the past few months by listening to narrations over Zoom and signing movies. Next month, he will begin shooting for a new film. For Mishra, it has been a confusing time. “Everything I was writing before the pandemic has turned topsy turvy in my head, my plans have changed. I want to make a historical series, and there are other projects being discussed, but it’s all up in the air now.” Serious Men releases on October 2 on Netflix
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Savage X Fenty: While we are still waiting on a new album from Rihanna, she has fans occupied with a fashion show launch of lingerie from Savage X Fenty. In true RiRi fashion, the models are diverse in race and body type; performers include Travis Scott, Bad Bunny, Normani and Lizzo. Each Instagram post on @savagexfenty is preceded by a cover image warning of bold, confident, unapologetic content. On Amazon Prime Video on October 2.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||AR for Mumbai walls||Art curator and ‘sari man’ Himanshu Verma's Red Earth organisation has a new portal for affordable Indian art. Find everything from paintings and sculptures to prints, Nathdwarapichvaisand Cheriyal paintings. At art.readearthindia.com. Meanwhile, fans of Hindi cinema can see the Bollywood Art Project come to life on Snapchat. BAP relives classics likeMughal E Azam andDil Chahta Haithrough AR Lenses connected to murals across Mumbai. Look out for iconic actors like Sridevi and Irrfan feature via the Lenses.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Florals and athleisure||Péro’s much-loved spring-summer collection, Millefiori, will be showcased at Chennai’s Collage boutique till September 27. The floral designs feature on chiffon saris,kurtasanddupattas,with a distinct 70s vibe. From Rs. 16,500 onward at the Greams Road store.28291443. And at Evoluzione’s #RebootEdit, athleisure and loungewear abound. The lineup, both at the store and online, includes Ituvana, Core, NoughtOne, Naso, Neemli, Space Bisket and Sarah and Sandeep. Details: evoluzionestyle.com
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||DIY meals or Avartana?||ITC Grand Chola has reopened Avartana, their contemporary South Indian restaurant, for those missing a fine dining experience. Choose from multi-course meals — Maya, Bela, Anika, Tara and Jiia — to suit different palates and price points. From Rs. 2,000 plus taxes. From 6 pm to 8 pm. If you prefer to order in, the hotel offers DIY meal kits with ingredients for two — just follow the instructions and serve. There’s Thai curry,khao suey, ravioli, shepherd’s pie and more. From Rs. 1,150.22200000
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Indian Premier League: Empty stands and canned cheering make for a strange IPL-watching experience. While pre- and post-game analysis haven’t changed, the frenzy that marks each game, especially from the home crowd, is what defines this sporting event. However, with 20 crore people tuning in to watch the opening match, organisers and advertisers are a happy lot.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Wunderhaus presents||Auroville-based label Wunderhaus and architect-turned-artist M Kalaivani — known for her cyanotype printing — of the brand 56th Day, present a fashion show of their collaborative collection this Sunday at Coromandel Café in Puducherry. Called Moonsigns, it will feature unisex clothing with nature-inspired prints on handloom garments. The show will be choreographed by Kedar Madulla, founder of Wunderhaus, with music by Marc Morais. On Instagram @wunderhaus.residency
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||For folk’s sake||This Saturday evening, tune in toTogether, Louder, Stronger, a virtual event organised by Anahad Foundation and Believe Entertainment. The lineup includes indie musicians and playback singers, and outfits like Mame Khan, Shaan, Jonita Gandhi, Benny Dayal, When Chai Met Toast, Bhuvan Bam, and Nithyasree Mahadevan, among others. The NGO’s work focusses on conserving heritage folk music and creating sustainable livelihoods for the artistes. From 6.30 pm on YouTube and Facebook. Details: anahad.ngo.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The AD Weekender||AD India's first virtual festival curates home tours, masterclasses, performances, webinars and conversations for an immersive weekend that will stream live on social media. Go from the chic lake-view home of Hong Kong-based designer Andre Fu to Geoffrey Bawa’s tropical garden estate in Sri Lanka. Experience a virtual walkthrough of Vastrakala embroidery atelier in Chennai, founded by Jean François Lesage. And Mira Nair talks about the making of her latest seriesA Suitable Boy. Details: architecturaldigest.in
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Gandhi state of mind||October 2 marks the birth anniversary of the father of our nation. While government events haven’t been announced yet, the Communist Party of India has said the day will be a “celebration of secularism and plurality of the Indian democracy”. For OTT regulars, there are some new releases —Khaali Peeli(Zeeplex and Zee5),Serious Men(Netflix) andNishabdham(Amazon Prime Video). Carrying forward Gandhi’s legacy of khadi, the Crafts Council of India will present the Kamala Awards on October 3. Watch on Facebook.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The NRI’s lockdown moves||As the real estate sector picks up steam, courtesy new policies and low interest rates, there’s a particular consumer segment showing a renewed interest in investing: NRIs. Primary investments have come in from those settled in the UAE, Singapore, the UK and US, for properties across segments: residential, commercial and even warehousing. While NRIs have always invested in real estate back home, what has led them to continue the practice given that the past few months have been bridled with uncertainty? The current pandemic has made home-buying a lucrative option for NRIs, says Saurabh Garg, co-Founder, NoBroker, adding that a weaker rupee and lower interest rates for housing loans are additional factors. The realty search portal has seen a massive 254% increase in enquiries, a majority for ready homes, from the NRI community since March this year. “A number of policies have triggered this. Now, there is no restriction on the number of permitted immovable properties that both NRIs and OCIs may hold and rental income (for NRIs) can be repatriated freely from India without taking any specific permission. No income tax implications at the time of acquisition is another favourable policy,” he explains. Increased transparency and eased investment norms have made the market further attractive for UHNIs and NRIs, adds Anshuman Magazine, Chairman and CEO, CBRE India. With developers offering customised solutions in the form of ‘smart’ homes, he says such individuals could prefer to make an investment in the housing segment.  Residential vs. commercial Affordable home prices, stricter regulatory measures along with increased transparency and greater consolidation in the sector have together created a profitable avenue for NRIs to invest in the Indian market, says Jaxay Shah, Chairman, CREDAI National. The community at large is eager to invest in residential and commercial properties in the country, with a major chunk eyeing the luxury segment for the purpose of settling down there or even renting it out. “Units with well-rounded infrastructure, penthouses, villas and bungalows in gated communities, besides branded residences and golf townships are popular,” he says. Garg says their platform has seen a good amount of interaction for both residential and commercial properties. “Residential properties account for about 76% of the enquiries. Managing such a property is much simpler when compared to handling a commercial asset. Prices have gone down and home loan interest rates have gone below 2008-09 levels which also adds up to making the residential investment first at this point in time,” he says, adding that interactions for the commercial sector are up by 120% and since the rental yields are higher, he expects better traction. NRIs can add the commercial segment to their portfolio, recommends Rajesh Gurumurthy, Senior Director and Head of Strategic Consulting at Jones Lang LaSalle. The availability of strata space in major metro cities provides flexibility for NRI investment and the rise in office space investments combined with limited vacancy (specifically for Grade A spaces) has resulted in appreciation of capital values. “There is an increasing demand for other real estate asset classes such as mall spaces in the retail segment, co-working in the commercial sector, co-living and senior living in residential, and even warehousing,” he says. At the CII Realty and Infrastructure Conclave 2020, concluded earlier this month, experts further highlighted how the demand for warehousing is now increasing due to an increase in e-commerce activities and investment from NRIs.  Top factors If we are to look at the main parameters NRIs look at before inking a deal, those are tax benefits, ready homes, and the developer’s track record. Other factors include the foreign investment regulations of the country, mode of payment, and type of property (NRIs/OCIs cannot acquire agricultural land, plantation property, or a farmhouse). “One of the most important factors considered by NRIs is if they can invest either as a direct purchase or as a gift from a person resident in India or from an NRI/ OCI relative,” points out CREDAI’s Shah. The investor group comprises two age groups: 35 to 45 years, looking to invest in homes for their parents, and 55 to 70 years, looking at their own retirement years.  Eyes on the South Mumbai, Kochi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Gurgaon have received a major chunk of overseas investments this year, with a majority of funds coming into the southern states. Job opportunities in the IT/IteS sector, coupled with the rise of healthcare and manufacturing hubs, have been the chief draw. “South India has always been an attractive market for NRIs due to the availability of land at reasonable price, higher rental yields, and timely completion of projects along with good track record of developers,” says Garg, explaining that a favourable investment situation and a well-developed corporate ecosystem has boosted investments further. Other factors working in the favour of cities down south include the fact that most cities have newer and fresh markets due to the on-going infrastructure development and availability of quality social infrastructure (healthcare, education, etc.).  Increased transparency and eased investment norms have made the market more attractive for UHNIs and NRIs
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The era of integrated townships||During a pandemic, there is a strong rationale for living in integrated townships. These self-sustaining, compact urban ecosystems are now more than just lifestyle upgrades — they provide the kind of controlled environment that makes a big difference during such an outbreak. Gated communities offer security, but integrated townships let residents get through the prolonged siege-like situation of a pandemic with a much lower impact on quality of life. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, says, “Going forward, dispersed offices and flexible workplace policies around work-from-home (WFH) will spur housing demand on city peripheries, beyond the city-centre hotspots. This will lead to higher demand for large township developments which, because of their massive size, have been developed on the peripheries. However, they account for a mere 2% of all housing supply since 2010, so their numbers are currently inadequate to meet the coming demand.” Constrained supply Integrated townships began their Indian innings primarily as a lifestyle statement — the conveniences and address value come at an added cost which does not appeal to budget home seekers. The subtle luxury quotient, a function of the surrounding infrastructure rather than in individual properties, resulted in townships catering to a niche rather than to the masses. Also, very few developers have the expertise and resources to deploy integrated townships. As a result, the supply of these townships remained restricted even as other formats proliferated. As on date, the top seven cities have just over 101 township projects (launched since 2010 till date), accounting for around 3.16 lakh housing units. (Besides mixed-use developments, townships with more than 2,000 housing units are also considered). This is only a minuscule 2% share of overall housing projects launched during this period. Clearly, this is a hugely under-served segment whose underpinning relevance and importance has been emphatically brought to light by the current situation. Out of the 101 projects, nearly 57 are large purely residential projects with some basic facilities like a retail shop, pharmacy, salon and some form of entertainment. The remaining 44 are full-fledged mixed-use developments with dedicated retail, entertainment, education, commercial, health and residential spaces. NCR and MMR have the highest saturation of townships. Community living “Beyond superior conveniences and security, townships offer a sense of community which is extremely important in times like this,” says Puri, adding, “Living in such projects also helps WFH professionals to maintain optimum productivity while being assured of their health and safety. Many townships even offer a walk-to-work option.” Apart from the expertise to plan and execute such large projects, integrated townships also require gargantuan investments in capital, land and other resources. Resultantly, integrated townships will largely remain the purview of Grade A developers. The USPs During the ongoing pandemic, the most important features of townships probably are their considerable distance from mid-city infection hot zones and their superior security and sanitation. The reduced and regulated traffic and large, air-cleansing green zones in integrated townships are additional compelling features. In townships where they are available, schools, shopping and healthcare nearby are distinct advantages. Multi-level security arrangements can ensure very effective segregation from surrounding areas, as well as contact tracing, if the need arises. However, the main value-adds in such projects predate the pandemic. Most townships are well-planned layouts where optimum space is utilised. Landscaped gardens, jogging tracks and dedicated play areas enhance the overall liveability quotient. Integrated townships also tend to have advanced waste management and rainwater harvesting. Opening up landscapes Given the nature of the times, we may soon see more such projects being announced. Various government and nodal development agencies have already incorporated various townships-focused changes in their city planning, such as better road connectivity, utilities supply and sewage. Some of the more promising areas for future development include Kalyan-Bhiwandi and Boisar in MMR, Sohna in Gurugram, North Bengaluru, Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida, Gahunje in Pune, and West Hyderabad, among others. These locations meet the most important criteria of being well-connected and having enough contiguous land parcels to accommodate integrated townships.  Anarock Property Consultants   Integrated Township Supply (completed and ongoing) NCR: 42 township projects with approx. 1.33 lakh residential units. 22 of these (with 55,000 units) are mixed-use developments; the remaining 20 projects are exclusively residential with over 78,000 units.  MMR: 17 township projects, of which 8 are mixed-use and 9 exclusively residential. Together, they account for over 63,500 homes.  Bengaluru: 10 mega township projects with 35,230 units in all, of which 3 are mixed-use and the remaining 7 are large, well-equipped residential communities.  Hyderabad: 9 township projects, of which only 1 is mixed-use and 8 are purely residential. Together, they have more than 21,600 units.  Pune and Kolkata: 8 large township projects each, with approx. 19,700 and 27,150 homes respectively. Interestingly, Pune has more mixed-use developments (5) than purely residential townships (3) while Kolkata has 2 mixed-use developments and 6 purely residential townships.  Chennai: 7 township projects with nearly 16,200 residential units, of which 3 are mixed-use developments and 4 are purely residential.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Get your share of green||We may have been confined to our homes these past few months and if you haven’t already, it’s time you redo your only slice of outdoors — the balcony or terrace — to get your share of sunshine. Most times, the balcony, patio or terrace turns into the most neglected area of the home. But it can be the place where you have your first cup of coffee at sunrise or relax with a book at sundown. Kit out your open space to make your time there much more enjoyable.    Be it a coffee table or a side table that’s functioning as your central furniture fixture, look for a piece that is just right in scale. Too big a piece may mean you can’t fit much of anything else in the verandah. If you don’t want a large table, consider using an ottoman — one with storage.    Wouldn’tyou like to put your legs up as you read the latest bestseller or peruse the morning papers along with hot cup of coffee? Ensure that there’s always somewhere comfortable to sit by getting a couple of options — a bench, a single seater and a rattan piece may be?    Add an element that will put you in a holiday mood every time you enter your verandah. A smart hammock that invites you to laze and linger — along with a book or your thoughts — is just the thing you need to invest in.    It’s going to be breezy some nights if you’re lucky, but it’s sure to be hot on most of them. Stay immune to heat — well almost! — by installing a swinging wall fan that showers you with the breeze you need every minute.    There’s something about soft candlelight. It creates a mellow inviting atmosphere that seems to rid a space of all problems in a jiffy. Pop a couple of candles in candle holders and light up when you have guests over; they’ll gravitate out of doors naturally. Apart from these five tips, there are many other ways to enhance the aesthetic of your open space: bring in cheerful decals, string up a bunting, grow a mini garden, or display some cheap ceramic plates. Sky is the limit so get started and liven up your home this weekend.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown money-makers||While others bemoan how this lockdown has incapacitated them, you can mint money, especially off these moaners. A countdown of careers that are flourishing like fungus. 5.Cultural Vultural Workshopper: Count on your fingers, toes, strands of hair, how many online workshops you’ve been propositioned with — to make you draw, dance, sing, cook like a pro in four hours flat. You now have to discover a skill you can entice people to learn. You have shown amazing aptitude of late for binge-watching web series on your sofa, falling asleep into the chips. ‘Join my workshop,’ you can proclaim, ‘On Deep Relaxation of Mind and Body. Book now! Only one seat left (the sofa)’. Such truth. 4.Resume Rockstar:  If you can’t find a job, advise others on getting a job. Always works. Charge exorbitantly to fabricate their CVs. ‘Guaranteed to get you to the place of your dreams.’ (Sleeping on the sofa, watching daytime soaps is a dream, right? Remember, stick to the truth.) No one will question why, with your genius in creating resumes, you haven’t landed yourself a job. Panic, like love, is blind. 3.Love Your Bodyist:  Loads of people want to lose weight. Loads more are telling them how to. You can offer: ‘Lose weight naturally.’ (That takes months, you can keep charging.) Or create an exotic fad: The only-purple-food/ sweat-reabsorbing / intermittent bingeing/ Scandinavian/ Quiliwillian way. Spout science you’ve made up on the spot to back up ridiculous claims. ‘Three hours of eating your hair is the latest breaking-news diet. Find out how to, only here!’ 2.Child (Parent) Expert:  We parents are a hyper lot, and if not, we can easily be persuaded to be. Over-commit in your headline: ‘Make your toddler the next Elon Musk — enrol now!’ Or ‘The 5 things only parents of successful kids do.’ (The five hours of your workshop – duh.) Anything to do with the offspring sets off our mush-hormones. ‘How to love your child more’ or ‘Parenting mistakes to avoid’ We will be sobbing our way through our stampede to enrol.  1.Top-Class Alarmist: And the winner is a profession that has been collecting likes since caveman times, when he who sounded the alarm, perched precariously on a tree, banged his drum when a flesh-eating beast (or firefly) approached. Alarmists are in high demand in the social media era. You can start by re-tweeting panic willy-nilly, and then starting a YouTube channel to threaten: ‘You will die’ (insert appropriate cause from the following) ‘from unbleached vegetables, vaccines, immigrants, screen time… not forwarding this forward’. If all else fails, enrol for my upcoming workshop on Finding Your Inner Fool. Enrol now, only one seat left! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Oliver Jeffers to his daughter||Hope is a feeling that is in short supply these days. The Covid-19 curve only seems to be interested in ascent. The sky has turned a dystopian orange in some parts of the world. Governments say that ‘there is no data’ and use the pandemic to detain those who dare voice dissent. Optimism has been shoved to a corner by fear, distrust and guilt. Our children ask when they can go back to school, when they can see their grandparents, when things will be normal again. And the adults have no answers. We’ve possibly never had the answers, but once upon a time at least we could Google them. It is into this landscape that renowned Irish author-illustrator Oliver Jeffers brings out a new illustrated book, What We’ll Build: Plans for Our Together Future .  Modern family  Build. Together. Future. Words that connote the very hope that has been relegated to a corner. Jeffers’ latest is dedicated to his two-year-old daughter, Mari. I loved the lyrical quality of his writing and the illustrations that invoked a sense of familiarity. I asked the writer if he’d felt a certain pressure to write a book for Mari, after publishing Here We Are for his son, Harland, in 2017. “It occurred to me that I’d make a book for her before she could speak, so I thought I’d have enough time before she asked for a book,” he says. “I didn’t really know when I’d write a book for her, but as soon as she came along, I found myself in a similar although different situation as I had been when Harland arrived. Without intending to, I started thinking some of these thoughts and writing them down.” And from those thoughts emerged What We’ll Build . Jeffers says that there’s been a shift in mindset around his own understanding of what a family is, between these two books. “I was grappling with the reality of explaining the world as it is right now to my children. What We’ll Build has a central idea of a partnership between two people looking towards the future together. If Here We Are is about explaining the world as it is, [this book] is about how we change it.” The multi-hyphenate acknowledges that it is definitely more difficult to feel hopeful right now than it has been in the past. And while parents and educators often use his books as a starting point for conversations around grief ( The Heart and the Bottle ), greed ( The Fate of Fausto ) and friendship ( Imaginary Fred ), in his own home, books are very much in the realm of classic storytime. He shares that his children are more interested in spontaneous stories told on the fly and that his partner is much better at the form than he is.  Respect for creators  Jeffers is one of numerous children’s book creators who offered joy, comfort and pleasure to many during the initial months of the pandemic through his online storytelling session (#StayAtHomeStoryTime). Creators like Mac Barnett, Carson Ellis, and #ThodaReadingCorona sessions in India have been viewed by thousands of children, providing some respite in the otherwise long, seemingly never-ending days, and a break for their caregivers. To me, these thoughtful sessions and their warm reception drove home the point of just how essential creators of children’s literature are in today’s world. And yet, they are rarely given the importance and respect they deserve. Creating books for children is still seen as a hobby, something ‘cute’ one does on the side. Jeffers admits that he’d gotten used to hearing such comments himself, and what really made him look at things differently was a conversation with Bono. Yes, the Irish singer-songwriter-philanthropist. He shares an anecdote from a time he was collaborating with U2 and the singer didn’t know who he was. “He asked what I did and I said I write books for kids. I was used to the ‘Oh, that’s sweet’ reaction, but without missing a beat, Bono said, ‘Oh, what a huge responsibility!’ I was like ‘Excuse me?’ and he said, ‘Yeah, you are a human being’s first counterpoint to their cultural world. That’s a huge responsibility’.” If he feels the weight of that responsibility, Jeffers doesn’t show it in his new book. It has the lightness, beauty and deft touch of humour that we have come to look forward to in his work. My favourite lines from the book are:  A place to stay when all is lost, to keep the things we love the most.   We’ll put these favourite things beside, the earlier love we set aside.   I think that we may want them later   When times are hard and needs are greater.  Those hard times are now. And What We’ll Build is just the book we need for it.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on site||Online shopping for art is not a new beast. In fact, art portal Saffronart (launched in 2001) announced their whopping sale of Rs. 35 crore for a 1974 Gaitonde painting at their 300th auction held earlier this month. With the wine and cheese evenings at galleries becoming almost non-existent during the pandemic, the entire art market has migrated to an online experience that is undoubtedly two dimensional. Starting afresh Launching a venture in these times appears almost scatological and yet, Prinseps, an online auction house launched in 2017, is set to open their new season with a virtual gallery and auction sales in November. “The luxury market relied heavily on the shopping experience of consumers at luxury stores or malls,” observes founder-director Indrajit Chatterjee, adding, “This traffic has reduced dramatically. We feel we are ideally positioned to offer the same experience via our online platform so we are aggressively pursuing it.” Ranjit Hoskote, poet, cultural theorist and curator, says that there can be no substitute for being in the physical presence of the artwork. However, online galleries have amplified our access to collections across the world. “We may never visit Saturn or Uranus, and rely on space probes to relay impressions of these planets to us, do we not? Let’s approach online viewing in the same spirit,” he suggests. The idea is to present buyers with a wide price range between Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 10 crore. Thepiece de resistanceis a 16-carat antique cushion-cut Burmese ruby ring (Rs. 56 lakh). Also on offer are idyllic landscapes on canvas by Atul Bose, who sprung to fame through his association with Academy of Fine Arts in Kolkata, and whose delicate, small-format nude studies have sold at Sotheby’s. Oils on canvas and watercolours from the estate of Bhanu Athaiya — the first Indian to win an Oscar (costume design for Richard Attenborough’s 1982Gandhi) — come up for auction for the first time in almost 70 years. Stronger together Meanwhile, galleries are grouping together to make it easier for the harried collector to browse for art. The Art Platform India (TAP), which went live on September 2, is a partnership of around 13 galleries from across the country, who have come together to accent their visibility. They hope to appeal to a wider audience with a choice of works, with the follow-ups being done on a personal level. “During the lockdown I realised we all needed a collective effort and that was how the idea of this platform was born,” says Sharan Apparao, of Chennai’s Apparao Galleries, who is showcasing the work of artist Alwar Balasubramaniam, known for playing with the dualities of presence and absence. “This format accessibly brings the latest in contemporary Indian art to viewers in the comfort of their own homes,” adds Bhavna Kakar, founder-director of Delhi-based Latitude 28. They are currently hosting Waswo X Waswo’s exhibition of ‘staged’ hand-painted photographs made collaboratively with Rajasthani miniaturists Rajesh Soni and Shyam Lal Kumar. “The primary market becomes more transparent online and helps buyers make informed choices,” shares Tunty Chauhan, director, Gallery Threshold. Showcasing artists like Anindita Bhattacharya, V Ramesh, Indrapramit Roy and Rahul Inamdar, the Delhi gallery focusses on art ideas and discourse. While the online space has been well received by most, there is an expectation and a yen that younger galleries and those located outside the metros would also get to dip into the collaboration. A general criticism floating around the art vine is that the same names appear to crop up even online. “One would have expected that an online presence would shift focus a bit from the city-centric galleries and artists,” concludes Kolkata-based curator Nanak Ganguly.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Hello Kitty||Popular films and literature deal with a false dichotomy between ‘mass’ themes and ‘female’ themes, with the latter often locked into overtly feminist or rom-com boxes expected to attract only female interest. Given these rigid compartments, new Hindi cinema’s light-hearted and entirely ‘mass’ focus on middle-class women and their desires, both sexual and material, is a breath of fresh air. Netflix release Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare from writer-director Alankrita Srivastava (of Lipstick Under My Burkha fame) is the latest in a series that memorably includes Suresh Triveni’s Tumhari Sulu.   Dolly Kitty… builds upon a theme used in the 2019 film Dream Girl, which too was centred on a cell centre catering to lonely men. Only there, it was the male protagonist who landed the job because of his ability to speak in a falsetto, which meant not only that the focus stayed firmly on the hero but also that the real women in these centres continued to be outside the pale of storytelling interest. This  film  has no such qualms. When Kajal becomes Kitty for the call centre, her first sexy-romantic chat makes her nauseous but she soon embraces her task with aplomb. Her reasons for liking her new job are equally interesting — she quits a leather factory because the supervisor treats her as less than human, whereas here, in a seedier job, her personal worth is appreciated, a nuancing that’s rare in pop culture. Kajal has refused marriage, left her small town in Bihar, and come to Greater Noida on Delhi’s outskirts to earn a living. Her delight when she throws herself on ‘her’ bed (in a shared room in a ladies’ hostel) is the sheer joy of personal space, the Woolfian ‘room of one’s own’. The joy is sweeter because it also means she doesn’t have to face her brother-in-law’s pawing. Later too, when Kajal realises she has unknowingly accompanied her colleague for a paid sex gig, she runs away. Yet, this is the same Kajal-Kitty who has to sweet-talk male callers into sexual gratification, a job that gets these women called randi or prostitutes. Not only is the film saying that sex callers needn’t be sex workers, it’s also saying that all women, regardless of their profession, are entitled to choose who they sleep with. Thus, Kajal’s cousin Dolly is frigid with her husband but when she chooses her lover, she is fine. Srivastava’s dismantling of middle-class morality is a bold move under a political dispensation that unhealthily obsesses over supposed sanskari values, represented in the movie by the now inevitable and ominous moral-policing, saffron-waving gang. The film’s greater significance is possibly its accurate identification of the enormous sexual frustration and loneliness that plagues Indian society, a frustration that clearly begets the recent rise in gratuitous violence, the hankering for older patriarchal hierarchies, and the extreme fixation with religion. Equally, the film traces the financial frustration unleashed by a relentless neoliberalism. Dolly pawns jewellery and even dips into her office’s petty cash box to buy clothes, baubles, an air-conditioner. The glitzy mall, Dolly’s crowded, kitschy flat, the fancier phone for which Shazia will change lovers — it’s a world forever beckoning with its bigger-better-more mantra; a siren call that women can succumb to as unapologetically as men and for which they needn’t be judged. The film conveys this constant middle-class anxiety to reach the next richer, posher rung and yet, interestingly, it’s not money that buys Dolly and Kitty freedom but their decision to shrug off bourgeois value systems, in effect suggesting that women are imprisoned more by the patriarchy than by the economy.  Dolly Kitty… doesn’t pull off this storyline with great cinematic finesse, given its structural flaws and lazy scripting. Greater Noida is hardly a village for everyone to turn up at the same event in a final scene of Hardyesque coincidence. Everything is crammed in — sexual dysfunction, Muslim lover, gender-confused child, dishonest builder — until it finally culminates with a giant, all-too-obvious artwork. Yet, showcasing that artwork and this theme is to take a stand today. Plotting the sexual and financial liberation of its protagonists from their claustrophobic middle-class mores while still locating them within that milieu is no small triumph. And, as cheesy as it is, one really must celebrate a mass movie that ends with a call centre established for lonely women!  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.   Plotting the sexual and financial liberation of its protagonists from their claustrophobic middle-class mores while still locating them within that milieu is no small triumph
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The designer is dead (long live the art director)||If there is one thing that the first-ever fully ‘digital’ Couture Week in India has proven, it is that the role of the designer has evolved beyond the traditional expertise of many fashion designers. Their collections’ ‘narratives’ — already subservient to the demands of social media — have become more important than the products they seek to sell. This feature, readers, will not give you the details of which designer showed which silhouettes, championed which crafts or embellishments, or how the models looked draped in yards of luxurious textiles. You only need to search Instagram and see that for yourselves. I simply wish to draw aside the veil between designer and consumer, created by the many demands of a digital showcase. Look beyond the story Haute Couture as the French have called it for centuries, has over the years taken on its own definition in India. This is a country many consider the last true bastion of handmade, handcrafted luxury in the world. Our handwoven textiles and painstakingly-crafted embellishments that take hundreds of hours by a single artisan, now seem to hold no inherent value on their own. All thanks to social media’s drive of democratisation and its constant craving for stories and narratives. Now, each designer must vie for the fickle attention of a large group of viewers who may not even be able to afford their creativity and artisanship. The irony. Without a narrative attached, real customers cannot see themselves in these clothes. Think of Gaurav Gupta’s excellently-inclusive choice of models; Rahul Mishra taking us to a renovated Tijara Palace, while few of us have had the privilege to travel in the past six months; Kunal Rawal using the iconic Asiatic Library in Mumbai; and Anju Modi evoking ancient Indian beauty rituals. Without these identifiers, the customer is lost. How sad. If this is the reality today, I congratulate Falguni and Shane Peacock for creating the most real and relevant digital experience among them all. They have their finger firmly on the pulse. Celebrity stylist Shaleena Nathani sashayed on to a fashion show set and fiddled with a model’s gown before sending her and others off on to the catwalk. As the video progressed, stylist Tanya Ghavri was spotted correcting a flawlessly worn dress, followed by Bollywood’s favourite stylists Aastha Sharma and Mohit Rai. This is Falguni and Shane Peacock talking directly to their fans. After all, which woman able to afford haute couture doesn’t dream of a Mohit Rai or a Shaleena Nathani fussing over her? Even with the return of JJ Valaya to the couture showcase — a designer who had his own website way before anyone even conceived of the idea in the early 2000s — the fact that he was the only one to talk directly to his viewers was eventually subsumed. By? The simple regularity of a beautifully-produced fashion show video. But no use crying over split silk. The reality is that today, few designers in India are able to synchronise their digital experience with e-commerce backup. And the very nature of e-commerce is antithetical to the tactile and sensory experience of Indian haute couture, of which consultations with the designer are an important part.  After viewing all 10 showcases over five evenings, I am left with a few simple questions: is every designer good at ‘storytelling’ in the way that Instagram demands they be? Should they be? As I end this feature with these queries, I would like to assure my peers in the fashion industry that I have not written it to mock their efforts. We are all learning as we enter a new digital age. I am here simply as a questioner, and I know very well that there are no right answers. The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Second COVID coming reported in city, but experts unconvinced||Though there have been at least three cases in the city of a person testing positive for COVID-19 for a second time, doctors who handled two of these patients admitted they were not confirmed reinfections as genome study was not done. Experts have frequently reiterated that chances of reinfections are rare. A police officer had allegedly tested positive for a second time in July at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital. But Rajesh Chawla, a senior consultant at the hospital, said that they cannot call it a reinfection. “The policeman came to us in July with fever and sore throat and he was tested positive for the virus. He had earlier tested positive more than a month ago at another hospital. It is difficult to say whether it was reinfection or the same infection. Now studies are saying that viral particles can persist for up to 140 days,” Dr. Chawla said. “We did the genome study of the virus when he came to our hospital the second time. But it was not done when he was first infected. If it had been done, then we could have confirmed whether it was indeed a reinfection.” he added. Chandra Goda, HoD of Medical Oncology Department of Aakash Healthcare, who also treated a patient who tested positive for a second time after recovering, had a similar opinion. “But the patient had tested negative after testing positive for the time and then her health improved. But she tested positive again and her health deteriorated. Which means that it could be a reinfection, but we cannot confirm it as Next Generation Sequencing [NGS], which is a genetic study of the virus. It was not done both the times she tested positive,” he said. How to confirm? K. Srinath Reddy, epidemiologist and president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) in Delhi, said that reinfection is rare. “When the virus leaves a person’s body, it carries a bit of her genetic material. The virus has a genetic structure, but it also picks up fragments of the host’s genetic material. A reinfection can be confirmed if a genome study of the virus is done and the genetic structure of the virus is different at the two different points when she tested positive,” Dr. Reddy said. He said that if the genetic structure is the same, then it is not a reinfection and could be a dead virus. The expert said that even if a person had COVID-19 and has antibodies and memory cells against the virus, it can invade the body and reach the nose or throat. “During this time, the person will test positive for COVID-19, if he takes a nasal swab test. But in most cases, people will have memory cells to fall back upon to mount an immune response to prevent infection from turning into a disease,” Dr. Reddy added.
26 September 2020||KURUKSHETRA,||Farmers block roads in Haryana to protest against Central Bills||Peaceful demonstrations were held across Haryana to oppose the three farm Bills on Friday, in response to the call for a nation-wide bandh given by a wide coalition of farmers’ unions. More than half-a-dozen districts bordering Punjab, especially Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamunanagar, witnessed the maximum impact. Though commercial establishments and transport services remained unaffected, the protesters sat on the roads, including on State and national highways, at several points across the Haryana to block traffic. Besides the Delhi-Hisar, Ambala-Kaithal and Jind-Patiala highways, the agitating farmers laid seize on roads in Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Ambala, Kaithal and Jind. The Arhtiya (commission agents) association, Janvadi Mahila Samiti, CITU and retired Karamchari Sangh joined the protest at Rohtak. The roads leading to Jind, Panipat, Hisar and Jhajjar from the district were blocked. Kisan Sabha State vice-president Inderjit Singh, addressing the protesters, claimed that success of Bharat Bandh had proved that there were no takers for the legislations being imposed by the Modi government. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) workers and farmers sat on railway tracks in Yamuna Nagar disrupting the traffic. With arthiyas being at the receiving end of the three Bills, the grain markets across the State saw little business. “The business has been almost nil. Around 15,000 sacks of paddy were brought to the mandi on Thursday, but only a couple of farmers turned up today,” said Sandeep Beniwal, commission agent, Samalkha New Grain Market - off National Highway-44 in Panipat. BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni, speaking to the media persons at a protest site in Panchkula, said the people in power took donations from big corporates for election and made laws to suit them. “Both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have exploited farmers. But I would like to say that BJP is doing so four times faster than the Congress,” said Mr. Charuni, denying allegations of any understanding with the Congress.  ‘Do or die battle’ Addressing gatherings at Ambala and Yamuna Nagar, Mr. Charuni said the farmers were ready for a “do or die” battle. He added that the new law would establish the monopoly of a few corporate houses in the country to buy and sell agricultural products. Mr. Charuni said the State unit of Haryana had less than two days to prepare for the strike, but still the response was “good”.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Once upon a con man||Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s Ayyan Mani is a Dalit living on the fringes of Mumbai, in a one-room house with his wife and son. He is personal assistant to a decorated and arrogant Brahmin astronomer, Arvind Acharya (played by Nassar). But he isn’t one to let the lack of opportunity he grew up with pass on to the next generation. The upcoming Netflix film, Serious Men, portrays Mani seething and glowing, in turns, with puffed-up ambition and an outrageous scheme to change his family’s fortunes — from “2G to 4G”. ‘Whole mad journey’ The film is based on Manu Joseph’s début novel (2010) of the same name, where the author dipped into many issues — class, caste, social mobility, and oppression, among other things — and wove them into what director Sudhir Mishra says is a wonderfully-satirical story. “In a strange way, it is a warm, human book, filled with love for its characters with all their idiosyncrasies,” says Mishra, over a video call that includes Siddiqui and Nassar. He says what also hooked him was the fascinating cast: “Mani, Acharya, and Mani’s son, and the whole mad journey they take. When we were shooting, I was reading the book, to be one with Manu in my head.” True to society Siddiqui has often played the underdog in Hindi films, the one who makes the most of a raw deal in good and bad ways. A recent example is another Netflix outing, Raat Akeli Hai . In Serious Men , he is in fine form, playing a man with a determined goal who presents his son to the world as a genius. He says, “When choosing my films, my focus is usually on the director. There are some I want to work with, come what may, and Sudhir is one of them.” Siddiqui reveals that the script was also a deciding factor. Nassar, too, was drawn to the script, which he found “simple but emotional, sensitive and deep”. He continues, “The characters represented society around me. Most middle- and upper-class people are just like Mani — they want their children to become what they missed out on. I saw my father in him. As for my character, we can see a lot of Acharyas around us.” Much of the film pivots around the conflicting ambitions, social status and power dynamics of the two men. “Theirs is a love-hate relationship. Mani admires Acharya too, he likes his elegance and attitude. He wants his son to be like him,” chips in Siddiqui. When Mani, almost invisible to those with power and prestige, is routinely called “moron, imbecile, knobhead” by Acharya, he responds with a name of his own for the priviledged class — ‘Serious Men’. Translating this book to screen, with its specifically satirical tone, was tricky. How do you lens the complexity of caste oppression in contemporary India and create a film that is both profoundly troubling and bitingly funny? “It’s a temperament. If you can deal with something compassionately, yet have a sense of humour to be able to laugh at it by being with its characters and seeing their foibles, you can pull it off. It’s difficult, and how it happens is a mystery,” is Mishra’s response. Lockdown reaction The actors agree that releasing the film during the pandemic, on a small screen, has its benefits. “OTT has a huge reach and my films are going to a large audience,” says Siddiqui, who stayed upbeat the past few months by listening to narrations over Zoom and signing movies. Next month, he will begin shooting for a new film. For Mishra, it has been a confusing time. “Everything I was writing before the pandemic has turned topsy turvy in my head, my plans have changed. I want to make a historical series, and there are other projects being discussed, but it’s all up in the air now.” Serious Men releases on   October 2 on Netflix
26 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Demonstrations in Rajasthan||Farmers staged demonstrations and participated in rallies in several districts of Rajasthan on Friday during the Bharat bandh called to oppose the farm Bills passed in the Parliament. Vehicular traffic was blocked on several roads and highways in Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Jhunjhunu districts. A large number of Krishi Upaj Mandis across the State remained closed on the bandh call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The towns in northern Rajasthan, bordering Punjab, also witnessed closure of all shops and commercial establishments, as the farmers’ bodies organised protest march and public meetings. The Youth Congress workers took out a ‘Mashaal Juloos’ (torch rally) at Nainwa road in Bundi to protest against the contentious Bills, which they said would weaken the rural economy. The police force was deployed at all sensitive places, while the State Transport and private buses remained off the road in Sriganganagar district during the day. AIKSCC-Rajasthan coordinator Sanjay Madhav said the farmers were apprised of the Bills impact on their livelihood, minimum support prices, public distribution system and Krishi Upaj Mandis during the bandh. He said the farmers, villagers, agricultural labourers and small shopkeepers ensured a peaceful observance of bandh in the State. The Congress affirmed that it had extended an unqualified support to farmers in their struggle against the 0farm Bills, which had been introduced by the Centre as a “disgusting conspiracy”. The party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, said at a press conference here that the BJP had launched an attack on the farmers through the Bills, depriving them of their livelihoods.  ‘Mandis will be finished’ Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the mandis across the country would be finished if the provisions made in the Bills were implemented. “The Bills were brought to divert people’s attention from the BJP’s divisive politics... No mandi traders and Opposition parties were consulted,” he said.
26 September 2020||September 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Metallic and moulded||Let’s just say that after the minimalist, white scheme of the latest digital stores, Amit Aggarwal’s e-commerce platform, with its dark grey background, is refreshing. It offers just the right contrast to the strong metallic colours of his outfits — often bottle green, gold and silver. The Luxury Pret line begins with sheer, asymmetric shirts at Rs. 16,500 and his signature structured capes at Rs. 19,500. Couture starts at Rs. 42,500 for unstitched saris paired with metallic bustiers, moulded 3D hand-embroidered or lace blouses. The collections go all the way up to Rs. 5.25 lakh for elaborately-embroidered structuredlehengas— customisation details can be submitted in an online form or shared on WhatsApp. This goes beyond the lining, coverage and length options offered by other designers (like Gaurav Gupta, who launched his digital store recently). For those not bound by a budget, AA Exclusives features winged gowns, 3D skater dresses, and pre-stitched saris. This price-on-request section, unfortunately, has no descriptor or quick view for each garment. Users have to click and go into a new page to see each piece while browsing. That said, the site is easy to navigate, with tabs that introduce customers to the designer and brand, as well as a prominent press section. Aggarwal’s film from the recently-concluded India Couture Week is hosted on the home page.Up next:AM.IT, Aggarwal’s ready-to-wear collection. The diffusion line, launched in 2015, was created to “ensure natural and manmade textiles co-exist” and features handloom fabric from across the country.
26 September 2020||Hapur,||‘Govt. wants to make us bonded labourers’||“When there is an election, we become both anna data (food provider) and mat data (voter), but today the farmer is neither of the two,” bemoaned Jagveer Singh, a 74-year-old farmer squatting on the divider of NH 9, jammed by thousands of farmers on Friday in protest against the farm bills passed by the Parliament in the just-concluded monsoon session. Hailing from the Rasoolpur village of Hapur, he shied away from sharing the exact size of landholding he had. “ Majhola (mid-level) kisan samajh lo ,” he said. “None of us protesting here has more than 7-8 bighas of land. Bas kisi tarah ghar chal jata hai .” He didn’t know exactly what was there in the three farm Bills but what he understood was “this government wants to make us bonded labourers of private players.” “And I know what a private party is like because we have dealt with Simbaoli Sugar Mill. It still owes around Rs. 500 crores to cane farmers,” his wrinkled face grew a few more creases. “Despite,” chipped in Sudesh Kumar, sitting next to Mr. Singh, “Our Chief Minister, taking oath on Ganga water, had said that he would get us our dues in 14 days and even the Supreme Court gave a ruling in our favour. Do you still think we stand a chance against these corporates when they won’t abide by the contract,” he rued. “Freedom was the only thing we had and that is also being snatched away from us,” said Mr. Kumar, adding the only option left for farmers was to hit the road and get themselves heard.  ‘Unity among groups’ The good thing, said Kushalpal Arya, national secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, the issue had brought together different farmer groups and political parties. At the protest, tractors with flags of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan could be seen and representatives of the Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress were part of the sit-in protest. “I hope farmers will not get swayed by the emotive issues that BJP keeps bringing up and stay united,” he said. Polishing off a bowl of chhole , after a hard day under the sun, Mr. Arya pointed out the farmers wanted “reforms” in the APMC system, not its “slow death”, which the Bills seek to achieve. “We know most of us are not getting the SMP (this was how most of the farmers in the protest called MSP) price, but at least in the APMC we could unite and had the right to register our protest. The aaratiya (middleman) comes from local society and often stands by the farmer in his dukh sukh (good and bad day) when the government refuses to buy,” he said. “And if the government thinks, the Bills would eliminate middlemen, it is wrong. He will become an agent of the corporate and would carry out his wish, which will be worse,” noted Mr. Arya. The Bills, he said, were formulated without taking into account the ground realities. “Through these Bills, the government is allowing the private parties to hoard knowing fully well that the ordinary farmer doesn’t have any storage capacity. He will always blink first in the battle of wait for a good price,” he said.  ‘One nation, 2 markets’ Dharmendra Malik, the national spokesperson of BKU, said The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 would create a situation of one country, two markets. “The government is saying that the APMC system would continue. But it is anybody’s guess that faced with two systems – one with regulation and taxes and the other without them – the private player, agent, and businessman would ensure only the latter thrives. This will eventually make APMC meaningless.” Earlier, in a widespread protest, in which Rashtriya Lok Dal and Bhartiya Kisan Sangathan also participated, farmers jammed national and State highways in Shahjahanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Noida, Aligarh, and Mathura, leading to long traffic jams across western Uttar Pradesh.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘File FIR on plaint against morphed video of CM’||A court has directed Delhi Police to register an FIR on a complaint on a morphed video of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal allegedly singing an “obscene” song, saying its tone and manner lower his reputation and address the public in an abusive manner. Metropolitan Magistrate Kishor Kumar directed the Station House Officer (SHO) of Paschim Vihar police station to lodge an FIR on the basis of the complaint filed by an advocate, within one week. It also directed the police to file a compliance report by December 2. The complaint, filed by advocate Amit Sahni, claimed that after the result of Delhi Vidhan Sabha Election on February 12, 2020, a video was uploaded on YouTube in which Mr. Kejriwal has been shown singing an “obscene” song. The court said in its order passed on September 24, “In the video in question, the tone and manner of the song were not only lowering the reputation of a constitutionally elected Chief Minister, but were also addressing public/voters in abusive manner who have exercised their constitutional/electoral rights while voting for AAP for the purpose of electing Arvind Kejriwal as the Chief Minister of Delhi.” “I find there is prima facie, cognisable case having been disclosed by the complainant on the basis of the CD in question in which Arvind Kejriwal as the Chief Minister of Delhi is shown singing...under Section 294 [obscene acts and songs] of the IPC, read with 67 [lascivious content] of Information Technology Act,” the judge said.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Fridays For Future holds protest outside Environment Ministry||Students and youth under the banner of Fridays For Future (FFF), a global movement demanding climate justice, protested outside the Union Environment Ministry on Friday afternoon. “We are asking for our rights. Not begging to anyone”, “Scrap Draft EIA 2020”, “Emergency! Seas are rising” were some of the slogans the protesters wrote on a road opposite to the Ministry. They also carried placards and raised slogans and demanded the government to act against the climate crisis. “Stop denying, our earth is dying,” read one placard. “Make love, not CO2,” read another. The group also said they would be submitting a detailed list of demands to the Delhi government next week. The FFF is a global climate strike movement that started in August 2018, when 15-year-old Greta Thunberg began a strike in Sweden.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||New cases below 4,000 for sixth day in a row||As many as 3,827 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,64,450, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. This is the sixth consecutive day the number of new cases was less than 4,000. Also, 24 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,147. Of the total cases, 2,28,436 people have recovered and there are 30,867 active cases. Out of the total 15,812 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 55.7% were vacant, as per government data on Friday. However, 62.7% of ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 77.4% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 6.4% – the second lowest in over a month. The number of containment zones in the city on Thursday jumped to 2,124 – the highest till now. The Delhi government is planning to postpone the fourth serological survey scheduled to be carried out from October 1 to know the percentage of the population which has antibodies against the virus. The result of the survey which was conducted from September 1 to 7 is yet to be released and the government has not yet decided on a sample size for the fourth survey, a Delhi government source said. The Delhi government has also finalised a map with locations of all testing centres for COVID-19 in the city, following a High Court order, and will share it with the DMRC next week to paste it at different metro stations, according to officials. The government will also put up the map online.
26 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||COVID-19 cases cross 2 lakh mark in Odisha||The number of COVID-19 cases in Odisha soared past the 2 lakh mark on Friday even as the spread of the infection showing no signs of slowing down. The State’s COVID-19 count reached 2,01,096 cases after 4,208 persons tested positive during the past 24 hours. The number of fatalities also jumped to 767 following the death of 15 persons. While Odisha took 169 days to breach the one lakh mark on August 30, the next one lakh cases came in just 27 days on September 25. Odisha’s COVID-19 graph has been rising sharply as the daily spike has been consistently surpassing the 4000-mark for the past 10 days. Only six other States — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh — have registered higher daily infections. Among the neighbouring States, while Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have stayed ahead of Odisha with 6,54,385 and 2,37,869 cases respectively, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are yet to cross the one lakh mark. Local cases, which are found to be above 40%, are on the rise. For the past two days, the State government has been testing more than 50,000 samples per day. The positivity rate has been hovering over 8% since the first week of August. The daily growth rate of Odisha’s COVID-19 tally is estimated to be above 2%. Fatality count Meanwhile, a controversy has erupted over the number of fatalities in the State, which account for 0.83% of India’s total death toll. “Going by the number of bodies being disposed at Satyanagar crematorium in Bhubaneswar, we doubt that government is hiding the death figures,” said Manas Choudhury, president of the District Congress Committee, Bhubaneswar, in a video he shared of bodies being cremated. Similarly, in another video related to a crematorium in Cuttack, a relative of a deceased person took to social media alleging that the number of bodies being cremated daily was higher than the official figures put up by the State.
26 September 2020||Guwahati,||AIIMS team to check ex-CM Gogoi’s health||A team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is expected to visit Assam soon to check the health of former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi. Mr. Gogoi was admitted to the intensive care unit of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Thursday due to post-COVID-19 complications. His admission almost coincided with the discharging of another former Chief Minister, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, from a private hospital where he had undergone treatment for a neurological ailment. “We had a videoconference with AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria in the morning to discuss Mr. Gogoi’s health condition. He expressed satisfaction with the line of treatment by the GMCH doctors and advised some tests,” Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Friday. He added that a team of AIIMS specialists would be arriving “in a day or two” for treating the former Chief Minister, whose parliamentarian son Gaurav Gogoi participated in the videoconference too. Mr. Sarma said the former Chief Minister’s health improved on Friday compared to what it was on Thursday. “He is maintaining a saturation level of 94 with three litres of oxygen compared to 92 with six litres of oxygen 24 hours ago,” he said.  Panel for Bodoland Meanwhile, Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi on Friday formed a four-member panel for redrawing the map of the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) and increasing the number of councils from 40 to 60. Mandated by the Bodo Accord of January 29, the BTR would be an “upgraded” version of the existing Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which has been under the Governor’s Rule since April 27 after the expiry of its term.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Booking high-security number plates now easy||The process of booking high security registration plates (HSRPs) has been made easier following the Delhi government’s public appeal to citizens to get these installed, said Rosmerta Security Systems Private Limited, the largest vendor of these plates, here on Friday. According to a Rosmerta spokesperson, the time to book a number plate and take appointment online via www.bookmyhsrp.com has reduced to 1-2 minutes even as up to 3,000 bookings are taking place over the last few days as opposed to 250-300 earlier. A total of over 32 lakh vehicles registered prior to 2019 (approximately 10-12 lakh cars and 20 lakh two-wheelers) have to get the HSRP and third-coloured sticker plates installed. Of this, so far 3.5 lakh vehicles have complied, according to the vendor. Through an amendment in Rule 50 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, Govt. of India has made HSRP mandatory.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Executive Council fed up with arbitrariness of govt.’||The BJP alleged here on Friday that the Delhi University Executive Council has passed a proposal to bring 12 aided colleges, which it has jurisdiction over, under Delhi University. This, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged, illustrated the “failure” of the Arvind Kejriwal-led government which, he argued, had no right to remain in power since it had failed at running these colleges. “The Kejriwal government only talks big and blames its failures on others. He is not being able to run the colleges aided by the Delhi government,” Mr. Gupta alleged.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||CM chairs DUSIB meet on shelter homes in city||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday chaired a meeting of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) where several decisions seeking to improve the condition of DUSIB shelter homes and provide various amenities to the people living in these shelter homes were discussed. DUSIB has decided to provide three free meals a day to homeless people living in DUSIB shelters, at an annual expenditure of Rs. 15.31 crore. The Board has also decided to rehabilitate 784 people residing in Princess Park, to facilitate the use of land by the Ministry of Defence for the construction of National War Museum and Memorial, the government said in a statement. “The families will be rehabilitated to the transit camps located at Sector 16B Dwarka for 1-1.5 years. Around 350 families living in the slum dwellings in Karol Bagh will also be rehabilitated to the transit camps. The rehabilitated people will be shifted to the flats that are being constructed in Dev Nagar, Karol Bagh area,” the government said. DUSIB has been providing free meals to people living at DUSIB shelters since March when the COVID-19-induced lockdown was imposed.
26 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Highway still under siege in Dungarpur||A two-km stretch of the National Highway-8 near Dungarpur in Rajasthan remained under control of the unruly tribal youth for the second consecutive day on Friday. After unsuccessful attempts to disperse the protesters who torched a dozen vehicles and vandalised a petrol pump, the district administration clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code in the region. Police lobbed teargas shells and fired rubber bullets at the crowd on the highway, which connects Udaipur with Ahmedabad. Dungarpur Collector Kana Ram said the police had arrested about 30 persons, while the highway was still blocked and efforts were underway to restore law and order. The youth have been demanding recruitment of Scheduled Caste candidates to 1,167 posts of teachers in the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) area.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia given plasma therapy, condition stable||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was later diagnosed with dengue, was given plasma therapy at Max Hospital, Saket, on Friday, said sources. “He was admitted last night and was given plasma therapy today. His condition is better now and he is stable,” an AAP source said on Friday. Mr. Sisodia was shifted to Max Hospital after he was diagnosed with dengue and his blood platelets count was low.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Online professional development programme conducted for English teachers||The Delhi government conducted an eight-week online ‘Professional Development for English Teachers’ (PDET) programme and a four-week communicative language teaching and TESOL methodology for primary teachers. The online programme was conducted in association with the Regional English Language Office (RELO) of the American Embassy in India and 600 English teachers participated in the training. Education Minister Manish Sisodia, who was scheduled to participate in the concluding session, was unable to make it and sent a message to the attendees.
26 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- crematorium brief||The capacity of Nigambodh Ghat crematorium would be doubled following the commissioning of three new CNG platforms, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said on Friday. The platforms are expected to be completed within a month, with 80% of the work having been completed so far, the Mayor said. With this, the number of CNG furnaces at the crematorium would stand at six. The project has been undertaken at a cost of Rs. 1.3 crore, Mr. Prakash added.
