26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese build-up started in May: MEA||China had been “amassing” troops and armaments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for nearly two months, the government said on Thursday and accused the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of violating the 1993 agreement between India and China that committed both sides to “minimum levels” of deployment. This is the first time the government has formally acknowledged the scale of the build-up along the LAC since early May, and is a departure from previous statements that attributed the tensions to a “difference in perception” of the LAC. The government also made it clear that it believes the PLA movement in the summer of 2020 has been different from past years. “The conduct of Chinese forces this year has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms,” said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in a media briefing. Placing the blame for the increase in tensions and casualties on June 15 squarely on “Chinese actions”, the government called on China to restore “peace and tranquillity” by implementing the June 6 disengagement plan agreed to by military commanders, as peace at the border is the “basis” of the India-China bilateral relationship. “A continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship,” the spokesperson warned.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Armed gangs rule Nagaland: Governor||In a scathing letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi has said the “scenario in the State is grim” and that “law and order has collapsed”. The four-page letter sent on June 16 said the constitutionally established State government was being challenged on a day-to-day basis by armed gangs who question the integrity and sovereignty of the nation, while the instruments of law and order remain totally unresponsive. The Hindu has a copy of the letter. Constitutional mandate The Governor said he could no longer abstain from constitutional obligations and proposed that under Article 371A (1) (b) of the Constitution, important functions like “transfer and posting of officials” entrusted with the maintenance of law and order of and above the district level will be with the approval of the Governor. The BJP is a key coalition partner in the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party-led government in Nagaland. Mr. Ravi said the unrestrained daily depredations by over half a dozen organised gangs, brazenly running their respective “so-called governments”, challenging the legitimacy of the government without any resistance from the State law and order machinery, has created a crisis of confidence in the system. The letter highlighted that armed miscreants were appointing their own dealers for every commodity from salt to construction material coming into the State and were levying illegal taxes on every item. “Transporters have complained to me that there is over 200% cost escalation in transportation the moment a goods-laden truck enters Nagaland due to gun point extortions by the armed miscreants,” the Governor said. Funds siphoned off The steady slide of Nagaland in various parameters such as road connectivity, health and education can be attributed to “siphoning off a large chunk of government funds meant for development”, the Governor said. Several National Highways projects are stalled if 5-7% of the project cost is not given to armed gangs and there have been cases of kidnapping and assault on project engineers in cases of delay, the letter said, adding: “They have informed how construction company officials are summoned to the Dimapur offices of the armed gangs for payments and negotiations…”
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Dy. CM: Bengaluru not to see another lockdown, for now||Rumours and speculation of another complete lockdown in Bengaluru over the past few days owing to a surge in COVID-19 cases, were spiked on Thursday with the government ruling out the possibility for now. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the question of another complete lockdown did not arise. “Revival of the economy has only just started and livelihoods are important. The situation in the City is under control and not alarming. There is no need for a complete lockdown again,” he said. All-party meeting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has called an all-party meeting of elected representatives from the city on Friday to take them into confidence. Sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, is concerned about the health of the State exchequer and the havoc another lockdown may cause. “Discussions with medical experts have indicated that the spurt in COVID-19 cases may be controlled by other measures rather than a complete lockdown. The government may announce a few more stringent measures, including thinning of crowds at market places and regulating the entry of people from COVID hotspot States such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu,” a senior Minister said. Citizens’ responsibility Earlier in the day, Mr. Yediyurappa put the onus on citizens to bring down the numbers. “Whether there will be another lockdown will depend on the people. If they do not want it, they should cooperate with the government, wear masks, maintain social distancing and take all prescribed precautionary measures to check the spread of the virus,” he said. He pointed out that when compared with other cities, the situation in Bengaluru is not that alarming. “But it is true we are seeing a spurt of clusters, especially in slums which is a cause for concern. We have sealed certain areas, which will continue for now,” he added. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, too, later said that no new areas would be sealed for now. On Thursday, Mr. Yediyurappa, chaired a meeting with Ministers and officers to review the COVID-19 situation in the city. The government is preparing for a contingency plan with additional beds made available for COVID-19 treatment in lieu of the spike in cases expected over the coming weeks.  Whether there will be another lockdown will depend on the people B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,||There is no community transmission of COVID-19 in T.N., says Palaniswami||There is no community transmission of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. Addressing the media, he said, “If there is community spread of the virus in the State, you [the press] and I will not be standing here. The State government has been able to identify all COVID-19-positive persons and their contacts to control its spread.” The extended lockdown imposed by the State government had helped control the spread of the disease. Had the government not imposed the curbs, the spread of the disease would have been severe and more people would have succumbed to it, the Chief Minister said. The reduced death rate and the increasing number of persons who had recovered from COVID-19 demonstrated that the State government had taken the necessary steps, he added. The government had ramped up the testing of samples, and 32,000 samples were tested on Wednesday alone, Mr. Palaniswami pointed out. He made the remarks after holding a review meeting at the Coimbatore Collectorate to take stock of the steps the district administration had taken to combat COVID-19 and after inaugurating a few schemes. These were testing times for the State. In the absence of a medicine, adherence to physical distancing norms and other guidelines issued by the government were the only ways for the public to stay safe, he noted. Regarding the assistance provided to various sections of society, the Chief Minister said the State government had obtained Rs. 4,145 crore from the Central government for distribution to 1.57 lakh MSMEs. This was 10% of the amount the Centre had earmarked. Likewise, of the Rs. 200 crore package the State government had allocated towards the provision of collateral-free loans, Rs. 125 crore had been disbursed thus far, he said.  The State government has been able to identify all COVID-19-positive persons and their contacts to control its spread
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Graph continues to rise with 7 deaths||The State has detected 553 new COVID-19 cases and seven more persons succumbed to the disease during the past 24 hours as of Thursday morning. It is the highest single-day spike so far. The tally has gone up to 10, 884 and the toll increased to 136. With 209 patients getting discharged in the past day, the total number of recoveries increased to 4, 988 and the number of active cases too increased to 5, 760. Of the new deaths, two each occurred in Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur districts and one death occurred in East Godavari district. Of the total new cases, 477 are local while 69 are other State cases and seven are other country cases. The local cases’ tally has gone up to 8, 783 with 4, 817 active cases and 3, 830 recovered cases. All the deaths reported so far are of local patients. Most of the new local cases are reported in Kurnool (72) and the overall tally has crossed the 1,500-mark. It is followed by Guntur (67), East Godavari (64), Anantapur (52), Krishna (47), Chittoor (42), Visakhapatnam (40), Nellore (29), Kadapa (22), West Godavari (18), Prakasam (18), Vizianagaram (5) and Srikakulam (1).  The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1,555), Krishna (1,179), Anantapur (1,080), Guntur (958), East Godavari (824), Chittoor (699), West Godavari (681), Nellore (522), Kadapa (500), Visakhapatnam (407), Prakasam (218), Vizianagaram (99) and Srikakulam (61). Meanwhile, Krishna district continues to top with 47 deaths, the highest toll as well as the highest death rate of 3.82%. It is followed by Kurnool with 44 deaths, Guntur with 16 and Anantapur with seven deaths. The other deaths occurred in East Godavari (6), Chittoor (6), Nellore (4), Visakhapatnam (2), Prakasam (2), Srikakulam (2) and West Godavari (1). Vizianagaram is the only district with no COVID deaths so far. The State has tested 19, 085 samples in the past 24 hours and 7.69 lakh samples so far.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||100-plus cases for seventh consecutive day||The number of active COVID-19 cases or patients currently undergoing treatment in the State went up to 1,761 with 123 new positive cases and 53 recoveries on Thursday. It is for the seventh consecutive day that the State was reporting 100 cases a day. All except six of the new cases are imported cases of infection reported in people who had come to the State from abroad or from other parts of the country. In the case of six patients, they had contracted the disease through local transmission after they came into contact with known/unknown sources of infection. The number of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 ever since the outbreak began in the State is 3,726, of whom 1,941 persons have recovered from the disease so far. The State has kept 1,59,616 persons under surveillance and in quarantine, of whom 2,349 with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals in various districts. The number of hotspots in the State now is 113. Testing to be upped Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media here on Thursday, said that the State intended to increase COVID-19 testing in stages so that by July, 15,000 tests can be conducted in a single day. He said that general safety precautions against COVID-19 would have to be tightened and that there cannot be any compromise on the requirement of quarantine considering the fact that the pandemic is set to peak in the State in the coming months. He said that only 7 % of the imported cases had resulted in local transmission, which pointed to the efficient manner in which the State was managing the tracing and quarantine part of COVID-19 containment. He said that the Break the Chain campaign would have to be followed through without any gaps and that people should cooperate with officials in figuring out possible epidemiological linkages of cases so that anyone at potential risk of infection can be identified and quarantined. He said that private labs and private hospitals cannot impose arbitrary and exorbitant charges for COVID testing and that the government would soon bring in a uniformity in testing fee. The government was also engaging the private sector in the manner in which the latter can cooperate with the government at a later stage in the fight against the pandemic when government facilities will not be enough to manage the patient load.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE, ICSE cancel pending exams||The Union Government and the Central Board of Secondary Education informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that the remaining exams for Classes 10 and 12, scheduled from July 1 to 15, have been cancelled because of the concerns over the safety of students amid the pandemic. The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education also agreed “in principle” with the decision to cancel the pending exams. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the CBSE had prepared an “assessment scheme” for the cancelled exams. A proposed notification submitted by the CBSE Controller of Examinations details the scheme. It said the marks of Classes 10 and 12 students who have completed their exams would be based on their performance. For those who have completed exams in more than three subjects, the average marks in their best three performing subjects would be taken for assessing the scores for the cancelled exams. If students have appeared for only three exams, the average of the best two subjects would be taken for assessing the exams missed out in July. In a few cases as in Delhi, if students appeared in one or two subjects, the average of these marks, plus their internal and practical scores, would be used. The results would be declared by July 15. The court listed the case on June 26, at 10.30 a.m., for passing orders.  The Centre has not yet decided whether NEET and JEE will be held as scheduled in July.
26 June 2020||Kolkata,||Protests over ‘irregularities’ in distribution of Amphan relief||A day after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee directed officials to fix anomalies regarding distribution of Cyclone Amphan relief, protests erupted in different districts of West Bengal on Thursday over irregularities in relief distribution. Protests were reported at Namkhana in South 24 Parganas, Nandkumar and Kanthi in East Medinipur, Pandua in Bardhaman, Bongaon in North 24 Parganas and Nasibpur in Hooghly district. Protests were organised primarily by supporters of the Left parties and the Bharatiya Janata Party, but at some places villagers also targeted functionaries of gram panchayats alleging that the money had not reached people who were affected by the cyclone. At Namkhana, Communist Party of India ( Marxist) leader Kanti Ganguly threatened to block the national highway if the irregularities in relief distribution continued. The Chief Minister had on Wednesday after an all-party meeting assured that the list of beneficiaries will be displayed at the block level. “At some places some people have been deprived. The administration has been asked to make the list of beneficiaries public. The list will be available at the BDO office.There is no scope of party politics in the distribution of relief,” Ms. Banerjee has said.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||L-G revokes order on mandatory assessment||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, on Thursday revoked the order of mandatory assessment of COVID-19-positive persons at COVID Care Centres (CCS), following stiff resistance from the Aam Aadmi Party government over the week. Now, only those COVID-19 patients who do not have adequate facilities at home to ensure physical segregation and do not have other medical conditions would be required to be shifted to CCS and other quarantine facilities. The modification in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for home isolation of COVID-19 patients was approved at the DDMA meeting chaired by Mr. Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. AAP welcomes decision The latest reversal comes days after the L-G rolled back his directive of mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for COVID-19 patients last Saturday. The CCS assessment guideline had come into effect last Saturday only and was strongly opposed by the AAP government, which said it will burden the administrative and healthcare set-up in the Capital. “We are happy that the Central government has accepted our request. Now if a person tests positive, a medical team will visit their house and if their condition is fine and their residence has facilities then the person will be home quarantined,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also attended the meeting, said during a videoconference. According to Raj Niwas, Thursday’s meeting was held following the “guidance” from Union Home Minister Amit Shah in a meeting last Sunday. “The patient will be allowed home isolation if, as per the assessment of home isolation team sent by the District Surveillance Officer, he is mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic and has a residence of two rooms or a separate room and a separate toilet. They will also be provided a contact number for any consultation required by them along with details of CATS Ambulance for transfer to hospital in case symptoms develop,” Raj Niwas said in a statement. If a patient has moderate/severe symptoms with co-morbidities, he/she will be transferred to the CCC/hospital, Raj Niwas stated.
26 June 2020||Pune,||State reports single-day high of 4,841 cases||Maharashtra recorded a new single-day high on Thursday, with a whopping 4,841 fresh COVID-19 cases taking its tally to 1,47,741. Another 192 deaths pushed the death toll to 6,931. Of these, 109 were reported in the last 48 hours, while 83 were from an earlier period, State Health Department officials said. Of the total case tally, 63,342 cases are active. As many as 3,661 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the number of recoveries till date to 77,453. With 1,350 new cases, Mumbai’s case tally has reached 70,878, while 58 more fatalities took the city’s death toll to 4,062. Most areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported high numbers. Thane district reported a record surge of more than 500 cases, while Navi Mumbai had 256 fresh cases. Kalyan-Dombivli reported a massive spike of 391 new cases, and Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar reported 145 and 184 new cases respectively.  In Pune district, 21 deaths caused the cumulative death toll to shoot to 659. At least 10 fatalities were reported from Aurangabad district, taking its total death count to 211. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate had marginally risen to 52.42%, while the case fatality stands at 4.69%.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Ready to talk, meet us halfway, says China||Reaching out to New Delhi amid rising tensions in Ladakh, China on Thursday said it was ready to work with India to deal with the stand-off. Beijing asked India to meet it halfway, asserting that “suspicion and friction” was a wrong path that goes against the fundamental aspirations of the people of the two countries. In an interview to PTI, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong said India and China are able to manage their differences, but put the onus on New Delhi to ease the tension, calling upon the latter to avoid actions that may “complicate” the situation.
26 June 2020||GUNTUR,||ESI scandal: ACB begins questioning Atchan||An Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Central Investigation Unit) T.S.R.K. Prasad, began questioning TDP MLA and former Labour Minister K. Atchannaaidu at the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Thursday evening. Mr. Prasad was accompanied by four officers, a photographer and a videographer. Mr. Atchannaidu was accompanied by his advocate. The interrogation began at around 5 p.m. and was continuing when reports last came in. The former Minister was arrested on June 12 from his residence at Nimmada village in Srikakulam district in the ESI scam. Former IMS Director Ramesh Kumar, and doctors Vijay Kumar, V. Janardhan, M.K.R. Chakravarthy and G.V. Subba Rao were the other accused in the scam. Late on Wednesday night, there was high drama after the advocates representing Mr. Atchannaidu alleged that the doctors were preparing to discharge him from the hospital. A large number of TDP supporters gathered in front of the GGH. Police too were present in good number. GGH Superintendent K. Sudhakar, however, said they had no plans to discharge Mr. Atchannaidu. In Guntur, party leaders Alapati Rajendra Prasad and others rushed to the GGH. Security was beefed up at the ward on the fourth floor of GGH where the TDP leader had been undergoing treatment for the last 10 days.  Interrogation began following the directions of the ACB Special Court on Wednesday granting three-day police custody of Mr. Atchannaidu. The court made it clear that the TDP leader should be allowed to lie down on his bed while being questioned, and he should be accompanied by his advocate.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Tax officials unearth Rs. 4 cr. fraud by man from Wuhan||In one of the biggest operations against fraudulent transactions in electronic goods in the State, Commercial Tax officials have unearthed an undeclared warehouse operated by a Chinese national based in Wuhan city and seized Chinese-made electronic gadgets worth about Rs. 4 crore. The seized items included mobile phones, chargers, mobile accessories, toys and even footwear, which were being sold on leading e-commerce platforms for nearly a year. The warehouse located on Old Airport Road had 25,446 Chinese-made electronic and fast-moving consumer goods and the Chinese national has been found to be selling them on platforms such as Amazon and Flipkart, among others. The search operations started on Wednesday and continued on Thursday too. The modus operandi of the Chinese national was that he obtained the premises on lease, and over 60 registrations had been made under the GST Act in the name of a number of persons for online trading of Chinese-made goods. The registrations were for both Central and State jurisdictions, and were found to have the same address, which was vacant. Commercial Tax Commissioner Srikar M.S. said that most of the registrations were found irregular in filing of returns and payment of tax, and a majority of firms either filed nil returns or did not file returns. The data showed that while one business was registered in 2017-2018, as many as 43 businesses were registered in 2018-2019 and 14 during 2019-2020. One business was registered recently during 2020-2021. Most of the 60 firms were private limited companies and 24 persons were interchangeably directors in 58 firms. The Additional Commissioner (Enforcement, South Zone) Nitesh K. Patil, who supervised the search, told The Hindu that the department estimated that the Chinese national --- using these 60 registration --- may have sold goods worth more than Rs. 20 crore since he took the warehouse on lease in June last year. “We suspect that the Chinese national may have commenced full-fledged operations since 2019 after he took the warehouse. While he remained in India till about January, he may have left Bengaluru to Wuhan around the Chinese New Year and has got stuck there,” he said, adding that he continued his operations using the warehouse from China too. Further, he said that the Chinese national had not kept any accounts of business in India. Mr. Patil said that the department would wait for a couple of days for these persons to turn up and provide accounts. “If they do not turn up, we will write to all the e-commerce platforms seeking the transaction details done with each of these registrations,” he said. Department sources said that the Chinese national used some of his contacts in terms of agents or employees in Bengaluru, and multiple registrations had been taken for better rating on e-commerce platforms. At the time of the search, neither the Chinese national, who had taken the premises on lease, nor any of the 59 taxable persons were present at the business premises, and no responsible person came forward to participate in the proceedings despite providing them sufficient time. While the warehouse has been sealed for further proceedings, investigation to ascertain the genuineness of 59 persons and their transactions and tax compliance is in progress.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases touch new high of 920 in Telangana||Continuing the trend of surge in number of positive cases for the tenth day in a row, Telangana has reported 920 COVID positive cases on Thursday, taking the total to 11,364. With the death of five more patients, the total fatalities also rose to 230. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, GHMC continues to remain the hotbed of coronavirus spread as the State capital has accounted for 737 out of 920 positive cases reported for the day, followed by 86 in neighbouring Rangareddy and 60 in Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. Karimnagar has reported another 13 cases and 14 districts have reported single-digit positive cases on Thursday. A total of 3,616 samples were tested on Thursday with the cumulative tests reaching 70,934 so far. Of the sample tested, 2,696 were negative taking the total of negative reports to 59,570. With the discharge of 327 COVID patients after treatment, the total number has reached to 4,688 and the number of active cases is at 6,446. The bulletin put the number of occupancy of beds earmarked for COVID patients at 1,083 against the availability of 17,081 with occupancy rate put at 6.34% in 34 designated government hospitals for treatment of the virus-infected patients. The DPH put the number of vacant isolation beds in COVID hospitals at 11,152 and the number of vacant beds with oxygen support at 3,482. Similarly, vacant ICU beds is put at 901 and vacant ventilator beds at 463. The official bulletin has also pointed out that the COVID-19 test results uploaded on the portal by private labs have shown serious abnormality and attributed it to the technical issues in the way of testing. A team of specialists have inspected various private labs on Thursday to check the availability of infrastructure, trained manpower, procedure of testing and quality control. Based on the reports, an expert committee will evaluate whether the testing protocols in those labs are in tune with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards or not.  GHMC continues to remain the hotbed of coronavirus spread as the State capital accounted for 737 out of 920 positive cases. Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare
26 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Floods: 2 dead in Arunachal, Assam toll 36||Landslide induced by heavy rain killed a minor in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar on Thursday while a woman drowned in twin city Naharlagun. Another person drowned in Assam’s Dhemaji district as the death toll due to flood and landslides since mid-May increased to 36. Officials in Itanagar said the body of the minor was retrieved from under the debris at the city’s Doni Colony after 8 a.m. on Thursday. Around the same time, a woman’s body was retrieved from the Lagun River near Naharlagun. Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced an immediate release of Rs. 4 lakh to the next of kin of each victim.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||Gyms, salons to reopen, decides State Cabinet||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to reopen gyms and salons in the State. As per a notification issued late at night, calling the move ‘Mission Begin Again Phase IV’, barber shops, salons and beauty parlours will resume operations from June 28. Gyms can reopen within a week’s time, and guidelines for them will be issued soon. Mumbai City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh, speaking after the Cabinet meeting, said, “This is the part of the State’s unlocking process. We have already said there will be no reimposition of a lockdown from now on, and we do not want to go back on our word,” he said. The minister, however, said there will be strict rules and regulations for the functioning of these activities, adding that no decision has been taken on religious gatherings. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours will only be allowed to provide services such as haircuts, dyeing hair, waxing and threading. Any services related to the skin will not be permitted. Employees must wear protective gear, including gloves, aprons and masks. The workspace, including chairs, must be sanitised after each service. All common areas and the floor must be sanitised every two hours. They must only use disposable towels and napkins, and sanitise and sterilise non-disposable equipment after every use. The shops must also display the safety measures they are taking publicly. Associations representing salon and gym owners had recently demanded that their establishments be allowed to resume operations, citing losses.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Masked heroes||
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Arrests only for heinous crimes: DGP||On the same day P. Jayaraj, 60, and his son J. Bennix, 31, were in police custody at the Sattankulam station, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy had directed the police to defer arrests, except in cases of heinous crimes. The DGP had instructed the police that the arrests of persons aged above 60 and having co-morbidities should be avoided to the extent possible. The father-son duo was arrested under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 353. The duo died a couple of days after they were arrested and remanded in judicial custody, triggering protests from local residents, traders, human rights activists and political parties, who alleged that the deaths were caused due to police excesses and demanded stringent action against the personnel responsible for the incident. Mr. Tripathy’s instructions were issued on June 20, 2020, as part of the Standard Operating Procedure for making arrests during the pandemic. He said a decision on arrest should be made by the Sub Divisional Officer, meaning the Deputy Superintendent of Police in districts and the Assistant Commissioners of Police in cities. The DGP said police personnel above the age of 50 should not be deployed for effecting arrests and remand extension and prisoner escort duties. While one person from each police station with full protective gear should be earmarked to record the arrests, those arrested should be asked to wear a mask and gloves. Presume positive “After apprehension, the accused shall be presumed COVID-19-positive unless proved otherwise, and sanitisation protocol for vehicles and men should be followed,” he said, adding that those arrested should be put in lock-up after ensuring physical distancing. Mr. Tripathy also directed that accused persons taken into custody should be sent for medical examination. Besides routine checks, clinical examination and temperature checks should be conducted. "A thermal scanner may be used to check the body temperature of the accused. In case of the accused revealing any symptoms of the disease, a swab test may be taken and the accused shall be quarantined in an isolation ward till the test result is received,” he said.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Industry flags delay in China imports||With import consignments from China facing hurdles in getting clearance at domestic ports amid continuing border tensions, various industry associations have written to the Centre seeking clarification on the “unannounced and opaque” move, while also warning of acute shortage of components and finished products in sectors such as pharmaceuticals, automobiles, electronics and electrical machinery. The industry representatives also pointed out that in response, Hong Kong and Chinese Customs were now holding back export consignments from India. The disruption, they added, sends a “chilling signal” to foreign investors, who look for predictability and transparency.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. doctor dies of virus in Bengaluru hospital||A 30-year-old government doctor, Basavaraj Karigoudar, who was working at Kaladgi Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot district, succumbed to COVID-19 infection at a private hospital in Bengaluru. This is the first COVID-19 fatality in the medical fraternity in Karnataka.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Industrial (Facilitation) Act to be amended||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to amend the Karnataka Industrial (Facilitation) Act, 2002, allowing entrepreneurs to set up industries on identified lands in districts without waiting for clearances/approvals from different departments/agencies, including land conversion from the Revenue Department.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||3,390 new cases in Delhi, recovery rate improves||Delhi reported 3,390 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 73,780, said a government health bulletin. A total of 44,765 people have recove-red so far and there are 26,586 active cases.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,||No community spread of COVID-19 in T.N.: CM||There is no community transmission of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. “If there is community spread of the virus in the State, you (the press) and I will not be standing here. The State government has been able to identify all COVID-19-positive persons and their contacts,” he told media. The extended lockdown had helped control the spread of the disease.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Take action against erring hospitals: HC||The High Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to take stern action against hospitals which are not providing real-time update on the availability of beds for treating COVID-19 patients in the Capital. The court made the observation after it was informed that four hospitals - RML, GTB, Apollo and Saroj - were not updating the real-time availability of beds in websites and mobile app.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||3,390 new cases in Delhi, recovery rate improves||As many as 3,390 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 73,780, said a government health bulletin released on Thursday. Also, 64 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 2,429. A total of 44,765 people have recovered so far and there are 26,586 active cases.
26 June 2020||DHARWAD,||26 more test positive||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Dharwad went up to 244 with 26 new cases reported on Thursday. The new cases are four minor boys, two minor girls, 12 men and eight women. One person has history of travelling to Telangana and two have returned from Maharastra, while another is from Delhi. Meanwhile, 43 persons were discharged.
26 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi records 14th COVID-19 death||A 61-year-old man (P-10,270) from Islamabad Colony in Kalaburagi city who died on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of COVID-19 mortalities to 14 in the district. His source of infection is yet to be known.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,||3,509 new cases in Tamil Nadu, toll rises to 911||Tamil Nadu recorded its sharpest single-day spike so far of 3,509 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally past 70,000. With 45 more fatalities, the toll climbed to 911. Chennai recorded a new high of 1,834 cases, taking its total to 47,650. Madurai and Vellore also registered a sharp rise in cases.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Sharp rise in infection among children||More than 100 children aged up to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19 on each of the past six days in the State. As on June 25, a total of 3,481 children have been infected. Experts say a majority of the infected children continue to be asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Paediatricians said children should be taught to wash their hands well, and masks could be worn by children aged above two.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Student unions seek recall of EIA draft||Student unions from several universities and colleges from across India have petitioned Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to put the draft of the proposed Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2020 on hold. The notification, which is open to public comments until June 30, is a proposed update to the existing EIA, 2006 that prescribes the procedure for industries to assess the ecological and environmental impact of their proposed activity and the mechanism whereby these would be assessed by expert committees appointed by the Ministry. The new notification was officially made available online on March 23 and opened to public feedback until May 23. However, with the COVID-19 pandemic and the closure of government presses and e-mails from individuals and organisations requesting more time, the deadline for comments was extended to June 30, a Press Information Bureau note said. Haste questioned On the basis of this, several activists, researchers and former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh too wrote to Mr. Javadekar, questioning the haste with which the draft EIA was being processed. A Right to Information (RTI) request by environmentalist Vikrant Tongad, relevant portions of which were viewed by The Hindu , showed that senior officials in the Environment Ministry had themselves mooted extending the date for public feedback until August. However, the documents show that Mr. Javadekar finally decided to accept public feedback only until June 30, and take expert reviews and consider the draft EIA for finalisation in August. R.P. Gupta, the incumbent Environment Secretary, refused to comment or clarify on requests from The Hindu . ‘In midst of pandemic’ “It is appalling that the Ministry has put out a draft notification for public comments in the midst of a global economic and public health emergency when there is restricted public movement, social distancing and challenges to everyday life activities,” says the representation led by the Tarang group of the Sonepat-based Ashoka University. The signatories include the Aligarh Muslim University Students Union, Ambedkar University Delhi Students Union, Environmental and Social Initiative Council, IISER (Indian Institute of Science Education and Research)-Bhopal, Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union, Jindal Global Law School, Student Council, and Nature Committee of the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences. Key points of dispute The key points of dispute with the proposed draft are that it shortens the period of public consultation hearings to a maximum of 40 days, and reduces from 30 to 20 days the time provided for the public to submit their responses during a public hearing for any application seeking environmental clearance. This would, in the petitioners view, hinder public access in places where information was not easily accessible or areas in which people weren’t familiar with the process. Crucially, the draft also institutionalises “violation” projects. Under a provision issued in 2017, it allows projects that have come up flouting environmental norms to be reviewed by a committee of experts and, if they so decreed, legalise the project after paying a fine. This, several environmentalists have argued, is seriously contrarian to several established principles of environment law.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||PHC doctor among virus fatalities in Karnataka||A 30-year-old government doctor became the first to die from COVID-in the medical fraternity in Karnataka on Thursday. Basavaraj Karigoudar, attached to Kaladgi Primary Health Centre in Mudhol taluk, Bagalkot district, succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Bengaluru. The official bulletin in Karnataka recorded six deaths and 442 cases. Andhra Pradesh detected 553 COVID-19 cases and seven people succumbed to the disease in 24 hours as of Thursday morning. Dr. Karigoudar, who was infected with Hepatitis B following a needle prick injury at work later developed liver failure. He was shifted to Fortis Hospital in Bengaluru for a liver transplant last week. However, he contracted COVID-19 infection and died on Thursday, an official said. Two police constables, one BESCOM employee and another staffer from Fire and Emergency Services department deputed to “Krishna”, the Karnataka Chief Minister’s home office tested COVID-19 positive. While the government bulletin did not record the doctor’s death, it reported six other deaths on Thursday taking the toll to 170. Mysuru reported its first death—of an 87-year-old male patient with inter-district travel, who also had hypertension and heart disease. While Bengaluru Rural reported three deaths, Kalaburgi and Dakshina Kannada reported one each. With 442 new cases, total cases touched 10,560. This included 6,670 discharges, 170 COVID-19 deaths, four non-COVID deaths and 3,716 active cases. Bengaluru continued to top in new cases with 113 on Thursday. Andhra Pradesh had total cases at 10,884 and the toll rose to 136. With 209 patients getting discharged in the past day, recoveries rose to 4,988 and the number of active cases too increased to 5,760. Of the new deaths, two each occurred in Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur districts and one in East Godavari district. Of total fresh cases, 477 were local while 69 were ‘other State’ cases and seven from abroad. In Kerala, active cases or patients undergoing treatment went up to 1,761 with the State reporting 123 new cases and 53 recoveries. All except six of the new cases were imported infections — from abroad or from other States. In the case of six patients, they contracted the disease through local transmission. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that the State intended to increase COVID-19 testing in stages to offer 15,000 tests per day by July. The Government was talking to the private sector on cooperation for care at a later stage in the pandemic.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘It’s wait and watch on disengagement’||The June 22 consensus reached between the Indian and Chinese Corps Commanders on disengagement is yet to be implemented, a defence source said, adding that it was “wait and watch by both sides”. Meanwhile, satellite images and reports indicate a massive build-up and construction by China’s People Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in Galwan Valley and in Depsang plains, threatening the Indian Army’s positions in Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO). “It is wait and watch, and not ending in a hurry. Optimism of ongoing engagement has to viewed with due caution,” the defence source said. At the Corps Commander-level talks, the two sides agreed on the modalities for disengagement from all the “all friction areas” in eastern Ladakh, which, officials said, would be done in a phased manner. There is no clarity yet on the timeline for the proposed disengagement. The talks were held a week after the Galwan Valley clash, which had resulted in the death of 20 Indian personnel, including a Colonel. Satellite images and reports indicate that between June 15 and 22, China rebuilt the observation post and also set up structures reinforcing its positions at the clash site. It has also been learnt that Chinese troops have made ingress at Depsang plains, which could extend the conflict points on the LAC. As reported by The Hindu on June 2, there was heavy Chinese presence in the Depsang plains, at a crucial area called the Bulge. There was also build-up of tanks and armoured vehicles on the Chinese side very close to the LAC. Fresh reports of Chinese ingress in this area threatens Indian positions at Burtse and Raki Nala well inside Indian territory, and further the DBO by bringing Chinese troops closer to the 255-km-long crucial Darbuk-Skyok-DBO road. Army officials declined to comment on the issue. Depsang is also close to the Karakoram pass overlooking the strategic Saltoro ridge and Siachen glacier, which the Army chief Gen Manoj Naravane earlier this year had called the closest point of “collusivity” between India and Pakistan. Plains occupied in 1962 India too has since moved its troops and armour closer, said another source. Depsang plains is one of the few places on the LAC where tank manoeuvres are possible. In the 1962 war, Chinese troops occupied the plains and in 2013, Chinese troops came 19 km inside and pitched tents, resulting in a 21-day stand-off. Satellite images also show a massive build-up of defensive positions by China between Finger 4 and Finger 8 on Pangong Tso, including on the ridge lines in the Finger 4 area overlooking the Indian positions. The mountain spurs, also referred to as Fingers, have been a major area of contention. The fresh build-up has prevented Indian patrols from going beyond Finger 4. India’s claim of the LAC lies at Finger 8.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR invites test kit makers||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday invited applications for validation of rapid antigen detection tests for COVID-19 from manufacturers who have developed them. It acknowledged that the gold standard RT-PCR diagnostic test had limitations in terms of widespread availability. It said that as India was lifting the lockdown in phases, it was expected to see an upsurge in cases. Hence, it was important to scale up the testing capacity. “The gold standard RT-PCR diagnostic test has limitations in terms of widespread availability. In view of this, there is an urgent requirement of reliable and convenient rapid point of care antigen detection assays with high sensitivity and specificity. So far, the ICMR has validated and approved only one rapid antigen detection assay from SD Biosensor,” the ICMR said. The ICMR has identified sites for validation of the rapid point-of-care antigen detection tests. These are the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi; SMS Medical College, Jaipur; King George Medical University, Lucknow; Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Mumbai; Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh; Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research, Puducherry; and the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. The essential criteria for validation are a minimum of 300 rapid antigen tests for each validation; a minimum of 3-4 instruments (if the results are to be interpreted using specialised equipment such as fluorescence immunoassay readers); the ability to provide training to technical staff involved in validation of the test; and the commitment on the part of manufacturers to make adequate supplies of the product available to India with immediate effect. App to get blood Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan launched the ‘eBloodServices’ mobile application of the Indian Red Cross Society on Thursday. “Through this app, four units of blood can be requisitioned at a time, and the blood bank will wait for 12 hours for the person to collect it,” Dr. Vardhan said. The application was developed by the E-Raktkoshteam of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing under the Digital India scheme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015.
26 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Life sentence for ‘Cyanide’ Mohan||‘Cyanide’ Mohan, charged with the murder of 20 women in 2009, was sentenced to life on being found guilty of murdering a 25-year-old woman from Kasaragod. This was the last of the 20 murder cases registered against him and marks the end of trial in all the cases. According to the chargesheet, Mohan, a teacher by profession, befriended Pushpa, who worked as a cook in a women’s hostel. He promised to marry her and visited her house thrice. Pushpa left her house on July 8, 2009, under the pretext of visiting a temple in Sullia and never returned. When her family members called her, Mohan told them that she was with him in a hotel in Uppparpet police station limits of Bengaluru. On July 15, 2009, he took Pushpa to Majestic bus terminus where he asked her to consume ‘cyanide’ by making her believe it as a contraceptive pill. The victim was found dead in the public washroom. Mohan returned to the hotel and left with the victim’s ornaments. Following his arrest on October 21, 2009, in connection with similar murders, the family of Pushpa filed a complaint. Prime among witnesses in the 20 cases included a woman who survived following the consumption of the pill and an astrologer to whom Mohan confided about the murders. His modus operandi was to befriend unmarried women, all of them from Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod in Kerala, with different names by promising jobs and marriage. He sexually assaulted them in lodges near a bus stand. He made them consume cyanide in the washrooms of the bus stand. On Wednesday, the 6th additional district and sessions judge, Sayeedunnisa, sentenced Mohan to life term and imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000. He was also sentenced and asked to pay a fine under Sections 366, 376, 328, 392, 394, 417, and 201 of IPC. All the sentences will run concurrently. So far, Mohan has been sentenced to death in five cases, of which one has been confirmed. In two other cases, it was reduced to life imprisonment by the Karnataka High Court. In 10 cases, he was sentenced to life and he filed an appeal. He was acquitted in five cases.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India reiterates cultural linkages with Nepal||India on Thursday reiterated cultural links with Nepal in response to the upcoming amendments to the Citizenship Act of Nepal which is likely to affect a large number of families that have cross-border kinship with India. “We have seen the reports on this. People of India and Nepal share deep-rooted and familial bonds which reflect close civilisational and cultural linkages,” said Anurag Srivastava, official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs. The reiteration of ‘linkages’ came days after the ruling Nepal Communist Party decided to support amendments to the citizenship rules that will require foreign-born women marrying Nepalese men to spend at least seven years before getting citizenship. The decision of the NCP’s secretariat to go ahead with the amendments drew prompt opposition from the Nepali Congress and the leaders from its plain areas which have extensive cross border kinship with Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. India has in the past described the relation as roti-beti (bread and bride). The current rulers of Nepal do not subscribe to the emotional aspect of bilateral ties and want it to be modified. In an interview with WION channel, Bishnu Rijal, deputy chief of the foreign affairs department of the NCP, described roti-beti as “old rhetoric”. “We should reset our relationship based on our mutual benefit. Nepal and India have changed. Our aspirations have changed. We should put forward some bold steps in our relationship,” said Mr. Rijal explaining his party’s position. India has, however, maintained silence about the difficulties the amendments will cause for families with cross-border ties. Janata Samajvadi Party, largest political outfit of Nepal led by the Madhesis, have been protesting against the amendments which had been pending for years but received the NCP’s support soon after the passing of the Second Constitutional Amendment during which all political parties voted displaying unity over the emotive issue of the new map that claimed Pithoragarh.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘All is well in Mahagathbandhan’||A day after the first political meeting between the allies of the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, senior Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Jha speakson the Bihar Assembly election due later this year, the reluctance of the allies to work under RJD president Tejashwi Yadav and the resignation of Raghuvansh Prasad as the party national vice-president.  The allies of the Mahagathbandhan met for the first time through video-conference on Wednesday in an obvious attempt to show that all is well in the alliance, despite visible cracks. Your comments? This was a very preliminary meeting, because of the pandemic we had been unable to come together. Each party was busy with its own programmes as the RJD was busy helping the migrant workers stuck in the cities. Yes, Wednesday’s meeting was the first political meeting we have had. The idea was to touch base with each other, to know each other’s mind and to arrive at a common platform. But Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi has been criticising the RJD and has even set an ultimatum for formation of a coordination committee, thus bringing out the discordance between the allies. Yes, since February, he has been asking for a coordination committee, February onwards, we have had a three-and-a-half-month lockdown. And we went by the “corona consensus” of suspending all political activities in this period. Mr. Manjhi has an easy access to us any time. He can walk in to meet Tejashwi ji any time. A coordination committee is formed when you first decide on other issues such as the main concerns for election, strategy and a collective mind and will. I think it shall evolve in its natural course. There is nothing to worry or hurry. Mr. Manjhi had to come down to Delhi to make this Wednesday’s meeting happen. Isn’t the RJD getting arrogant? Look at the statements made by all our leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav. Have we ever expressed any arrogance? We know our strength, and that strength has only taught us humility. As for Mr. Manjhi, he came to Delhi because Congress president Sonia Gandhi had convened this meeting. With Lalu Prasad, it was different. Now questions are being raised about Tejashwi Yadav’s leadership. Is the RJD amenable to the idea of a consensus candidate chosen by all allies to lead the Mahagathbandhan in his place? The question here is how is the leadership decided. A leader is chosen based on the vote share and followers he commands. We have the largest cadre base in Bihar and our rank and file want to see Tejashwi Yadav as the Chief Minister. There can’t be a second Lalu Prasad, that’s a fact. But then, this generation and the entire apparatus of our party wants Tejashwi ji to lead this alliance. Our alliance parties, which apparently believe that there should be someone else, will also come on board once the election process gains momentum. The question the allies are asking is that if the RJD leadership is not able to keep its flock together, how can it keep the alliance intact. This week we saw five of your MLCs jump the ship, we saw veteran leader Raghuvansh Prasad resign as vice-president I will not equate the resignation of Raghuvansh Prasad ji with that of the five MLCs. Raghuvansh ji learnt from the media about the induction of an individual in the party and he expressed his displeasure about it. Tejashwi ji is in touch with him. We all know Raghuvansh ji will always remain in the RJD because the party is his creation, along with Lalu Prasad. He will never, ever disown his own creation; he is a man of commitment. Even in the roughest of weather, he has stuck to the party. As far as the MLCs are concerned, this episode is symptomatic of the chronic ailment that our politics is suffering from. The JD(U) has learnt a lot from the BJP, especially on how to employ dirty tricks.  Our allies will also come on board once the election process gains momentum
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No ideological clarity, says Digvijaya||Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said on Thursday that “lack of ideological clarity” was harming the party more than any “Press-scripted and media-sponsored” junior-senior divide within the organisation. Through his tweets, Mr. Singh waded straight into Congress’s internal debate on how it should target the Narendra Modi government. “Rather it’s lack of Ideological Clarity that leads to ambiguous stand. Why do some shy away from fighting RSS? Its divisive Ideology of Polarisation & Anti Poor, Anti Farmer, Anti Labour policies are destroying the Unity & Integrity of India, destroying its Socio Economic fabric,” Mr. Singh tweeted. The debate started last Tuesday when former Union Minister R.P.N. Singh said policies of the Modi government could be targeted instead of mounting direct attacks on Mr. Modi, as it could be misconstrued as an attack on the institution of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Countering Mr. Singh, the former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had said he was “not scared to attack Mr. Modi, as every policy of the government was made by the Prime Minister himself.” As most Congress leaders rallied around Mr. Gandhi, young party leader Rajeev Satav wondered how much the role of the senior leaders was in cornering Mr. Modi. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is reported to have talked about Mr. Gandhi carrying on against the government alone. Rahul’s return Such attacks on the veterans by Team Rahul were seen as signs of their hurry to reinstall Mr. Gandhi as the party chief and ignore suggestions in some quarters that the next party chief should be elected. “Who in Congress is opposed to Rahul ji or Priyanka ji? Name one senior leader? Whole Congress unitedly stands with Nehru-Gandhi Family. They are the binding force the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister said in another tweet. On the 45th anniversary of the 1975 Emergency on Thursday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah made a reference to the June 23 CWC meeting and termed it “Emergency mindset where leaders not belonging to a dynasty are unable to speak up.” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who was the first to propose Mr. Gandhi as the Congress president once again at last Tuesday’s CWC, replied to Mr. Shah in a series of tweets. “It is no secret that for last three decades, no one from the Gandhi family has held any position of power. They have always encouraged & empowered the cadre and ground worker of Congress party like me and if at all we are disconnected with public, why is Mr. Shah so worried?” asked Mr Gehlot.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||FATF report flags wildlife trade||In its first global report on the illegal wildlife trade, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has described it as a “global threat”, which also has links with other organised crimes such as modern slavery, drug trafficking and arms trade. The illegal trade is estimated to generate revenues of up to $23 billion a year. The report says a financial investigation is key to dismantling the syndicates involved, which can in turn significantly impact the associated criminal activities. The findings of the study, which expressed concern over the lack of focus on the financial aspects of the crime, are based on inputs from some 50 jurisdictions across the FATF global network, as well as expertise from the private sector and civil society. Fraud and tax evasion The “Money Laundering and the Illegal Wildlife Trade” report said “criminals are frequently misusing the legitimate wildlife trade, as well as other import-export type businesses, as a front to move and hide illegal proceeds from wildlife crimes. They also rely regularly on corruption, complex fraud and tax evasion”. The study has highlighted the growing role of online marketplaces and mobile and social media-based payments to facilitate movement of proceeds warranting a coordinated response from government bodies, the private sector and the civil society. The FATF found that jurisdictions often did not have the required knowledge, legislative basis and resources to assess and combat the threat posed by the funds generated through the trade. Good practices The report recommended that jurisdictions should consider implementing the good practices, as observed during the study. The report noted that in 2012, India amended the Prevention of Money Laundering Act removing a value threshold — of Rs. 30 lakh and above — that was earlier applicable to the wildlife trade predicates.
26 June 2020||BENGALURU,||‘IN-SPACe will be space industry regulator’||IN-SPACe, a new entity of the Department of Space, will have its own chairperson and Board, and regulate and promote building of routine satellites, rockets and commercial launch services through Indian industry and start-ups. These activities had been largely the domain of the 50-year-old Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) until now, but the change will not upset the core research activity of ISRO, K. Sivan, Secretary, Department of Space, and ISRO Chairman, said in a televised briefing on Thursday. IN-SPACe, or Indian Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre, is touted as the body that will ensure a level playing field for Indian industry in a fast-growing global space sector. It will function autonomously and parallel to ISRO “without taking away anything from it”, Dr. Sivan said. The entity was approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday and was unveiled by Minister of State for Space Jitendra Singh in Delhi. Own set-up IN-SPACe will have its own directorates for technical, legal, safety and security, monitoring and activities promotion. The year-old NSIL [NewSpace India Ltd] will be strengthened and empowered with a larger role in what the government has called the new “open and inclusive” space sector. It will work with IN-SPACe and enable industry consortia to take on some of the activities of ISRO. These include launch vehicles and satellite production, launch services and space-based services. Over the past two years, ISRO has been in the process of finding industry partners who could take up these services; industry teams had been involved in assembling and testing satellites and also launched one navigation satellite last year. Dr. Sivan said, “This [restructuring] will allow ISRO to allocate more time and resources for R&D endeavours. ISRO will continue to carry out its present activities with greater emphasis on development of advanced technology, human space flight missions and capacity building besides supporting private endeavours in the space sector.” “The reforms in the space sector are aimed at tapping the potential of the entire country for unlocking its potential by enabling private enterprises and start-ups to undertake end-to-end space activities. They are also aimed at mitigating the large investments required to set up facilities for undertaking space activities through sharing of such existing facilities under ISRO.” A large number of jobs will be created, he said. Navigation policy A new satellite navigation policy, which has a strategic military element to it, is being proposed. The older ones, namely Remote Sensing Data Policy and the SatCom Policy of 2000, are being revised. These are apart from a proposed policy for space activities that has seen a draft. IN-SPACe will be in place in three to six months. Meanwhile, the DoS will immediately start receiving and processing applications from private sector industries. In about two weeks, a webinar on space sector reforms is planned to tell the industry the contours of the new set-up.
26 June 2020||Kozhikode,||UAE-bound NRIs have to clear more hurdles||Thousands of United Arab Emirates-bound Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) stranded in India since March will have to clear more hurdles even as Air India and the Dubai-based Emirates fight for airspace on the route. The UAE, it is learnt, has objected to Air India’s Vande Bharat flights carrying residents or even UAE nationals from India to Dubai. Now a prior approval of the UAE embassy in New Delhi and the UAE’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation is required if anyone wishes to fly to the UAE. Dubai has allowed visa holders to return from Monday and tourists from July 7. They will have to secure approval of the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs. This apart, they should take a PCR test at the Dubai airport, submit health declaration and quarantine undertaking form, and download COVID-19 DXB smart app. ‘Unfair practices’ The issue comes close on the heels of some countries, especially the U.S., accusing India of engaging in unfair practices on charter air transportation services to and from India. Air India has been operating repatriation flights between India and several countries in both directions since May 7. At the same time, India has banned all commercial scheduled services following the lockdown. Emirates, it is learnt, has expressed its willingness to operate flights to India just as the U.S., France, and Germany have requested that their air carriers be allowed to transport passengers on the lines of the Vande Bharat flights operated by Air India. The new development has brought an air of uncertainty to those wishing to return to Dubai. Following objections, Air India has sought approval from the UAE to fly Indians on Vande Bharat flights to Dubai. Other private airlines are also keen to fly out NRIs. The Ministry of Civil Aviation’s tweet says. “As we contemplate opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-U.S., India-France, India-Germany, India-U.K.”
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP attacks Cong. over Chinese funds||The BJP on Thursday launched an attack on the Congress party over the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation having received funds from the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, and questioned whether it was a “bribe” for lobbying for a free trade agreement (FTA) between India and China. The BJP fielded Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to take on the Congress, with party president J.P. Nadda also raising the issue in his virtual rally for party workers in Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Prasad termed the foundation as “nothing but an extension of the Congress party”, and said the RGF in 2009-11 had advocated an FTA between India and China, terming it “feasible, desirable and mutually beneficial”. India has been struggling to redress the trade deficit with China for many years, and the NDA government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has refused to join multilateral trade groups such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). ‘Bribe for lobbying’ “Was this part of a Congress party strategy for lobbying for an FTA for which Rajiv Gandhi Foundation received a bribe from the Chinese embassy and India’s trade deficit with China jumped 33 times during Congress-led UPA government,” Mr. Prasad asked. Suspecting the donation to be a violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) of 1976, Mr. Prasad said any educational or cultural organisation must intimate the government before taking donation.  Mr. Prasad asked if the foundation had informed the then UPA government about this. Turning his guns on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Prasad said that in 2008, the Congress had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Communist Party of China. “The party has not yet explained what was the compelling need for party-to-party relationship,” said Mr. Prasad. The Congress party, he said, must explain this and also how many such MoUs it has signed with other political parties.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. questions Centre on ‘new’ provocation by China||The Congress on Thursday said satellite imagery clearly showed China making ‘grave and new’ provocation by building fresh structures in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake area, and asked the Centre to spell out its plans to deal with the situation. The Congress called for a virtual session of Parliament to discuss important issues, especially the border stand-off with China. It said India’s armed forces could give a fitting reply to China but ‘the Modi government lacked strong political will’. Separately, in a series of tweets, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said people were watching if “the Modi government succeeded in restoring status quo ante.” Several Congress leaders have been talking of adopting a tough approach on the issue. Its Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asked Indian forces to “push back China” as “its arsenals were not meant for hatching eggs.” “Foreign Ministry and PLA [People Liberation Army] of China once again assert their claim to the entire Galwan Valley and demand that India should vacate the Valley. Extraordinary demand! Will BJP-led NDA government once again reassert India’s claim and demand that “status quo ante” must be restored ?” said Mr. Chidambaram in a tweet.  Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a virtual press conference, “The Chinese have made fresh transgressions on patrol point 14 of Galwan Valley, where 20 of our soldiers, including Colonel B Santosh Babu, laid down their lives. What does the government have to say about it? Satellite images, expert opinions and news reports say China has made fresh transgressions in the area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 near Pangon Tso. If true, this is a new and grave provocation. What does the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister have to say about it?”. Mr. Chowdhury, terming it as a “catch-22 situation” said that in spite of all efforts to defuse the tension along the LAC, China was “hell bent upon altering the status quo.”
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panchayats to get Rs. 10 lakh cr. till 2026||The Panchayati Raj Ministry has pitched for a fivefold increase in Finance Commission funding for rural local bodies. In a meeting with the 15th Finance Commission on Thursday, the Ministry asked for Rs. 10 lakh crore to be allocated for the 2020-21 to 2025-26 period, in comparison to the Rs. 2 lakh crore allocated under the 14th Finance Commission. It noted that allocations had tripled between the 13th and 14th Commissions as well. An impact evaluation study showed a 78% utilisation rate for FC grants between 2015 and 2019, the Ministry told the Commission, according to a presentation seen by The Hindu . Road construction and maintenance, as well as drinking water supply have been the major projects carried out by panchayats using FC grants. The 2.63 lakh panchayats across the country have 29 functions under their ambit, according to the 11th Schedule of the Constitution. Panchayats have also gained importance as crucial nodal points in times of crisis. During the COVID-19 pandemic, they ran 38,000 quarantine/isolation centres, apart from medical camps and contact tracing. However, the Ministry admitted that a major challenge during the pandemic and lockdown was that most panchayats could not provide cooked food at short notice. It has proposed that community kitchens be set up in each panchayat to be operated by local self-help groups. Going forward, the new Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan will depend on panchayats to generate employment for newly returned migrant workers. The Chief Ministers of Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala, Odisha are holding regular video-conferences with sarpanches to review COVID-19 control and employment generation measures, said the Ministry presentation.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Push for pedalling during pandemic||A plan to promote cycling in cities and a finance portal for urban local bodies were among the initiatives announced by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on the fifth anniversary of the Smart Cities Mission on Thursday. The Ministry marked the occasion with a webinar addressed by Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri. A release here said the ‘Cycles4change Challenge’ was an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission to support cities to quickly implement cycling-friendly initiatives in response to COVID-19. Low-cost interventions such as pop-up cycle lanes and non-motorised zones and community-led cycle rental schemes would be explored. The finance portal plan is part of an effort to get financial statements of all cities on a single platform to enable sharing and learning of best practices and to help urban local bodies in accessing market funds, the release said. About 31% of projects identified under the Smart Cities Mission and 33% of urban housing sanctioned through the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) have been completed in the five years since the schemes were launched on June 25, 2015, the Ministry said. Mr. Puri said while the targets would be achieved, there was a need to broaden the scope of the schemes. Through PMAY (U), 1.05 crore houses had been sanctioned against a demand of 1.12 crore homes in 4,550 urban cities. About 35 lakh houses have been delivered to the owners, the Ministry said. Under the Smart Cities Mission, 5,151 projects worth Rs. 2 lakh crore had been identified in 100 cities. The Minister said that so far around 4,700 projects worth Rs. 1.66 lakh crore or 81% of the total projects had been tendered and 1,638 projects worth Rs. 27,000 crore had been completed. Through the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), the government had provided 79 lakh household water tap connections and 45 lakh sewer connections. Projects worth Rs. 10,654 crore out of the approved projects of Rs. 77,640 crore had been completed, the Ministry said.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Spike in COVID cases among policemen a shocker||Negligence of police personnel in not taking sufficient care in their fight against coronavirus has made them pay a very high price, as close to 300 city police officers have tested positive. Though masks, sanitisers, gloves, and face shields were supplied to them, a staggering number of cases among policemen has made the top brass address the issue in all earnestness. Of the five law and order zones in the Commissionerate, West Zone, which has jurisdiction over VIP locations, including Raj Bhavan, Pragathi Bhavan, Jubilee Hills and Banjara Hills, tops the list as more than 110 police officers of all ranks were diagnosed with the COVID infection, followed by South Zone, which encompass Old City with over 90 cases. While 30 officers working in the East Zone were tested positive for the virus, 22 and 24 policemen were from North and Central zones, respectively. Recently, in Banjara Hills police station alone, 24 officers, including Sub-Inspectors were infected with the virus, followed by 15 officers in Tappachabutra and 14 in SR Nagar police station. Five policemen working in different wings succumbed. “With each passing day, cases in the police department are increasing rapidly, especially in Hyderabad city police, where even three senior IPS officers were tested positive,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. He said that the three top officers were suspected to have contracted the virus at Gandhi Hospital when the junior doctors staged a protest recently. The increasing number of cases in the department has sent a shock wave among the police force across the State, said another officer. According to him, the responsibility lies with the unit officers in such crisis situations. “The issue is really scary in Hyderabad Commissionerate, compared to two neighbouring units — Cyberabad and Rachakonda,” he said. Traffic police, who are conducting vehicle checks at various junctions, were asked to avoid the practice in view of the pandemic.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||White tiger dies of tumour at Nehru Zoological Park||A white tiger aged eight died in the Nehru Zoological Park, making it the third white tiger to die of similar causes in the last eight years. The male Royal Bengal Tiger named Kiran died on Thursday morning, after suffering from neoplastic tumour in the jaw for three months. He had been under intensive care treatment in the LaCONES area of the zoo during the time, a statement from zoo informed.Veterinary experts from the Veterinary Biological Research Institute (VBRI), Shanti Nagar, College of Veterinary Sciences, Rajendra Nagar, LaCones, apart from independent veterinarians had been treating it since May 29. Postmortem by an expert team revealed lesions and a necrosed hard mass weighing approximately 500 grams, extending into the lower jaw. The lungs too were found to have been infiltrated with small neoplastic tumours, due to which lungs had collapsed resulting in asphyxia as immediate reason for death. Kiran is third in the lineage of the white Royal Bengal Tigers which had died of the same cause, indicating an inherited health issue. Veterinary experts point this to the recessive gene in the line of the white tigers. Less than a year ago, Kiran’s father Badri died at the age of 14, and the postmortem revealed a large tumour in the neck region, which weighed approximately five kg. In 2012, Badri’s father and Kiran’s grandfather Rudra too had died of similar cause, at 14 years of age, the statement informed. ‘Recessive gene’ “Only male tigers are being affected, and that too, only one from each tiger’s offspring. Each generation has one member dying of the same cause, which points to a recessive gene being handed over down the line,” said Deputy Director (Veterinary) of the Nehru Zoological Park, M.A.Hakeem. Keeping this fact in mind, the zoo recently approached LaCONES, CCMB, requesting it to conduct study on neoplastic tumours in white tigers. The zoo is now left with nine white tigers — six male and three female. The total population of Royal Bengal tigers is 21 in the zoo, 12 of them being the regular ones. Samples related to latest mortality were collected and sent to VBRI, the statement said.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Naidu recalls his Emergency days||It took a national uprising to roll back Emergency, said Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, describing it as the second freedom struggle as he recalled his own days during the period as an underground courier, cook and his 17-month jail term. In a Facebook post on the 46th anniversary of the Emergency, he urged the people to uphold the dignity of life founded on the individual freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr. Naidu recalled how he was arrested for inviting Jayaprakash Narayan to address the students of the Andhra University as the then president of the University Colleges’ Union in 1974 while pursuing law. He recounted an incident from his prison term. One of the detainees, a vegetarian, was put in charge of cooking on a day when fish curry was on the menu. Mr. Naidu offered to take up the responsibility. The detainee concerned told him: “I am a vegetarian and you are a non-vegetarian. I should do my job as the coordinator for the day as I respect your freedom of eating as per your choice.” The Emergency, he said, was used by the then Congress government to put a lid on the sentiment of change raging through the country. “The enlightened countrymen despite being mostly poor and illiterate, rose in unison, for the first time since Independence in defence of the constitutional scheme of things which is the foundation of our parliamentary democracy,” he wrote.
26 June 2020||Patna,||Cong. changes nominee for Council poll||The Congress on Thursday changed its nominee at the last hour for the Bihar Legislative Council poll, as its candidate Tariq Anwar’s name was not found on the voters’ list. His candidature was replaced by working president of the State unit of the party Sameer Kumar Singh, who later filed his nomination papers. Mr. Anwar’s name was finalised by the party late on Wednesday night. Under the Mahagathbandhan , or grand alliance, in the State, the Congress has just one candidate for the poll, scheduled to be held on July 6 for nine seats. The party had received over 3,000 applications for the lone seat. Mr. Anwar was with the Nationalist Congress Party before rejoining the Congress recently. He had been a Rajya Sabha member. He had also been the party MP from the Katihar Lok Sabha constituency several times. Mr. Anwar later told mediapersons: “There was some technical problem in filing the nomination as my name was not on the voters’ list of the State which is required for contesting Assembly or Council polls.” His name was in the Delhi list, he added. The RJD, JD(U) and BJP candidates have filed their papers for the poll. The RJD and JD(U) have put up three candidates, while the BJP has fielded two nominees. Thursday was the last date for filing nomination papers. The poll was slated to be held in April but was delayed due to COVID-19.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Central team to visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana||A Central team, led by Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and 29 to coordinate with officials in strengthening COVID-19 management efforts, the Ministry said on Thursday. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,42,900. Gujarat has recorded 28,943 instances of the viral infection while Telangana has so far reported 10,331 cases, according to Ministry data. Over 400 deaths India registered its worst single-day increase in cases on Thursday, recording more than 16,000 infections to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities also jumped by 418, the Ministry said. It said there are 33.39 cases for every one lakh population, against the global average of 114.67. Also, the country has 1.06 deaths per lakh population, which is amongst the lowest in the world and the global average is 6.24. Following efforts to ramp up facilities across the nation, there are 1,007 diagnostic labs, of which 734 are in the government sector and 273 private. From limited tests in January, a cumulative 75,60,782 samples have been tested up to June 24 with 2,07,871 samples being tested on Wednesday.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tharoor urges CM to postpone varsity exams||Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to postpone university examinations considering the health hazard posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and related issues. Mr. Tharoor has been repeatedly asking the State government to postpone the exams so that the students are relieved of the stress in the time of the pandemic. Immense pressure In a letter to Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Tharoor said he had received over 3,500 emails this week alone from anxious students highlighting the immense strain they were currently under due to the decision taken by the University of Kerala, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University and Mahatma Gandhi University. With the number of cases in the State rising again, there was a strong health hazard that these students would have to confront while travelling to examination centres, Mr. Tharoor said, adding many of the examination centres were located in COVID-19 hotspots. “Due to the rising number of cases, the State government and various district administrations have taken a number of steps in a bid to curtail the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, including reduced frequency of public transport, closure of Internet cafes, mandatory physical-distancing protocols and so on, which have also posed a strong obstacle to our students,” he said. With most students living with their parents and elderly family members, there was the worry of spreading the virus among high-risk groups, he said in the letter dated June 23.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ban on animal sacrifice arbitrary, says plea in SC||An appeal was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday against a decision of the Kerala High Court to dismiss a challenge to the constitutional validity of a State law that prohibits sacrifice of animals and birds in temples to please the deity. The High Court had summarily rejected a plea against the Kerala Animals and Bird Sacrifices Prohibition Act of 1968 on June 16. The appeal is filed by P.E. Gopalakrishnan and some others, who are Shakthi worshippers for whom animal sacrifice is an integral part of their religion. In their appeal, filed through advocate A. Karthik, they said animal sacrifice was an “essential religious practice” and the High Court had no power to interfere. “The Act criminalises the intent behind the animal sacrifice, and not animal sacrifice per se. If the sacrifice is not for propitiating any deity but for personal consumption, even in the precincts of temple, it is not forbidden. This arbitrary classification is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution,” the appeal said. The appellants said restrictions imposed by the law was leading to the “incomplete performance of bali and diminishing the power of the kula devatha . They reasonably apprehend the wrath of Devi,” the appeal said. The appellants accused the Act of “selective application only to Hindu temples, despite similar practices being carried out in other religious places.” The appeal also argued that Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, does not make killing of animals for religious purposes an offence. However, the 1968 State law bans killing of animals and birds for religious sacrifices but not for consumption. This amounted to arbitrary classification.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||CBSE, ICSE cancel pending exams||The Union government and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that the remaining exams for classes 10 and 12, scheduled between July 1 and 15, have been cancelled due to concern for the safety of students amid the pandemic. The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) had also agreed “in-principle” with the government decision to cancel the pending exams. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the CBSE, said the Board in consultation with an expert committee has prepared an “assessment scheme” for both classes for the cancelled exams. The proposed notification was submitted in the Supreme Court by the CBSE Controller of Examinations as an annexure to a short affidavit detailing the “assessment scheme”. It said the marks of the students of both classes, who have completed their exams, would be based on their performance. Those who have completed exams in more than three subjects, the average marks in their best three performing subjects would be taken for assessing the scores for the cancelled exams. If students have appeared for only three exams so far, the average of the best two subjects would be taken. In a few cases like in Delhi, if students have appeared in one or two subjects, the average of these marks plus their internal and practical scores would be used for the assessment. The assessment results would be declared by July 15. The Court listed the case on Friday at 10.30 a.m. for passing orders. “For class 12, the CBSE would also conduct an optional examination for papers which were to be held between July 1 and July 15. This optional examination would be held when the situation is more conducive. Candidates whose results were declared as per the assessment scheme can write it. The marks obtained in the optional examination, whether higher or lower than the assessment, will be treated as final,” the Solicitor General told a three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar. But Justice Khanwilkar asked who decides “when conditions would become conducive”. “Will the State decide individually or will it be a pan-India decision taken by the Centre?” Justice Dinesh Maheshwari asked Mr. Mehta. “That would be dealt with at the Central level...” Mr. Mehta responded. The Bench, also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna, pointed out how conduciveness may differ from State to State at a given point of time. To this, Mr. Mehta merely said the situation cannot be decided hypothetically now. Justice Khanwilkar pointed out that “entrance exams for future courses would also have to be re-scheduled”. Parents of the affected students, who are petitioners in this case and represented by advocate Rishi Malhotra, also urged the court to direct the CBSE to declare the assessment results for Class 12 exams by June end. He said many entrance exams are lined up for July. But Justice Khanwilkar said it was up to the CBSE to work out the details of the assessment scheme. “50% of the students may opt for the assessment scheme and the other 50% would opt for better marks... Any problem in the assessment scheme, you [parents] can come,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Malhotra. The court asked the CBSE to specify the date for declaration of the assessment results in its notification, which may be issued by Friday at the latest. The Bench directed the CBSE to file a detailed affidavit to “give more clarity”. The Centre has not yet taken any decision on whether NEET and JEE will be held as scheduled in July. There is “no decision” yet, MHRD Secretary Amit Khare told The Hindu. The JEE-Main is scheduled to be held between July 18 and 23 and NEET’s undergraduate entrance examination is scheduled for July 26. Both exams are conducted by the National Testing Agency. Appealing to HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Twitter, hundreds of students, who welcomed the decision to cancel the CBSE exams, called for cancellation of the professional entrance exams as well. (With inputs from Priscilla Jebaraj)
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Armed gangs rule Nagaland: Governor||“Sometimes these unlawful activities [take place] in the presence of senior officials of the State government including the Chief Secretary, Home Commissioner and the DGP (director general of police),” Mr. Ravi said. The letter also mentions reports of the Forest Department revealing rampant encroachment and deforestation of forest land including reserve forests by armed miscreants. “They have become audacious enough to evict the forest officials and their families from their residential houses at gun point….they do all these brazen illegal activities without any resistance whatsoever by the law enforcement authorities…when I asked the senior enforcement officers the reasons, they run silent and whisper ‘direction from above’,” the letter said. “I regret to say my urgings and advices at the political and bureaucratic levels have gone unheeded,” the letter said.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Decision on chartered flights a setback to NRIs||The Centre’s decision barring institutions and organisations from applying directly for operating chartered flights from foreign countries to bring back stranded Non-Resident Indians has come as a setback to voluntary organisations and industrial houses owned by Keralite businesspersons in West Asia who have secured the nod to charter flights to repatriate employees and others to the State. Airline companies will have to directly approach the States where the chartered flights are to be operated to secure their consent from June 25. However, institutions and organisations can approach airlines to arrange chartered flights to the country. The Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC) alone was behind the operations of more than 70 chartered flights for repatriating Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from the United Arab Emirates. Volunteer organisations such as the KMCC were able to bargain with private airlines for bringing down ticket rates and arrange flights for two months. Indian embassies had asked them to give a written statement of the fares charged for the flights. Official sources said the Centre’s directive was in the wake of the misuse of the facility by individuals taking slots for the flights in advance and even going for open auction of tickets.  Fresh applications Those who have already secured the consent of the States and clearance from the Ministries of External Affairs, Civil Aviation, and various agencies from the country and abroad can operate the flights as per the slot and schedule approved. But, individuals and institutions awaiting non-objection certificate (NOC) and clearance will have to submit fresh applications through airline companies. The Centre has asked the airline companies to submit applications to the State government for securing consent with copies to Indian embassies and consulates. The airlines can approach the Ministry of Civil Aviation only on getting the NOC. The State and the airline companies have been asked to work out the flight schedule and other modalities such as COVID-19 test at airports and quarantining of flyers. Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) Department has issued guidelines for securing consent to operate chartered flights and applications should be submitted seven days in advance to the Principal Secretary, NoRKA. The State has given consent to operate 462 chartered flights till June 30.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Industry flags delay in Chinese imports||Restricting imports of Chinese items will not serve any purpose until India has the capacity to produce those items or can import them from other countries at comparable prices, the President of Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), S.K. Saraf, said on Thursday. In a letter to Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan, Mr. Saraf said, “We have been given to understand that customs is physically examining all imports from China which is delaying clearance, adding to the cost of imports. Some exporters have informed that, in response to such action, Hong Kong and Chinese Customs are also holding back export consignments from India.” President of India Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA) Pankaj Mohindroo, in a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, said the disruption comes at a time when the industry has just begun to limp back to normal . He stated that industry needs to have confidence that the global logistics machinery will function without disruption in India. In a separate letter to Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and CBIC Chairman M. Ajit Kumar, Mr Mohindroo said the member companies began facing disruption at Chennai airport from Monday night onwards and this has now spread to several ports and airports.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Onus on India to ease tensions: Chinese envoy||The Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong said on Thursday that the onus was on New Delhi, not China, to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh. “The onus is not on China. The Indian side crossed the LAC for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops. The Indian forces seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries,” Mr Sun said in an interview to PTI. Mr. Sun repeated the Chinese government’s stand — which has been rejected by India — that Indian troops were responsible for the Galwan valley clashes. “We hope the Indian side meets the Chinese side halfway, avoids taking actions that may complicate the border situation and takes concrete actions to maintain stability in the border areas,” Mr. Sun said. He added that at present, the overall situation in the China-India border areas is “stable and controllable.” The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last six weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan valley on June 15. Mr. Sun said China would not like to see a repeat of the Galwan clashes, but reiterated the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s allegations that India was responsible for it.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese build-up started in May: MEA||“At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC. This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements, especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas,” he said. Referring to the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers, he said that “resulting tension has thereafter expressed itself” after India had to undertake counter deployments along the LAC. The MEA said that the “deployment of a large body of troops and changes in behaviour has also been aggravated by unjustified and untenable claims. The recent shift in the Chinese position on the Galwan Valley is one example”, referring to a series of statements made by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, claiming sovereignty over all of Galwan Valley. The statement by the MEA marks a perceptible shift in India’s position on the ongoing stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in Ladakh and in Sikkim. In statements in mid-May, Army chief General Naravane and the MEA spokesperson said the clashes at the LAC “arise due to difference in perception of LAC”, and are managed by “local formations” according to established mechanisms. In a series of interviews, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also referred to a “sizeable” presence of Chinese soldiers, but indicated that they were in areas “they claim is their territory”, disputed by India. The MEA did not explain the reason for the turnaround in position, or why China’s “altered behaviour” was not remarked upon by the government last month. Nor did Mr. Srivastava respond to specific questions about whether Chinese troops had occupied land across the LAC, and on satellite pictures that have shown a build-up of Chinese structures and large vehicles in the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Tso Finger area and the Depsang plains.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Withdraw ordinance on cooperative banks: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) criticised the government for the “unilateral decision” to take over the supervision of 1,540 urban and rural cooperative banks through an ordinance and demanded its immediate withdrawal. The party said in a statement here that the decision was taken without consultations with the States which supervised the cooperative sector. “This is yet another attack on our country’s federal structure. Such over-centralisation is an assault on one of the basic features of our Constitution: federalism. This totally destroys the autonomy of the cooperatives,” the statement said.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. counters BJP with photographs||As the political battle over the Chinese incursions intensified on Thursday with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation had received funds from the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China, the Congress hit back by putting up photographs of BJP leaders meeting Chinese leaders and officials on social media. Former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar called the allegations regarding the Raiv Gandhi Foundation a ‘new low’ in India’s politics and said “It needs to be rejected with the contempt it deserves”. Senior leader Anand Sharma, who heads the Congress party’s cell for Foreign Affairs, responded to the allegations with a series of questions on Twitter. “Did BJP president Amit Shah not receive Minister Wang Jiarui in February 2015 along with BJP General Secretaries Ram Madhav, Ram Lal, Bhupendra Yadav and Foreign Department head Vijai Chauthawale?” Mr Sharma asked, tagging a photograph of Mr. Shah, then the BJP chief, shaking hands with the Chinese dignitary. “Did not a ten-member BJP Mahila delegation led by Saroj Pandey, MP and present General Secretary visit China as CPC guests? Did a BJP delegation led by G.S. Arun Kumar visit China in 2019,” Mr. Sharma asked.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhishma’s fierce vow||Bhishma stands out as an exceptional character for many reasons. His antecedents reveal that he is actually one of the eight ‘Vasus’ and this birth as a human being is owing to Vasishta’s curse. Born as the eighth and only surviving son of King Santanu and Ganga, he is brought up by Ganga in celestial regions. He is named Devavrata and he receives training in Vedanta, archery, statecraft, etc, under illustrious gurus such as Vasishta, Parasurama, and Sukra and so on. When Ganga hands him over to Santanu, the king is overjoyed to receive the resplendent and princely Devavrata. Devavrata exemplifies the essence of the ideal son, putra, as explained in the sastras, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Once, when he finds his father distraught for some reason, he promises to remove his anxiety at any cost. He speaks at length on the duties of a son quoting from the sastras and drawing inspiration from the paths shown by Rama, son of Dasaratha, Rohitasva, son of Harishchandra, Sunaschepa, Parasurama, etc, who have honoured their father’s word. He comes to know that his father desires to marry Satyavati, the daughter of a fisherman. But the father is caught in a dilemma because the fisherman desires that Satyavati’s sons should inherit the kingdom. Santanu is naturally unable to yield to this pressure. So Devavrata meets the fisherman and vows he has renounced kingdom. To allay any further doubt about the likelihood of his sons staking a claim to the kingdom in future, Devavrata takes up the vow of celibacy known as Naishtika Brahmacharya. This is a fierce vow and the term Bhishma means one who undertakes this vow and fulfils it as well. Since then he is known as Bhishma and this name has come to stay, reminding posterity of his unique greatness.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Fire on tracks||
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India weighing impact of U.S. visa curbs||India on Thursday said U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to suspend certain non-immigrant categories of visas till December 31, 2020 will affect movement of skilled Indian professionals. The Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said high skilled Indians bring important skills to the U.S. that “impart a competitive edge to the U.S. economy”. He maintained that India is assessing the impact on the industry and Indian nationals and is in consultation with all stakeholders. The MEA reminded the U.S. of the importance of maintaining openness in its visa policies and highlighted the importance of people-to-people relationship and trade cooperation in shaping the bilateral relationship. “U.S. has always welcomed talent and we hope our professionals will continue to be welcomed in the US in the future,” said Mr. Srivastava.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No regular train services till August 12||All regular mail, express and passenger services as well as suburban trains have been cancelled till August 12, the Railway Board said on Thursday. Sources said the decision was taken keeping in mind the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the country. However, all special trains — 12 pairs running on the Rajdhani routes since May 12 and 100 pairs operating since June 1 — will continue. The limited special suburban services, which began recently in Mumbai to ferry essential services personnel identified by local authorities, will also continue to run, officials said. “All tickets booked for the regular time-tabled trains for journey date from 01.07.20 to 12.08.20 also stand cancelled. Full refund will be generated,” the Railway Board order stated. The Railways had earlier cancelled all trains till June 30.
26 June 2020||PATNA,||83 killed in lightning strikes in Bihar||As many as 83 people, including three children, were killed on Thursday in lightning strikes in Bihar. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased. Gopalganj district reported the highest number of 13 deaths. Five each died in East Champaran, Darbhanga and Banka, six each in Siwan and Bhagalpur, three each in Aurangabad and Khagaria, eight each in Madhubani and Nawada and one each in Stipular, Sheohar, Madhepura, Saran and Sitamarhi.
26 June 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in Sopore||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in an operation launched by the security forces in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Thursday. “Their bodies were retrieved from the encounter site at Sopore’s Hardshiva area. Their identities and affiliation are being ascertained. According to credible sources, they belonged to the proscribed LeT,” a police spokesman said. Around 110 militants have been killed in operations this year in Kashmir.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI files first chargesheet in Yes Bank case||The CBI on Thursday filed a chargesheet against Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and others in connection with the Rs. 3,700 crore in loans extended to Dewan Housing Finance Ltd. (DHFL) allegedly against Rs. 600-crore investment in a firm linked to his family members. Among those arraigned are Mr. Kapoor, Roshni Kapoor, DHFL, Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, Belief Realtors, RKW Developers and DOIT Urban Ventures (India).
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||High ozone pollution||While particulate matter and nitrous oxide levels fell during the lockdown, ozone — also a harmful pollutant — increased in several cities, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Ozone is primarily a “sunny weather problem” in India, said CSE researchers, that otherwise remains highly variable during the year. It is a highly reactive gas; even short-term exposure of an hour is dangerous for those with respiratory conditions and asthma and that’s why an eight-hour average is considered for ozone instead of the 24-hour average for other pollutants. The analysis was based on Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data from 22 cities in 15 States in lockdown days considered from March 25 to May 31. It emerged that more than two-thirds of the lockdown days in Delhi-NCR cities and Ahmedabad had at least one observation station that exceeded the standard. In Ahmedabad, the city-wide maximum eight-hour average of ozone exceeded the standard on 43 days; in Ujjain, it exceeded on 38 days. The city-wide maximum average of ozone in Gurugram exceeded the standard on 26 days — at least one observation station exceeded the standard on 57 days. The city-wide eight-hour maximum average in Ghaziabad exceeded the standard on 15 days, with at least one station exceeding on 56 days. In Noida, Uttar Pradesh, the city-wide maximum average exceeded the standard on 12 days; at least one station exceeded on 42 days. In Delhi, the maximum eight-hour average exceeded the standard on four days, and at least one station exceeded the standard on 67 days. In Kolkata,the city-wide average of ozone was exceeded on eight days; at least in one station the standard was exceeded on 17 days. Chennai and Mumbai did not register a single day of excess ozone at the city-wide level, but at least one station in both exceeded the standard on 61 days and five days, respectively. Ozone is not directly emitted by any source but is formed by photochemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and other volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and gases in the air under the influence of sunlight and heat. It can be curtailed only if gases from all sources are controlled. “This pandemic-led change in air quality has helped us understand summer pollution. Normally, every year, winter pollution is what draws our attention. The characteristics of summer pollution are different: there are high winds, intermittent rains and thunderstorms, and high temperature and heat waves,” Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE, said.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress to pay homage to martyrs today||The Congress will pay tributes to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives in clashes with China with a programme ‘Amaraveerulaku Congress Salaam’ to be organised on Friday at 11 a.m. in all the district and Assembly constituency headquarters. “Following COVID-19 guidelines, party activists will carry national flags and observe an hour-long ‘Mouna Deeksha’ to condemn Chinese occupation on our land and demand its restoration,” said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Don’t retain retired police officers: Revanth||Malkajgiri MP. A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that the government is keen to retain the services of the three police officers who are retiring soon. He said that he would move the court if the government goes ahead with its plans. The Congress leader, who addressed Congress workers on Facebook said the prime motive behind continuing the services of the officers is to harass the political opponents who question the shortcomings in the governance.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM to hold dialogues on Kerala’s future||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will hold a series of dialogues on social media with economists and planners to chart out Kerala’s future paths of development. Nobel prize-winning economist Amartya Sen, political thinker and writer Noam Chomsky, and chief scientist of the World Health Organization Soumya Swaminathan would participate in the first session on Friday.
26 June 2020||Kochi,||HC dismisses plea against Arogya Setu||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation challenging the Centre’s mandatory directive to use the Aarogya Setu app by all employers and employees, including those in the private sector. The Bench, led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar, dismissed the petition in the view of the submission by Central government standing counsel Jaishankar Nair that the guidelines on the use of the app had been relaxed.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI looking into Kathua land grab charge||The CBI has instituted a preliminary enquiry into the land grab charge against R.B. Educational Trust, allegedly run by former Jammu & Kashmir Minister Choudhary Lal Singh. In April 2018, Mr. Singh resigned from the post of Forest Minister in the then BJP-PDP government in the State. He quit after explanations were sought about his presence at a rally held in support of those accused in the gang rape-cum-murder case of a minor girl in Kathua. A CBI official said the Trust had been accused of grabbing forest land in connivance with revenue and forest officials.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vande Bharat mission phase 4 from July 3||The fourth round of the Vande Bharat mission, meant for the repatriation of Indians from around the world, will begin from July 3. According to an MEA official, it will focus on bringing back Indians from the Gulf countries, Malaysia and Singapore, among others. Last week, Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said nearly 1,050 flights will be planned in the phase. Private Indian airlines will handle 750 of them and Air India the rest. Since the commencement of the mission on May 8, nearly 700 flights have repatriated 1,50,00 Indians.
26 June 2020||Bhopal,||Digvijaya, 150 Cong. workers booked for taking out cycle rally||Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh and 150 Congress workers were booked for taking out a cycle rally on Wednesday against fuel price hike by disobeying prohibitory orders and being negligent, the Bhopal police said. Heeding a call of State Congress president Kamal Nath for a State-wide protest, Mr. Singh and the workers were pedalling towards Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s residence. Police said they did not take permission for the rally during the lockdown.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case count crosses 3,000 for first time; toll stands at 911||The daily COVID-19 case count of Tamil Nadu crossed the 3,000-mark for the first time on Thursday, taking the State’s overall tally past 70,000. As many as 3,509 infections were reported, while 2,236 patients were discharged, taking the overall figure of patients discharged close to 40,000. With 45 more fatalities, the toll climbed to 911. Of a total of 70,997 cases*, the number of persons undergoing treatment stood at 30,064. Cases continued to rise in many districts apart from Chennai and its neighbouring areas. In fact, Krishnagiri was the only district where no new cases were reported on Thursday. Chennai recorded a new high with 1,834 fresh infections, taking its overall case count to 47,650. Madurai and Vellore registered a sharp rise in infections with 204 (including one imported) and 172 (including four imported) cases, respectively. Ramanathapuram also saw a spike in cases, with 140 fresh infections. Chengalpattu had 191 cases, while Tiruvallur had 170 and Kancheepuram 98. There were 68 cases in Theni, 59 in Salem, 47 in Kanniyakumari and 43 in Tiruvannamalai. A total of 151 persons who had returned from other States and from abroad tested positive. They included 32 persons from Karnataka, 19 from Rajasthan, 13 from Kerala and 17 from Maharashtra. With 32,543 samples having been tested, the total figure increased to 10,08,974. Of the 45 fatalities, 29 persons died at government hospitals and 16 at private hospitals. Forty-two of them had co-morbid conditions. A 31-year-old woman with diabetes, hypothyroidism and obesity was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on June 23, with complaints of difficulty in breathing and “generalised body pain” for seven days. She died the next day due to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 35-year-old woman with old pulmonary tuberculosis was admitted to the Government Royapettah Hospital on June 22 and died on the same day due to community acquired pneumonia and COVID-19. A 40-year-old man with tuberculosis, HIV, malignancy and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on June 13 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. His death was recorded in Thursday’s bulletin.    (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wait for piped water supply gets longer in some areas||People in some localities of south Chennai may have to wait for few more months to get piped water connection. The trial run of the projects is still in progress because of challenges during the lockdown. The water supply projects were inaugurated in May end for Palavakkam, Kottivakkam, Perungudi and Mugalivakkam. Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board was planning to provide 15,350 house service connections in October or November. However, lack of manpower delayed the trial run during lockdown, which came in the way of providing house service connections, according to sources in the board. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had inaugurated the Rs. 126.39-crore project to provide a comprehensive water supply network in these areas. Nearly 1.60 lakh residents of these areas would be supplied nearly 24 million litres of water daily (mld) through various sources — Nemmeli desalination plant and the waterbodies in Chembarambakkam and Veeranam in Cuddalore district. However, the water board was executing the work to flush the pipelines and check for leaks only in a phased manner as part of the trial run. Perungudi, which has a population of 70,390 in four areas, would be supplied nearly 10.5 mld. Work on most of these pipelines was started in 2014. “We found that the pipelines were damaged in some streets when other infrastructure works like stormwater drains and roads were taken up in the past few years. We are involved in rectifying leaks in the damaged portions of the pipelines in localities such as Perungudi,” said an official. With most workers unable to return to Chennai from their home town, the water board is managing with less than 25% of the workforce. Even those workers who possessed e-passes were unable to travel from other districts and there were restrictions even within the city, the official added. Schedule disrupted For instance, the pipeline network in 227 streets in Palavakkam is tested in a phased manner for want of adequate number of workers. There were plans to complete the trial run by September. In Neelankarai, the water supply project was yet to start because of issues related to land identified in CLRI Nagar. “We have approached Kancheepuram collectorate to resolve the issue to construct water distribution station. An alternative site is being identified with the help of Corporation authorities,” the official added.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more alleged benamidar of Sasikala moves HC||V.S.J. Dinakaran, co-owner of Spectrum shopping mall at Perambur in Chennai, has approached the Madras High Court contesting the Income Tax Department's claim that he was among the benamidars of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s jailed aide V.K. Sasikala. Justice R. Mahadevan on Thursday directed the Income Tax department to file a detailed counter affidavit within two weeks to his writ petition challenging proceedings initiated under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act of 1988. After The Hindu had, in December last, reported extensively the Income Tax department’s claim of Sasikala having used Rs. 1,911 crore of demonetised currency notes to purchase malls and mills, a number of her alleged benamidars had begun to approach the Madras High Court one after another. In his plea, Mr. Dinakaran said he was primarily involved in the business of money lending, chit fund and trading of waste paper. Denying that he was a benamidar of Sasikala with respect to Spectrum Mall, he said the mall was actually a joint venture between Ganga Foundations Private Limited and two other landowners D.V. Balaji and I. Shanmugadurai. On June 27, 2011, the petitioner had purchased an undivided share of 4,554 sq ft in the mall from Mr. Shanmugadurai for a valid consideration. In January 2012, he purchased 6,581 sq ft more and also bought one of the shops in the mall. Claiming ignorance about any possible transaction between other promoters of the mall and Sasikala, his counsel M.R. Venkatesh asserted that the petitioner was personally not involved in any such transaction. He said there was nothing on record to involve his client in the issue. The Income Tax officials had neither produced any MoU with respect to Spectrum Mall nor proved that his client had deposited any cash in his bank accounts. No proceedings for capital gain had also been initiated so far, he told Justice Mahadevan before M. Sheela, Special Public Prosecutor for the Income Tax department, undertook to file a detailed counter affidavit. Case history After the death of Jayalalithaa on December 5, 2016, the Supreme Court found Sasikala and her sister-in-law N. Ilavarasi guilty in a disproportionate assets case and sentenced them to four years of imprisonment on February 14, 2017. However, in October 2017, Sasikala came out on emergency parole for five days to meet her then ailing husband M. Natarajan. Then, she stayed in the residence of her niece J. Krishnapriya at Habibulla Road in T. Nagar. Suspecting that the real reason behind obtaining parole was to take stock of alleged financial transactions that were carried out after the demonetisation of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 currency notes on November 8, 2016, the Income Tax department searched the residence. The search supposedly led to the discovery of photographs of the front and back pages of a single loose sheet from Ms. Krishnapriya’s mobile phone. The sheet contained a list of properties and different figures written across those names with the suffix ‘paid’ and ‘to be paid’ and the niece reportedly conceded to have taken the photographs when her aunt was residing in her house. After a few more searches at connected places and obtaining statements from people involved, the department felt that a novel modus operandi appeared to have been adopted by Sasikala, after demonetisation, to spend huge cash stash of Rs. 1,911 crore stored in carton boxes at various places in Chennai and the Kodanad Estate owned jointly by her and Jayalalithaa. Of the total amount, Rs. 1,674 crore was used for purchasing properties and the rest of Rs. 237 crore, also in demonetised notes, was given as loan to government contractor T.S. Kumarasamy of Tiruchengode-based Christy Friedgram Industry, which supplies provisions for the nutritious meal scheme in government schools, the I-T department claimed. Promoters of high value properties such as shopping malls, paper mills, wind mills and resorts in Chennai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Puducherry and Madurai were the targets for the crime. After finding that they were desperate to sell their properties but unable to get good offers, she allegedly agreed to pay a handsome amount on condition that it would be in demonetised notes. The promoters agreed for the deal and accepted the demonetised notes. A part of the cash receipts was used by them to settle loans of smaller amounts they had obtained from different individuals and the rest was deposited in their bank accounts by falsifying other business transactions since the Centre had granted time till December 30, 2016 for depositing demonetised notes in bank accounts. The transactions were carried out after making the promoters sign individual Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), acknowledging the receipt of money, but none of those documents contained the name of the purchaser. Since the MoUs had neither resulted in registration of sale deeds nor transfer of shares, the I-T department termed the promoters to be her benamis. However, denying that they were benamis, some of the sellers approached the High Court stating that the entire transaction carried out with them was a ploy to convert black money into white. After the MoUs were signed and the demonetised notes were deposited in bank accounts, Sasikala’s associates cancelled the deals and sought return of money, they claimed.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commandos put on COVID-19 duty||The elite commando force of the Tamil Nadu police has stepped into COVID-19 containment work in the city. Known for their agility and speed, the personnel, who wear black uniforms, have been deputed as an additional force wherever required in the city. “Initially, 20 personnel have been deputed and entrusted with Deputy Commissioners of Police for deployment in zones where lockdown violations are reported more,” said a senior police officer. “They will be used as a strike force to accompany the DCPs in thickly populated areas to spread awareness,” he added. The Washermenpet DCP took the Commando force personnel along with a few inspectors and Assistant Commissioners as part of area domination duty on Thursday. However, the residents thought it was a flag march conducted in an extraordinary situation. Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan clarified that it was not a flag march. “We deployed them from our reserve strength to Deputy Commissioners. The DCP, Washermenpet, went around with them in a few vehicles. There is no need for a flag march since there is no law and order issue now. Public cooperation is very good and it is not all necessary now,” he said. Commissioner’s appeal Mr. Viswanathan on Thursday urged the people to cooperate with the government and the police personnel in enforcing a complete lockdown. Addressing mediapersons here, Mr. Viswanathan said: “With the cooperation of the public, the lockdown has been implemented well. So far, 33,201 vehicles have been seized and 36,568 persons booked for violating prohibitory orders. Likewise, 16,192 cases were booked for failing to wear masks and to adhere to physical distancing norms.” “Today is the seventh day of the complete lockdown and still five more days remain. The public should extend their cooperation to the government and the police,” said Mr. Viswanathan. He said the delivery executives of food aggregators made it a habit to gather at one place and leave the place only after receiving orders. The Commissioner said they had been advised to desist from this and to maintain physical distancing while standing before the outlets. The shops or any outlets should not sell goods to customers turned up without masks, he added. Asked about the withdrawal of security to the house of DMK Rajya Sabha member Kanimozhi in CIT Colony, Mr. Viswanathan said: “The police security was provided to the house of former chief minister [Karunanidhi]. The extension of security was not sought but security has been provided again now.”
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Large number of children have tested positive in State||Over 100 children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19 each day over the last six days. The figure may be rising due to Tamil Nadu recording 2,000-plus cases on a daily basis over the past week. but paediatricians say a majority of infected children continue to be asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. As of June 1, 1,322 children aged 0 to 12 years had tested positive for COVID-19. However, as cases have continued to increase in the State, 2,159 more children have tested positive since then, bringing the total number of infected children to 3,481, as of June 25. “Children who test positive for COVID-19 are referred to our hospital for further management. We admit children for evaluation and see if they develop any symptoms during their stay. We check their complete blood count and do an X-ray. A majority of them are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. We also screen children who are admitted to the hospital for other reasons such as fever, abdominal pain and pneumonia for COVID-19,” said Rema Chandramohan, director of the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children. S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer, Child Health, said most of the children do not develop complications. “They come with complaints of fever for two days, stay in the hospital for five days and recover with good nutrition and good hydration. We have not seen sick children or cytokine storm in children,” he said. ICH has made an exception for children aged below five, he said, adding, “We have allowed a few COVID-19-positive mothers to stay with the children. We cannot separate young children from their parents. So, we have allowed a few mothers to stay and have been monitoring them. If any of them develop symptoms, they are shifted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.” A senior paediatrician said the number of children being affected is not frightening. “Paediatric hospitals are neither being flooded with cases, nor are the outpatient departments crowded. It is basically children with mild symptoms, children who test positive when screened for other underlying conditions, and newborns of COVID-19-positive mothers,” he said. Janani Sankar, senior consultant, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, said that at times, older children complain of fever with myalgia and throat pain.“Among in-patients suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19, approximately 10% have tested positive. But we do not see any child with severe symptoms. We have had six children with hyperinflammatory syndrome. There were two or three newborns whose mothers were COVID-19-positive. All have recovered well. We have had no mortality or shortage of beds,” she said. It is advisable for healthcare workers to stay away from their children in a separate room at home for the next two months, while others who go to offices or even shops should wear masks and wash their hands and feet well on returning home, she said.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barricades leave patients, families traumatised||Lack of a standard protocol on containment measures against a house or an individual flat is causing hardship to COVID-19 patients and family members. In some cases, individual flats have been shut, leaving the residents without access to the outside world. While the Greater Chennai Corporation has reduced the number of containment zones despite the rising number of positive cases, blocking entry to houses and flats with tin sheets has not served any purpose. Instead, it has reduced the safety of those inside, said a person affected by this “containment” measure. Raghunath Vijayaraghavan, a resident of Venus Colony in Alwarpet, tested positive for COVID-19. Soon, the civic workers shut the entrance to his flat in a posh apartment complex with tin sheets, leaving a small opening. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said although he had no symptoms, he and his family remained inside the house. He said the metal sheets nailed to his front door promoted stigma about COVID-19 positive people, and could prove to be dangerous in case of a fire. Even in case of a medical emergency, considerable time would be lost in removing the sheets before moving the patient to hospital, he added. Arbitrary use S. Kumararaja, a resident welfare activist of Velachery, said blocking of houses caused mental agony and physical hardship to COVID-19 patients. The civic body had delegated the power to take containment measures to the respective zonal officials. In the absence of a protocol, it led to arbitrary use of tin sheets, causing harm to residents, besides promoting stigma against the affected family. It was after several appeals to the civic body that such sheets were removed from a flat on Haddows Road and on College Lane. Many flats in high-rise buildings have been sealed in several parts of the city, increasing the risk of fire, rue the residents. According to estimates, more than 30% of the houses were located in buildings that required advanced fire safety provisions as per urban planning regulations. However, the civic body sealed many flats leading to the risk of fire during 14 days of quarantine. Residents whose flats were sealed in the past few days said the doors were barricaded, preventing entry and exit for 14 days. After studying the negative impact of barricades in high-rise buildings, officials were now advising workers not to barricade flats in such buildings. “Officers have advised workers not to barricade flats in high-rise buildings. We have erected flex boards with mobile numbers of officers and volunteers to report violation of quarantine,” said Corporation South Region Deputy Commissioner Alby John Varghese. A senior official of Kodambakkam zone said previously when the pandemic started, the entire street was barricaded even if there was only one positive case. However, over the days, the stringent measures had been diluted and today individual houses and the particular flats are barricaded based on the history of the patient and to prevent harassment from neighbours. Volunteers assigned He said steps were being taken to post volunteers to help the affected families in getting groceries and medicines. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said residents in more than 1.2 lakh houses had been placed under quarantine. Even as these numbers were expected to rise in the next few weeks, residents urge the civic body to ensure that regulations for containment zones were spelt out clearly, leaving no room for varying interpretations by various officials.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s nod to State govt. on copra procurement||The Centre has permitted the State government to procure 40,000 tonnes of copra during the current year. Of the total quantity, 39,500 tonnes will be milling copra and 500 tonnes, ball copra, according to a communication sent by Shashi Bhushan, Director in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, to the State government on Wednesday. The rates will be Rs. 99.6 per kg for the former and Rs. 103 per kg for the latter. They are marginally higher than the previous year’s per-kg rates of Rs. 95.21 and Rs. 99.2 for milling and ball copra respectively. In 2018-19, the rates were: Rs. 75.11 and Rs. 77.5. Regulated market committees in coordination with Agricultural Marketing department will procure the produce on behalf of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (Nafed), which will eventually re-imburse the amount to the State agencies. The procurement will be done on the line of pulses. An official in the State Agriculture Department says that farmers in the western region and Cauvery delta have demanded that the State government make arrangements for procurement. The Centre has now given the permission in response to a request of the State government. Price increase The official hopes that the announcement on the procurement will lead to increase in wholesale prices of copra in the open market which may ultimately.turn out to be beneficial to the farmers
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||128 urban co-op. banks in T.N. to come under RBI’s ambit||Tamil Nadu's 128 urban cooperative banks (UCBs) are to be brought under the ambit of Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This is the implication of the Central government’s latest decision to promulgate an ordinance bringing UCBs and multi-State co-operative banks within the fold of the RBI. Barring nine, all UCBs in the State are profit-making. Serving people in urban and semi-urban areas of the State, the UCBs have mobilised deposits to the tune of around Rs. 7,800 crore. During 2019-20, they disbursed loans such as jewel non-farm sector and housing loans, of the order of about Rs. 5,300 crore. Long-time observers of the cooperative sector say the proposed ordinance looks similar to an amendment bill to the Banking Regulation Act tabled in Parliament in March. At that time, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was said to have expressed reservations over the amendment bill. Even now, the RBI, which is the licensing and inspecting authority, has been getting reports on adherence to banking regulations such as Statutory Liquidity Ratio, Cash Reserve Ratio and classification of assets. However, the administrative control over the urban cooperative banks has been with Registrars of Cooperative Societies of States. Once the ordinance gets promulgated, the RBI will have complete powers over the appointment of managing directors and constitution of board of directors of the UCBs, an area that has been hitherto under the domain of State governments. Also, the RCS will no longer have any role with regard to elections, stipulation of qualification or disqualification of members of the board, conduct of inquiry and prosecution. All these functions will get transferred to the RBI. Sound banking Though the Central action is said to be aimed at “increasing professionalism, enabling access to capital, improving governance and ensuring sound banking through the RBI,” there is a view among officials in the government that given the constraints in which the RBI is placed, benchmark can even now be fixed for the urban cooperative banks to be brought under the purview of the central bank. Instead of bringing all the urban cooperative banks, only those institutions, having certain level of turnover, can come under the RBI’s control. The officials also clarify that urban credit cooperative societies, which are distinct from UCBs, will remain under the RCS. As far as multi-State cooperative banks are concerned, there is only one institution (Tamil Nadu Circle Postal Co-operative Bank) with its base in Tamil Nadu and this was as on July 31, 2019, according to the website — Multi State Cooperative Societies (https://mscs.dac.gov.in/Default.aspx) of the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers' Welfare in the Union government. A Central law of 2002 governs this category of cooperative banks, over which the Central Registrar holds the administrative control. Apart from providing its nod at the time of registration of the multi-state cooperative societies or banks and lending its staff for the conduct of elections, there is no role for the RCS over this category of the institutions, which are under the jurisidiction of Central Registrar.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes have become a necessity, Centre tells HC||The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEIT) on Thursday told the Madras High Court that extraordinary situations warranted extraordinary solutions, and hence, online education had become a necessity due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told that the Centre was making every effort to ensure that students do not suffer and stop learning due to closure of schools and colleges during the lockdown. At the same time, it was also committed to ensure that online education was safe for children. The submissions were made in a counter affidavit in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by the mother of two schoolchildren from Chennai. She feared that children would get exposed to undesirable adult content on laptops and mobile phones during the online classes. However, in the counter, served on senior counsel S. Prabakaran, the MEIT said, “Advancement of technology has provided alternate learning through virtual classrooms to enable students to continue their studies. Considering risks associated due to opening of schools… online classes have commenced in various States.” The Ministry said it had put in place a robust administrative framework to regulate the video conferencing platforms under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules of 2011 and the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and procedures and sensitive personal data or information) Rules of 2011. “The law requires that these video conferencing platforms appoint a grievance officer to whom any unlawful content or grievance can be reported. They are also required to remove any such unlawful content and also provide the information of any such uploader to the law enforcement agency as and when requested by them through a lawful order,” the counter read. The court was told that the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a national nodal agency for cyber security incidents in the country, had been issuing various advisories from time to time for safe Internet use and browsing even with respect to children and that those advisories were available onhttps://www.certin.org.in/ State governments must ensure that online classes were conducted safely, the MEIT said, and added that online platforms were only facilitating the interaction between students and teachers.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu raises Rs. 5,500 cr through long-term bond sales||Tamil Nadu has raised Rs. 5,500 crore, or nearly 24% of its Rs. 23,000 crore total market borrowings so far this fiscal year 2020-21, through the issue of bonds with 30-year tenures, or long-term bonds. According to data from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Tamil Nadu has issued more long-term bonds compared to other States. Tamil Nadu has been raising money through the issue of bonds, known as State Development Loans (SDLs), amid the increased expenditure due to the COVID-19 pandemic and fall in revenue collections due to the lockdown. “Many of our lenders, especially Life Insurance Corporation of India and pension funds have an appetite for long-tenure bonds, and there aren’t many in the market. It lengthens our maturity profile and spreads out repayment,” said a senior State government official. He also pointed out that the interest rates have been particularly attractive for 30-year bonds and are lower when compared to 10-year bonds. On June 23, Tamil Nadu had raised additional Rs. 500 crore than was originally planned, due to attractive interest rates. The State had originally planned to raise Rs. 2,000 crore through the issue of Rs. 1,000 crore bonds, each with a tenure of 30 years and 9 years respectively. Since the cut-off interest for the 30-year bonds was 6.7% and for 9-year bonds was 6.6%, Tamil Nadu raised an additional amount of Rs. 250 crore in each of this securities. The rates have come down from April. In April, Tamil Nadu had raised Rs. 2,000 crore through the issue of 30-year bonds at an interest rate of 7.15%. Similarly, in the same month, the State had raised Rs. 2,000 crore through a 9-year bond at an interest of 7.5%.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law varsity evolves formula to assess students without exams||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University has arrived at an alternative to assess final year students following the University Grants Commission’s recommendation to dispense with examinations for the summer semester. University Vice Chancellor T.S.N. Sastry suggested a model that has been worked out based on the five-year integrated (Honours) degree undergraduate programme. The programme will suit postgraduate and professional courses as well, he said. The model uses the average of the nine semester results. He suggests taking the average percentage of each year (two semesters) and adding the average percentages for four years (eight semesters). In the fifth year, the student had already written one semester. The average of nine semesters and the overall percentage up to 9th semester is used to arrive at the percentage for the final semester. To arrive at the marks obtained in each of the subjects in the final semester the total percentage scored in the final semester is used. Since the final year law students write five papers a candidate’s overall percentage is multiplied by five and the result is then divided by five. The figure is rounded off to the nearest large number. If internal assessment is a component then accordingly only 70% or 60% of the marks arrived at through this calculation should be used, the V-C explained. The internal evaluation can be then added to arrive at the final marks. The official said even if the students’ score is low in the internal exams, the overall performance in the earlier semesters will ensure that the student benefits. For candidates with arrears the same formula may be used to declare the results but the candidate may also be given an opportunity to clear the backlog arrears, restricting it to two papers per attempt. Mr. Sastry suggested that students who were not satisfied with their marks/grades under the formula should be permitted to write the exams as and when it is conducted. They should also be given the option of choosing the evaluation that awards them better percentage. Post-graduation students must submit their dissertation or project paper and the same may be evaluated and marks may be awarded. Under this method of evaluation where a student has ample chance to improve their performance and taking in to consideration the pandemic situation, no medals/distinctions will be awarded for this academic year 2019-2020, Dr. Sastry said. The V-C has also submitted his suggestion to the Higher Education Secretary for perusal.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainfall to continue across State||Scattered rainfall over the State will continue on Friday due to the presence of a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, according to the Meteorological Department. Chennai may receive light to moderate showers in some places. A cyclonic circulation lying over the southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger thunderstorms in many parts of the State. The southwest monsoon has become vigorous over the State. During 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, Devakottai and Karaikudi in Sivaganga district received 12 cm and 11 cm of rain, which is the day’s highest amount of rainfall. Several other places too registered heavy rain. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said while thunderstorms accompanied by lightning is possible in many places of the State, one or two places in Tirunelveli, Thenkasi and Theni districts are likely to get heavy rainfall on Friday. Chennai may continue to have a generally cloudy sky on Friday with light to moderate rains, he said. On Thursday, the city recorded a day temperature of around 36 degree Celsius and it may be around 36 or 37 degrees Celsius on Friday. Since June 1, Chennai district has received 1.2 cm, against its average of 5.7 cm of rain so far.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways teams up with Microsoft to connect its 15,000 employees||Microsoft India has offered Indian Railways a six-month free trial of its “Microsoft Teams” platform powered by Office 365 to connect 15,000 employees across the network. Approving the free trial offer from June 15-December 14, 2020, the Railway Board said “Microsoft Teams” would support various railway establishments to ensure physical distancing, avoid travelling and facilitate work-from-home in the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak scenario through its Information Technology applications for collaboration and communication. In a note, the Railway Board said the key features of the application would be to organise discussions, sharing files in groups, audio/video conferencing, working online together on documents (Word, Excel & PowerPoint) etc. Unified domain Users of the entire Indian Railways would be in a unified domain and further divided into sub-domains as per the Zonal Railways, Production Units etc. to facilitate collaborative working and seamless communication across the whole organisation. Unique use identities were being created and Microsoft was formulating a quick start guide for the railway employees. According to a railway official, among other features of “Microsoft Teams” were unlimited chat and search, video calling, team and personal file storage, and real-time collaboration with the office. Besides following the safety protocol guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Ministry of Railways had taken a few other steps to prevent officers/staff from getting infected with coronavirus. The Railway Board advised its officers to use e-files to the extent possible and avoid physical receipt/issue of documents to avoid infection through touching of papers which have passed through multiple hands. It was also advised to hold all meetings online. “Microsoft Teams” will be a one-stop solution to implement these advisories, the official said.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Buzzers replace whistles in govt. buses||One of the prominent features of the bus journey is the blowing of the whistle by the conductor, with each one perfecting his own style of using it. Commuters travelling on public buses in Tamil Nadu will hear a digital sound in place of the whistle they are used to. The COVID-19 pandemic has been forcing transport authorities to minimise physical interaction and migrate to digital payments. To avoid the use of whistles — through which the virus could potentially spread — transport authorities have adopted wireless buzzers. The State Transport Corporation (STC) in Villupuram has fixed sensor-based wireless buzzers in more than five buses and these are being used on a trial basis in some routes towards Salem and Namakkal. A senior official of STC Villupuram said as the SARS CoV-2 infection spreads through the mouth and nose and wearing of masks has become mandatory, the conductors were finding it difficult to use the whistle. So, it has been decided to use remote-controlled buzzers instead of the whistle. In this system, the buzzer would be placed in the driver’s cabin. The remote-controlled system has been tried out on a trial basis in a few buses and has been getting positive reviews from the bus crew. The official said the wireless alarm comes with a switch and a battery-powered bell that could be charged using a mobile phone charger. The switch of the alarm bell uses a small battery.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Autos introduced for fever camp patients||The Greater Chennai Corporation has introduced autorickshaw service to transport people from fever camps to the nearest testing lab and then back home, to ensure that all COVID-19 suspected cases are tested. This initiative was introduced in a few zones two days ago and is carried out in a full-fledged manner in southern parts of the city. The autorickshaw drivers wear personal protective equipment and a plastic sheet will soon be fixed between the driver and the passenger to make the driver feel secure, the official said. “Fever camps are conducted in all divisions across the city. Whenever a person shows symptoms, he or she is asked to take a test. Sometimes, they get it done immediately, sometimes they do it after a few days,” said Alby John, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South). Return trip To ensure that the person identified is sampled or tested without delay, the autorickshaw service has been arranged by the Corporation. “The driver picks a patient from the camp, drops him or her at the lab and waits, then drops the passenger back at their house,” said N. Thirumurugan, zonal officer, Adyar. He said this way none of the cases would be missed. Besides, if the person with symptoms uses any other mode of transport, chances of him or her spreading it was high, he added. On an average, a driver ferries 15 passengers a day and two autorickshaws had been provided for each division. Safety concerns Although a few autorickshaw drivers expressed concern over safety, many had been offering their services without fear. “Since we have provided them with the protective suit, there is not much fear. Besides, all the suspected cases are not COVID-19 positive. We are going to fix a plastic sheet between the driver and passenger to instil a sense of safety,” said a senior Corporation official. Sukumar, a middle-aged man who had brought his friend to a fever camp in Maduvankarai, Guindy, said this was a practical approach. “This way we don’t have to rely on other transport modes. It is convenient,” he added.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘81% of rural families in T.N. suffered domestic violence during lockdown’||A survey conducted by the Tamil Nadu Women’s Collective in 62 villages in the State has indicated that at least 81% of families reported some form of domestic violence during the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19. The survey was carried out by the field workers of the Collective to understand the effect of COVID-19 in rural areas and had 620 respondents from 62 villages spread across 18 districts in Tamil Nadu. Only 8% of the respondents felt that the government had given adequate support and 25% of the families were found to be facing acute hunger. “Among our main recommendations based on the study was that the food grains supplied free of cost through the Public Distribution System (PDS) should be of good quality as well as quantity. While financial assistance is being given to people, this should be increased to Rs. 5,000 per month,” said Sheelu Francis, founder of the Collective. Reverse migration Ms. Francis further pointed out that with reverse migration happening on a large scale, the needs of these migrants had to be met. “Many of them have had their savings dwindle through this period which is why financial assistance is important. For all the non PDS card holders who have been affected, the government should make arrangements to include them and ensure that they are supported as well.” In the last few weeks, she said that there had been several instances of microfinance companies threatening women to pay back loans. “Based on the feedback we have received, we want microfinance institutions to be banned with immediate effect,” she said. The findings also shed light on a few positive areas. While 71% of the families recorded an increase in male involvement in the household chores, all the respondents were unanimously happy about the closure of liquor shops through April and till mid-May in most parts of the State. About 75% of the respondents who had chronic ailments also said that they had been getting essential medicines supplied regularly from the government.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nirmala takes a dig at DMK’s alliance with Congress||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday took a dig at the DMK for its alliance with Congress, which brought in the emergency 45 years ago and led to the dismissal of the then DMK government in the State. “They (Congress) brought in the Emergency because they were power hungry. The DMK leaders and the opposition leaders were arrested. I am surprised that the DMK has joined hands with the Congress to speak about democracy and freedom of speech,” she said while speaking at a virtual rally organised by the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit, on completion of one year of Narendra Modi government 2.0. “What right has DMK got to speak about democracy. The time has come now for them to reflect on this,” Ms. Sitharaman added. She highlighted the abolishment of Article 370, decision to criminalise triple talaq, Citizenship Amendment Act and Ayodhya verdict as the key achievements of the Narendra Modi government’s second term. Stating that Tamil Nadu will benefit from the Rs. 20,000-crore package announced by the Centre for developing the fishing sector, Ms. Sitharaman also said the Centre has released Rs. 6,600 crore to the State in just three months of this financial year, to meet the expenditure of COVID-related activities. Ms. Sitharaman pointed out that 240 Shramik special train services were operated from Tamil Nadu to transport migrant workers and 80 more trains were ready. The Finance Minister also said that Rs. 2,825 crore has been disbursed in the State till June 14, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). Ms. Sitharaman highlighted the benefits industries and MSMEs would have got from the cut in corporate tax rates and mentioned about a slew of other schemes announced as part of the COVID-19 relief package. Stating that the aim of Centre’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat plan (to push India towards self-reliance) was to ensure that whatever could be produced in India should be made here and not imported, Ms. Sitharaman said Tamil Nadu could play a key role in the self-reliance strategy. She also said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a special focus for Tamil Nadu and pointed out at the initiatives like the defence corridor and assurance of continuing support to the State. Later, speaking at a webinar on MSMEs organised by Chennai International Centre, Ms. Sitharaman said the government is discussing with banks and the RBI on the slow pace of rate-cut transmission. She explained that the reasons offered by banks on the issue were not convincing, adding “we will come up with a fair solution”. She hinted that the government was actively considering an one-time loan restructuring facility for non-MSME (Medium Small and Micro Enterprises) borrowers, who have been badly hit due to the disruptions caused by the pandemic.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum demands discussion on draft fisheries policy||Various organisations working among fishers have called upon the Centre to have a fresh look at the Draft National Fisheries Policy 2020. The policy, they said, did not recognise traditional fishers and fishing methods and looked at the sector only from a commercial view point. National Fishworkers Forum’s T. Peter said the draft had not been discussed with the stakeholders, it had not been discussed in Parliament or circulated among the State governments concerned. “They are trying to finish the work, including drawing up legislations and guidelines, using this pandemic as a reason,” he said.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure Cauvery water reaches tail-end areas’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take steps to ensure that Cauvery water reached the tail-end areas of the Delta region. In a statement, he said even though water was released from Mettur dam on June 12, water has not reached the tail-end areas. “Already farmers in Kottur union have launched a protest to desilt Saluvan river to ensure flow of water to the tail-end areas. The Chief Minister, who will be visiting the Delta region, should listen to the plea of farmers and advise officials to speed up desilting works,” he said Mr. Stalin added that while tail-end areas were suffering from lack of water, farmers in other regions could not get agriculture loans and inputs for beginning cultivation. “Only 10,000 cusecs of water is released from Mettur and it was adequate only to wet the rivers. Kuruvai could be successfully done only if 15,000 cusecs is released,” he said.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drugs seized at Foreign Post Office||Ecstasy pills from Germany estimated to be worth Rs. 3 lakh were seized by Chennai Air Customs in a foreign postal parcel and a Malaysian national has been arrested in this regard, according to a release. These pills can alter mood and a dosage of over 120 mg was considered high and might be fatal, according to the release. Air Customs Postal Intelligence Unit intercepted a parcel that arrived from Frankfurt at Foreign Post Office, Chennai, based on intelligence that it might have narcotics substance. “The light yellow hexagonal pills, called Philipp Plein or PP Skull, have been around since 2017 and contain 225 mg of MDMA, whereas the light pink pills with ‘CNN’ logo contain 285 mg of MDMA. Samples have been sent to the laboratory,” the release said.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for gambling||A gambling den was raided at a hotel in Aminjikarai on Wednesday. On a tip-off, the police conducted a raid at the hotel on Poonamallee High Road though the premises were closed due to lockdown. Six persons were arrested.
26 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss wants testing to be scaled up||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday welcomed the State government’s efforts in creating infrastructure to test 14,000 samples daily and added that it should be scaled up to 20,000 per day. “The number of tests should be increased on par with the increase in capacity. By doing this, the spread of COVID-19 can be controlled,” he tweeted. Mr. Ramadoss also said that the complete lockdown in Chennai, in its seventh day, was being followed strictly.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical college interns test positive for COVID-19||A number of interns of government medical college hospitals in the city have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days. On Thursday, seven interns (those on Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship) of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital tested positive. Official sources said 20 CRRIs had tested positive at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. “Samples were lifted from the CRRIs in the last two to three days. Those who have tested positive have been admitted to ESI, Ayanavaram. The hospital is in a containment zone, and hence, this is happening,” an official said. A number of CRRIs attached to Madras Medical College/Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate have also tested positive for COVID-19.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gets two consignments of generic drug||Tamil Nadu has received two consignments of Covifor, a generic version of the experimental COVID-19 drug remdesivir, from Hyderabad-based Hetero, and has dispatched them to all districts for treatment of critical COVID-19 patients. The State received the first consignment of 1,000 vials on Wednesday and another on Thursday. The first consignment has already been distributed to all government hospitals in the State. “We have ordered a consignment of 42,500 vials of the medicine, the largest number ordered by any State till date. We have dispatched the first consignment and it has already reached all government hospitals, medical college hospitals and district headquarters hospitals in districts where there are no medical colleges. In fact, we got some quantity for compassionate use last week itself,” Umanath, managing director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, said   Dr. Umanath said that Tamil Nadu was the first State to distribute the drug to every district. “Others are using it in select hospitals. We are making it universally available so that it becomes easier to treat patients in all districts,” he said. The State is expecting another consignment of a few more thousand vials.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine held for illegal sale of liquor||The city police arrested nine persons for allegedly selling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) during the lockdown and seized 392 bottles from them. Two persons were allegedly selling liquor from a vehicle at Kothari Nagar on Wednesday. The Royala Nagar police arrested them and seized liquor bottles. The Vyasarpadi police rounded up four for selling liquor on Kalyanapuram Main Road. The Puzhal police arrested four for selling liquor near Anna statue.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film editor G. Jayachandran passes away||Film editor G. Jayachandran died in the city early on Thursday. He was 58. His family said that he suffered a cardiac arrest. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Mr. Jayachandran had worked in over 150 Tamil films. He began his career with the film Oomai Vizhigal starring Vijayakant and Arun Pandian which was released in 1986. Throughout his career, Jayachandran had edited several films starring Mr. Vijayakant, including Pulan Visaranai, Maanagara Kaaval, Bharathan and Captain Prabhakaran.  He had produced a few films, including Manidha Dharmam and Thanga Paapa . Mr. Jayachandran’s father V. Govindasamy was a noted film editor.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||“Industrial associations’ demands will be considered”||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami held discussions with heads of industrial associations here on Thursday for more than an hour. He later told reporters that representatives of MSMEs, big industries and others had met him with various demands and he had promised them that the State government would look into those. “It was a very positive meeting that the heads of nearly 15 associations had with the Chief Minister,” said R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. The Codissia president urged the Chief Minister to develop an industrial corridor covering Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts. While the Chief Minister explained the challenges related to land acquisition, he assured that he will study the demand, Mr. Ramamurthy said. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said several issues were raised with the Chief Minister, including return of migrant workers and time to pay electricity consumption charges. Mr. Palaniswami explained that migrant workers in Tamil Nadu returned home in about 250 trains. If they want to return to Tamil Nadu, the workers should test for COVID in their respective States. On the current consumption charges, he said he will consider, said Mr. Rajkumar. The micro units sought construction of a multi-storeyed industrial park. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) asked for formation of Greater Development Authority for Coimbatore. According to a press release, the Chief Minister said at the meeting that the State government earmarked Rs. 200 crore to provide collateral free loan through Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) and so far, Rs. 125 crore were disbursed to 1,064 MSMEs. The land acquisition process is on for expansion of Coimbatore International Airport. Since Coimbatore is a major industrial area, the State government is taking up several infrastructure works here.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC Coimbatore Division scales down bus operations||Following the State government’s decision to not allow public transport between districts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) reduced the operations of over 300 buses on Thursday. Officials said that only 486 buses were operated across four districts – Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris on Thursday, as against 791 that were operated on Wednesday. Only those mofussil buses that operated within the respective districts were allowed on Thursday. In Coimbatore district, 32 mofussil buses to Pollachi and Mettupalayam areas were permitted. Except for Udhagamandalam, town buses were operated in headquarters of Coimbatore (150 town buses), Tiruppur (43 buses) and Erode (74 buses) districts. The Nilgiris had the maximum number of ghat buses (operated in hilly areas) with 102, followed by Coimbatore (15) and Erode (7) districts. On Thursday, Coimbatore district saw the maximum number of buses being operated within the district with 197 buses, followed by the Nilgiris (112), Erode (107) and Tiruppur (70) districts, the TNSTC officials said.
26 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami pins blame on DMK for spread of COVID-19||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said that the DMK and its leader M.K. Stalin were responsible for the spread of COVID-19 in the State. “Had Mr. Stalin and his party listened to experts’ advice and observed the COVID-19 safety guidelines that the State government had issued to combat the spread of the disease, this would not have happened,” he said while addressing journalists on Thursday after holding a review meeting at the Collectorate. Mr. Stalin did not listen to the guidelines and sent his party workers to distribute welfare assistance, resulting in the spread of COVID-19, including the death of a sitting MLA, the Chief Minister said. He asked his party workers to distribute assistance, aimed more at seeking publicity, but it ended up transmitting the disease. Mr. Stalin has been issuing one false statement after another, attacking the ruling AIADMK government, and his aim is only to capture power, he said. “Mr. Stalin is not worried about the people. He is concerned more about proving his political relevance, which is the reason behind the untrue statements he has issued in the recent past,” Mr. Palaniswami said. “Be it Maharashtra, Delhi or West Bengal, nowhere has any Opposition leader tried to gain political capital using the pandemic. It is only in Tamil Nadu that Mr. Stalin is doing so, as he has no constructive suggestions to offer,” the CM said. “He has been talking as if only Tamil Nadu has been affected and the AIADMK government has failed,” Mr. Palaniswami said. On the contrary, compared to the U.S., the U.K., Italy or Spain, Tamil Nadu had done better, and because of the untiring work of doctors, nurses, conservancy workers and staff from various departments, the government has been able to control the spread of the disease, he said.
26 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four from MGR, Anna markets test positive||Four persons from MGR and Anna vegetable markets in Coimbatore Corporation limits tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, swab samples of whom were collected randomly by the Health Department to check the community spread of the disease. Three persons from MGR market and one person from Anna market, all aged above 40, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Following the test results of three men from MGR market returning positive, the Health Department has marked the area as a cluster. When asked, a senior official here said the district administration would decide on further measures to be taken at the markets. Sources with the Health Department said that random swab samples were collected from markets and other places to check the presence of the disease in the community. A source from Mettupalayam said that more than 400 swab samples were collected from the wholesale markets at Mettupalayam from where supplies of vegetables go to various parts of Tamil Nadu and other States. However, no one tested positive for the disease from Mettupalayam as on Thursday. Apart from the four cases in Coimbatore, 24 others tested positive for the disease on Thursday in the district. The patients included two passengers of Doha-Coimbatore repatriation flight which landed here on Tuesday, two passengers of Chennai-Coimbatore IndiGo flight (6E 6381) which landed here on Wednesday, a 36-year-old policeman from Kottur police station near Pollachi and a woman worker at the station. The police station was closed on Wednesday after a 23-year-old policewoman contracted the disease. Other cases were reported from clusters namely L.G. Nagar and Shalon Street near Vellalore, Konavaikalpalayam and Kanjikonampalayam. Three persons from Telungupalayam also contracted the disease. The total number of positive cases in Coimbatore district touched 347 on Thursday with 170 active cases.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Death of female elephant in Sirumugai takes toll to 12 in six months||A female elephant was found dead within the limits of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division on Thursday. According to Forest Department officials, this was the 12th elephant death reported across five ranges in the forest division since January this year. Fight between elephants, falling into gorge, natural causes and brain haemorrhage due to heat stroke were the cause of the deaths. In a couple of cases, the cause of death could not be ascertained as the carcass had decomposed. Sirumugai Forest Range alone accounted for six deaths -- five female elephants and one male. In the latest case, the carcass of the female elephant aged between 47 and 49 was found in a forest area coming under Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai range. A four-member team of the Department, who were on a patrol in the forest from Moolaiyoor to Mayilmokkai on Wednesday, sensed an unpleasant smell in the air as they reached Mayilmokkai around 5.30 p.m. As it was evening and the area known for frequent movement of elephants, they could conduct searches. They went to the same place around 6.15 a.m. on Thursday and found a carcass of an elephant in a decomposed state. Forest veterinary officer A. Sugumar, veterinary surgeons Thiagarajan from Sirumugai and Satheesh Kumar autopsied the carcass. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that the cause of the death of the elephant was unknown as the carcass was in a decomposed state. It was eight to 10 days old. However, samples from the carcass were collected for laboratory examination. The carcass was left in the wild for scavengers.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid for Pilloor III drinking water scheme||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday laid the foundation for the start of the Pilloor III drinking water scheme and inaugurated a portion of two lakefront schemes at a function held at the Coimbatore Collectorate. The foundation was to construct a water treatment plant and dig a tunnel under the Rs. 779.90-crore Pilloor III drinking water scheme that the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board was implementing for the Coimbatore Corporation. A release issued at the end of the review meeting that the Chief Minister held at the Collectorate said that the TWAD Board would spend Rs. 166 crore of the Rs. 779.90 crore for tunnel construction and other works to draw water. As for laying pipelines to convey the water to the city, the release quoting the Chief Minister said the land acquisition process was under way. The Chief Minister also inaugurated a portion of the Valankulam and Ukkadam Periyakulam lakefronts that the Coimbatore Corporation had developed at Rs. 89 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. The sources also said the Chief Minister also inaugurated the Annur Thasildar office, constructed at Rs. 2.89 crore and a few other buildings. The release said Coimbatore witnessed construction of many flyovers to ease traffic congestion, in fact much more than Salem. The district would see the State government float tender for construction of an elevated corridor in the city. After his engagements at the Collectorate, the Chief Minister went to the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand where he interacted with members of the public and shopkeepers.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New bean variety introduced||Mung bean variety named ‘Virat’ or IPM, which was released by the Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur ,was introduced recently in Coimbatore by the Department of Seed Certification. Assistant Director of Seed Certification (Coimbatore) Vanathi Natarajan said that this variety will be ready for harvest in 52 to 55 days, the shortest duration for maturation for the crop. ‘Virat’ is also is resistant to yellow mosaic disease, she said in a release. The variety is cultivated in a seed farm at Sulur.
26 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||44-year-old man electrocuted||A 44-year-old man from Pappanaickenpalayam was electrocuted after the truck he drove came in contact with an electric line on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Senthil Kumar. The police said that Kumar was tasked to transport a consignment of tyres from Kerala to Hyderabad. He came to Coimbatore on Wednesday and parked the truck at Chinthamanipudur. The man went to his home and came to Chinthamanipudur on Thursday to continue the journey to Hyderabad. While reversing the truck, it came in contact with an electric line. Kumar suffered electric shock and died on the spot. The consignment of tyres was damaged in fire.
26 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Sand mining rampant near Athur’||A large group of farmers from Athur union have appealed to the Collector to intervene and stop rampant illegal sand mining carried out by a gang in the area. The activity has led to dwindling watertables along the Kodaganar riverbed, they say. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, the farmers said water bodies were being rejuvenated by the State government under thekudimaramathuprogramme. However, government officials were not keen to take stern action against sand mining gangs. Despite making specific complaints with locations, there was no tangible action so far, they alleged. The sandminers sold the sand at exorbitant prices and even named them as sand from Tiruchi riverbed, Karur river bed, Vedasandur stretch and so on. The illegal activity was no longer a secret in the region now. The ‘looting’ was being carried out day and night with the full support of a few police, mining and PWD officials, they said. The farmers attributed the drinking water shortage faced by residents in the pocket to theft of sand from approach channels. Earlier, the sand miners were stealing in bullock carts and two-wheelers. Now, they did it openly by deploying men and material, including tipper lorries and poclain equipment, like an industry. As a result, deep gorges had not only made the water flow difficult, but also too many shallow spots might turn the area into a desert very soon, they contended. The mining activity stretched from Seevalsaragu panchayat union limits to Veerakkal panchayat. Pockets, to name a few, such as Adilakshmipuram, Velagoundanpatti and V Koothampatti and Vakkampatti were the most damaged spots by the sand miners. In one spot, in order to have access to the riverbed, sand miners demolished the wall of the check dam and drove tractors and poclain to the spot. Some of the private farms were aware of the damages. Although the issue was taken up with Sempatti police, there were no arrests. Hence, the farmers appealed to Collector M. Vijayalakshmi to take firm action against the illegal sand miners and save the environment and enable farmers to get water for irrigation. WhenThe Hinducontacted the Dindigul Collector, she said she would take firm action against the illegal sand miners.
26 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports five new cases||Five persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode district on Thursday. Corporation officials said that a 50-year-old woman of Periyar Nagar, 75-year-old man of Moolapalayam and 51-year-old man of R.N. Pudur, all in Corporation limits, tested positive and were admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Likewise, a 23-year-old male textile worker of Perundurai and 60-year-old woman of Kempanaickenpalayam in Gobichettipalayam Taluk tested positive and were hospitalised. Officials said that 22 persons were undergoing treatment at the hospital and the total number of cases reported in the district was 96.  Two new cases in Tiruppur district Tiruppur district saw two new cases on Thursday in addition to the five cases in Dharapuram Block that were confirmed on Wednesday. Both the cases were from Tiruppur Corporation limits, Health Department sources said. A 41-year-old man from Pandian Nagar, who had a travel history to Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district, and a 35-year-old man with a travel history to Pallapatti in Karur district tested positive. A 55-year-old man from CSI Nagar in Dharapuram with travel history to Erode and Coimbatore tested positive. His 51-year-old wife, who was an employee at Dharapuram Municipality, contracted the virus from her husband. From her, three other employees – a 39-year-old man, a 44-year-old woman and a 28-year-old man – contracted the virus, which led to the closure of the Dharapuram Municipality office on Wednesday, according to the sources. These seven persons were admitted at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. The media bulletin issued by the State government reflected all these seven cases and calculated the district’s total number of COVID-19 cases as 128. However, the bulletin did not officially declare the first COVID-19 death of Tiruppur district as a 22-year-old ‘108’ ambulance worker from Mangalam who tested positive died on Wednesday.
26 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Strict surveillance at check posts in Erode||Vehicles without e-pass will not be allowed to enter or leave the district through the 13 inter-district check posts across the district after the State government imposed restriction on inter-district travel from Thursday. At the Karungalpalayam check post on Cauvery Road, two-wheelers, cars and lorries from Pallipalayam in Namakkal district were seen lined up in the morning as the police allowed only those vehicles that had e-pass. Many workers from neighbouring districts heading towards places in the district wanted them to be allowed to enter the district. They had an altercation with the police personnel on duty. Vehicles carrying agriculture and essential products, government employees and medical staff were allowed after checking while many crossed the check post on foot. At the check posts near Noyyal River, Lakshmi Nagar, Vijayamangalam and at Parisal Thurai Junction, vehicles without e-pass were not allowed initially. Later, two-wheelers were allowed with a warning that they would not be allowed on Friday without e-pass. Cars and four-wheelers were sent back at the check posts. The police had a tough time warning the motorists who attempted to cross the check posts without e-pass. Since mofussil buses and town buses to nearby districts were not operated, the bus stand wore a deserted look. Many private buses cut short their route and operated to designations within the district.
26 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Precautionary measures being taken: Erode Corpn.||The civic body has asked people not to panic and said that all precautionary measures are taken to prevent the spread of the virus. Four streets with 500 houses have been declared as containment zones. Messages were circulated in social media that the virus was fast spreading in the district and a total lockdown was to be implemented. Closure of shops and commercial establishments at 2 p.m. further caused panic among the residents. Swab samples However, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu all precautionary measures were taken regularly to prevent the spread of COVID-19. On an average, swab samples were taken from 150 people in the city every day and tested at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. ‘No need to panic’ “There is no need to fear or panic and people need to cooperate with officials by wearing mask, maintaining personal distance and alert officials if they have visitors from other zones,” he added. The Commissioner said that though fines were collected from people for not wearing mask, it was the responsibility of people to wear mask to prevent the spread of the virus. He said that if they came across people from other zones visiting their houses or neighbours, they should inform the Corporation at 94890-93202.
26 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Retail vegetable shops will not function from Friday||As a move to reduce public gathering at the Corporation’s Central bus stand where the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market functions temporarily, retail vegetable shops will not be allowed to function from Friday. The wholesale vegetable market will function as usual. Since the market premises could turn as a potential source for the spread of COVID-19, the district administration has announced that only wholesale shops will be allowed to function from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. while the retail shops will not be permitted to function from Thursday. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that retail traders had stored vegetables on the bus stand premises and sought a day’s time to clear it and permission was granted to them. He said that only wholesale shops would function from Friday. Collector C. Kathiravan asked all the traders to wear mask and gloves and ensure personal distancing while selling vegetables. He also said that the market would be closed for a day on June 27.
26 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to installation of high tension lines at Thirunagar Colony, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 28 at the rear side of Thiruvalluvar Kudil, J. Marriot Hotel, Bus Stand areas, Kamaraj School, Janaki Ammal layout, Kandasamy Street, E.V.K. Sampath Road, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai, Thirunagar Colony, Rajajipuram, Mill Street, Gandhipuram 1,2 and 3 Street, Kannaiyan Street, Subbaiyan Street, Marapalam Road, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Karungalpalayam, Cauvery Road, V.C.T.V. Road (Malligai Arangam), Madavakadu, Sithan Nagar, Kamala Nagar and Rajagopal Thottam areas.
26 June 2020||Gudalur,TAMIL NADU||Panel visits Mullaiperiyar dam||A five-member sub-supervisory committee comprising officials from Tamil Nadu and Kerala jointly inspected the Mullaiperiyar reservoir in Idukki district on Thursday. The Supreme Court set up a supervisory committee after the issue of storage level became a bone of contention between the two States. About six years ago, the apex court directed the raise of storage level to 142 feet and instructed the committee to inspect the reservoir at periodic intervals. To assist the committee, a sub-supervisory committee was formed comprising officials from both States. With the southwest monsoon hitting Kerala about three weeks ago, the officials arrived here and inspected the main dam, baby dam, gallery area, seepage and shutter operation. The officials, led by M.S. Saravanakumar from Central Water Commission, led the team with Kumar and Sam Irwin from Tamil Nadu and Praseeth and Binu Baby from Kerala. According to a reliable source, the members expressed satisfaction over the functioning of the reservoir. The sub-supervisory committee had last inspected the reservoir in January when the storage level was 119.40 feet. On Thursday, the water level stood at 112.25 ft, officials said, adding that a report would be sent to the committee shortly. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, media persons from Tamil Nadu were not permitted to cover the inspection. Officials said there were a number of formalities in issuance of e-pass for travel between the two States. Hence, they turned down the requests from the media persons here.
26 June 2020||Gudalur,TAMIL NADU||Panel inspects Mullaperiyar dam||A five-member sub-supervisory committee comprising of officials from Tamil Nadu and Kerala jointly inspected the Mullaperiyar reservoir in Idukki district on Thursday. Storage level The Supreme Court set up the supervisory committee after the issue of storage level became a bone of contention between the two States. Six years back, the apex court directed that the storage level of the dam could be raised to 142 feet and instructed the committee to inspect the reservoir at periodic intervals. To assist the committee, a sub-supervisory committee was formed comprising of officials from both States. With the southwest monsoon setting in Kerala about three weeks ago, the officials arrived here and inspected the main dam, baby dam, gallery area, seepage and shutter operations. The officials led by M.S. Saravanakumar from Central Water Commission, led the team with Kumar and Sam Irwin from Tamil Nadu and Praseeth and Binu Baby from Kerala. According to a reliable source, the committee members expressed satisfaction over the functioning of the reservoir. The sub-supervisory committee had last inspected the reservoir in January when the storage level was 119.40 feet. On Thursday, the water level stood at 112.25 ft, officials said, adding that a report would be sent to the committee shortly. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, mediapersons from Tamil Nadu were not permitted to cover the inspection.
26 June 2020||GUWAHATI,TAMIL NADU||Arunachal landslip, flood kill 2; Assam death toll rises to 36||A landslip, induced by heavy rainfall, killed a minor in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar on Thursday while a woman drowned in twin city Naharlagun. Another person drowned in Assam’s Dhemaji district as the death toll in floods and landslips since mid-May rose to 36. Officials in Itanagar said the body of the minor was retrieved from under the debris at the city’s Doni Colony after 8 a.m on Thursday. Around the same time, a woman’s body was retrieved from the Lagun River near Naharlagun. “Heavy rainfall for three days has added to our problem of combating COVID-19,” Chief Minister Pema Khandu said, announcing an immediate release of Rs. 4 lakh to the next of kin of each victim. On May 23, a 27-year-old woman and her two children were buried alive in a landslip at Arzoo village in Dibang Valley district. The flood situation in Assam worsened, with the number of affected people jumping from 37,675 to 1,89,314 across nine districts in less than 24 hours. The number of affected districts on Wednesday was five. “A person drowned in Dhemaji’s Sisiborgaon area today. So far, 15 people have died by drowning in two waves of floods while landslips claimed 21 others’ lives,” a spokesperson of Assam State Disaster Management Authority said. Of the displaced people, 11,468 have moved into relief camps across four districts, most of them in Tinsukia, which overnight became the third most affected district after Dhemaji and Majuli. The other affected districts are Biswanath, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Lakhimpur, Jorhat and Sivasagar. Floodwaters inundated the Baghjan site in Tinsukia district where a natural gas wells caught fire almost a fortnight after a blowout on May 27, hampering Oil India Limited’s capping operations. A concrete bridge on the road to the site was also damaged, preventing movement of men and material. “Clearing of debris, crucial for the operation, has also been hit due to the flooding of the site,” an OIL spokesperson said. In the adjoining Dibrugarh district, heavy rainfall resulted in water-logging in several areas of the district headquarters Dibrugarh. The worst affected was the All India Radio station, where a short-circuit due to flooding led to the suspension of all broadcast services from the studios. “We are broadcasting from an emergency transmitter at Lepetkata, 18 km away. The entire complex is inundated because of a faulty drainage system,” said AIR programme executive Lohit Deka.
26 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Seven employees of food testing laboratory in Hosur test positive||A food testing laboratory in Hosur -- Nawal Analytical Laboratory -- has emerged as a micro cluster with seven COVID-19 positive cases, out of the 14 new cases reported in Krishnagiri district on Thursday. Except one, all the others were reported from Hosur. The infections at the food testing laboratory were spread by a visitor from Tuticorin, sources said. Following the test on one of the technicians, other contacts in the laboratory were also tested, and all of them tested positive. The laboratory has been sealed. Earlier, two cases were reported in Micro Lab, a pharmaceutical company in Hosur that produces hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol. One of the employees took ill and exhibited symptoms of COVID-19 while on a visit to Bengaluru. After he tested positive at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, his primary contacts at the pharmaceutical unit in Hosur were tested and two of them reported positive. Three blocks of the company involved in quality control were sealed. In Hosur, the bulk of the new cases were reported from Anna Nagar, Muneeswaran Nagar, KCC Nagar, Lakshmi Devi Nagar, NTR Nagar, while Samalpatty in Uthangarai reported one case. Among the infected was a five-year-old girl. The infected persons had a travel history traced to Dharmapuri, Andhra Pradesh, Chennai, Vellore.
26 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Going for swab test? you might share space with positive patients||How safe are those going to take swab test for novel coronavirus infection at the COVID-19 wing of Government Rajaji Hospital? It looks, the chances of a “doubtful” patient contracting the virus is high. The State Health Department is encouraging people with symptoms like fever, cold, cough and breathing problem to take swab test at the earliest to confirm whether or not they were infected with the deadly virus. But, at the COVID-19 wing of the GRH, patients who go for testing could get infected as they need to mingle with already tested and confirmed positive patients who come there seeking admission. “When I was taken to the GRH in an ambulance after having tested positive, I was shocked to see people coming for taking swab test standing with me in the same queue,” a railway employee said. There is only one person for making registration of the patients coming for swab test. “It is the same place, where we (positive patients) also go to get admission before the ward is allotted,” he said. The queue is so long that even the “suspects” need to spend considerable time mingling with positive cases. Another railway man, who had gone to the special ward for giving samples for test on Tuesday, said that he too waited for long in the queue. However, he had to return home as his fever had subsided by then and he did not have any referral letter from the Railway Hospital. Both the railway men say there should be a separate queue for positive patients seeking admission. “The entrance should be exclusive for the positive patients so that they do not come in contact with those coming for swab test,” he said. Besides, there was no semblance of social distancing in the queue. People should be properly guided at the entrance and made to stand in the right queue. The number of counters for registration should be increased so that the waiting time is reduced. Madurai Medical College Dean J. Sangumani said even if people were made to stand in separate queue, they mingle and stand in a single file. He said efforts would be made to ensure that people do not mingle at the queue.  At COVID-19 wing  Same queue for swab test and admission registration  No semblance of social distancing Queue is long as only one staff is present
26 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mobile clinics to be stationed in densely-populated areas||As a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, 42 mobile fever clinics were flagged off by Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju here on Thursday. Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan said that the main objective of stationing the fever clinics was to identify people with symptoms like fever, cold or cough and within 24 hours isolate them and evaluate them for treatment. “The whole idea is to pick up fever cases early to avoid the spread of COVID-19,” he said. These mobile clinics were in addition to the 31 fever clinics set up at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in the city. A corporation health official said that a team of workers would undertake door-to-door surveillance to identify fever cases and those with fever will be taken to the fever clinic. “Based on the severity of symptoms, people will be sent for treatment to COVID-19 care centres, health centres or hospitals,” the official said. Each mobile clinic would have a doctor, nurse and disinfectant teams, said Collector T.G. Vinay. “Based on a schedule, the mobile clinics will be deployed in densely-populated areas, COVID-19 clusters and they will be additional to the fever clinics at Urban Primary Health Centres,” he said. A source from Government Rajaji Hospital said that a large number of COVID-19 positive patients included people who had influenza-like-illness (ILI ). “Hence, detecting fever through the camps during the intensified lockdown period will be helpful to curb the spread of cases,” he said.
26 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man pulls out gun during scuffle||A 74-year-old man, D. Jacob, was accused of brandishing a double-barrel gun during a scuffle between people belonging to two churches, over a land dispute at Kalligudi on Wednesday evening. Police said that the two churches at S.P. Natham had a dispute over a land. When one P. Gabriel and his friends were playing cricket, the ball hit a bulb of one of the churches. This led to a scuffle between two groups belonging to the churches. Meanwhile, Jacob is said to have brandished a double-barrel muzzle-loading gun at them. Tirumangalam Inspector Parameswari said it was rusted gun without any rounds. The man had inherited it from his grandfather. It was not in working condition. Jacob had a rifle licence but had not renewed it after December 2019. The police have booked six persons and have arrested one P. Ebenazar. Three persons from each side were injured and admitted to a government hospital.
26 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC retirees seek early payment of dues||Tamil Nadu Government Transport Corporation Staff Federation has submitted petitions to the Transport Department seeking early payment of their retirement dues. The federation joint secretary S. Sampath, who is among those affected, said about 6,200 retirees were affected across the State as dues of crores of rupees were yet to be released. The retired staff were eligible for gratuity, provident fund, commutation and balance leave salary. “Three years ago, the Madras High Court observed that the corporation must clear its dues immediately. But no action has been taken,” he said. Retired employees were going through hard times due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “In case anything happens to us, we do not have any retirement allowance for emergencies. It is about time that we received our dues,” he said.
26 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trade body condemns police brutality||The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) has strongly condemned the police brutality that led to the alleged custodial death of traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. The trade body said all shops affiliated to TNCCI will down shutters on Friday in protest against the incident. In a press release, TNCCI president N. Jagadeesansaid police thrashed the father and son under the pretext of inquiry over alleged violation of lockdown norms. “This is an inhumane act and has caused fear and anguish among the public.” The TNCCI members stood in solidarity with the family members of the victims. Stating that the policemen involved in the case must be booked for murder, Mr. Jagadeesan demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident. “The government must take action against the policemen involved in the case to instil confidence among the public,” he added.
26 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MLA seeks advance bail||Apprehending arrest, Madurai East MLA P. Moorthy has filed a petition seeking anticipatory bail before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. A BJP functionary, S. Shankarapandi, lodged a complaint against the MLA that he was threatened. It was said that the BJP functionary had criticised the DMK MLA in a series of posts on social media. Under these circumstances, MLA Moorthy happened to be distributing COVID-19 relief materials to people in Oomachikulam, where Shankarapandi resides. It was said that the duo and the supporters of the MLA entered into a verbal duel. Following the altercation, Shankarapandi lodged a complaint with the police.
26 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC disposes of advocate’s plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday disposed of a public interest litigation petition filed by an advocate from Madurai, who said the family members of COVID-19 positive patients who had not tested positive should not be sent for quarantine at COVID Care Centre in Thoppur, Madurai. The petitioner, M. Farjana Ghoushia Dawood, said as per ICMR guidelines, if a person tested positive, the family members in regular touch with that person would also be subjected to swab tests, but only after five to 10 days. She said in Virudhunagar district, when a person tested positive the family members were immediately referred to the Thoppur centre. This could increase the spread of the virus to those who were not affected. She said one of her seniors had tested positive and the family members were ordered quarantine in the care centre. However, her apprehension was cleared after the Virudhunagar Collector informed a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi that only people without sufficient facilities at their home were taken to quarantine facilities. If they tested negative, they were advised home-quarantine, the Collector said.
26 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sub-judge to monitor kudimaramath work: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Sub-Judge, Aranthangi, to monitor the kudimaramath work at Edaiyathimangalam tank in Pudukottai district through a para-legal volunteer. A Division Bench of Justices P. N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed that it must be ensured that the work was properly executed. The inspection reports shall be submitted to the Sub-Judge and if any irregularity was found in the execution, then the matter shall be brought to the notice of the District Collector immediately for appropriate action, the court said. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petition filed pertaining to the execution of the kudimaramath work in the tank. The court vacated the stay granted earlier in the case and dismissed the petitions.
26 June 2020||MADURAI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||A spike of 204 takes Madurai’s tally to 1,279; district has 820 active cases||Madurai recorded its highest single day jump yet in its tally of COVID-19 positive cases with 204 cases – 203 of them indigenous – on Thursday. The total count stands at 1,279. According to State medical bulletin, four deaths – including those of two patients from Virudhunagar – were recorded at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). One among the four, a 40-year-old woman from Madurai, had no co-morbidities. The district’s death toll stands at 11. Eighty-four fresh cases had influenza-like-illness symptoms, 71 were contacts of positive cases, 37 were frontline workers and one was an imported case, Collector T.G. Vinay said, adding three cases were notified to other districts. The district has 820 active cases. In Ramanathapuram 136 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 474. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said the officials had started taking more swab tests. Many of the patients had travel history or were in close contact with persons arriving from hotspots. The district administration was geared up with additional bed strength, he added. Theni too witnessed a new high of 72 fresh cases. The district administration has identified a few locations to quarantine people coming from other places until their test results are received. Ten cases were recorded in Dindigul which took the district’s tally to 377. The fresh cases – persons who returned from Chennai, Madurai and Puducherry – were reported from Batlagundu, Kodaikanal, Chinnalapatti, Natham and Vadamadurai. Twenty persons were discharged from hospital. Sivaganga Sivaganga saw its tally go up by 25 to reach 135. Collector J. Jayakanthan said three persons were discharged on Thursday. Kanniyakumari recorded 53 positive cases – including 47 indigenous cases – which took the total count to 255 and the number of active cases to 136. This is the biggest single day increase in the district. Thoothukudi recorded 24 new cases – 23 of them indigenous – with which its tally rose to 756 and the active case count to 257. Tenkasi reported 12 cases to push its tally to 286. Tirunelveli had 11 cases which took its tally to 689. These two districts have 176 and 243 active cases respectively. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded 28 fresh cases and its tally is 283. The new cases are contacts for positive persons and those who had come from Chennai. The number of active cases in the district stands at 127. The number of deaths is three.
26 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Spell of rain gladdens paddy farmers||Farmers in Vedaranyam-Thalainayar belt who have undertaken direct sowing of paddy on the advice of the Agriculture Department heaved a sigh of relief over the current spell of moderate rainfall coinciding with the flow of water from Vennar river into its tributaries. Thalaigyayar recorded 24 mm rainfall over a 24-hour duration until 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, followed by 24 mm in Nagapattinam and 15.2 mm in Vedaranyam. The water released from Mettur dam has already reached Harichandra river, and is expected to flow into branch canals in the coming days. The spell of rainfall will help in better growth of paddy saplings in at least 100 hectares in Thalaignayar taluk. Moistness of the soil will enable quicker flow of water from the canals into the fields, an official of the Agriculture Department said. Paddy cultivation in an additional area of 27,500 acres is expected this year, over and above the usual extent of 1,02,500 acres, according to official sources. The Department has already conveyed to farmers about availability of certified seeds and fertilisers. On Wednesday, farmers in 331 revenue villages were advised to apply for crop insurance under the Revamped Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). Under the revamped crop insurance scheme, farmers would be able to manage risk in agriculture production in a better way and will succeed in stabilising the farm income. Paddy farmers are required to apply for crop insurance before July 31, and maize growers by July 15, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said in a press release. For paddy, the premium per acre is Rs. 603 and for maize, it is Rs. 480. Farmers who do not avail the loans can register for crop insurance in recognised seva kendras or nationalised banks or primary agricultural cooperative societies.
26 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Additional PDS rice||The district administration has arranged for supply of additional five kg rice for PHH (Priority Households) and Antyodaya ration card holders under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and for NPHH (Non-Priority Household) ration card holders under the State Government’s initiative, during the COVID-19 lockdown period. The entitlement for the ration card holders will be put up on the notice boards in the respective PDS (Public Distribution System) outlets, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said in a press release.
26 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Accused in murder case arrested after 18 years||A murder case accused, who went absconding after the incident in 2002, was arrested by the Namakkal district police on Thursday. The accused has been arrested 18 years after the murder. According to the police, the accused Senthil Kumar, his sister Shanthi and their grandmother Marayi murdered Subramani, Shanthi’s husband in a fit of rage following a family quarrel at Sendamangalam in 2002. Following the incident, Senthil Kumar and his family escaped from the place and police arrested Shanthi and Marayi. In 2004, a separate case was registered in which Shanthi and Marayi were named accused and a Namakkal court in 2005 sentenced the duo to life imprisonment. The convicts were lodged in Vellore prison and due to health issues Shanthi died in 2007 at Vellore government hospital and Marayi died in 2009 following age-related issues. Police, who were on the lookout for the accused came to know that Senthil Kumar has visited his aunt here recently. A special team was formed under Nallipalayam Special Sub-Inspector Sundaram and the team arrested Senthil Kumar from Mappilaikoundanputhur in Pollachi on Thursday where he lived with his family. The accused was reportedly working as a truck driver. The accused has been remanded to Thiruchengode sub-jail.
26 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry to scale up testing||Puducherry will soon scale up COVID-19 tests to 1,000 per day in a bid to contain the growing number of novel coronavirus cases in the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Thursday The Chief Minister said taking into account the spike in number of cases, the government had decided to test more number of people. The government had scaled up testing from 220 per day to 448 persons per day now. In the coming days, the government planned to test at least 1,000 people per day.
26 June 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLAs stage protest in front of Raj Nivas||AIADMK legislators led by party leader in the Assembly A. Anbalagan on Thursday staged a protest in front of the Raj Nivas to demand disbursement of ban period assistance to all eligible fishermen. The legislators squatted on the road raising slogans. They dispersed after Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi agreed to meet party legislators to discuss the issue.
26 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for killing wife||The Mahila Court here on Thursday convicted and sentenced a 60-year-old man to undergo life imprisonment for murdering his first wife at Goundampatti village near Viralimalai in December 2016. Pronouncing the judgement through video conference, the Court imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on Karuppaiah who was convicted and sentenced in the murder case. The murder was committed by Karuppaiah when his first wife Nagammal (50) was on her way to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Prosecution sources said Karuppaiah beheaded his wife due to a dispute over sharing property. Karuppaiah's first wife Nagammal had three sons and a daughter, while his second wife and the sister of Nagammal had a son. The Viralaimalai police had registered a murder case and arrested Karuppaiah on the charge of committing the crime. Sources said Karuppaiah was in the district jail at Pudukottai when the judgement was delivered through video conference.
26 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||29 naval personnel at INS Parundu test positive||As many as 29 personnel attached to INS Parundu, the Naval Air Station in Mandapam, have tested positive for COVID-19, District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said on Thursday. Quarantine on arrival Mr. Rao said 102 personnel from different States had returned to work at INS Parundu during the week. On arrival, they were all quarantined and subjected to mandatory COVID-19 testing. The results of 29 persons returned positive on Thursday. The persons who had tested positive have been admitted to COVID-19 Care Centre in Mandapam, while the 73 other personnel will continue to remain under quarantine. A team of doctors from the Department of Health and Family Welfare is monitoring their health, the Collector said.
26 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||89 fresh cases in Salem||As many as 89 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. According to health officials, 48 cases have been reported from different parts of Salem and nine patients have travelled to Salem from Chennai, Villupuram, Chengalpettu and Thiruvanamalai districts. About 32 cases have been reported among patients who travelled to Salem from other states like Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chatisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and New Delhi. Officials said, nine patients, who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Thursday.  85,000 people under surveillance As many as 46 containment zones had been set up and 85,000 people undergoing treatment for diabetes, kidney ailments and other lifestyle diseases were being monitored in the district as part of the preventive measures against COVID-19 here, health officials said. Till Wednesday, 46 containment zones had been set up within the district at places where positive cases had been reported and the residents were being regularly monitored by the health officials. Besides, across the district, persons undergoing treatment for diabetes, kidney ailments and other lifestyle diseases were also being monitored on a regular basis, the officias said. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, said, “15 teams of Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram have been deployed and they will cover each zone under the Salem Corporation and other areas in the district later. They will check persons for any symptoms of COVID-19 or other discomforts and their swab samples are collected for tests.” Dr. Nirmalson added that as many as 85,000 persons who were taking medicines for diabetes, kidney ailments and other lifestyle diseases had been provided with medicines for a month. Health staff would call and check upon them at least once a week and they were immediately referred to the hospital if they complained of any symptoms or discomfort. He said that chances of fatality were high among persons, who skipped medicines for their co-morbid conditions, if they contracted COVID-19. Dr. Nirmalson advised the public to follow all health protocols, wear mask and maintain physical distancing to avoid spread of the disease. Violation The Salem City Police on Wednesday registered 43 cases for violating prohibitory orders and detained 12 vehicles.
26 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One held in murder case||The Salem district police on Thursday arrested a man involved in the death of a farmer following a gadget explosion, a few days ago. According to the police, the accused was identified as Sengotan (64), brother of deceased farmer Marimuthu. He died on June 17 after he tried to switch on an abandoned device found in his farmland. Marimuthu succumbed to the injuries sustained in the explosion while three of his relatives are undergoing treatment. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger formed three special teams to investigate the case. Police found that Marimuthu’s brother Sengotan was involved in the murder. Dr. Ganiger said, “Marimuthu along with other siblings and two others bought land for road to their farms and Sengotan refused to join them. Later, Sengotan agreed to pay the price, however, Marimuthu refused it.” She added that Sengotan set up an explosive device using gelatin sticks and detonators.
26 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Move to bring cooperative banks under RBI evokes mixed response||The Union Cabinet’s approval to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India has evoked mixed response from the Cauvery delta farmers. While some of them appreciated the move saying that it would bring in financial discipline among the cooperative banks, others claimed that the move would shatter the very base of the cooperative network whose objective was to extend financial assistance to small and marginal farmers with minimum formalities and requirements. As far as Tamil Nadu was concerned the primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) do not have the nomenclature ‘urban’ in their name but their activities are guided by the Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-operative Bank Limited. Hence, farmers feel that Union Cabinet’s nod for the new Ordinance has set the stage to bring the functioning of the primary agricultural cooperative societies under the purview of the RBI since the TNSC Bank extends credit facilities to the societies through the District Central Co-operative Banks and gets refinance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development for extending credit to the farmers for short-term agricultural operations. Stating that it would be beneficial for the farming community if bringing in financial discipline in the cooperative banking/credit facility network was the prime objective of the new Ordinance, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, S. Ranganathan and general secretary, Federation of Farmers Association of Delta Districts, Arupathi P. Kalyanam said. But they added that the move should be implemented in such a manner that the interests of small and marginal farmers were not affected. Pointing out that nearly one-third of the agricultural lands in delta districts stand in the name of Hindu religious institutions, they claimed that imposing the same rules being followed in scheduled commercial banks for availing loans in cooperative societies would put the tenant farmers in a disadvantageous position. Expressing similar view, the president, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, G. Sethuraman, wanted the Ordinance to have some special provisions to safeguard the avenues available for small and marginal farmers to avail credit facilities with minimum formalities. More transparency Hailing the move, the secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Sundara Vimalanathan, expressed hope that it would result in more transparency in the credit operations of the primary agricultural cooperative societies since the co-operative credit institutions enjoy immunity from the Right to Information Act. Further, it would also weed out “political influence” in the functioning of the PACBs and societies, he felt. Terming the move as a step aimed to reduce the importance of the State government in the co-operative banking sector, the president, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Association Coordination Committee, P. R.Pandian, and the president, Uzhavar Aran, Arun Masilamani, urged the Tamil Nadu government to oppose the Ordinance tooth and nail to protect the interests of small and marginal farmers.
26 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Marriage hall sealed||A marriage hall in Kumbakonam has been sealed for allowing more than the permitted number of persons for a marriage. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao said that the hall management which had allowed their premises to be used for the marriage by the families of the bride and bridegroom hailing from Kumbakonam had failed to ensure the ceiling of the number of persons allowed to participate in such functions. Besides, six persons from Chennai who had entered the district without permission had taken part in the function on June 24. Among the six persons, one had tested positive for novel coronavirus. A case has been registered against the six persons, he said.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi - Pudukottai section will soon get electrified||Overhead electrification works on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai broad gauge section is expected to commence early next month. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) has been entrusted with the task of executing the electrification project on the nearly 60-kilometre single line stretch. The design for the electrification project has been prepared and sent for approval. Once the approval comes through, the foundation works for the electrification project would commence. A senior railway official said the foundation works for the project was expected to commence early next month. The foundation works would consume a lot of time due to different soil conditions along the stretch and being more laborious. The Tiruchi - Pudukottai electrification work is part of the Tiruchi - Pudukottai - Karaikudi - Sivaganga-Manamadurai- Virudhunagar BG section overhead electrification project. The official said Larsen & Toubro Limited has been awarded the electrification work with the project from Tiruchi - Pudukottai expected to be completed early next year. Much would also depend on the availability of material required for the project during the current lockdown period, the official further said.  Karaikal Port The official said the CORE has almost completed the overhead electrification work on the Karaikal Port side connecting it with Nagore. The electrical line was expected to be commissioned by this month-end. Post commissioning, all freight trains leaving Karaikal Port to different destinations and those arriving there would be hauled by electric locomotive. Presently, freight trains from and to Karaikal Port, falling under the Tiruchi Railway Division's limits, were being hauled by diesel locomotive. The CORE had already electrified the entire broad gauge stretch from Tiruchi to Karaikal via Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagore and Nagapattinam. The official further said the ongoing electrification work on the Cuddalore - Vriddhachalam broad gauge line, also falling under Tiruchi Railway Division, was expected to be completed by December this year. The next portion from Vriddhachalam to Salem would be completed next financial year.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||86 more test positive in central region||Eighty-six patients in the central region tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Of them, 27 hailed from Tiruchi while 22 tested positive in Thanjavur, 10 in Ariyalur and Nagapattinam districts, eight in Perambalur, five in Tiruvarur, three in Karur and one in Pudukottai district. In Tiruchi, family members and immediate contacts of those who had already tested positive for the virus also tested positive. “These cases are mostly from within containment zones. There is a clear pattern of the virus spreading within these zones,” a senior health official said. The patients hailed from Periyar Nagar, K. K. Nagar, Karumandapam, Samayapuram, Vayalur Road, Kumaran Nagar, Kattur, Police Quarters in K. K. Nagar, Manapparai, Sengulam Colony, Viralimalai, Navalpattu. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where they are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, as many as 46 patients were shifted to the new COVID Care Centre set up at the Khajamalai campus of the Bharathidasan University on Thursday. “Including the 28 patients who were shifted on Wednesday, a total of 74 asymptomatic patients are being monitored at the facility. The district administration will foot the bill for their food and other amenities,” official sources said. At the MGMGH, 42 patients including 15 from Tiruchi, six from Ariyalur, four from Chennai, three from Thanjavur, five from Tirunelveli, two each from Virudhunagar and Tenkasi and one each from Kallakurichi, Karaikal, Namakkal, Nagapattinam and Salem recovered from the viral infection and were sent to their homet owns on ‘108’ ambulances. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam, of the 10 patients who tested positive, one had returned from Andhra Pradesh, three from Chennai, one each from Chengalpattu and Kanchipuram. One patient also returned from Rajasthan, while two international travellers, one each from Singapore and from Dubai also tested positive. Thanjavur Twenty-two patients, including a person who arrived from a northern district to Thanjavur on a short visit, tested positive in Thanjavur and in Tiruvarur five new cases were added. While 153 persons out of 357 who had tested positive for the coronavirus in Thanjavur district since the outbreak of the disease have been discharged after treatment, 121 out of 277 persons have been discharged from hospitals after treatment to COVID-19 infection in Tiruvarur district. The number of COVID-19 positive cases being treated at the hospitals in Thanjavur district stood at 203 while 156 are undergoing treatment for the infection in Tiruvarur district. Ariyalur Ten patients, most of who returned from Chennai tested positive for COVID-19 at Ariyalur. Including these patients, the total number of positive cases in the district is 450. However, 392 patients have recovered from the infection and have returned home. Of the active cases, 41 are admitted to the Ariyalur Government Medical College Hospital, 12 are admitted to the Tiruchi GH, three have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and one patient is in home quarantine in Jayankondam. Meanwhile, authorities have lifted a total of 212 new samples from people showing symptoms of COVID-19 and from family members of those who tested positive. Perambalur In Perambalur, eight people, seven of whom returning from Chennai, tested positive in the district. The eight patient was a primary contact of a patient who also tested positive for COVID-19 earlier. Except for the 50-year-old woman who has been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH, the other seven patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Karur In Karur, three patients including a 50-year-old woman who returned to the district from another district tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, five patients, including three men and two women who were undergoing treatment at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital were discharged after they recovered from the infection.  Pudukottai The sole patient who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Pudukottai is a 24-year-old woman from Vaithoor. She has been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital where she is undergoing treatment. One patient from the hospital was also discharged on Thursday.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi identifies facility for Chennai campus||Keen on fostering career progression of management professionals, particularly in auto and IT sectors, in a stronger way through its MBA programme for working executives in its Chennai campus, the Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi (IIM-T) has made progress in its efforts to establish its own facility at a suitable location. “We have identified a location near the Chennai International Airport. The location will be well-suited for auto and IT sector professionals,” Bhimaraya Metri, Director, IIM-T, said. The IIM-Tiruchi will be in a position to start more programmes at the Chennai campus after moving to its own facility, Prof. Metri said. With eight programme goals of management competency, critical thinking, strategic thinking, leadership skills, ethical reasoning, communication skills, collaborative skills and entrepreneurial spirit, the MBA degree for working executives is designed for 24 months, with a provision to complete it in 21 months. Classes are held every Friday evening, Saturday afternoon and evening, and Sunday morning. The programme bridges the “learning-doing gap” through a capstone industry project. The present facility at Ekkattuthangal is a 14,000 sq ft Wi-fi enabled campus encompassing four state-of-art classrooms equipped with air-conditioning and a well-stocked Learning Resource Centre and Computer Centre. The LRC hosts a vast collection of books, research journals, magazines and newspapers in the field of management and social sciences, from India and across the world. It provides access to leading electronic repositories of research journals, books, a database on industries and companies, and leading statistical software packages. Having completed the process of admission for its new MBA-HR programme at the main campus with an intake of 30 students, IIM-Tiruchi will, in all likelihood, be starting off the academic session online, in view of the emerging indications that the COVID-19 lockdown could prolong further. With the new MBA programme, the student strength has gone up to 260. Additional faculty were appointed last December. Online programmes are also on the anvil, Prof. Metri said.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It was a long walk for bus commuters||With inter-district bus services being banned from Thursday as part of the tightened measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, a number of mofussil buses, especially private ones, were largely curtailed. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, which had been operating 50% of its services since the relaxation of the lockdown norms, operated services up to the district borders on various directions. A TNSTC official said occupancy was poor and they were operating services based on demand. Buses were operated up to Thuvarankurichi on Madurai route; Mathur on Pudukottai highway; Meikkalnayakanpatti on Salem route; Pettavaithalai on Karur Highway; Ponnambalapatti on Dindigul/Palani route; and Devarayaneri on Thanjavur highway. At many of these places, passengers were seen walking across the district borders to board connecting services on the other side. Many had to carry heavy baggage and families with children found the trek rather arduous. Private bus operators conceded that only about 10% of the buses were operating on mofussil routes. “Except town buses, most private mofussil buses were off the roads,” a bus operator said. “What is the point in operating buses up to the borders when the purpose was to restrict inter-district travel?” wondered the operator. Private buses in reasonably long distance routes within /the district such as Tiruchi-Thuraiyur; Tiruchi-Musiri, Tiruchi-Dalmiapuram and Tiruchi-Vaiyampatti were being operated. But private buses operating on Tiruchi-Thanjavur; Tiruchi-Pudukottai and Tiruchi-Perambalur remained suspended, he said.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Another round of applications for allotment of shops at Kallikudi market||Close on the heels of revoking the allotment of shops to traders at the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city, the District Market Committee functioning under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business has called for fresh applications from traders for allotment of 623 shops at the market. Recently, the committee had revoked allotment of 288 shops to traders at the market as the allotees had failed to function and renew the agreements. Some had also defaulted on payment of rent. The shops were allotted to the traders in 2018 for a period of 11 months and the agreements have not been renewed after that. The move also comes in the wake of the continued reluctance of the wholesale traders of the Gandhi Market who contend that it was located too far away from the city and the shops did not suit their requirements. The market, situated about 12 km away from the city off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, was opened in September 2017 but has been lying in disuse ever since. Earlier this year, the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business announced that 207 shops in the market would be allotted to farmers’ producers organisations and farmers groups. The Market Committee has already decided to allot about 104 shops to 52 farmer producers groups / farmers interest groups (formed under the collective farming scheme) and farmers’ producers companies as per a government order issued earlier this year. According to sources, the GO allowing allotment of shops to farmers groups had also made it clear that the allotment of shops at the market need not be restricted only to traders of the Gandhi Market. “Fresh applications have now been called from traders and any trader can apply for allotment of the shops,” an official said. The committee has now decided to allot shops only in pairs – shops on the ground floor and the one directly above them on the first floor together. So a trader who applies for a shop on the ground floor has to necessarily apply for the one directly above on the first floor too. No trader would be allotted shops only on the ground floor. Shops of different sizes 100 square feet, 150 square feet and 200 square feet would be on offer with monthly rentals ranging from Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 4,410. Applications would be issued at the market committee office on Madurai Road in the city on all working days from June 24 to July 10. The last date for submission of filled-in applications will be July 24. According to sources, a committee of officials was likely to be formed to scrutinise the applications and finalise the allotments after adopting due procedure. The market, established on 9.79 acres with 830 shops, was conceived when late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the Srirangam Assembly constituency, in the wake of persistent demand for shifting the wholesale section of Gandhi Market in the city to a more spacious location. It was built at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with financial assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. As the small size of the shops was cited as one of the shortcomings by the traders, the district administration modified the shops on the ground floor to make them bigger by removing walls in between. Subsequently, applications were called for allotment of shops and a committee was constituted to scrutinise over 1,600 applications received from Gandhi Market traders. After the process, 288 shops were allotted and the market was declared functional on July 1, 2018. However, hardly a handful of traders moved in and they too wound up operations after a few days.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Congested places are now emerging as new hot spots||Many narrow, small and congested lanes along the Big Bazaar Street and East Boulevard Road are emerging as hotspots of COVID-19 cases. In the initial stage of the spread of virus in April, cases were mainly reported in Bheema Nagar, Alwarthope, Woraiyur, Palakkarai, Thennur, Madurai Road and few streets in Thillai Nagar. With the intensive contact tracing mechanism and disinfectant measures, cases were effectively contained in most places. But, the analysis of cases reported in the recent past revealed that lanes and narrow streets along the Big Bazaar Street and East Boulevard Road have accounted for more than 50% of the cases. Out of four zones in the city, most of the cases were reported in Srirangam followed by K. Abishekapuram zone. They have accounted for 83 and 79 cases respectively as on Wednesday. The number was 64 and 60 in Golden Rock and Ariyamangalam respectively. Bunch of cases were reported on Big Kammala Street, Nadu Gujili Street, Boythoppu, Kallar Street, Chetti Street and Jaffer Shah Street. A group of 18 persons, who attended a betrothal ceremony held recently on a lane near Big Bazaar Street, tested positive for the virus after a bridegroom from Chennai was diagnosed for COVID-19. “Lanes and small streets along Big Bazaar Street appear to be vulnerable for the spread of the virus. We have stepped up surveillance in the areas,” says S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation. Most residential localities and commercial areas located on the eastern side of West Boulevard Road are thickly populated and congested in nature. Moreover, awareness on usage of mask was very poor among the residents of the areas, thereby causing room for the spread of virus, health officials of the Corporation said. N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist, said that several houses in urban slums around East Boulevard Road do not have individual household toilets. They share common toilets or sanitary complexes. Chances of spread of the virus were very high among people living in urban slums and congested areas. Hence, it was important for the Corporation to chalk out a special strategy to check the spread of virus in vulnerable areas, he said.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ailing fabrication units appeal to CM for relief||BHEL Small Scale Industries Association (BHELSIA) and Tamil Nadu Boilers Association have appealed to the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to rescue the hundreds of MSME units employing 40,000 persons in Tiruchi region from a state of sickness by prevailing upon the Central Government and Reserve Bank of India to undertake speedy and proper implementation of the relief measures announced for MSMEs to tide over the setback caused by COVID-19 lockdown. In a letter to the CM, BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar said the 450 MSME units with total installed capacity of seven lakh metric tonnes per annum that were dependent on BHEL Tiruchi for orders, had become sick. The condition of the MSMEs in Tiruchi, recognised as one of the best fabrication hubs of South Asia, had deteriorated further due to the pandemic. The survival and revival of MSMEs in Tiruchi hinges on the State Government's recommendation of BHELSIA’s proposal to the Finance Ministry and Reserve Bank of India for the formation of a Rehabilitation Bank / Cell which can be attached to a single bank, the letter said. Though the Centre has allotted Rs. 20000 crore as sub-debt for NPA units, the latest guidelines does not cover all the aspects. No legal action Since it will take a minimum of one year for the economy to recover, no legal action under SARFAESI (Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest) Act or any other Act should be initiated. Only then can the units continue operations and clear their liabilities, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. The State Government should take all necessary initiatives to bring business from Defence and Railways by forming a special committee and undertake regular review. To reduce the burden of MSME, all the penalty and interest levied for the delayed payments of GST, ESI, PF has to be waived and payment of pending amount must be permitted in 24 to 36 instalments, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said, calling upon the State Government to extend support by giving equity funds for the stressed and NPA Units to ensure the continued and increased employment for the people of Tamil Nadu.
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Video of ‘body being dumped’ goes viral||A video clip showing the body of a COVID-19 infected person, who died at the Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Irungalur on June 16, being dumped in a thicket in Kottamedu, near the hospital, has gone viral on social media. The hospital has, however, claimed that the video clip has been edited to bring disrepute to the institution. The district administration has ordered an inquiry into the matter. In the video clip, three men, one of whom is wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) seem to be taking a body out of the rear door of a van apparently belonging to the Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital. One man shouts, “I cannot walk down the slope,” to which the man behind the camera shouts “Leave it there itself.” The three men then go on to leave the body behind a bush and walk towards the van. The body in question belongs to a 74-year-old man hailing from Kallakurichi who was admitted to the SRM Medical College Hospital at around 6 a.m. on June 15 with symptoms of the viral infection. He had pre-existing health conditions such as hypertension and pulmonary edema. Due to these complications, the patient died at around 5 p.m. on June 15, hospital sources said. A COVID-19 test sample was taken and sent to the Tiruchi K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital and the body was kept in the hospital mortuary. After the test results that came on June 16, at 2.30 p.m. indicated that the man was COVID-19 positive, the body was handed over to relatives and the government authorities. “The body was taken as per protocol in a hospital ambulance to the burial ground, by government officials,” said N. Balasubramanian, Dean and Deputy Director, SRM Medical College Hospital. Dr. Balasubramanian said that the cropped video circulating on social media is false and a deliberate attempt to bring disrepute to the hospital. The burial ceremony took place near Irungalur as per government-stipulated norms by government officials. Throughout this process the deceased person was handled with due respect and was not dishonoured, Dr. Balasubramanian said. “This was completely video recorded and images were taken by government officials for documentation purposes. But some anti-social element has cropped the video with a malicious motive and circulated it on social media, as if the paramedical staff had violated the norms,” Dr. Balasubramanian said. He added that he would submit a complaint to the Commissioner of Police and a petition to the District Collector to investigate the matter. S. Sivarasu, District Collector, told The Hindu that the Joint Director of Health Services has been asked to conduct an inquiry into the matter. “We will find out what has happened soon,” he said. Police register case The Samayapuram Police has registered a case in connection with this. Police sources said a case has been registered for spreading wrong information and harming the reputation of the hospital through circulation of the video clip in Whatspp. The case has been booked under IPC sections 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) and 500 (defamation) read with section 45 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, based on a complaint from the hospital dean, Dr. Balasubramanian. The identity of the accused is yet to be established, sources added.  The body was taken as per protocol in a hospital ambulance to the burial ground by government officials N. Balasubramanian Dean and Deputy Director, SRM Medical College Hospital
26 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle checks intensified||Movement of public and private transport services were confined within the respective districts across the Central region on Thursday with the authorities making e-pass mandatory for inter-district travel following an instruction from the State government. Police personnel intensified vehicle checks at the borders of every district in the Central region to ensure that those without e-pass do not enter or exit the respective district. However, freight vehicles transporting essential commodities were allowed. Police and Revenue sources said only those in possession of e-pass were allowed to travel from one district to another. Free vehicular movement which was permitted within the zone until Wednesday was suspended after the State government made an announcement that e-pass was mandatory for inter-district travel in view of rise in COVID-19 cases. Surveillance was intensified at the border check-posts in the respective district where teams of police personnel were deployed to ensure that only those with e-pass were allowed to undertake inter-district travel. The district borders were sealed in Pudukottai and checking of vehicles intensified. In some check-posts like the one at Thirumandurai in neighbouring Perambalur, the police strength was augmented as it was situated on the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway, said a police officer. Vehicles entering or exiting the district without e-pass were not allowed to proceed further, said police sources. Barricades were erected at the check-post to strengthen checking. Manpower strength at the 30 check-posts in Thanjavur Range encompassing Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts were deployed in three shifts to ensure government’s directive on inter-district travel.
26 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another batch of expats arrive Tiruchi||A total number of 185 passengers arrived here from Muscat by a SalamAir flight on Thursday. This is the first ever service by SalamAir to Tiruchi. Airport sources said the flight landed at around 7.50 p.m. The passengers were screened by the state health department at the airport.
26 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Like God, the court will render justice, says victims’ kin||“The judiciary, which is the last hope for us like God, will certainly render justice to the gruesome killing of our father and our brother by the police at the earliest and, hence, we, with bleeding heart, accept their bodies to perform the last rites,” said J. Persis, daughter of trader P. Jayaraj of Sattankulam, while receiving the bodies on Thursday after the post-mortem. Before the post-mortem started at 8.20 p.m. on Wednesday, Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate I M.S. Bharathidasan, who is probing the death under judicial custody, asked the relatives of the deceased — trader P. Jayaraj of Sattankulam and his son J. Benicks, who died in judicial custody — to identify and take a look at the bodies for torture injuries, if any. “No one on earth should undergo such torture underwent by our father and our brother... The torture underwent by them in police custody at Sattankulam police station and even as they were taken to Kovilpatti sub-jail cannot be narrated in words... Their private parts, buttocks, back and thighs were full of blows of lathi marks... The police had plucked the hair on the chest of my brother... They have been tortured and murdered by the police,” she said. Since the family of Jayaraj and his relatives demanded registration of murder case against Inspector Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, they refused to accept the body after the post-mortem was over by 11.30 p.m. and left the spot. When they returned to the mortuary of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital after a lot of persuasion, the Judicial Magistrate, Mr. Bharathidasan, consoled them and instilled confidence in them that justice would prevail as the High Court was closely monitoring the case. “Though the murder of our father and our brother is unbearable and agonising for us, we receive their bodies as we firmly believe that the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, which is closely monitoring the progress of the judicial probe, will render justice to this gruesome killing orchestrated by the police,” said Ms. Persis, while receiving their body here at 4.30 p.m. on Thursday. A troubled Sattankulam received the bodies and residents paid their last respects in the dusk before the last rites.  No one on earth should undergo such torture underwent by our father and brother J. Persis Daughter of P. Jayaraj
26 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli receives Rs. 29-crore grant to install micro-irrigation systems||The district has received Rs. 29.43 crore as grant for encouraging the horticultural farmers to install micro-irrigation systems in their farms that ensure optimum use of water to nourish the crop while giving better yield. According to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, 3,595 hectares would be covered under the micro-irrigation systems during the current fiscal, for which Rs. 25.16 crore had been allocated. While small and marginal farmers would get cent per cent subsidy for installing in their ranches micro-irrigation systems approved by Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Authority (TANHODA), the grant would be 75% for others. The companies approved by TANHODA would install the approved micro irrigation equipment. “While small and marginal farmers can install these equipment on five acres of land, the ceiling for other farmers is 12.50 acres to nourish horticulture crops like mango, plantain, lemon, sapota, amla, vegetables and flowers,” Ms. Shilpa said. Apart from this, Rs. 4.27 crore has been allotted under the Water Management Mission to enable the beneficiary farmers for buying diesel or electric motors, sinking deep borewells, laying distribution pipes and constructing ground-level sumps. “While Rs. 15,000 will be given as subsidy for buying electric or diesel motors, the grant allowed for sinking deep borewell is Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 10,000 will be given for laying the distribution pipes. For the construction of ground-level sumps, maximum subsidy of Rs. 40,000 will be given,” she said. Aspiring farmers may apply with computer patta, ‘adangal’, ration card, photostat copy of Aadhaar card, soil and water testing reports and two passport size photos for getting the grant.  Reaping the benefits  3,595 hectares Small and marginal horticultural farmers 100% subsidy for TANHODA-approved system
26 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Iruttukadai halwa’ shop owner no more||The crowd eagerly waits in a long queue in front of a small shop near Swamy Nellaiyappar Temple in Tirunelveli as the sun sets in the west. Some of them wait in the line since 4.30 p.m. as the shop used to start transacting business only after 5.30 p.m. onwards. Despite the heat and dust from the busy road, the crowd patiently waits until the wooden planks covering the shop are removed one by one to start selling its famous product, ‘Iruttukadai Halwa’ with its owner Hari Singh sitting there with a smile. A 60 watt incandescent bulb powers the shop till 8 p.m. even after the arrival of powerful LED lights. Like his ‘Iruttukadai halwa,’ the smile of Hari Singh was so popular among the residents of Tirunelveli. The smile vanished on Thursday as Hari Singh, who tested positive for COVID-19, when he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital for urinary track infection, allegedly committed suicide. Though most of the outsiders visiting Tirunelveli used to buy 5 or 10 kg of halwa at Iruttukadai to present the sweet to others, Hari Singh used to greet the faces of those who buy just 50 grams or 100 grams of halwa and enjoy the sweet on the spot. When the zamindar of Chokkampatti near Kadayanallur went to north India in 1800 on a tour, he was received with a sweet called ‘halwa’ there. Enthralled by the sweet, the zamindar, while returning, took along with him a few families, which were experts in making halwa. Later, members of those north Indian families started selling the sweet to public by setting up their business ventures in Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Thirumangalam and other places. Hari Singh, one of the descendants of these migrated north Indian families, has created an empire through his product, ‘Iruttukadai Halwa’, for which he has fans across the globe. When he reopened the shop after two month-long lockdown, only less than 25 people were waiting in the queue to buy halwa. On seeing the small number of people, he said: “I’m happy with this comfortable number as they can guard themselves from the viral infection by maintaining physical distance.” Now, the viral infection has snatched away the smiling face of Hari Singh. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
26 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district ranks first in T.N. for usage of eSanjeevani||With 188 consultations as of Thursday, Tiruppur district topped the State in the number of consultations at eSanjeevaniOPD, the National Teleconsultation Service from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced this in a tweet, along with a video tutorial on how to access the website www.esanjeevaniopd.in. The initiative enables patients in the district to get consultation free of cost without visiting hospitals and clinics, thus help curb the spread of COVID-19. “Such online consultations largely reduces crowd in GH OPDs (Government Hospital Out Patient Departments). For villages, facilities are arranged at block-level to enable people connect to the headquarters hospital,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said in the tweet. Online consultations C. Jaya Priya, assistant programme manager at the Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) office, told The Hindu that 126 doctors were involved in providing online consultations to patients, comprising 124 doctors in 13 blocks of the district and two additional doctors at the DDHS office in Poluvapatti in Tiruppur Corporation limits. All the doctors are from the primary health centres (PHC) the district. “From logging in to consultation, it only takes around 15 minutes,” she said. Since its inception on May 15, Tiruppur district has seen 188 consultations. On the other hand, Chennai district has seen only 149 consultations till Thursday and ranks fourth in the State, Dr. Priya said. National Health Mission – Tamil Nadu launched this programme across the State in May. Apart from ensuring zero physical contact amid the COVID-19 scare, the teleconsultation service will also help patients get the right diagnosis and prescription from doctors, she noted. Video conferencing As the service involves video conferencing between the patient and the doctor, low speed internet can hamper the process, in which case the doctors will use the mobile number of the patients for consultation, Dr. Priya said. “The mobile application for eSanjeevaniOPD is under development,” she said.  The initiative enables patients in the district to get consultation free of cost without visiting hospitals and clinics
26 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Teacher’s group spruces up govt. schools during lockdown||In an attempt to attract students to government schools, a group of teachers has decorated seven such institutions in Tiruppur, Erode, and the Nilgiris districts free of cost by painting popular cartoon characters on the buildings. Named Pattampoochigal (butterflies), the teachers’ group decorated seven schools in the May-June period as the COVID-19 lockdown was relaxed in the three districts. “We have been painting government school buildings across the State for the last four years,” said A. Santhoshkumar, deputy coordinator of Pattampoochigal and a teacher at the Tiruppur Corporation primary school in Pandian Nagar. The seven schools that were decorated included four in Tiruppur district, two in Erode district and one in the Nilgiris district. Once the base coating is done, the group will paint various characters from popular animated shows and awareness slogans in a span of two days. “Before the lockdown, we used to finish the work during the weekends,” Mr. Santhoshkumar said. Besides the base coat of paint, which the school would provide, the group does not charge for decorations, which can cost around Rs. 80,000 per school, he said. With the group’s motto being ‘Let us protect government schools’, the initiative had received a positive response from parents and teachers alike, and will help increase the admission of students to government schools, Mr. Santhoshkumar said. “The strength of our school is now twice as high as it was before,” said Mhu. Karpagam, headmistress of the Panchayat Union primary school at Kavitha Lakshmi Nagar, Anupparpalayam, in the Tiruppur Corporation limits. “The group painted the school in 2018, when the student strength was around 120. Now, it is around 220,” she said. C. Kumutha, headmistress of the Panchayat Union elementary school at Kanjampalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits, said she had invited Pattampoochigal to decorate the school in February. The decorations were completed by May 15. “When students enter the classrooms, the place will look more attractive,” she said and expressed the hope that the spruced-up school will attract more students after it reopens.  Proponents of the initiative hope it will help increase the admission of students to government schools
26 June 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district ranks first in TN for usage of eSanjeevani||With 188 consultations as of Thursday, Tiruppur district topped the State in the number of consultations at eSanjeevaniOPD, the National Teleconsultation Service from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Free of cost District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced this in a tweet on Thursday, along with a video tutorial on how to access the website www.esanjeevaniopd.in. The initiative enables patients in the district to get consultation free of cost without visiting hospitals and clinics, thus help curb the spread of COVID-19. “Such online consultations largely reduces crowd in GH OPDs (Government Hospital Out Patient Departments). For villages, facilities are arranged at block-level to enable people connect to the Headquarters Hospital,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said in the tweet. C. Jaya Priya, Assistant Programme Manager at Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) office, told The Hindu that 126 doctors are involved in providing online consultations to patients, comprising 124 doctors in 13 blocks of the district and two additional doctors at the DDHS office at Poluvapatti in Tiruppur Corporation limits. All the doctors are from the primary health centres (PHC) the district. “From logging in to consultation, it only takes around 15 minutes,” she said. Since its inception on May 15, Tiruppur district has seen 188 consultations. On the other hand, Chennai district has seen only 149 consultations till Thursday and ranks fourth in the State, Dr. Priya said. National Health Mission – Tamil Nadu launched this programme across the State in May. Zero physical contact Apart from ensuring zero physical contact amid the COVID-19 scare, the teleconsultation service will also help patients get the right diagnosis and prescription from doctors, she noted. As the service involves video conferencing between the patient and the doctor, low speed internet can hamper the process, in which case the doctors will use the mobile number of the patients for consultation, Dr. Priya said. “The mobile application for eSanjeevaniOPD is under development,” she said.
26 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead on hospital premises||A body of a senior citizen was found on the premises of the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Hospital sources said that the man might have been one of the alms seekers. On information, police went to the hospital and transferred the body to the mortuary. The doctors found a partially-damaged Aadhaar card from the deceased shirt pocket which said that his age was 65 years and hail from Uttar Pradesh.
26 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Special assistance to persons with disabilities||A total of 29,873 persons with disabilities in Tiruvarur district will be receiving special COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,000 as announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswamy. Disclosing this to reporters here on Thursday, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said that the cash assistance to the persons with disabilities would be disbursed soon and added that 88% of family cardholders have received free ration for June.
26 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kolacombai police station shut||Kolacombai Police Station in the Nilgiris District has been closed, as some of the policemen at the station lived close to the residence of a man who tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Police and district administration officials said contact tracing was done after the resident of Thuthurmattam tested positive. Swab samples were taken from 21 personnel who lived near the man’s residence, and the station was shut. The personnel were put on institutional quarantine. “It is a precautionary measure. We expect the test results by Friday,” Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said. Officials dispelled rumours on mobile messaging applications of a cluster of infections among police personnel, stating that the quarantine was only a precautionary measure. They asked the public to refrain from spreading unverified information. Two new cases On Thursday, the district administration said two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris. A 35-year-old woman resident of Coonoor and a 34-year-old resident of Coimbatore tested positive while entering the Nilgiris. The Coonoor resident is a secondary contact of a person who visited the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for treatment and is said to have contracted the infection from there.
26 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Private hospitals in Sivakasi must notify local officials about patients with COVID-19 symptoms’||Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar has instructed private hospitals in the revenue division to report details of patients seeking treatment for fever, cold, cough and respiratory problems to the Department of Health. The instruction comes days after the death of two patients who were referred to Government Rajaji hospital in Madurai by different private hospitals without intimating local health officials. In both cases, one in Sattur and another in Sivakasi, the patients who were admitted for health complications were referred to the GRH by private hospitals. “The hospitals did not inform local health officials about them,” an official said. Subsequently, they died in GRH and their funeral took place without the knowledge of the local authorities. “Only after their funeral, we got intimation that they tested positive,” an official said. In both cases, the family members followed all religious rituals for the funeral unaware that the deceased had been infected. “Had we known about the infection, we would have taken all precautions to ensure social distancing so that local people are not infected,” the official added. Against this backdrop, the Sub-Collector has said details of patients who receive treatment for fever, cold, cough and respiratory problems in private hospitals should be intimated to the Sivakasi Block Medical Officer, Chief Medical Officer of Sivakasi Government Hospital and Deputy Director, Health Services, Sivakasi, by 8 p.m. daily. Similarly, if the patients are referred to other hospitals when their health conditions worsens, details of patients and the hospitals to which they are referred should also be intimated to the health officials immediately. Virudhunagar district has recorded four deaths due to COVID-19 so far. It has reported a total of 275 cases with 126 active cases.
26 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Minor fire at Virudhunagar Taluk office||A minor fire broke out at Virudhunagar Taluk office early on Thursday. The fire was noticed around 6 a.m. Fire and rescue services personnel, led by Virudhunagar Station Fire Officer C. Kumaresan, rushed to the spot and put out the flames in 40 minutes. Revenue sources said furniture, air-conditioner, computer and CCTV network equipment in Tahsildar chamber were destroyed in the fire.
26 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Police officer takes accident victims to GH||Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police P. Perumal on Thursday played the role of a good samaritan, rushing a family of three, who sustained injuries in a road accident, to hospital. Around noun, when the senior police official was proceeding towards Aruppukottai, he found a family from Kullursanthai injured after falling from a two-wheeler at Palavanatham. “Since the small girl had sustained head injuries and was profusely bleeding, I thought that waiting for an ambulance would pose risk to her life. Hence, I asked the father and daughter to board my vehicle and admitted them at the government hospital in Aruppukottai,” the officer said. Both were treated at the government hospital.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Do not post unverified news on social media: Monitoring Officer||“People must refrain from posting unverified news about COVID-19 on messaging platforms, which tend to create anxiety and fear among the public,” said Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan here on Thursday. He was addressing representatives of residents’ welfare associations and trade bodies via video conferencing to sensitise them on the safety precautions to be followed to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and Collector T.G. Vinay were present. Dr. Chandra Mohan said that residents’ welfare associations must not allow outsiders to enter their area as COVID-19 cases were spiking in the city. All public places in the locality must be disinfected using liquid disinfectant and bleaching powder. Lifts and stairs of the apartments must be disinfected twice a day. If four or five COVID-19 positive cases were reported from an apartment, then the entire area would be declared a containment zone and movement of people restricted for 14 days. He emphasised on wearing face masks, maintaining personal distancing and washing hands once in every two hours. All apartments must have sufficient wash basins with running water and soap so that residents can wash their hands and legs before and after entering the apartments. “If safety precautions are not followed, a COVID-19 positive person can spread the infection to around 400 people,” he added. Old people those with co-morbidities were vulnerable and hence they must take their medicines regularly. They must wear face masks even at home and maintain social distance, said the Monitoring Officer. Anyone suffering from fever can visit the nearest fever clinic or contact the civic body at 84284 25000. He said that business establishments must have sufficient hand washing facilities in front of their shops. They must ensure that their customers maintained social distancing even inside the shop, he added.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Athikadavu – Avinashi project to be completed by Dec. 2021: Chief Minister||Stating that the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme is the farmers’ dream project as their 50 years demand has been met, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday added that the scheme will be completed by the end of December, 2021. Addressing farmers at Thiruvachi village in Perundurai block after inspecting the construction of water pumping station works that is being executed as part of the project, he said that the State funded project will fill 32 Public Works Department tanks, 42 union panchayat tanks and 970 ponds and will irrigate 24,468 acre and also provide drinking water to the people in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts. “Work is being executed round-the-clock and will be completed by December, 2021”, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that Rs. 1,433 crore was allotted for the Kudimaramathu works and vandal sand (alluvium) were removed from 6,000 water bodies under the PWD control. “The sand acts as a natural fertilizer for the land while desilting helps in deepening the water body and to store more water”, he said. The Chief Minister said that farmers’ markets are to be established in 10 districts, each at Rs. 20 crore, and farmers can sell their produce directly there. The Chief Minister said that 24 lakh tonnes of paddy has been procured in the Cauvery delta region so far, while another 3.5 lakh tonnes of paddy is expected to be procured in the coming days. “This is the highest procurement in the region and it is possible only because of releasing water at the right time, supplying seeds, fertilizers and farm gadgets”, he said and added that Cauvery water had reached the tail-end for the current season.  Special Correspondent from Coimbatore adds:  Earlier, speaking to reporters in Coimbatore, the Chief Minster said the State government would implement the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme that included areas in Coimbatore district with funds from NABARD. The government would include Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Annur and other areas that were excluded in the first phase. It was preparing a detail project report to implement the scheme and it would take funds from NABARD. As for the first phase, the State government would complete the Rs. 1,652 crore project by December 2021. In response to a question on the implementation of the metro rail scheme in Coimbatore, Mr. Palaniswami replied that the government would implement it once the detailed project report was ready. For Coimbatore’s development, the government had launched several schemes including construction of flyovers to ease traffic congestion, he added.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Torture meted out to trader, son after hospital visit turned fatal’||Even as the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court is closely monitoring the judicial probe pertaining to the mysterious deaths of timber trader P. Jayaraj of Sattankulam and his son Benicks in judicial custody, it is learnt that the two were subjected to torture after they underwent mandatory medical examination at Sattankulam Government Hospital. When the police brought the two to Sattankulam GH at 9.30 a.m. on June 20 — after arresting them around 8.30 p.m. the previous night — the duo looked weary with swollen faces. They got down from the police vehicle and walked into the hospital without anyone’s help, eyewitnesses said. When they were screened by a doctor on duty, it was found that they had high blood pressure. A person working at Sattankulam GH said Benicks and Jayaraj had baton marks all over the body with blood clots, especially on the thighs, buttocks and the back, suggesting that they had been severely beaten up in police custody. “When the doctor asked about the injuries, Benicks, a kabaddi player, said they fell down while trying to escape from the police and consequently got injured,” the source said. “Even when the doctor repeated the same question after asking the policemen to wait in the waiting hall, Benicks gave the same reply, while Jayaraj was in tears,” according to the hospital source. When the duo were given medicines and asked to rest there for a while, their blood pressure subsided and they left the hospital with the police at 11.30 a.m. “They [Benicks and Jayaraj] were at the hospital for about two hours and were able to walk back to the police vehicle that apparently left for the jail. Before they were taken to the vehicle, the doctor told the police to check their blood pressure without fail before lodging them in prison,” said sources. Though they could have been lodged in the sub-jail in Srivaikundam or Thoothukudi, or in Palayamkottai Central Jail, all situated about 40 km from Sattankulam, the police took them to Kovilpatti sub-jail, situated about 100 km away. “Since Benicks and Jayaraj were relatively in good shape when they were taken to Sattankulam GH, something terrible happened to them when they were on their way to Kovilpatti sub-jail with police escort. It should be probed by a competent agency,” said a close relative of Benicks.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arrest only for heinous crime: DGP||The duo died a couple of days after they were arrested and remanded in judicial custody, triggering protests from local residents, traders, human rights activists and political parties, who alleged that the deaths were caused due to police excesses and demanded stringent action against the personnel responsible for the incident. Mr. Tripathy’s instructions were issued on June 20, 2020, as part of the Standard Operating Procedure for making arrests during the pandemic. He said a decision on arrest should be made by the Sub Divisional Officer, meaning the Deputy Superintendent of Police in districts and the Assistant Commissioners of Police in cities. The DGP said police personnel above the age of 50 should not be deployed for effecting arrests and remand extension and prisoner escort duties. While one person from each police station with full protective gear should be earmarked to record the arrests, those arrested should be asked to wear a mask and gloves. Presume positive “After apprehension, the accused shall be presumed COVID-19-positive unless proved otherwise, and sanitisation protocol for vehicles and men should be followed,” he said. Those arrested should be put in lock-up after ensuring physical distancing, he added. Mr. Tripathy also directed that accused persons taken into custody should be sent for medical examination. Besides routine checks, clinical examination and temperature checks should be conducted. "A thermal scanner may be used to check the body temperature of the accused. In case of the accused revealing any symptoms of the disease, a swab test may be taken and the accused shall be quarantined in an isolation ward till the test result is received,” he said.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC censure benefits hospital||Granting bail to a man from Pudukottai district accused of sharing obscene videos, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed him to remit Rs. 30,000 to the Dean of Government Medical College Hospital, Pudukottai, for the purpose of utilising the money to provide facilities for health workers. Justice RMT. Teekaa Raman directed the petitioner, Tamilselvan, to remit the money for the benefit of the health workers who were putting their lives at risk every day and playing a crucial role in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner was also directed to execute a bond for Rs. 10,000 to the satisfaction of Sessions Judge in Pudukottai. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Tamilselvan accused of sharing obscene videos from his mobile phone. Granting bail with conditions, the accused was asked to appear before the police daily for interrogation. Further, he was directed not to tamper with evidence or witness and not abscond during investigation or trial.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Non-medical coveralls can be exported, says official||The Central Government has prohibited export of only medical coveralls and non-medical coveralls used in industries and spas can be exported, according toVijay Kumar, Additional Director General of Foreign Trade. The Apparel Export Promotion Counil (AEPC) conducted a a webinar on Wednesday on export facilitation. According to a press release from the Council, Mr. Vijay Kumar told the participants that non-medical and non-surgical masks of almost all types of fabrics are allowed to be exported. The DGFT is holding discussions with the Ministries of Health and Textiles to make further changes in the export policy of masks and PPEs. It will be guided by the advice of both these ministries when the export policy is changed. A. Sakthivel, chairman of AEPC, urged the government to lift the export ban on N95 masks, PPE-coveralls, and other restricted PPE items as it is the need of the hour. A single mask manufacturing machine can manufacture one lakh pieces per day and there are more than 200 such machines. Therefore, N95 masks should be opened up for exports without any restrictions on quantities. The AEPC and Ministry of Textiles organised a panel discussion on export facilitation for PPE-Coverall .  Joint Secretary NiharRanjan Dash said the government will facilitate exports of PPEs and other medical textiles after ensuring that the needs of the country for these medical supplies are adequately met through domestic production. When exports are permitted, on its part, the Government will provide all support, including alignment of the domestic laboratories for International certification requirements, according to the press release.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held in murder case||The Salem City police on Thursday arrested a 37-year-old woman and her paramour for murdering and burying the body of a construction worker. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Settu (45), a construction worker near Shivadapuram here. Settu married Poonkudi (37) about 10 years ago and the couple have two children. However, she left her husband a few years ago and went to live with her Purushothaman. Recently, Poonkudi returned to live with Settu and this often led to quarrel between the couple. According to the police, Settu had gone missing from June 8 and Poonkudi toldher kids and relatives that he has gone away for work. Leaving the children alone, Poonkudi left the house on June 16. Based on the complaint of Settu’s brother, Sooramangalam police registered a case and were investigating. Police on Wednesday found that Settu was murdered and buried at the backyard of the house they were living. On Thursday, following orders from the thasildar, the body was exhumed and autopsy conducted. Police also arrested Poonkodi and Purushothaman from Old Sooramangalam.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Clear and present danger||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shimmering night||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 26     Persons tested +ve so far: 347 Domestic cases: 334 Imported cases: 13 Persons recovered: 175 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 170    Home quarantined: 2,279 Positive: 128 Discharged: 116 Active cases: 11 Death: 1 (Yet to be officially declared)
26 June 2020||Arehalli (Hassan district),KARNATAKA||Exam, with elephants in the vicinity||Many students reached the SSLC examination centre at Arehalli in Belur taluk on Thursday morning from nearby villages, passing through areas where wild elephants have been roaming for the last three months. A herd of nearly 15 elephants has been roaming around Arehalli since March. A tusker had walked into Arehalli village on the intervening night of June 18 and 19 and took a stroll on the road close to the Government Pre-University College grounds, where 275 students, from six different schools, attended the exam on Thursday. Madan M., a student at a school in Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, had taken the exam in Arehalli as he had come back to his native place Murahalli during the lockdown. His mother Roopa took him to the centre by her two-wheeler. “We did not encounter elephants on the way. However, there are many elephants in our area,” said Ms. Roopa. Nithin, a photographer at Arehalli, said he saw an elephant on the road connecting Narve and Arehalli on Wednesday evening. “They are freely moving around eating jackfruit. We don’t know what will be the situation once the elephants run out of food here,” he said. “Earlier, we used to encounter elephants once a year or so. We have never seen herds moving around for such a long time. But, for the last three months, they have been here. Fortunately, nobody has been attacked so far,” said Amit Shetty, former zilla panchayat member of Arehalli. Around 60 elephants split into three-four herds are moving around three taluks of Sakleshpur, Alur and Belur. The KSRTC has provided bus services to help students reach the exam centre without any difficulty. Many students reached the centre as early as 7.30 a.m., though the exam was scheduled to start at 10.30 a.m.
26 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pandemic scare does not deter students in Belagavi||With over 96 % of students appearing for SSLC examination that began on Thursday, it seemed the COVID-19 scare did not deter the spirit of young students of Belagavi district. Only 2,446 students of the 74,424 registered students remained absent for the examination on the first day. Officials say that this figure is in the range of average number of absentees in the recent years. A student from Kittur who tested positive for COVID-19 and two of his friends who are in quarantine will be allowed to appear for the supplementary examination next month but will be treated as fresh students, Deputy Director of Public Instruction D.B. Pundalik said. Some parents of students from villages in Maharashtra who had chosen to write the examination in Belagavi district came to drop their wards at the examination centres. They complained that the State government had forgotten its promise of running NWKRTC buses from border villages to the examination centres in Kagwad. Vithal Rukmappa, who came from a village across the border, said that he had got up at 5.30 a.m. and rode nearly 20 kilometres to drop his son at the Kagwad exam centre. He said that the Karnataka government had promised to run NWKRTC buses to Maharashtra villages to facilitate SSLC students, but no buses were operated. The examination was held in 271 examination centres in 18 taluks and Belagavi city. Those who appeared included 49 students from outside the State and 735 from outside the district. As many as 20 students from containment zones appeared for the examination in centres other than theirs. Staff at the exam centres recorded the temperature of each student and provided them with sanitiser. Students were allowed into the halls only after they wore masks. Only one student was allowed to sit on one bench in the hall. Education Department officials distributed 1.56 lakh masks, 955 thermal scanners and 1,136 litres of sanitiser among the examination centres.
26 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Girl taken ill in exam hall||Officials rushed a girl who fell sick in the SSLC examination hall to the taluk hospital in Gokak on Thursday. Saraswati (16) is recovering in hospital, though she was forced to skip her examination, officials said. The girl fell down in the hall at LET School, after she felt uneasy. Teachers suspected that she was suffering from an epileptic seizure. They called for an Arogya Kavacha ambulance and was rushed to hospital.  “She will be allowed to write the supplementary examination,” Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said.
26 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SSLC student found dead||A girl who was supposed to have appeared for her SSLC examination was found dead in her house at Wadagaon in Belagavi on Thursday. Sujata Dhage (16) ended her life reportedly out of fear of examination, her relatives told the police. She was studying in a private school in the city and was worried about her performance in the examination, a police officer said. A case has been registered in the Shahapur Police Station. Investigation is under way. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )
26 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Constable killed in road accident||A police constable was killed and another was injured in a road accident on the Pune- Bengaluru National Highway near Kakati village on Thursday. Halappa Chandaki (48) died on the spot when his motorcycle came under the wheels of a car. His pillion rider Rayappa Patil (49) has been admitted to hospital with injuries. The police have booked a case of rash and negligent driving against the car driver Shivaraj Patil. A case has been registered.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 98% students write SSLC examination despite pandemic||Despite the surge in number of COVID-19 cases in the State, 98.3% of the total 7.85 lakh SSLC students who registered for second language English and Kannada examinations, appeared for the papers on Friday. Last year, the attendance for the same papers was 98.7%, marginally higher than this year’s turnout. Students had to undergo thermal screening and a health check-up before entering the examination hall. In many schools, the staff had demarcated the distance between students and asked them to sanitise their hands. During the health screening, 201 students were found to have cold, cough, fever or other symptoms. These students were given N95 masks and made to sit in another classroom and write the exam. As many as 998 students came from containment zones and these students too had to write the examination in a separate room. Speaking at a press conference after the examination on Thursday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that 12,548 students out of the 12,644 who had changed their examination centres as they were in their native places appeared for the examination. As many as 1,438 students who were staying at residential facilities also appeared for the examination. The Minister also said that 13 students were unable to appear for the examination as they tested positive.  In some examination centres, however, there were complaints that the parents were not maintaining physical distance outside the examination centres. “We even got complaints that after the students finished the examination, they rushed outside and mingled with each other. We have told our staff to instruct them to go home immediately after the next examination,” said a senior official of the department. Meanwhile, students said that they found the paper to be easy. “I was not anxious as we got three additional months for preparation as our exams were scheduled in March. I was only concerned about maintaining distance between my classmates and once I sat in the exam hall, my fear disappeared,” said Suraj S., a class 10 student who took the test. Rajashekar S., a parent who was seen outside his daughter’s examination hall in Basaveshwarnagar, said: “I came to drop my daughter as I did not want her to use public transport. I was very reluctant about sending her for the exam, but now that it has begun, we hope it will be a smooth affair.” Reason for absence Students who were absent for the SSLC examination should provide reasons as to why they could not appear. The Primary and Secondary Education Minister said that the reasons would be verified by the officers of the department. “If their reasons are genuine, we will allow them to appear for the supplementary examination as fresh candidates,” he said.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC wants expert agency to examine translocation of trees for metro project||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday asked the State government and the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) to suggest an expert agency of repute to examine the issue of saving translocated trees, and whether the remaining 59 trees to be uprooted for the ongoing metro project can be successfully translocated to ensure that they survive and grow. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order after observing that prima facie the expert committee, appointed on the orders of the court, has not applied its mind on whether trees would survive at the locations where they are transplanted. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Dattatraya T. Devare and the Bangalore Environment Trust. As 55 more trees will have to be uprooted for translocation and four trees have to be cut for the project, the Bench said that an expert agency will have to assess the translocation aspect as the exiting committee had not applied its mind before granting approval for uprooting of trees for translocation. The Bench also noted that the committee has not placed any material on assessment made in this regard despite earlier observations made by the court on this aspect. “The object of the provision of the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976 is to preserve trees. If permission can be lawfully granted to cut or translocate the trees, the authorities must apply how translocation can be done as translocation is a method to preserve a tree,” the Bench observed after noticing that a few trees translocated some time ago had dried. Earlier, the advocate for the petitioners alleged that the BMRCL had cut trees between June 7 and 9 with alacrity after being intimated that court will hear the petition on June 10. However, senior advocate for the BMRCL contended that the petitioners had only raised objection to trees to be cut for road project and hence the BMRCL went ahead with the felling after waiting 15 days as per the earlier court’s order.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Public hospitals are underprepared to deal with pandemic’||In a first, the convocation of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) was held virtually with little fanfare and only around 150 attendees at the venue. However, the low key ceremony did not take away the achievements of the students. A total of 36,434 candidates graduated from RGUHS this year with a pass percentage of over 82%. “Of the 131 gold medallists, 60 attended in person. Also, 20 of the 54 Ph.D awardees attended the convocation. There were only around 150 people inside the hall,” a senior official of RGUHS said. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar inaugurated the convocation through videoconferencing. The COVID-19 pandemic and strength of the healthcare system to handle the crisis was on top of everyone’s mind. Chief guest P. Balaram, former director of Indian Institute of Science, said that years of neglect of the health sector, which has been underfunded and under-appreciated by both the Union and State governments, had left public hospitals woefully underprepared to deal with a major pandemic. “Higher education in India has been in need of intensive care for a long time. The new education policy has been in gestation for so long that it is in danger of being stillborn,” he said. He also referenced Canadian physician William Osler and said: “Soap and water and common sense are the best disinfectants.” Fight against COVID-19 Vice-Chancellor of RGUHS, in his address, said that RGUHS has actively assisted the government in its fight against COVID-19.  Years of neglect of the health sector, which has been underfunded and under-appreciated by both the Union and State governments, had left public hospitals woefully underprepared to deal with a major pandemic.P. BalaramFormer director of Indian Institute of Science
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ensure supply of essential goods in all 400 containment zones: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday said the BBMP has to strictly ensure supply of essential goods and services to the people living in containment zones, as per the COVID-19 management orders. The civic body has said that there are 400 such zones. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions while hearing through video conference PIL petitions related to issues that have arisen from the COVID-19 pandemic. As it was pointed out to the court that poor people living in slums cannot go to jobs due to restrictions and they are finding it difficult to get food, the Bench noted, from the Standard Operating Procedures and the circulars issued by the government on April 17, that the local administration will have to ensure supply of essentials to the residents of the containment zones. Even if there are 400 containment zones, it is the obligation of the BBMP to ensure the supply of essential goods to the people residing in these zones as the April 17 circular states that containment zones would be completely sealed down with no movement of people outside their houses even for basic necessities. As per the government’s circular, the Bench noted that supply of ration by fair price shops at the doorstep of the ration card holder would also need to be undertaken by the authorities. When the BBMP counsel said that the civic body has no scheme for providing free food packets /ration kits, the Bench made it clear that failure of the BBMP to abide by the government’s instructions and the SOPs amounts to violation of fundamental rights of citizens under the Article 21 of the Constitution. The Bench also directed the BBMP to inform the court the machinery it has put in place for citizens in the containment zones to lodge grievances with the authorities as the citizens cannot come out their houses. Ward committees The Bench also said that ward committees set up as per the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act will have to play a proactive role for ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential goods and food materials to the citizens, and availability of health services to pregnant women in contain zones.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A virtual ceremony for majority of gold medallists at RGUHS||Rashmita R. was looking forward to walking on stage on Thursday to collect the six gold medals she has been awarded in Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS), the highest number of gold medals in BDS at RGUHS. But the pandemic has cheated her and others out of a traditional convocation ceremony. As she was in Mangaluru, she could not attend the convocation. “Due to COVID-19 restrictions, I could not attend the convocation. It would have been a momentous occasion to receive the medals in front of a huge audience and more importantly, my parents,” she said. Many toppers who could not attend their convocation in person logged in for the virtual ceremony. Shruti P.M., who bagged a gold medal and cash prize in M.D. Radio Diagnosis, and is now a resident at KIMS, Hubballi, said: “It would have been a joyous moment with family and friends.” She also added that she was occasionally indirectly working on treating COVID-19 patients with UV and CT scans. Arpit Shantagiri from Belagavi also gave the convocation a miss. “I had received the highest number of gold medals at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute convocation ceremony in February. I was looking forward to the university level convocation,” he said. Pooja Hittalamani, who won four gold medals in MBBS, attended the convocation in person. “The convocation was well arranged with all safety measures. It would have been great if it was like before,” she said.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many came by boats, crossed borders||For many students, the commute to their examination centre was strenuous: in Karnataka, some travelled by boats while those outside the State crossed borders. All were armed with masks and sanitisers to protect themselves. In Mangaluru, 27 students from Kasaba Bengre locality came by boat. The Department of Public Instruction authorities ensured that their health screening was done and that they reached their centres in time. The stressful experience of giving a board examination during pandemic was eased considerably in many districts as people went out of their way to help students. In Gadag district, autorickshaw drivers decided to ferry students to and from their centres free of cost. In another instance, police personnel in Shirahatti dropped two children to their centre. At one examination centre in Gangavathi in Koppal district, teachers created a festive atmosphere by putting up “thorana” outside the school and giving their students a warm welcome. They even saluted the students to commend their determination. From other States Of the 614 students from outside the State who were registered to sit for the paper, 555 students appeared for the examination on Thursday. They came from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Maharashtra. Students from border towns in Kerala came via the Talapady check-post and transportation was arranged by the Education Department. Students in Goa, however, did not have to come to Karnataka to write the paper as there were two examination centres there. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the authorities arrived at the border early in the morning to collect the question papers and answer booklets. Around 68 girls who are victims of child marriages, some of whom were mothers under the age of 18, gave the examination on Thursday.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC calls for simple solution to managing ambulances in traffic||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday asked the State government to consider introducing a simple system of giving clearance to ambulances in traffic on receiving intimation from the driver, till a proposed modern-tech based ambulance management system is put in place. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy, issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Bharat Punarothana Trust, Bengaluru. As the government stated that a proposal is being prepared by the Health Department to implement a tech-based ambulance management system in a phased manner, after getting approval from the Finance Department, the Bench said that a simple system should be in place as the proposed project will take time for implementation as it has not yet reached the tender stage. The Chief Justice pointed out that a staff member of the High Court suffered a heart attack on June 24, and with the system in place with the High Court’s dispensary and registrars, the patient was immediately shifted to hospital and an angioplasty done successfully within an hour. “We don’t know whether it would have been possible to provide emergency medical service at the earliest if the staff would have been at home,” the Chief Justice said, emphasising the need to have a system to ensure that ambulances reach the patients and transport them to hospital as quickly as possible. The hearing was adjourned further with the court asking the government to come out with a solution as indicated.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Child Rights commission for ban on online classes||The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the Department of Primary and Secondary Education welcoming its decision to ban online classes for students till class V. In the letter, Fr. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of the commission, said that online classes cannot be an alternative to in-person classes as people from low income groups cannot afford laptops and other electronic devices. The commission, however, said that lessons can be aired on radio and television. Many schools have discontinued their online classes after the State government issued an order in this regard. Several parents have expressed disappointment with the ban on online classes and many stakeholders have approached the High Court of Karnataka seeking a stay on this order. On the reopening of schools, the commission has said that the decision should be taken after the number of COVID-19 cases reduces. “They should open in a phased manner based on which zone they fall under. All precautionary measures need to be planned meticulously,” Mr. Sebastian said.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable found dead||A head constable was found dead at his residence in Police Quarters, Yelahanka New Town on Wednesday evening. The police suspect that the deceased, Guruprasad, 38, who was attached to Sampige Halli station, killed himself. Neighbours alerted the police after discovering the body. The Yelahanka New Town Police have registered a case. (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help)
26 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Smooth start to SSLC exam||With adequate precautionary measures being taken in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and elaborate preparations by the Education Department, thousands of students appeared for the SSLC second language examination at various centres in Dharwad district on Thursday. Out of the 26,599 students registered for the examination, 25,561 students appeared for the second language examination at 107 centres in Dharwad district. And, 1,038 students remained absent for the examination, There was no untoward incident or a case of malpractice on day one. Due to the pandemic, anxious parents brought their children well in advance to the examination centres as the students had to undergo screening before entering the examination halls. The Department of Public Instruction had made elaborate arrangements to ensure strict adherence to the Standard Operative Procedure mandated under COVID-19 advisory. Students had come prepared for the examination wearing masks and carrying water bottles. Most of the students were accompanied by their parents who, however, were not allowed to gather in groups near the examination centres and were asked to return after dropping off their wards. At all the examination centres, sanitisers were kept, while a few students had also brought small bottles of sanitisers as a precautionary measure with them. Milk bottles and biscuits were provided to the students attending the examination. Meanwhile, the authorities have communicated that water bottles would be provided to students from Friday. In Morab village of Navalgund taluk, which is a COVID-19 hotspot, an additional examination centre was set up for students from the containment zone. As a precautionary measure, students from Shirur, Gummagol and Shirkol who were allotted Morab examination centre were sent to a new examination centre at Shirur. A noteworthy development was that attendance in all these three centres was 100 %. As per a health advisory, after the answer papers were collected and kept in safe custody, the examination halls were sanitised again. As the examination began, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan, Police Commissioner R. Dileep and Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction (NW Zone) Major Siddalingaiah Hiremath visited various examination centres and reviewed the situation. As announced, North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) had arranged free transportation. Nearly 200 buses ferried students to the examination centres and back. As the examination concluded, scores of parents arrived at the centres to pick up their wards but the police ensured that there was no crowding. Several students expressed happiness over the arrangements made by the school administration and the Education Department for the smooth conduct of the examination. “We were actually a bit afraid in the wake of the coronavirus situation. However, looking at the safety precautions taken at the centre, we felt relieved. In fact, teachers at the centre made us feel comfortable which helped us write the examination without any fear,” Aishwarya, a student of Lamington School in Hubballi, said. Several other students concurred with her, while a few others felt that writing the examination with face masks on made them a bit uncomfortable. In the wake of the pandemic, extra police personnel were deployed to prevent crowding around the examination centres.
26 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||12 more test positive||As many as 12 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan district on Thursday. With this, the total number of such cases has gone up to 312. Among the new cases, six are primary contacts of a patient in Hassan taluk who tested positive earlier. Another person from Hassan with influenza-like illness has also tested positive. A native of Alur serving in the armed forces has also tested positive. Besides, four people who had returned from Maharashtra also tested positive. So far, 231 patients have been discharged. As many as 81 patients are undergoing treatment. One patient has died.
26 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||1,61,810 students, in all, write exam in six districts of Kalyana Karnataka||A total of 1,61,810 Class X students appeared for the second language paper on the first day of the SSLC examination in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region on Thursday. According to data from the Deputy Director of Public Instructions (DDPIs), 1,71,621 students were to take the examination across six the educational districts in the Kalyana Karnataka region, out of which 9,811 students remained absent. As the pandemic has caused a major worry among people, a large number of parents accompanied their children to the examination centres and were also found waiting outside the centres to provide moral support to them. The DDPIs said that the students were provided face masks earlier and a few of them received it today. Both the students and teachers were wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in the exam centres as per the standard operating procedures (SOP) for COVID-19. In Kalaburagi district, of the 41,604 students registered to write the exam, 39,129 appeared on day one and 2,475 students remained absent for the language paper. As many as 25,327 students in Bidar district were registered to write the exam, of which 23,614 were present for the exam and 1,713 remained absent. Out of the 39,300 students registered to write the exam in Ballari district, 37,309 appeared and 1,991 were absent. Of the total 27,544 students in Raichur district, 26,137 students wrote the exam and 1,407 were absent. As many as 14,617 students appeared for the exam against the total registered 15,676 in Yadgir district. And, 1,059 students were absent. In Koppal district, 22,170 students were registered, of which 21,004 wrote the exam and 1,166 students remained absent.
26 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||8,000 face masks given to students||As part of its efforts to assist the administration in containing COVID-19, JSW Foundation, the social development arm of the JSW Group, provided 8,000 face masks to SSLC students who began writing their board examination on Thursday. The masks were stitched at the organisation’s garment unit in Ballari and supplied to the Department of Public Instruction. Earlier, the organisation had distributed over 5,000 units of sanitisers, 23,000 surgical masks and 52,000 in-house tailored cloth-masks to community members residing in over 21 villages around the JSW Steel Plant at Toranagal, about 35 km from Ballari.
26 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four Dakshina Kannada students having cold given isolated rooms||As many as 27,374 Class 10 students, including 367 from Kasaragod district in Kerala, wrote the second language paper of the SSLC examination on Thursday. According to a press release, 1,658 students remained absent. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that the absentees included 101 freshers and 150 repeaters. There were 234 students who were not issued hall ticket for lack of attendance, he said. The examination was held across 95 centres in the district. Examination staff reported at the centres at 7 a.m. and students started reaching the centres at 8 a.m. Students, who sported masks, underwent thermal scanning before being allowed into the examination hall. Four students, who were found to be having cold, were made to write the examination in isolated rooms. As many as 102 such rooms have been set up. As many as 10 buses were arranged to pick up 147 students from Kasaragod at the Talapady check-post. “The students had reached the check-post at 7 a.m.,” Mr. Malleswamy said. Following thermal scanning, each student was allotted one seat and were brought to the examination centre. Similar arrangement was made to pick up students from 28 other check-posts. A total of 89 buses and other vehicles were used for the purpose. The students were dropped back after the end of the examination, Mr. Malleswamy said. As the examination ended by 1.30 p.m., anxious parents were seen around the examination centres to pick up their wards. Roads near the examination centres witnessed traffic jams during the time.
26 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Satellite phone call under security scanner||A satellite phone call emanating from the Male Mahadeshwara forest ranges, along the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, has come under the scanner of the police and other security agencies. The call from the forests around Gopinatham, the birthplace of forest bandit Veerappanand part of the forest expanses he lorded over for several years till his death , was tracked by Internal Security Division (ISD) sleuths about a week ago. The ISD has asked the Chamarajanagar district police to find out who had made the call. Satellite phones, which are banned in India, can connect to other phones by radio through satellites and the voice traffic is encrypted. “The ISD has asked us to check who had used the satellite phone. We have verified the same. But, we don’t know who has made the call,” Superintendent of Chamarajanagar district police Anand Kumar told The Hindu . According to sources, officials from the police and the Anti-Naxal Force (ANF) managed to track down the exact location from where the call was made: some rocks, located around three to four km inside the forests from the main road. Mr. Anand Kumar said most of the time such phones are found to be used by tourists. The transcript of the conversation is not available owing to encryption. Meanwhile, the call has aroused the interest of various security and intelligence agencies. “All investigating agencies are looking into it,” said Mr. Anand Kumar. Monitoring movement Security forces are monitoring the movement of vehicles in the forest area and also checking the hotels and other guest houses for tourists. Satellite phones are also used by people foraying deep into the forests as they do not fall into the range of mobile phone towers in such remote areas. The call comes after a series of 11 such instances of satellite phone usage reported from different parts of Karnataka about six months ago. The calls had been made from locations without any connection to each other. The investigations into the case rarely proceed beyond identifying the location owing to limitations in the available technology. However, officials familiar with the investigations have ruled out the possibility of the satellite phone being used for “anti-national” or “terrorist” activity.
26 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Student injured, his father killed in road accident||For SSLC student Vishwanath, who was supposed to write his examination on Thursday, the first day turned tragic as his father Nagareddy (53) died on the spot in a road accident near Miyyapur Cross in Deodurg taluk. Nagareddy was taking his son on his motorcycle to an examination centre at Gabbur village when the accident occurred. According to sources, Nagareddy, who was also a primary school teacher at Sunkeshwarhal village, fell on the road after his motorcycle skidded as he tried to avoid hitting a buffalo which came on to the road suddenly. Vishwanth, who suffered injuries, was immediately taken to the government hospital in Deodurg where his condition is stated to be stable. Deputy Director of Public Instructions B.H. Gonal told The Hindu that “it was very unfortunate that the student lost his father in the accident.” The student will be allowed to write the supplementary examination, he added.
26 June 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Police teams formed to arrest accused||The police on Thursday formed three teams comprising senior officials to arrest the accused in a case of assault on leader of opposition in Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Marlingappa Karnal on Wednesday. Mr. Karnal was attacked by a gang of three men with weapons when he was returning home near Buddha Basava Nagar on Yadgir-Chittapur Main Road. The culprits are said to have fled the scene of crime. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane told The Hindu that “Mr. Karnal is receiving treatment at a private hospital in Kalaburagi. We will carry out further investigation after taking his statement.” A case has been registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code in the Yadgir Town Police Station.
26 June 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Two test positive||As many as two persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Yadgir on Thursday. P-10,200, a 20-year-old male, and P-10,201, a 16-year-old male, who tested positive, had returned from Maharashtra. They are now being treated at a designated hospital. A total of 909 positive cases have been reported so far in the district. Of them, 685 patients have been discharged from hospital and there are 223 active cases, while one woman has died.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ward delimitation finalised, State government issues gazette notification||The State government has issued the final gazette notification on the delimitation of wards coming under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The draft notification was issued in March earlier this year and objections were invited. The final notification, issued on June 23, states that the delimitation of wards was based on the 2011 census. The number of wards in BBMP continues to be 198, though the core zones have lost some wards and outer zones have gained a few. Even when the draft notification was issued, civic activists questioned the rationale behind the exercise, given that the 2011 census was outdated. They also pointed out that the government got into the delimitation exercise only after being pulled up by the Karnataka High Court. Kathyayini Chamaraj from the non-profit CIVIC deemed it a futile exercise as the 2011 census was redundant. “The Karnataka State Election Commission should ideally be doing the delimitation, redrawing the ward boundaries, announcing reservation and notifying elections. However, the State government has misappropriated that power,” she said. Electoral roll analyst P.G. Bhat highlighted the skewed population growth rate, which is minimal in core areas, but has seen an exponential rise in the outer zones since 2011. “There are enough statistical tools to come out with an estimated growth in population. There should be a method in the madness. The census data is not representative of the population growth. The electoral rolls, despite the data flaws, may be used,” he said. ‘Dependable database’ BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the census was an authentic and dependable database. “The electoral rolls are faulty and many civic activists themselves have pointed it out. Though it is constantly updated, many names are not included. It may have more people compared to the census, but that does not mean that it is more accurate,” he said. Sources in the BJP maintained that the government was well aware that the data was outdated. “This is just a tactic to delay the elections to the BBMP. The term of the incumbent council ends in September. The delimitation of wards will be questioned on the same grounds,” the source said. Srinivas Alavilli from Citizens for Bengaluru said that the government has already initiated the exercise of drafting a new Act exclusive for Bengaluru. “There are major changes coming in. However, this should not become a reason for postponing polls. If there is no elected council in place, there will be lack of accountability. We do not want a repeat of 2007-10 when the civic body was under an administrator,” he said.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress councillors unhappy||Several councillors from the Congress expressed unhappiness with the ward delimitation that was finalised by the State government. A few wards – considered to be the party’s stronghold – no longer exist. For instance, Jayanagar ward (Chickpet assembly segment) represented by former mayor Gangambike Mallikarjun does not exist in the new version. The areas that fell under the ward have been distributed among three neighbouring wards. Prakashnagar represented by former mayor G. Padmavathi also does not exist. Abdul Wajid, Opposition Leader in BBMP Council, said that many Assembly segments in the core area, such as Hebbal, Shivajinagar and Gandhinagar, have lost wards. “The whole exercise is an eyewash. It is a tactic deployed by the BJP government to delay the polls to the BBMP,” he alleged. Sources in the BJP are not disputing these allegations and said that the delimitation exercise is likely to be challenged in court as it is based on the 2011 census. “The new census is set to begin in a couple of months. That apart, a separate Act for Bengaluru is being drafted,” said a BJP source. The source added that the government was exploring increasing the limits of the corporation by adding 64 villages, including Electronics City, which comes under Anekal, Bengaluru South, Byatarayanapura, Yeshwantpur, Yelahanka and Mahadevapura Assembly segments. “This will mean that the number of wards will have to be increased, especially in the outer zones,” the source said. While the government seems intent on increasing the area under BBMP limits, the previous Congress government had noted that the civic body had become unwieldy for administrative purposes. The BBMP Restructuring Committee constituted by the Congress government had recommended splitting the civic body into multiple corporations.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: CID office in city sealed||Carlton House, where the offices of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the State police is located, has been sealed for three days after a personnel tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. All personnel have been asked to work from home and be available on calls. The office will resume normal operations on Monday.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain fury||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Case booked||A police case has been filed by the KSEEB against a social media user who allegedly claimed that the paper for Thursday’s examination had been leaked. The person had posted a question paper of the supplementary examination and tried to mislead students, officials said.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Student’s father dies||A student who was travelling to the examination centre in Raichur lost his 53-year-old father when the duo met with an accident while travelling to the exam centre. The student will take the supplementary exam in August.
26 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||18 test positive in Alappuzha||In yet another spike in COVID-19 cases in the district, 18 people tested positive for the disease on Thursday. Among the cases, 11 came from abroad and four from other States. Three persons contracted the disease through contact. Four young men hailing from Mannancherry, Bharanikavu, Mararikulam and Cheriyanad had come from Kuwait on June 13. Another man, native of Cheriyanad, came from Kuwait on June 16. The sixth patient, a young woman from Pallippad, reached the district from Kuwait on May 29. Two boys Two boys hailing from Alappuzha had come from Saudi Arabia on June 11. A young woman, native of Chunakkara, reached the district from Saudi Arabia on June 13. The tenth patient, a young man from Alappuzha, came from the UAE on June 9. Another young man hailing from Krishnapuram had come from Russia on June 16. Among those from the other States, a couple from Punnapra came in a private vehicle from Bengaluru on June 12. Three of their relatives, including the man’s parents, contracted the disease through contact. The 17th patient, a man from Thuravoor, reached the district on a flight from Delhi on June 10. A 46-year-old man from Kuthiathode came on a plane from Chennai on June 13. All the patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Tests negative Meanwhile, four people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 136.
26 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Mahesan’s kin seek probe into death||A day after Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K.K. Mahesan was found dead, his family on Thursday said they would lodge complaints with the Chief Minister and the State Police Chief demanding a probe into the role of Yogam leaders and others in his death. Mahesan, a former aide to SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, allegedly ended his life. Speaking to mediapersons, M.S. Anil, nephew of Mahesan, said his death was equal to murder. “All the allegations in the letters written by Mahesan before his death are correct. The letters contain the details of people who harassed and tortured him. Those responsible for his death should be brought before the law. He had earlier told us that some people were trying to frame him in fake cases and send him to jail. Details of his phone calls should be examined. We will fight till justice is delivered,” Mr. Anil said. Mahesan was the State coordinator of the Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme. He was questioned several times by investigators in connection with cases related to misappropriation of microfinance funds. Prior to his death, Mahesan had posted letters written by him on social media — one addressed to the Circle Inspector, Crime Branch, Alappuzha, and another to Mr. Natesan. In the letter to the Crime Branch, he alleged that they were trying to frame him in the microfinance case. In the letter to Mr. Natesan, he levelled various allegations. Mahesan’s letter said that if he was targeted with the support of the government, he would be left with no choice but to end his life. He had also written a letter to Crime Branch ADGP Tomin J. Thachankary stating that deliberate attempts were being made to implead him in the case related to the microfinance fraud in the SNDP Yogam Mavelikara Union. Vellappally for CBI probe Meanwhile, Mr. Natesan has demanded a CBI probe into the death of Mahesan. Speaking to reporters here, he said Mahesan was innocent. “Mahesan was my right-hand man. He was not involved in the misappropriation of microfinance funds. But as the State coordinator of the scheme Mahesan feared arrest,” Mr. Natesan said. He alleged that some people had tried to harass Mahesan and tarnish his image regarding the SNDP Cherthala Union election. P.S. Rajeev who was among the targets of Mr. Natesan in the press meet termed the allegation baseless. The Sree Narayana Sahodara Dharma Vedi demanded the arrest of Mr. Natesan. The Kanichukulangara Devaswom Janadhipathya Vedi took out a march to the residence of Mr. Natesan at Kanichukulangara. Staff Reporter writes from Kollam: The SNDP Yogam Samrakshana Samiti also demanded a CBI probe into the death of Mahesan. Samiti leaders also raised serious allegations against Mr. Natesan and Mr. Thachankary at a press meet here on Thursday.
26 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Nilgiri tahr population thrives during lockdown||The lockdown has a positive outcome on the sensitive Nilgiri tahr in its natural habitat, the Eravikulam National Park spread along the Western Ghats in the district. For the first time in recent history, the calving season yielded 155 new births and these are attributed to an undisturbed ambience within the park and surrounding areas during the COVID-19-lockdown, according to Forest Department officials. The national park is yet to open after the calving season and there is little disturbance by vehicles or human beings within and outside it. There is a passage through the park and it is usually used by people living in Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat inside the Munnar Forest Division and plantations outside the park. During the last calving season, the number of new births was 81. The number in 2018 was 75 and in 2017, it was 87.  Total number at 726 The total number of Nilgiri tahrs now rose to 726, said Eravikulam range officer Job J. Neriyamparambil. He said the changes, though in a minor level, might have caused a high birth rate. The five-day survey was held from April 20 to 24. Usually the census is conducted by a team comprising non-governmental organisations and officials of the Forest Department. However, only Forest Department officials took part in this year’s survey owing to the lockdown. Though the average number of Nilgiri tahrs remained almost stagnant for years because of the high death rate, mostly as prey to carnivorous animals, the considerable increase in the number may have a positive result in the long run. Rajamala inside the national park is usually closed for the calving season from mid-January to April.
26 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Three new cases in Idukki||The district reported three new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of them, two men, aged 49 and 33 years, arrived at Vellathooval from Delhi by road on June 17. One of them was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, after he showed symptoms on arrival. The other was in home quarantine and was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Idukki, on Thursday. A person who arrived in Kochi on a flight from Delhi and then his home at Ezhukumvayal by road was also shifted to the Idukki MCH. Two patients tested negative on Thursday. A special drive was held on Thursday by the police to observe the 569 persons in home quarantine. Cases were filed against 81 persons who failed to keep physical distancing.
26 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ryots stage fast against rising wildlife attacks||A collective of 15 farmer organisations under the aegis of the Karshika Purogamana Samiti (KPS) staged a fast at Sulthan Bathery on Thursday, raising a slew of demands including effective steps to tackle the increasing wildlife attacks in the district. Speaking after inaugurating the protest, Remigiose Inchananiyil, Bishop of the Syro-Malabar Diocese of Thamarassery, said that wildlife attacks had increased considerably in the State over the past decade, especially in hilly areas such as Wayanad, but successive governments had not adopted any steps to address the issue. Though a tribal youth was mauled to death by a tiger at Pulpally in the district a few days ago, the Forest department officials could not capture the animal, the Bishop said. A collective protest by the farming community against the escalating wildlife attacks was the need of the hour, he said. The protesters also raised demands such as capturing the man-eater, adopting scientific steps to divide forest areas and human habitations, amending Forest Acts, erection of hanging fences on the fringes of forests to curb man-animal conflicts, and increasing the compensation for crop losses suffered in wildlife raids.
26 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Plasma therapy administered||A 54-year-old COVID-19 patient was administered the convalescent plasma therapy at the Kannur Government Medical College hospital on Thursday. The hospital claimed that the treatment was carried out for the first time in the district. The therapy was administered to the patient, an expatriate, who arrived on July 20 at the hospital with severe pneumonia, said M.M. Dileep, public relations officer. He said that the patient was on the C-PAP ventilator in the ICU. The treatment was conducted with the approval of the Kerala State Medical Board and the Ethical Committee as the health condition of the patient turned critical.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Reports of Hindu-Muslim strife in Malabar baseless’||Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji, the protagonist of the 1921 Malabar Rebellion, wanted the world to know through The Hindu that the “report that Hindus are forcibly converted” by his men was “entirely untrue.” Haji chose the ‘letter to The Hindu ’ to air his views on the now contentious issue of reported conversion and killings of Hindus in Malabar during the rebellion. The English translation of the letter “purporting to be written by the rebel Moplah leader,” on October 7, 1921, with the dateline Pandalur Hill, was retrieved from the archives of The Hindu . Referring to press reports that Hindu-Muslim unity had thoroughly ceased to exist, Haji said the report that Hindus were being forcibly converted by his men was entirely untrue. What the letter said “Such conversions were done by the Government Party and Reserve Police men in mufti mingling themselves with the rebels (masquerading as rebels.) Moreover, because some Hindu brethren, aiding the military, handed over to the military innocent (Moplahs) who were hiding themselves from the military, a few Hindus have been put to some trouble. Besides, the Nambudiri, who is the cause of this rising, has also similarly suffered,” he wrote. “The Hindus are compulsorily impressed for military service. Therefore, several Hindus seek protection in my Hill. Several Moplahs, too, have sought my protection,” wrote Haji. “Now the chief military commander [of the government] is causing Hindus to evacuate from these Taluks. Innocent women and children of Islam, who have done nothing and possess nothing, are not permitted to leave the place,” he wrote. “Let all the people in the world know this. Let Mahatma Gandhi and Moulana know it,” Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji said while concluding the letter. “The letter is written on old-fashioned, Austrian made, ruled letter paper with a black lead pencil in crude, characteristic Moplah Malayalam,” noted the newspaper. Four films A century later, the Malabar Rebellion has suddenly tuned out to be a debating point in the State with the announcement of four films on the theme. While three would attempt to feature Haji as the freedom fighter who was killed by the British, the fourth one wanted to bring out the real truths behind the incidents. Sangh campaign Sangh Parivar outfits had launched a vitriolic campaign against actor Prithviraj who would play the role of Haji in the movie Variamkunnan , to be directed by Ashique Abu and Muhsin Parari.
26 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. sets 9 months for clearing legacy waste at Brahmapuram||The government has accorded a time period of nine months to biomine about one lakh cubic metre of old waste lying at Brahmapuram for long. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, which is the nodal agency for engagement of private players for waste management solutions in the State, has mentioned the time frame in the fresh tenders issued on June 24 for rehabilitation of the heaps of legacy waste dumped in the now defunct waste treatment plant of the Kochi Corporation. “It is intended to biomine the existing legacy waste and recover the entire area including the land allotted to the Indian Medical Association for the development of biomedical treatment plant as per the conditions laid out in the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016,” according to the tender document. The Department of Local-Self Government has found that only one percent of the recyclable plastic waste is recovered now while the remaining 99% ends up as heaps in the dumping yard. The government had taken over the task of scientific management of legacy waste accumulated at Brahmapuram waste dumping yard from the Kochi corporation by invoking the provision under Section 24(e) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The company shortlisted after verification of technical and financial bids should ensure recovery of the land by cutting and levelling it to the maximum possible aimed at getting a relatively flat land after biomining. The successful bidder has to scientifically process the old garbage as per the guidelines specified in SWM Rules 2016. The project will be based on ‘Design and Build Basis’. The technical bids will be opened on August 3. The agency selected should submit a management plan for dump site land reclamation, excavation, screening and resource recovery; biomining of unprocessed municipal solid waste; and development of facility for scientific disposal of residual solid waste.
26 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Potholed bypass adds to cops’ woes||The proliferation of potholes at congested junctions on the Edappally-Aroor NH bypass has resulted in police personnel having to go the extra mile and do repair works on their own. “We deployed our men in uniform to repair the junctions, since neither PWD nor NHAI was doing it,” said a senior traffic police officer, referring to policemen on duty filling potholes that caused traffic hold-ups and accidents, mainly at Kundannoor and Palarivattom. The condition of service roads too is bad, especially at Kundannoor and Vyttila, where flyover construction is under way for over two years. “Police and Kerala Home Guards (KHG) personnel already have a harrowing time managing traffic. They now have to shoulder the responsibility of road repair works too, since neither PWD nor NHAI nor contractors engaged by the PWD (NH wing) for flyover works bothered to do even temporary repair of potholes. We had shot off letters to officials of the agencies based on feedback from personnel on traffic duty at the two junctions,” the officer said. Sources in NHAI, which owns the 16-km-long NH bypass, said that the PWD (NH Wing) was duty -bound to ensure the upkeep of NH bypass junctions at Vyttila and Kundannoor, where the department is building flyovers. “For this, the NHAI had inked an agreement and handed over the junctions to PWD in 2017. The PWD must maintain service roads in the vicinity too. As for the upkeep of Palarivattom bypass Junction, RBDCK, which built the controversial flyover at the junction, has not formally handed over the junction back to us,” they said. GCDA slammed The GCDA too is under fire for not restoring trenched parts of Kaloor-Kadavanthra road, which remained severely potholed. Activists of Aam Aadmi Party held a protest at one such spot on Wednesday and planted plantain saplings on potholes. “The agency, whose office is located 500 m from the spot, did nothing despite numerous accidents, mainly involving two-wheeler riders,” said Foji John, Thrikkakara Mandalam convener of the party.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Map eco-sensitive areas of Idukki: HC||The High Court has asked the Idukki Collector to map the vulnerable areas in the district to prevent constructions, and consequent disasters, in these areas. The court issued the directive on a petition challenging the District Collector’s order rejecting an application by a land owner seeking no objection certificate (NOC) for construction on an ecologically sensitive area. The court said a mere observation that the land was situated in an ecologically sensitive area would not be sufficient to deny NoC. All sensitive areas have to be mapped and a study has to be conducted as contemplated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The court noted that the Act contemplated preparation of two types of plans; one for the district and other for the State. The Act stated that areas in the district vulnerable to different forms of the disaster shall be mapped. The Disaster Management Authority should consider the impact of constructions on such vulnerable areas and decide what types of constructions should be allowed there. It was for the authority to scientifically prepare a plan to prevent disasters. The court directed the Collector to prepare the plan and submit it before the High Court.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police station shut over COVID-19 fear||The Perumbavoor police station has been temporarily shut to the public following suspicions that a person arrested on Wednesday evening had come into contact with a COVID-19 patient over a month ago. The development also stalled the duty shift at the station as the same batch of personnel who were on duty at the time of the arrest continues to be on self-imposed quarantine at the station that has already exceeded 24 hours. The police personnel continued to be on tenterhooks as the swab test results expected by Thursday evening got delayed and are now expected only on Friday. Along with the swab of the person suspected to have got in contact with the patient, that of another person who was arrested along with him was also given for the test. “It so happened that the collection of swab of one person was not in order and was hence rejected. Now, a fresh sample will have to be given and both the results are now expected by only Friday,” said an officer attached to the Perumbavoor station. The police had arrested two persons with criminal antecedents on preventive grounds from a lodge in Perumbavoor on Wednesday evening following which they were taken for the mandatory medical examination. “One of them told the doctor that he had come into contact with a lorry driver who had tested positive in Mananthavady in Wayanad around 45 days ago. Following this, the doctor advised their quarantine,” said the officer. They were taken to the lodge from where they were arrested and remain quarantined there under police security since Wednesday evening. The police station and the jeep in which they were taken for medical examination were disinfected as soon the news was out.
26 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Railway Childline focusses on counselling of rescued children||With their operations remaining disrupted for nearly three months now, the Railway Childline Ernakulam has ramped up follow-up counselling of children they have already rescued and restored with families over the past couple of years. 493 rescued Having rescued 493 children, including 62 girls, from across the country from railway station premises and trains since its inception in 2018, the Railway Childline operating out of the South railway station remains shut since the lockdown. With no clear sign of resumption of services, it was decided to focus on follow-up of the already rescued children. “Since more than 50% of the children we have rescued were from Kerala, we are focussing on them,” said Shano Jose, coordinator, Railway Childline. So far, 253 children from the State have been rescued over the past two years and the counsellors attached to the Railway Childline are following-up their cases. “We have contacted over 30 such children and are delighted that none of them reported problems warranting serious counselling. The frustration of being restricted to home cut off from their friends remains the main issue,” said Aparna P.U, counsellor with Railway Childline. “This has been a major relief since personal counselling in the prevailing situation would have been tough. Besides, all of them were found to have access to online education as well,” she said. Some anxious parents, however, ring up complaining about children going out frequently following which the counsellor talk to such children and even their friends. Linguistic barrier “Follow-up with children from other States is not easy as there is the linguistic barrier. However, we make random calls using our trainees proficient in other languages,” said Ms. Aparna. After Kerala, most of the children were rescued from Bihar (46), Tamil Nadu (42), Uttar Pradesh (26) and West Bengal (25). Children from Kerala are often found to leave home on trivial domestic issues and under the influence of social media while those from other States often migrate with someone from their villages in search of job, said Mr. Jose. The children so rescued are restored with their families through the child welfare committees concerned. “We may have to use personal protection equipment as and when we resume operations considering the high-risk category people we have to deal with,” said Mr. Jose.
26 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police say gang of imposters targeted actor||Actor Shamna Kasim, who received threats and extortion demands, has turned out to be just another victim targeted by a gang of imposters out to make quick bucks through dubious means ranging from blackmailing to public shaming. It has emerged that the four persons arrested by the Maradu police for targeting Ms. Kasim was part of a nine-member gang who had similarly targeted aspiring actors looking to make it big in the tinsel town. “We have filed three first information reports based on three separate complaints from three victims. We have also formed a special investigation team headed by the Thrikkakara Assistant Commissioner to probe the racket and arrest the remaining accused,” said Vijay Sakhare, District Police Chief (Kochi City). Severe charges While in the case of Ms.Kasim, extortion and cheating were among the charges invoked, the police are planning to invoke more severe charges, including human trafficking, in the other cases. It has emerged that the gang enticed the other three women by offering them acting chances but later turned them into escorts for an alleged gold smuggling deal by offering them big bucks. However, they later claimed that the deal with the Gujarati smuggler was stuck owing to lack of money and usurped money and gold ornaments from the women. In the case of Ms. Kasim, one Rafeeque, among the four arrested, was the imposter who got in touch with her evincing interest in marrying her. “He was already married and had two children. He used the profile of a TikTok star to hoodwink the actor and never revealed his real self,” said Mr. Sakhare. He had pretended to be a wealthy businessman and so when he asked Ms.Kasim for Rs. 1 lakh it raised her suspicions. Then a section of the gang visited her home at Maradu under the guise of taking the marriage proposal forward and acted quite strangely by taking her pictures and that of her home and property. Suspicious behaviour They departed seeking some time to bring the parents of the ‘bridegroom’ around to the proposal. Ms. Kasim grew suspicious after the ‘bridegroom’ went incommunicado with his mobile phone permanently switched off. Since she had conversations with the person, she feared whether it was recorded and would be some way used to blackmail her. Hence, Ms. Kasim lodged a petition with Mr. Sakhare.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held on charge of assault, robbery||The Nedumbassery police arrested three persons on the charge of assaulting and robbing a group of gamblers at an apartment. They allegedly robbed them of over Rs. 1.10 lakh and six sovereigns of gold. The arrested were identified as Vishnu Pullani, 31, of Manjapra; Anil Pappan, 29, of Mookkannnoor; and Tiljo Vellolil, 30, of Thavalappara. The police said that a gang of six persons had attacked the group engaged in gambling at the flat in Nedumbassery on May 4. The assailants were privy to the gambling activities and barged in brandishing knives and thrashed them with helmets. As they were not satisfied with the amount of money, they robbed the victims of their gold ornaments and mobile phones as well. They then fled the scene in a car.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam Public Library reopens||Nearly three months after its closure following the declaration of the lockdown in the wake of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ernakulam Public Library threw open its doors to readers on Thursday. New membership The library will operate strictly in adherence with the government protocol. New memberships can be taken and existing members can borrow and return books. However, the reading and reference rooms and the satellite library will remain closed. Election postponed The conduct of the annual general meeting and election of the managing committee also remain postponed. As per the library bylaw, the annual general meeting should be conducted on the last Monday of June and a new managing committee should be elected once in two years as per which both should have been held on June 29. They will be held as soon as the restrictions related to the pandemic are lifted.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||POCSO case registered against activist||The Ernakulam Town South police have registered a case against an activist in connection with sharing what the police said was an obscene video on social media. A case was registered against her by the Thiruvalla police recently after she shared on social media a video showing her children painting on her half-naked body. The South police on Thursday raided an apartment at the BSNL quarters in Panampilly Nagar where the video was reportedly shot. She no longer lives in the quarters after she was terminated from service by the BSNL earlier this year. “We have seized a mobile phone, laptop, and painting equipment from the quarters,” said police sources. The police have registered a case invoking the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Information Technology Act. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the Kerala Police to conduct an inquiry into the case. “It is regrettable that a mother has involved her children in such an indecent act. Due to this and the legal proceedings, possibly children had suffered mental trauma. Counselling must be ensured.”
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in Abhimanyu case taken to crime scene||Sahal Hamasa, 23, the 10th accused in the murder of SFI activist Abhimanyu and who is charged with stabbing the youngster, was taken to the crime scene near the Maharaja’s College here as part of evidence collection on Thursday. After being on the run for more than two years, the accused had surrendered in the Ernakulam First Class Magistrate Court on June 18. The investigating team was given his custody the very next day. The victim, a second year student at the Maharaja’s College, was stabbed to death near the college in July 2018.
26 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Unannounced arrival of migrants triggers concern||A group of 21 migrant workers turned up unannounced at Pathalam near Eloor much to the consternation of local residents on Thursday morning. They had come in a contract carrier and were meant for work at a factory in the Edayar industrial belt. They had alighted near Muppathadam within Kadungalloor panchayat and were walking their way to the lodging arranged at Pathalam when they were noticed by local residents. “The Eloor police were alerted immediately as they had come unannounced. The factory management had arranged for their accommodation in a building where there were already 60-odd migrants. Since the building did not have the capacity to accommodate more and the newly arrived migrants didn’t have any health certificates, it was decided that the police should be involved,” said C.P. Usha, Eloor municipal chairperson. According to the police, the migrants had come from Palakkad and were predominantly Tamils. “We have registered a case under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against two sponsors who had arranged them for the work at the factory,” said M. Manoj, Inspector, Eloor. The police sent them back initially through there was a rethink about quarantining them following which they were called back and quarantined at a hotel in Kaloor.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold seized from air passenger||The Customs Air Intelligence Unit at the Cochin International Airport on Thursday seized gold worth Rs. 10 lakh from a woman who arrived by an early morning chartered flight from Bahrain. She was found concealing the gold weighing 280 grams in a paste form and ornaments in her inner wear. Customs have launched an inquiry, including at her residence. This was the third such incident in which gold was recovered from expatriates who arrived on special flights from the Middle East.
26 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||takeover||The Kerala High Court on Thursday sought the responses of the State and Central governments on a petition seeking a directive to the State government to immediately take over the BHEL-EML, Kasaragod.
26 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||2 children among 13 new patients in Kollam||Thirteen persons from the district, including two siblings aged 2 and 6 years, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. While 12 persons are from abroad, one is from Chennai and all the patients are being treated at Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally. Among the new cases, six had travelled from Saudi Arabia, four from Kuwait and one each from Dubai and Nigeria. The siblings from Kallumthazham, a boy and a girl, had arrived from Saudi Arabia on June 13 and were in home quarantine. Others are from Oachira, Kundara, Kareepra, Pavithreswaram, Kannanallur, West Kallada, Thazhava, Vettikavala, Karikode, and Karunagappally. The 40-year-old Oachira resident had travelled from Saudi on June 20 and was in institutional quarantine. The 30-year-old Kundara resident who arrived on June 14, the Kareepra resident who came from Kuwait on June 14 and the Tazhava resident from Dubai were in home quarantine. The Pavithreswaram resident had travelled from Kuwait on June 15, the Kannanallur resident on June 16 and West Kallada resident on June 12. While the Pavithreswaram resident was in institutional quarantine, the other two were quarantined at home. The 42-year-old Karikode resident came from Nigeria on June 18 and the 47-year-old Karunagappally resident had travelled by taxi with a friend from Chennai. Both were in home quarantine.
26 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mission to set the record straight||For Jaffar K.M., a 53-year-old resident of Erattupetta in Kottayam, discovering the genealogy of his family has always been a matter of pride. A fourth generation descendant of Chakkiparamban Moideenkutty Haji, he carried out extensive research to trace his roots that extended over three decades to establish his links with the Muslim leader from Malabar and the father of the legendary Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji. Things, however, took a dramatic turn with the announcement Variamkunnan , a period film on the Malabar Rebellion of 1921 by Ashiq Abu, a fortnight ago. The declaration, followed by the announcement of three more films on the same topic, has triggered a debate on the communal angle of the rebellion. Smarting from the allegations heaped on his forefathers, Mr. Jaffar is on a mission to clear the air on the the life and principles of the historical figure. Tell-all book In a soon-to-be published book, Mr. Jaffar seeks to bring to light how Variamkunnan, step-brother of his grandfather Muhiyuddinkutty Haji, fought the British with the support of the Hindus. According to him, Chakkiparamban Moideenkutty Haji escaped to Erattupetta, a major market place in Central Travancore, after being acquitted in the Mannarkkad revolt of 1894. “Disguising as an Islamic preacher, he lived in Erattupetta for nearly eight years before being captured by the British police . During his stay here, he married Ummuhani Umma from the Muttathuparambil Mather family here and the couple had a son named Muhiyuddinkutty Haji,” Mr. Jaffar explained. “From the scattered anecdotes in and around Erattupetta, I traced his roots to the erstwhile Eranadu and eventually zeroed in on the Chakkiparamban family. It was only at this point did we realise that Moideenkutty Haji was earlier married to Kunjaisha Hajjumma and the legendary Variamkunnan was their son,” he added. Family reunion Having traced almost all branches of his family, Mr. Jaffar was also instrumental in forming a family association. The association, comprising about 12,000 members, has been organising a reunion every year since 2014. The family, according to Mr. Jaffar, is disappointed over the recent controversies. “Any attempt to tarnish Variamkunnan, who had always upheld the principles of secularism, will be fought legally. You can expect a formal response of the family to all the recent controversies soon,” he said.  Won’t let anybody tarnish the image of Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji’s family Jaffar K.M.
26 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two cases in Kottayam, one asymptomatic||Kottayam on Thursday reported two new cases of COVID-19 with a 46-year-old woman from Karukachal and a 31-year-old man from Manimala, who returned from Mumbai and Delhi respectively, testing positive. While the woman was asymptomatic, the man appeared for a serum test following continuous cough. Meanwhile, two persons recovered from the virus infection and left hospital on the day. They were a 27-year-old woman of Chingavanam and 31-year-old woman of SH Mount, Kottayam.
26 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gulf returnees stage protest||A group of Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who reached the city on Thursday staged a protest near the Kozhikode mofussil bus stand alleging that they were not given proper quarantine facilities. The group, including three women, who reached the Kozhikode international airport by a Jazeera flight at 5 a.m. from Kuwait claimed that they were forced to stay back near the bus stand for over four hours. A woman passenger said they had been assured of all support by Health Department officials prior to their departure from Kuwait. However, even food was not provided upon their arrival, she complained. Closure of centres An recent order by the district administration citing its plan to implement decentralised quarantine facilities in the returnees’ home towns had caused much confusion, they claimed. NoRK leaders from the city have objected to the administration’s plan to close down about 40 institutional quarantine centres in Kozhikode district. The officials’ reasoning that NoRKs did not opt for government-supported quarantine centres was not true, they argued. The leaders expressed doubts about the efficacy of decentralised quarantine facilities, implemented with the support of local bodies. Those unable to go in home quarantine due to personal or financial constraints should be offered institutional quarantine by the district administration in the city itself, they said. ‘No’ to paid facilities Some of the stranded NoRKs also flayed the proposal to give them paid quarantine facilities in the city as opted by some who had returned earlier. The idea was rejected by many since it would further burden them financially. They said institutional quarantine facilities in the city should be continued to help the needy. Sending them to remote villages without proper facilities was not a solution, they added.
26 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance stepped up at civil station||The district administration has decided to put in place improved screening and surveillance measures at the civil station as part of the COVID-19 prevention protocol and to ensure a safe ambiance for officials who resumed duty following lockdown relaxations. After July 6, vehicles without official stickers will not be allowed entry to the civil station compound. All department heads have been asked to make available the required number of stickers to ensure compliance. Similarly, unauthorised parking will not be permitted on the civil station compound. Entry to the compound will be regulated at the main entrance. All other gates will be temporarily closed. Identity cards too will be made mandatory for officials to enter the collectorate. According to Revenue officials, the rule will be applicable to other visitors too. All departments are keen on ensuring a flawless implementation of the physical distancing protocol and other health guidelines. Hand washing facilities and sanitizers are available at all major points at the collectorate. Even before the epidemic outbreak, there were plans to restrict unregulated entry of private vehicles.
26 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fuel price hike hits bus, auto services||The rising fuel prices has triggered further fear among bus and autorickshaw operators who have been going through a critical phase since the outbreak of COVID-19, with a steep fall in income. Incidentally, many are not in a position to raise their voice owing to the continuing COVID-19 protocol and possible legal action against protests. Bus operators in the city said many were desperately experimenting with odd jobs which could temporarily keep them going. According to them, some bus workers have gone for catering services to make both ends meet. P. Santhosh, a private bus conductor from the city, said the physical distancing protocol and other regulations had seriously hit operators’ income. “Very few buses are being run now, and a majority have kept off the road fearing unexpected loss and operational cost,” he added. On Thursday, bus workers joined a district-level agitation in Kozhikode to draw the attention of the authorities to their plight. They also cooked rice gruel and served it in a symbolic protest. Meanwhile, LPG Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union district president Sajeev Kumar sought a benevolent package from the government for workers in the sector. Bus operators’ bodies too called for a fare revision.
26 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||World Vitiligo Day observed||The World Vitiligo Day was observed with a one-day public awareness seminar on the disease at the Government Dermatology Hospital, Chevayur, on Thursday. The seminar was organised by maintaining physical distancing protocol to create public awareness on the treatment requirements and medical care of such patients who suffer from the loss of their skin colour and a variety of patterns on the skin from loss of pigment. Dr. M.K. Sribiju, State coordinator of the Community Dermatology Initiative under the Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venereologists and Leprologists and Dr. M. Pathyusha led the sessions.
26 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||No respite from pandemic as Palakkad reports 24 fresh cases||Twenty-four persons, including three children, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday, raising the total number of patients under treatment to 214. All the 24 cases were returnees from either abroad or other States. Six of them had returned from Kuwait, five from the UAE, three from Saudi Arabia, two from Oman, four from Maharashtra, and one each from Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Bihar, and Karnataka. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said 35 patients would soon be shifted from the District Hospital, Palakkad, to the First Line Treatment Centre (FLTC) at the Government Medical College Hospital, Palakkad. Meanwhile, Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and Backward Classes A.K. Balan inaugurated an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test facility at the Government Medical College Hospital. Shafi Parambil, MLA, presided over the function. The new laboratory cost Rs. 40 lakh. Mr. Balan said up to 300 samples could be tested a day at the new lab. In Thrissur Ten persons, including one city corporation worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Thursday. In all, 16,435 people are under observation in the district, and 134 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Of the 10 fresh cases, nine came from abroad. The corporation worker who got infected through contact is a 33-year-old woman from Poyya. In Ernakulam Ten persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. They include a 32-year-old and a 13-year-old child from Amballur figuring in the contact list of the health worker from Chowara, who had tested positive on June 23. The district administration has classified Ward 2 of Amballur panchayat as a containment zone. Of the 10 persons who tested positive on Thursday, six came from abroad, while two others came by road from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra on June 12 and 21 respectively. In Kannur Kannur district continued to witness spike in COVID-19 cases, with nine persons testing positive for SARS-COV-2 on Thursday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, five of the infected persons came from abroad, while four came from other States. In Kozhikode Seven new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Kozhikode on Thursday. Two of them had come from Tamil Nadu, while the other five were NRKs who came after June 15. In Malappuram Six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. All of them had returned from abroad, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. In Kasaragod Four more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Thursday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said all the four had come from Kuwait. In Wayanad Two more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday. One patient had returned from abroad, while the other came from Chennai, sources said..  (With inputs from Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kannur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
26 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Allow this year’s selectees for Haj next year: panel||The State Haj Committee has asked the Centre to consider those selected for Haj this year from the State for the next year’s pilgrimage without a draw of lots. None from the country will be able to perform Haj this year as Saudi Arabia has restricted this year’s pilgrimage only to those who are currently in the kingdom. State Haj Committee chairman C. Mohammed Faizy said on Thursday that they expected a favourable response from the Centre to their demand. As many as 10,834 aspirants, including 6,399 women, were selected for the pilgrimage out of 26,064 applicants from Kerala this year. Their passports were handed over to the Haj panel. Arrangements were in place to kick-start the pilgrimage process when the pandemic wreaked havoc. Mr. Faizy said that the selected would be refunded soon. The applicants had paid the Haj panel Rs. 2.01 lakh in two instalments. “It will be refunded to their bank accounts,” said Mr. Faizy. “If the bank account given at the time of application has changed, then the applicants should mail the new account details toaccount.hci@gov.in,” he said. He said no special application would be needed to get the cash and passports back. “It will take some time. But we will make sure that the passports are returned to the applicants by maintaining the COVID-19 protocol” said Mr. Faizy.
26 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kuwait Airways flies all-student flight||A group of students from Kerala in Kuwait chartered a flight exclusively for them to return home. Kuwait Airways operated its Boeing 777-300 flight to carry more than 200 students from Kuwait to Kochi on Wednesday, creating a record of sorts by flying an all-student flight. It was apparently the concern about their higher studies that made the students group up and charter the flight. Most of them have completed their senior secondary education in Kuwait and have been preparing for competitive exams such as JEE, NEET, and KEAM. Realising their limitations, the students sought their parents’ help to make arrangements from the forefront. Five parents—Kannan, George Mathai, Jayaprakash, Rajesh Sagar, and Sageer Ibrahim—took the lead and made the special journey possible. “Considering their student status, we allowed them to carry extra baggage. They had a lot of books with them. And, we gave them special consideration on baggage,” said Kuwait Airways manager Rony. The students not only got a flight chartered but also tied up with some hotels in the State for their quarantine. All of them went into quarantine soon after landing in Kochi on Wednesday evening.
26 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mentally ill woman stabs son to death||In a shocking incident, a seven-year-old boy was found murdered by his mentally ill mother at Bheemanad, near Mannarkkad on Thursday. The police said Mohammed Irfan was stabbed in his neck by his mother while he was apparently asleep. The murder came to light when neighbours found Irfan’s nine-month-old brother crying in front of their house around 5 a.m. on Thursday. The woman and her two children were alone in the house. Her husband was working at Aluva, the police said. The Child Welfare Committee and the District Child Protection unit have begun moves to shift the little child to a safer place.
26 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Police turn barren hill into a birds’ haven||The small hillock of Paruthippara, in the outskirts of Adoor, barely had any tree branches for birds to roost when it was made the headquarters of the Kerala Armed Police-III in 2003. Over 17 years, the camp has been converted into a verdant patch, making it home for a variety of birds too. Incumbent Commandant Aravind Sukumaran, with the support of his wife Indu Chinta, an environmentalist, actively followed the footsteps of his predecessors in preserving the eco-friendly ambience of the camp. Ms. Indu who did her postgraduation in Environmental Engineering from the University of Illinois even conducted a bird survey at the camp during the three-month lockdown period. Ms. Indu told The Hindu that she could spot more than 25 bird species at the camp. Even birds that are endemic to Western Ghats have started roosting on tree branches on the sprawling camp premises, says she. Dr. Sukumaran and Ms. Indu have also grown many fruit plants and revived those trees that were dying, making the police camp a happy place for several birds, butterflies, and fireflies. Ms. Indu said the birds she could identify at the camp included Little Egret, Oriental Magpie-Robin, Purple-rumped Sunbird, Rufous Treepie, White-cheeked Barbet, and Yellow-billed Babbler. The White-cheeked Barbet is endemic to the Western Ghats. “You hear the barbets more, as they like to sit and move around in the upper reaches of trees. They are rarely on the ground. But, they have a loud and distinct call,” she said. Need for safety “Pretty little Chestnut-headed bee-eaters used to pay only hurried visits. With their bright red heads, yellow necks and black eye stripes, they are absolutely delightful to watch. Indian Paradise Flycatcher too very briefly visited us as though the police camp was its transit halt,” says Ms. Indu. The KAP-III camp also stands testimony to how creating a safe environment for birdlife can provide for their wider distribution, naturally increasing their numbers and restoring healthy ecosystems.
26 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||13 NoRKs test positive in Pathanamthitta||Thirteen more persons, all Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 174. Of this, 169 patients are being treated at hospitals in the district while five others are in hospitals elsewhere. Those infected A 39-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 13, a 41-year-old man (Kuwait, June 11), a 51-year old man (Delhi, June 15), a 40-year-old man (Kuwait, June 15), a 30-year-old woman (Delhi, June 15), a 59-year-old man (Saudi Arabia, June 21), a 41-year-old woman (Delhi, June 9), a 34-year-old man (Kuwait, June 23), a 46-year-old man (Kuwait, June 12), a 28-year-old man (Kuwait, June 13), a 55-year-old man (Riyadh, June 19), a 57-year-old woman (Kuwait, June 12), and a 25-year-old woman (Haryana, June 12) are the 13 NoRKs to test positive on Thursday. As many as 189 persons, both active cases and those with serious symptoms, have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Thursday evening. In quarantine As per an official bulletin, 5,648 persons have been placed in quarantine at corona care centres as well as houses in the district as on Thursday. Of this, 3117 people came from other States, 2,097 from abroad, and 434 are contacts of infected persons.
26 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Modi to open Navathy fete of Metropolitan||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Navathy (90th birthday) celebrations of Mar Thoma Metropolitan Joseph Mar Thoma at the Alexander Mar Thoma Memorial auditorium in Thiruvalla through videoconferencing on June 27. According to a statement issued here by Church secretary Fr. K.G. Joseph on Thursday, a simple function, adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, would also be held at the auditorium.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All efforts to avoid community transmission in capital||The State capital came under a tight security blanket on Thursday with certain areas witnessing scenes resembling those during the lockdown. With Thiruvananthapuram figuring among the six districts that remained on high alert in the State, considering the possibility of a community transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the police imposed stringent regulations on public movement. To augment enforcement measures, 75 police personnel have been assigned to various police sub-divisions from special units. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, a bulk of the additional manpower is deployed to the containment zones. While two Circle Inspectors (CI) have been deployed to the Shanghumughom sub-division that included Karikkakom and Kadakampally wards, two others have been deployed to the Fort sub-division, under which comes the other containment zones in the city such as Kalady, Manacaud, Attukal and Iranimuttom. Deployments have been made to Shanghumughom sub-division (25 personnel), Cantonment (20), Kazhakuttam Cyber City (10), Fort (10) and Traffic (10). Mr. Upadhyay said that efforts were being made to restrict movement from and within the containment zones to minimise contact among the public. Only essential services would be allowed in these areas. Besides, access would be permitted only through a designated point in each zone. Drones had been deployed in such areas to intensify surveillance. The police had also resumed vehicle checks at various places in the city to streamline public movement and prevent unnecessary travel. Protocol in place The protocol proposed by the city Corporation for commercial outlets to reduce crowding came into effect on the day. The arrangement had been put on hold for two days as traders raised concerns regarding the remaining stock of perishable goods. No vegetable or fruit shop operated at Chala, Palayam and other major markets in the city on the day. These outlets have been permitted to function on Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays. Besides, only half of the vendors who were engaged in fish sales conducted business. Mayor K. Sreekumar, who inspected the markets, said the restrictions would continue for 10 days, after a review would be held. Two persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. They included a 45-year- old man from Valiyavila, who arrived from Kuwait at the Kannur International Airport on June 16. The other patient is a 40-year-old Odisha-native who came to Thiruvananthapuram on June 22. Diagnosed with mental illness, he wrongly boarded a train to Thiruvananthapuram. Case against two Meanwhile, the City police booked two persons who left the General Hospital while undergoing treatment for fever. A teenager, aged 18, from Nanthencode and a 60-year-old Nedumangad native, left the hospital premises shortly after the hospital authorities directed them to undergo COVID-19 tests. Both have been booked under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 and the Kerala Public Health Act. The City police also registered cases against 110 persons and fined 374 for failing to wear masks, while the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 317 cases and arrested 310 people. Petty cases were also registered against 290 people for failing to wear masks.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to enforce health protocol||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that a grim forecast that the disease might spike in Kerala in August had compelled the State to impose antibody tests on returnees as an extra tier of protection against the threat of community transmission. The tests and the process of Customs clearance could detain arrivals at airports for hours. They would require food and water at affordable rates. Airports should not overcharge them. The government considered asymptomatic travellers as potential community transmission risks irrespective of whether they tested COVID-19 negative or positive at airports. It was acutely aware that arrivals accounted for the spike in new infections in Kerala. Detailed log Ideally, returnees should keep a detailed log of their daily activities, including the registration particulars of the vehicle that ferried them home and the persons they met, if at all, en route. They should head for quarantine directly and not make any social visits or participate in parties or receptions. The police would tail expatriates home and enforce the government’s stay-at-home orders. Health workers would retest them after quarantine. Mr. Vijayan said the police had repurposed their social role as enforcers of the COVID-19 health protocol and behaviour code. He asked civic-minded people to WhatsApp protocol breaches to police control room. The police would tighten restrictions in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, Thrissur, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Ernakulam.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nothing wrong in tie-up with KPMG: Chief Minister||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the State’s decision to contract the KPMG to offer consultancy on how to rebuild flood-ravaged Kerala was not legally dubious as alleged by the Opposition. He said the KPMG had offered some of its services free to the government when the floods had ravaged the State in 2018 and 2019. Later, the Rebuild Kerala Initiative had constituted an expert committee to hire a consultancy to provide direction and fast-track the scheme. It vetted several applicants and finally settled on the KPMG, given their expertise and body of work across the globe. The government had contracted the KPMG through a transparent and legal process. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had alleged significant ticket corruption in the hiring. The government’s initiative to rebuild Kerala was limited to awarding costly consultancies to corporates. The Rebuild Kerala was an initiative that existed only on paper.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus fares may go up in State||Fares of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private buses are likely to go up with the M. Ramachandran Fare Revision Committee recommending special COVID-19 fares. The committee submitted its interim report on Thursday, sources said. It has suggested the hike taking into account the operational losses due to physical-distancing norms, the hike in price of diesel, increase in tax and insurance for buses and a crisis faced by the State transport undertaking and private operators.  The recommendations were arrived at after consultations with the members and stakeholders. It will be vetted by the Transport Department and notified after securing the approval of the Cabinet. The government may notify special COVID fares, as it did while hiking the fares for ordinary buses on May 19. The Fare Revision Committee comprising Transport Expert T. Elangovan and Finance Expert N. Niyathi and State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar as Member Secretary is yet to complete the hearing for preparing the final report. The interim report comes in the wake of the directive from the Division Bench of the High Court on June 12 staying an order of the single judge of the court permitting the hike in minimum bus fare from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12 during the lockdown period.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jal Jeevan Mission to have three phases||The Centrally assisted rural water supply initiative Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) will broadly have three phases of activity during its implementation in Kerala, according to the operational guidelines released by the State government. The first phase, spanning three to six months, will be dedicated to planning, capacity building, selection of panchayats, formation of panchayat-level water and sanitation committees, and signing of agreements for project implementation, according to a document released by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan during the formal launch of the JJM in Kerala on June 18. Ideally, the implementation stage — which constitutes the second phase — will range from six to 12 months. Assessment of water sources and quality inspections, development of water sources and basic infrastructure, geo-tagging, tariff fixation, and commissioning of water supply schemes will be carried out in this phase. The third phase will include operation and maintenance of the water supply schemes, grey water management and training programmes. Panchayats responsible Under the Central guidelines for the JJM, panchayats are primarily responsible for the implementation and future maintenance of the schemes. In the 2020-21 fiscal, the Water Resources Department hopes to provide 10 lakh water connections through it at an expected cost of Rs. 1,525 crore, to be borne equally by the State and the Centre. By 2024, as many as 52.85 lakh rural households will get tap connections. The guidelines also set out the methods for providing the new connections. Maximum water connections will be issued through ongoing and completed water supply projects of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), Jalanidhi, block and district panchayats, and other agencies. Broadly, two types of infrastructure will be developed for the JJM. One, infrastructure required within the panchayat for development of water sources, grey water management and groundwater replenishment, and, two, infrastructure required for bulk water supply to panchayats wherever necessary. On June 8, the government had issued orders forming the State Water and Sanitation Mission and the district-level water and sanitation missions which will oversee the work.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Treatment package for private sector soon||With COVID-19 pandemic set to scale the peak in the State, it is becoming more evident that the private health sector will have a major role to play in providing tertiary and advanced care for COVID-19 patients so that the mortality rate does not rise. The government has been engaging the private health sector and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in a manner in which the latter can cooperate with the government. The government’s initial suggestion that Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati’s fever/pneumonia treatment package rates (ranging from Rs. 750 per patient for general ward to Rs. 2,000 a day for ICU plus ventilator charges) be taken as COVID treatment rates was rejected by the private sector as way too low. Uniform rates In keeping with the government’s proposal that there should be uniformity in rates, private hospitals had proposed that Kerala announce a separate package for private hospitals as has been done by Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Their rates put the charges per patient in the range of Rs. 5,000 a day for general ward to Rs. 14,000 a day for ICU care and Rs. 20,000 a day for ICU with ventilator. “After discussions, we have put up a proposal and have reached an understanding with the government. The approximate average charges per patient in general ward would be around Rs. 2,300 a day, High Dependency Unit charges at Rs. 3,500 a day, ICU charges at Rs. 6,000 a day and ICU with ventilator charges at Rs. 11,500 a day. There will be an additional charge for PPE kits because we will need to use plenty of these,” A.V. Jayakrishnan, chairman, IMA Hospital Board of India, said. “The patient-staff ratio required for COVID care is very high and with PPE, staff will have to be rotated every six hours. Only those private hospitals which can strictly maintain a clear separation between COVID and non-COVID patients will offer to provide COVID care. Not more than one-fourth of the normal hospital capacity can be set aside for COVID care becaus,” he added. All private hospitals have been amping up their testing facilities by investing in TrueNat or CBNAAT machines. The new viral antigen test kit approved by the ICMR is emerging as an easier option and in two weeks’ time the private sector is expected to be well-equipped to offer COVID testing for more people.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers to be roped in for COVID-19 duty||The State government has commandeered the service of teachers under the General Education Department to aid the administration in the fight against the pandemic. A senior officer told The Hindu that “with schools closed it is better to train and keep teachers ready to handle any surge in the future.” The Director, General Education Department, ordered deputy directors to deploy teachers as per the request of District Collectors for COVID-19 control duty without derailing the academic calendar. He said schools should maintain 50% of the teachers to ensure online classes and admissions procedure as per schedule. Teachers should be sent for pandemic control duty in rotation. The director also sought the details Vocational Higher Secondary Education and High Secondary Education (HSE) teachers for possible COVID-19 duty deployment.  ‘Spare HSE teachers’ R. Arunkumar, president of the Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association, said HSE teachers should not be roped in for COVID-19 duty. Some teachers were still engaged in valuation duties. Moreover, with online classes under way, some were busy with conducting the classes, and others with clearing doubts and notes preparation. Moreover, Plus One admission would begin once the results were declared. The teachers would need to be in schools for processing applications and setting up help desks if the admissions were to be held in a time-bound manner, he said. ‘Already on duty’ Kerala School Teachers’ Association general secretary K.C. Harikrishnan said not only teachers, but officials also were being posted for COVID-19 prevention. Moreover, in Thiruvananthapuram, teachers continued to be on COVID-19 prevention duty. Teachers had been posted in the city, Varkala, and Attingal, he said.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Presence of floating population calls for alert’||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has called for heightened vigil against COVID-19 in the district. She was addressing mediapersons on the sidelines of a programme on mental health during COVID-19. The Minister said though the number of cases in the district was low, it had a floating population, with a large number of people coming from other districts and States, especially border districts of Tamil Nadu, for medical and other needs. Hence, there was need to remain vigilant. The Minister ruled out lapses on the part of General Hospital (GH) and Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in performing COVID-19 tests on a 67-year-old patient from Vanchiyoor who died on June 12. Reports on the medical aspects were awaited. Collector’s view The District Collector on Wednesday had indicated that report from the hospitals on the incident were unsatisfactory. “We cannot say there has been a lapse. In such a pandemic, lot of unexpected things do happen. We need to learn from it,” Ms. Shylaja said.  The Minister denied that there were 80 cases in the State whose source could not be traced. “In a majority of cases where source was said to be unknown, these have been traced.” On the exact number of such cases, she said figures had been sought from the districts and would be available soon. Charges for tests Asked about charges for COVID-19 tests in private labs, she said the State had issued an order in this regard, with charges for each kind of test specified. The charges in the State would be lower than that in other States, the Minister said. The Minister refuted that quarantine centres had been closed, saying facilities such as hotels or other buildings that had been commandeered from private owners were returned to them after use. These were not permanent centres for institutional quarantine. If need be, these faculties would again be commandeered for quarantine purposes, she said.  Minister rules out lapses on the part of GH, MCH in performing COVID-19 tests on a patient from Vanchiyoor who died on June 12.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to run inter-district relay buses from today||The hourly inter-district super deluxe relay services of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) for long-distance passengers will commence on Friday. For the time being, the services will be operated from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Thiruvananthapuram- Thrissur- Thiruvananthapuram sector in view of the night curfew in force due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. The services from Thiruvananthapuram to Thrissur will be at 5 a.m., 6 a.m., 7 a.m., 8 a.m., 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 12 noon, 1 p.m., and 2 p.m. From Thrissur, the services to Thiruvananthapuram will commence at 4.40 a.m., 5.40 a.m., 6.40 a.m., 7.40 a.m., 8.40 a.m., 9.40 a.m., 10.40 a.m., 11. 40 a.m., 12.40 p.m. and 1.40 p.m. Passengers can travel up to Thrissur on super deluxe buses in the Thiruvananthapuram- Kollam, Kollam-Alappuzha, Alappuzha-Ernakulam, and Ernakulam-Thrissur sectors. In both directions, one will have to board four relay buses. The buses will stop only at designated stops of super deluxe buses.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SEC begins rearranging of polling stations||The State Election Commission (SEC) has initiated the process of rearranging polling stations ahead of local body elections, Commissioner V. Bhaskaran has said. Mr. Bhaskaran said the three-tier panchayats have 29,210 and municipalities and Corporations 5,213 polling stations. Secretaries of local bodies have been entrusted with the task. They would submit a report to the district election officials before June 29. As per the new arrangement, a rural polling station would have 1,200 voters and urban 1,500.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Concern over college reform report||Former executive council member of the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) R. Jayaprakash has sought changes in the recommendations of an expert committee for new courses in colleges. In a statement, he raised concern over the purported pitfalls in the report prepared by an expert panel led by Mahatma Gandhi University Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas. “While the recommendations are aimed at improving the quality of education, they raise some serious concerns as well,” he said. Citing the proposal to start Honours programmes at the UG level, he said the previous UDF government had decided to commence three-year UG Honours, but the plan was dropped as the trial run in four government colleges was unsuccessful. Referring to the recommendations to introduce these courses in colleges having a NAAC ‘A’ grade and NIRF rank within 100, he said while 81 arts and science colleges in the State possessed the ‘A’ grade, only 19 among them fulfilled the NIRF ranking criteria. Also, only three government colleges met the criteria. Dr. Jayaprakash demanded that the courses be granted to all colleges with the ‘A’ grade.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB grants relief to domestic consumers||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has issued orders granting concessions to domestic consumers in the power bills issued between April 20 and June 19. The KSEB director board which met here on Thursday decided to exempt consumers having previous bill up to 40 units from paying their bills.  50% subsidy A 50% subsidy has been granted on additional amount in the bills issued during the period for domestic consumers having average monthly consumption up to 50 units and 30% for those consuming up to 100 units. A 25% subsidy has been granted for consumption up to 150 units and 20% for consumption above 150 units. The subsidy amount would be clearly and separately mentioned in the bills to be issued by the board. The board also decided to grant up to five monthly instalments to domestic consumers for the bills issued during the period. No interest would be levied on the payments of the revised bills on clearing it before December.
26 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Muraleedharan rejects demand||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said the Centre cannot follow the security precautions mooted by the State government for Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) being repatriated on Vande Bharat flights. He said the State had issued a set of guidelines for NoRKs. The Centre has set uniform safety norms for all passengers. The Centre has informed the State of its inability to alter the guidelines. The Centre cannot intervene in the health protocol of other nations and hence it was trying to convince Kerala that its demand for testing all passengers was impossible.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Comments do not warrant reply: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday refused to be drawn into an argument with Union Minister of Foreign Affairs V. Muraleedharan over whether the State government had demanded impractically that expatriates be tested for SARS-CoV-2 at their ports of departure.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nominations invited for teachers’ awards||Nominations have been invited for National Teachers’ Award for 2019. Nominations can be uploaded online on the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development’s websitewww.mhrd.gov.inby clicking on the linkhttp://nationalawardstoteachersThe last date is July 6.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Migrant workers to be allowed to return||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has directed district-level police officers to ensure that returning migrant workers are not prevented from entering the State or sent back from border check-posts. The migrant workers are to be sent to quarantine centres as soon as they arrive at the border, he said.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Major General Mandip Singh Gill is Additiional DG, NCC (pic mailed)||Major General Mandip Singh Gill has taken over as Additional Director General of the NCC Directorate (Kerala and Lakshadweep). He was commissioned in 1987 into the Regiment of Artillery of the Indian Army. He commanded a Brigade in Jammu and Kashmir and one in Punjab.
26 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur City Police launch ‘Operation Shield’||The City police has launched ‘Operation Shield’ to tighten vigil against COVID-19 as there is a spurt in cases and more containment zones are declared in the district. Operation Shield will coordinate preventive measures. Division number 3, 24, 25, 26, 27, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 39, 48, of 49 of Thrissur Corporation; 3, 4, 8, 19, 20, 29, and 30 divisions of Chavakkad Municipality; Division numbers 7, 8, 11, 15, 19, and 20 of Kunnamkulam municipality; ward numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Engandiyur panchayat; ward numbers 14 and 15 of Vellangallur gram panchayat; Ward numbers 6, 7, and 9 of Kattakambal panchayat and ward numbers 14, 15, and 16 of Kadavallur pachayat are the containment zones in the district. The Operation Shield will ensure that lockdown guidelines are strictly maintained at containment zones. Only emergency services will be allowed in these areas. People should go out only in case of emergency. Under Section 144 of the CRPC, more than three persons should not come together. People should keep a safe distance. Shops selling essential services can function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. People from other States should not be brought for work. Door-to-door sales have been strictly banned. Strict action will be initiated against people who fail to wear masks and keep safe distance. The City police registered a case against 44 people for not maintaining safe distance on Thursday.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown blues||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spoilt for choice||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fuel for protest||
26 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment strategy goes haywire in Anantapur||Shoddy implementation of containment zones in Anantapur has led to a spurt in coronavirus cases in the city, say locals. The size of each zone is very small, at a radius of less than 200 metres, and there are many such zones all across the city as the government, in a bid to avoid overcrowding of hospitals and COVID Care Centres, is encouraging home isolation for those who test positive for the virus but exhibit only mild symptoms. Over 25% of those who tested positive for coronavirus in the city have opted for home isolation. This strategy, however, has worked like a double-edged sword due to a stigma surrounding the virus. Officials say that they are deluged by phone calls from neighbours of COVID-19 patients, urging that the patients be shifted to institutional quarantine. Little impact Patients, however, are preferring to stay home as four of the COVID Care Centres at S.K. University and surrounding places have poor facilities and hygiene. A fresh lockdown in the district for the past five days seems to have had little impact, as people are seen moving around in their vehicles throughout the day. Police are struggling to regulate both traffic flow and keep an eye on containment zones, which have mushroomed across the city. Only shopkeepers have faced the brunt of the fresh lockdown, as they have to down their shutters by 11 a.m. The government has stopped its practice of delivering essentials to the doorstep of families living in containment zones, resulting in people stepping out of their homes at will. A case in point is Obuldevnagar colony where two of the lanes are in a containment zone, but more than seven families living here have left their homes and travelled to their relatives’ places or native villages. Life is near normal with many residents sitting outside on the streets without wearing masks as residents walk in and out of the containment zone for buying essentials.
26 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||10.69 km electrified second rail line commissioned in Anantapur||The South Central Railway has commissioned and operationalised the second railway line between Zangalapalli and Chigicherla with electrification, which is part of the Gooty-Dharmavaram Doubling Project. The SCR General Manager, Gajanan Mallya, in a release on Thursday congratulated the railways and RITES team that completed the task with dedication even during the COVID-19 pandemic. The double line would give impetus to the rail services in the Rayalaseema region. This was the third consecutive infrastructure project being commissioned in the zone in June, he said. The section of the project was commissioned after authentication from the Commissioner for Railway Safety. The project is a vital rail link connecting Andhra Pradesh with Karnataka and joins Hyderabad with Bengaluru with a faster rail travel possibility. The 90 km project is being executed by the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) at a cost of Rs. 636.38 crore. The doubling and electrification in the section between Kalluru and Garladinne for a distance of 11 km was completed in September, 2019. The completion of 10.69 km now, leading to a total of 22 km, amounted to 25% execution of the project.
26 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lifting of lockdown led to sharp rise in cases?||Anantapur district had witnessed less than 250 COVID-19 positive cases till the end of Lockdown 4.0, which ended on May 28. However, the total number of cases in the district now stands at 1,312, according to the Medical and Health Department’s bulletin on Thursday. Currently, 857 active cases are being treated either in hospitals, COVID-19 Care Centres or in home isolation and 32 deaths have been recorded. “The saving grace for the district is the low number of cases that need a ventilator (10 so far). Only 60 patients need to be oxygenated (60), and the remaining have very mild symptoms, which can be treated anywhere,” District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar told The Hindu . Officials expect the cases to peak around July 15 in the district.
26 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City grappling with sudden spurt||The medical, revenue and police departments in Chittoor district were put on high alert after 33 persons — all workers of a pharma company at Sri City — tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours. All the persons hail from Pedda Eetipakam hamlet and Cherivi village near Sri City. The Chittoor district police issued a public alert, cautioning villagers of the eastern mandals of KVB Puram, Pichatur, Nagalapuram, Varadaiahpalem, Satyavedu, Puttur and Nagari, to inform area officials if they have information about the contacts and relatives of the workers who tested positive. Sri City industrial zone has around 150 companies, most of them units established by premier industrial entities. According to Sri City officials, over 50,000 workers are directly or indirectly employed in these units. The workers are spread over the eastern mandals of Chittoor district, border villages inside Tamil Nadu, Sullurpeta, Naidupeta and Tada mandals of Nellore district. A large number of vehicles criss-cross the villages in the tri-State junction to pick up the workers from their home and drop them back after work. After the COVID-19 lockdown, all workers coming from Tamil Nadu were strictly barred from attending work in all the factories of Sri City. Workers from the southern mandals of Nellore and eastern mandals of Chittoor were subjected to rigorous formalities, including thermal screening, hand gloves, face masks and sanitisation, before being allowed to board company buses and entering the Sri City zone. Officials puzzled Public Relations Officer (Sri City) Ravindranath Chivukula told The Hindu that it was surprising as to how the workers of Sri City zone tested positive for COVID-19, despite foolproof measures in place. “Sri City has been taking all precautions to combat COVID-19 in the industrial belt. All the companies have put in place infallible measures to ensure that workers follow the COVID-19 guidelines in full,” he said. Since the lockdown had commenced, the number of workers attending the work schedules has come down to below 40%. “The workers from the mandals of Nellore and Chittoor district, who reside in red zones and containment areas, are also being barred from coming to work. We are thoroughly monitoring the entry of workers from the prohibited zones in coordination with the district officials of the concerned areas,” Mr Ravindranath said.
26 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders prevented from visiting Praja Vedika site||High drama prevailed on Thursday morning after several TDP leaders from Guntur and Krishna districts were prevented from going towards the residence of party president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The TDP leaders said they wanted to stage a protest at the Praja Vedika, the pre-fabricated structure that had been demolished by the YSRCP government exactly an year ago on June 25, 2019, hours after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave the orders saying that it was an illegal structure built in violation of the River Conservation Act. The police blocked the road leading to Praja Vedika located adjacent to the residence of Mr. Naidu on the Karakatta, the narrow flood bank of the Krishna. While the police claimed that the TDP leaders gathered in large numbers in violation of Section 144 of the CrPC, the party leaders said they were going to attend a meeting. A few TDP leaders were bundled into vans and taken to the Mangalagiri police station where they were let off. TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah and former Ministers Kollu Ravindra, Alapati Rajendra Prasad and Devineni Umamaheswara Rao were among those who were arrested. “What is wrong in showing people the way this government dismantled a pre-fabricated structure constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.5 crore? We want to highlight the way the government has been targeting the Opposition leaders,” said Mr. Ramaiah.
26 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP has no interest in public issues’||YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh said on Thursday that it was ridiculous on the part of the TDP to protest near the “illegal structure,” and it showed their ideological bankruptcy and lack of interest in public issues. Praja Vedika was a symbol of TDP corruption and arrogance, which was demolished, said Mr. Ramesh. Addressing the media here, Mr. Ramesh said TDP leaders such as Devineni Umamaheswara Rao created an unnecessary scene at the demolished structure as they had no other issue to pin point against the government. “Can they show one promise the government did not fulfil in the past one year?” he asked. Mr. Ramesh said it was pathetic to see the Opposition leaders organising a “condolence meet” for a demolished structure and terming the YSRCP rule as destructive.
26 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dokka files papers; set to become MLC||Dokka Manikaya Vara Prasada Rao, who quit the TDP to join the YSRCP last year, filed nomination papers for the post of MLC on Thursday. He was accompanied by party leaders Ummareddy Venkateswarlu, Bapatla MP N. Suresh and Tadikonda MLA V. Sridevi. Mr. Rao is set to be elected unanimously with the party having 151 members in the Assembly.
26 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders see plot to destabilise govt.||YSRCP leaders have taken to Twitter to cry foul over the alleged meeting of N. Ramesh Kumar, who is embroiled in a legal battle, with BJP Rajya Sabha member Y. Sujana Chowdary and BJP leader Kamineni Srinivas at a star hotel in Hyderabad recently. Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the three met and chalked out a plan to destabilise the government and the entire operation was led by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Adviser (Public Affairs) S. Ramakrishna Reddy said Mr. Ramesh Kumar had created suspicion in the minds of people after he met the two BJP leaders.
26 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||KMC gets ICMR nod for plasma therapy||Kurnool Medical College (KMC) has been approved as the 60th centre in the country to conduct plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms and the trials will begin within the next two days, according to medical college Principal P. Chandrashekar. At a press conference here on Thursday, Dr. Chandrasekhar appealed to all those who recovered from COVID-19 and completed 28 days, must come forward voluntarily and donate plasma as antibodies in it would be useful for treating those having moderate symptoms and undergoing treatment. He thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Health Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy for taking special interest in KMC getting equipment worth Rs. 25 lakh and pursuing the ICMR for according the nod. Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences at Tirupati was also given the permission to conduct plasma therapy, he added.  Ethics panel Meanwhile, an ethics committee was formed with Dr. Bhavani Prasad as its chairman to go into all the issues related to plasma therapy, he said. There were about 1,600 positive cases in Kurnool district and 200 of them were still getting treatment at the Kurnool GGH, which has been designated as State COVID Hospital. "In the absence of a drug to cure the disease and a vaccine is still at the trial stage, plasma therapy is the only option now," he opined.
26 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in Nellore, Prakasam districts||There was no let-up in coronavirus cases in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 48 more persons — 15 in Nellore district and 33 in Prakasam district — tested positive in the last 24 hours. Nellore city accounted for nine fresh cases. Sullurpeta, close to Chennai, reported one new case, as did Jaladangi, Bogole, Indukurupet and Kavali. A person from Guntur also tested positive, taking the total number of active cases to 237 in Nellore distict, a health bulletin compiled by the Medical and Health Department said. In Prakasam district, Markapur accounted for a high of nine fresh cases followed by Chirala with eight new cases, Vetapalem with four cases and Ongole with three cases, according to COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards. In Ongole, the busy market centre of Gandhi Road, Revenue Colony and Gunuvapalem witnessed fresh cases. The newly-infected persons include a seven-year-old boy and five-year-old girl, both from Chirala, where the total number of confirmed cases went up to 55. Two of the infected persons had returned from Chennai and two had returned from Bengaluru. Four others on their return from Jogipeta in Telangana also contracted the virus. A 23-year-old woman from Rajasthan also tested positive on her return to Singarayakonda village. Remote villages affected After the lifting of the lockdown, the virus spread to remote villages in Prakasam district. Polineni Cheruvu (V.V. Palem mandal), Purimetla (Mundlamuru mandal), Kolavaripalem (Parchur mandal), Katrapalem (Podili mandal) and Chinnaganjam reported one fresh case each. At least five of the infected persons in Prakasam district had no travel history to any COVID-19 hotspots. Four of the newly-infected persons were primary contacts of COVID-19 patients and 12 others secondary contacts of patients under treatment.
26 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veligonda Phase 1 will be ready in 3 months: Collector||The first phase of the long-pending Pula Subbaiah project will be completed by September 2020, according to Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar. “Water from the Krishna will be supplied to farmers through the project at any cost by October this year,” the Collector said while reviewing the progress of the tunnel works along with Joint Collector J. Venkata Murali at the Veligonda project office at Dornala on Thursday. “There is no dearth of funds for the project. Permission has been accorded to mobilise workers from other States to speed up the drilling work. With over 701 m of the 18.820 km-long Tunnel I still to be completed, the drilling work would be taken up on a war footing from both sides to complete the project by September 2020,” he said. Like other major irrigation projects, this project, which envisaged drawing floodwaters from the Krishna through twin giant tunnels, had suffered a delay in the wake of the lockdown announced to combat coronavirus. A prestigious project taken up by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy under ‘Jalayaganam’ to drought-proof the district, the project had missed several deadlines. It is again set to miss the latest deadline of August 2020 set by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his visit to the project site in February this year. The first phase of the project had been designed to irrigate 1.19 lakh acres and provide drinking water to four lakh people by drawing 10 tmcft of water from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir.
26 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goods train derails, oil tankers catch fire||Four oil tankers of a goods train containing diesel caught fire when the wagons derailed between Surareddypalem and Tangutur in Prakasam district on the Howrah-Chennai main line in the early hours of Thursday. As the Chennai-bound train from Gangineni in Secunderabad railway division carrying inflammable substance approached the bridge across the dry Musi river, it jumped off the rails, severing links of the four wagons with the other wagons of the goods train. In the fire that followed the stored diesel in them went up in flames. Railway staff led by Vijayawada Additional Divisional Railway Manager M.V.S. Rama Raju swung into action and cleared the up line for traffic by afternoon. Fire service personnel led by Prakasam District Fire Officer S. Srinivasa Rao put off the fire after fighting it for over three hours. “We were able to prevent the fire from spreading to other wagons,” he said after completing the fire fighting operation in time by pressing into service five fire tenders — two from Ongole and one each from Nellore, Kandukur and Kondepi. In the wake of the derailment, two wagons plunged into the dry riverbed with a loud noise, while another was left hanging. The raging fourth was lying close to the railway track. However, 45 other wagons did not suffer any damage and proceeded to its destination later.
26 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illicit liquor dens raided in border areas||Police teams from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha launched a joint raid on illicit liquor manufacturing units along the inter-State border on Thursday. The illicit liquor mafia has become highly active in border regions, as many people are buying arrack instead of going to wine shops due to a steep hike in prices of liquor in the State. Acting on the directive of Visakhapatnam Deputy Inspector General L.K.V. Ranga Rao, the Srikakulam Police Department and Excise Department have been jointly conducting raids in the border areas for the last few days. The Odisha Police have also extended their cooperation to A.P. police teams for joint raids in areas like K. Beejapur, Bannaguda, Ramachandrapur, Gongapur, Jarada and other places. Although a majority of the areas come under Odisha limits, the sale of illicit liquor is mostly done in A.P. Additional Superintendent of Police K. Srinivasa Rao and Assistant Commissioner of Excise Department S. Sukesh have been holding meetings with their counterparts to check the activities of the liquor mafia. Around 20,400 litres of fermented jaggery was destroyed during the raids. Two persons involved in the illegal activity have also been arrested, according to Mr. Ranga Rao. He urged people not to drink arrack as it would damage their health and lead to death in some cases.
26 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam outfit opposes proposal for new districts||Srikakulam Backward Classes Welfare Association president P. Chandrapati Rao and secretary B. Devabhusana Rao on Tuesday announced that a delegation would meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in order to urge him to retain Etcherla and Rajam Assembly constituencies in Srikakulam district. “The merger of those constituencies with Vizianagaram district would throw up many socio-economic problems in Srikakulam district,” Mr. Chandrapati Rao said. “Etcherla constituency has spread up to PN Colony and Navabharat Junction of Srikakulam town and its merger with Vizianagaram district would lead to complications for over 25,000 people in the future,” he said. “The growth of Srikakulam district will be hampered permanently if the proposal goes through. The government should not disturb the lives of people living in backward regions. The district will lose its recognition when all industries and educational institutions will be included in Vizianagaram district,” Mr. Chandrapati Rao said.
26 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘For CM, higher education is a top priority ’||Minister Dharmana Krishnadas on Thursday said the Chief Minister was giving utmost priority to higher education. Mr. Krishnadas, who attended the foundation day celebrations of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University, said that the university could become one of the best within a decade. Vice-Chancellor Kuna Ramjee and Registrar K. Raghubabu said that NAAC accreditation and the UGC’s support enhanced its reputation.
26 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala spl. darshan ticket quota raised||The TTD on Thursday enhanced the online quota of Rs. 300 special darshan tickets by another 3,000 till the month end, taking the total to 9,000 a day. Initially, the TTD decided to provide 3,000 tickets online in addition to an equal number offline tickets on a day-to-day basis since the opening of the hill temple on June 11 after relaxation of the lockdown. However, in view of requests from pilgrims, it increased the quota for the second time in a fortnight. Likewise, 3,000 sarva darshanam tickets will also be issued on a daily basis at the three TTD counters at Tirupati from Friday till the month end.
26 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP questions Vijaya Sai’s capacity to issue him show-cause notice||In his reply to the show-cause notice issued to him on Wednesday, YSRCP Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju stated on Thursday that he was obligated to answer only if MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy established the existence of a disciplinary committee in the party and showed that it followed the procedures stipulated by the Election Commission. If the YSRCP had such a committee, it should reveal the names of its chairman and members, Mr. Raju insisted. Stating that he was surprised by Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s claim to be the national general secretary of the YSRCP, Mr. Raju said it was a “Registered State Recognised Party” as per the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order of 1968, and questioned his capacity to serve the notice. Launched a scathing attack on Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, the Narsapuram MP alleged that he was causing more harm to the party than anyone else by working against the spirit of democracy. ‘No legal sanctity’ Mr. Raju further said the letterhead on which Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy sent him the notice lacked legal sanctity as the name of the party should have been ‘Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party’. The Narsapuram MP asserted that he was an ardent admirer of party leader and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and that he would respect the rules and regulations of the party and its policies and procedures, instructions and guidance, and ideology and philosophy. The MP went on to say that if Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy failed to establish the existence of a disciplinary committee, he would treat him as not authorised to issue the notice, and initiate appropriate legal proceedings for making “misleading claims.” The MP said he would give a detailed reply within the stipulated time only if he received the communication through the proper channel.  I will give a detailed reply to the show-cause notice within the stipulated time only if I receive communication through the proper channel K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju Narsapuram MP
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple priest tests positive for COVID-19||A priest working for Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam tested positive for COVID-19. According to the temple officials, he has not been attending to duties for the last 10 days in view of the guidelines. The temple management asked the priests and employees aged above 55 years not to attend to duties until further orders. Subsequently, he is not coming to the temple, sources say. It is not clear when the case was detected. The management, however, began conducting tests to every employee following the development. As many as 143 tests were conducted on Tuesday and 193 on Wednesday. About 170 tests were conducted on Thursday. The tests would be conducted to all employees, including outsourced, security etc., say the sources.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mismatch in TDP MLC’s test result kicks up row||A mismatch in the COVID-19 test result of TDP MLC Deepak Reddy by State government agencies and a private lab in Hyderabad touched off a furore with the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) objecting to health officials asking him to go undergo home quarantine. TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu in a statement on Thursday, said another ugly face of the government is revealed in the tests conducted on MLAs and MLCs during the recent budget session of the Assembly. This trick is being played on the Opposition leaders who returned from neighbouring States. But, Mr. Deepak Reddy already underwent SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR test at two locations in Telangana where he tested negative, he pointed out and accused the State government of negligence and resorting to “cheap tactics” at a time when cases were rising unabated in Andhra Pradesh. TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh expressed doubts over the accuracy of the tests being conducted by the State government. Posting the test reports of the government and a private lab in Hyderabad on Twitter, he said the government seems to be conducting the tests in a very casual manner. The Health Department officials responded swiftly to the tweets by Mr. Lokesh. They said the RT PCR test has a sensitivity (chances of detecting positive in a COVID patient) of 67%. That means in 33% with COVID, it is still negative, whereas its specificity is 100%. It means if the test is positive, it is 100% certain that the patient has COVID.  ‘Avoid critical remarks’ During recovery, the test also becomes negative as in the case of Mr. Deepak Reddy. The initial report of positive means he had COVID, whereas, the second test is negative because of two reasons: It can be missed because of 67% sensitivity or his viral load might have come down as he might be in the recovery phase. “AP health Dept advises all concerned to be responsible before making any comments on technical matters. Further such comments not only affect the morale of the staff working in labs but also create avoidable suspicion in the minds of the public during pandemic which is not good. Department of Health, AP still advises Sri Deepak Reddy Home Isolation as per ICMR guidelines despite his negative test result,” they tweeted.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to establish 25 driving schools in State||In order to overcome the shortage of drivers, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) plans to establish 25 state-of-the-art driving schools in each of the parliamentary constituencies across the State. The initiative is meant to serve the dual purpose of creating employment opportunities for the youth and fill the gap between the demand and the existing number of drivers. For every 1,000 vehicles, there is a shortage of 400 drivers. The plan is to impart training to 5,000 youth every year using the Intellicar software. The initiative is being implemented under the Centrally-sponsored National Bus Rejuvenation Programme. Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have been selected for the programme under which the Centre would extend funds. The APSRTC intends to utilise the funds to augment city and suburban services also. After a survey in Kakinada town, it has sent a proposal to the Urban Mass Transit Company (UMTC) to ply 215 city services in a radius of 20 km from Kakinada town to cover the suburban areas of Kakinada, including Peddapuram, Ramachandrapuram and Samarlakota. This model would be replicated in every parliamentary segment. Revenue-generation ideas Utilising the lockdown period, the public transport carrier has put in place an elaborate plan to bounce back by repurposing its resources and employing innovative methods. For instance, the cash-strapped public sector carrier has remodelled a few of its old buses into Janata Bazars, mobile markets that cater to the needs of the residents in containment zones, and more recently, 53 of its high-ended buses were converted into Sanjivini, mobile clinics that have been going into residential colonies to conduct COVID-19 tests. “Last year, the revenue of APSRTC between March 21 and June 21 was Rs. 1,215 crore. It has dipped to Rs. 86 crore now due to COVID-19. In order to enhance our non-ticket revenue, we are trying to put to use some of our old buses after their fitness test and other key examinations by the Transport Department,” said the corporation’s Managing Director Madireddy Pratap. Every year, RTC discards 1,600 buses that complete 10 lakh km distance, as scrap. By spending Rs. 1 lakh to fit new engines to these buses which are then diverted for some other purpose, the corporation is trying to make a small revenue out of it. These outdated buses have been given new shapes and purposes like Janata Bazars operating in 175 constituencies, mobile toilets for women, hydraulic buses used in waste management and in the cargo sector.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing project all set for launch next month||The YSRCP government’s prestigious ‘Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu’ programme is all set for launch next month with an objective to provide around 30 lakh houses in two phases and an equal number of house-site pattas to the poor with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 87,900 crore. During a webinar conducted by Secretary for Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Durgesh Sankar Mishra on Thursday, Principal Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain said: “he programme, taken up by the AP government is the largest such initiative in the country and for the first time in India, world class ‘Indo-Swiss energy efficient building technology’ is going to be introduced in the house construction, which helps reduce temperatures inside the houses and bring down the consumption of electricity.” Mr. Jain said the State government decided to construct 30 lakh houses for the weaker sections in two phases and arrangements for it were being made. The first phase of construction would be launched on August 26 as announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. A total of 5.38 lakh houses in urban local bodies and 9.65 lakh houses in urban development authorities were planned to be undertaken in the first phase. Eco-friendly The government has resolved to distribute 30 lakh house-site pattas on July 8 on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. These houses would be built in 15,591 layouts named as 'YSR Jagananna Colonies'. The construction of a model house at Tadepalli in Guntur district would be completed by June 30. Mr. Jain said the houses would comply with Eco-Niwas Samhita (ECBC-Residential) Code, which would ensure a reduction in electricity consumption without compromising on comfort (thermal comfort and day lighting). The Bureau of Energy Efficiency has come forward to implement Building Energy Efficiency Project in the housing project with the help of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs of the Swiss Confederation and assistance of A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM), according to a release by SECM CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New sand policy to blame for workers’ suicide: Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Nara Lokesh has alleged that the State government’s new sand policy was responsible for the misery and suicides of construction workers. Also, the construction industry has collapsed in the State due to the lopsided policy. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday, Mr. Lokesh deplored that the problems of construction workers began ever since the YSR Congress Party came to power. The government created a severe crisis in the name of a new sand policy. Four precious months were wasted and it led to the suicides of over 60 construction workers, he alleged. “The new policy has crippled the construction industry, while the ruling YSRCP leaders have amassed hundreds of crores of illegal money taking advantage of the new sand regulations,” he alleged, adding, “The best example of YSRCP sand mafia was how loose soil was supplied instead of sand for the house construction of a ruling party Minister himself in East Godavari district recently.” Mr. Lokesh said that the YSRCP leaders were perpetrating their sand mafia activities under the cover of stockyards. The officials were hand-in-glove with the ruling party leaders in the daylight plundering. The government made tall claims that it would not tolerate sand mafia activities, but did not take action for reasons well known to all, he said. The TDP MLC recalled how Kerala was creating all facilities to rescue construction workers there from Coronavirus impact. Whereas, in Andhra Pradesh, the workers were given just the Central assistance while the State Government had not given a single rupee. The Andhra Pradesh government should immediately form a welfare board with the workers’ leaders. It should also release a White Paper on the cess collections made from the workers, he added.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stick to schedule, CM tells irrigation officials||Setting the timetable for six irrigation project works for the year, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Polavaram works will continue as scheduled even during monsoon. During a review meeting on irrigation projects here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan held discussions with officials on the Owk tunnel -2, Veligonda head regulator works on tunnel 1, Nellore and Sangam barrage works, Vamsadhara-Nagavali interlinking, Vamsadhara Stage 2 of Phase 2. The officials said Owk tunnel 2 works are in progress and will be ready for inauguration by October while 700 metres digging work is due at Veligonda tunnel 1 and will be completed on time and water can be released by October next. Nallamala sagar works are complete and permissions have been obtained for relief and rehabilitation(R&R), and 180 metre eastern tunnel works will be completed in the coming three months. Teegaleru canal works are being completed along with tunnel works. Nellore and Sangam Barrage works are in full progress and will be completed by October. Works on Vamsadhara-Nagavali will be completed by December. Phase 2 works on Vamsadhara are moving ahead and will fill 8 tmcft water in the safe zone and by July next, works will be completed. Arrangements have been made to carry out spillway works throughout the year, barring August, and the fabricated radial gates will be set from November. The remaining works are progressing as scheduled, the officials said. ‘Workers returning’ While the workforce was 3,000 in April, it was reduced to 900 due to lockdown and now with workers returning, it has increased to 2,000, they said.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clear RTC society dues, govt. urged||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna has urged the State government to initiate steps to clear the dues to RTC Cooperative Credit Society (CCS) from the APSRTC management. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday, the CPI leader said that the RTC management has to pay about Rs. 260 crore to the society. The government was requested to pay the same along with interest, which would be around Rs. 18 crore. The employees were facing hardship as the loans were not being sanctioned since March, he said. The government should also take steps to continue the 7,500 outsourced employees, who had not been paid salaries for the last four months. The RTC did not implement the orders issued by the Principal Secretary to pay their salaries up to May. Without any departmental orders, the regional managers and depot managers had asked them not to attend duties, he said.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biometric attendance for teachers faulted||Expressing concern over rising coronavirus cases, TDP MLC A.S. Ramakrishna on Thursday asked the State government to drop its decision to make biometric attendance mandatory for government teachers to avoid health risk to them. The school education commission issued a circular for compulsory attendance of teachers which was in violation of the Central government guidelines. Moreover, even the Supreme Court has ordered for doing away with biometric attendance in offices considering its potential as a touch point to spread infections, he said at a press conference on Thursday. The MLC appealed to the government not to take hasty decisions on calling teachers to attend schools to upload data for the Unified District Information System for Education. which would endanger the lives of over 1.8 lakh teachers.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UK Dy. High Commissioner hails measures by State||United Kingdom's Deputy High Commissioner in Hyderabad to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Andrew Fleming felt the world has lessons to learn from how Andhra Pradesh is tackling the pandemic COVID-19. Mr. Fleming in a tweet referring to a news article on Thursday said, “AP has tested 14,049 per million, mobilised a network of 4.5 lakh volunteers to work with 11,158 village secretaries & pioneered tech to monitor quarantine compliance. Lessons for the world.”
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchan’s life in danger: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the government was hatching a conspiracy to play with the life of party Deputy leader in the Assembly K. Atchannaidu. In a series of tweets on Thursday, Mr. Naidu said that Mr. Atchannaidu was arrested a day after he underwent a surgery and was forced to travel hundreds of kilometres in a vehicle. As a result, the injury relapsed and he had to undergo another operation. The “inhuman treatment” continued even after the ACB court made it clear that Mr. Atchannaidu should be questioned in his hospital bed only. The court said he should not be made to sit or stand. The doctors of the Guntur General Hospital said the MLA needed 10 days bed rest, but undue pressure was brought on them for discharging him at midnight, Mr. Naidu alleged. The party would not tolerate if the government continued its “inhuman activities” and would continue its legal battle against the “conspiracies of the ruling party.”
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||546 kg ganja seized, 2 from T.N. arrested||Sleuths of the Commissioner's Task Force seized a huge haul of ganja weighing 546 kg and arrested two from Tamil Nadu. The police said the accused, Elumalai Venkatesh (33) and Lokanatham Rajesh Kanna (30) of Salem district, were allegedly transporting it in a truck owned by the former, from Visakhapatnam district. The police said the contraband was loaded in Yalamanchili mandal of Visakhapatnam district and is worth over Rs. 27.30 lakh in the market.
26 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last day to apply for Vahana Mitra||The last date for applying for the benefits of the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme has been extended again, till June 26. The Deputy Transport Commissioner (DTC), Krishna district, S. Venkateswara Rao, in a statement on Thursday, said to enable every eligible person to secure the aid of Rs. 10,000, the government had extended the last date yet again. He said the documents uploaded by the applicants would be scrutinised by the MDOs/Municipal Commissioners by June 28. On their recommendation, the district Collectors would give their approval by July 1 and by July 4, the financial assistance would be deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown takes a toll on form, fitness of sportspersons||The restrictions imposed on all sports events and on-field practice sessions during the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus is taking a toll on the fitness of players. All district and State-level cricket tournaments and coaching camps have been deferred. The 2019-20 league schedule has been put on hold due to the lockdown. “We had around 45 league matches lined up across all divisions before the lockdown was imposed in March. The 2019-20 league scheduled have been dropped. Now, we are awaiting clearance from the BCCI and the ACA for the 2020-21 schedule,” says Visakhapatnam District Cricket Association (VDCA) secretary K. Parthasarathi. Coaching camps League matches not only keeps players in touch with the game, but also allow them to warm up for the big events. Even annual coaching camps have been put on halt for the want of clearance from the ACA, he points out. The VDCA has written to the Collector to allow the coaching camps, but it is learnt that the administration does not want to take any chance amid the pandemic. “It is difficult for a cricketer to stay in good nick without playing match. It takes time for a player to build up fitness level and form,” says Mr. Parthasarathi. Meanwhile, the sportspersons are trying their best to keep themselves fit through innovative fitness regimes. However, former badminton national player and coach N.V. Muralikrishna says that following a fitness regime at home and playing at the courts are two different things. “Be it fitness, form, technique and timing, players lose it all if they stay out of active games even for six weeks. Even after things settle down, it will take at least three to four months for players to regain their form and fitness level,” he says. Shadow practice Only trying to stay fit by regulating diet and working out at home will not do. Be it any game, players must do some shadow practice, says Mr. Muralikrishna. “It is the best time for players to watch videos of old matches and discover their own shortcomings and that of the opponents. Mental toughness matters more than physical fitness,” he said.  Calendar advanced Meanwhile, District Sport Officer Surya Rao says that all sports schedules and selection trials across all games have been postponed. The Sports Authority of India has started online classes for all sports and the sportspersons should stay tuned to it, he says.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals go for voluntary lockdown in Araku||The Girijan Sangham and other citizens’ associations in Araku have decided to go for a voluntary lockdown in the agency areas from Thursday. The decision was taken by the associations in collaboration with merchants’ association as the agency areas have reported five COVID-19 cases in the last few days from Munchingput, Chintapalli, GK Veedhi and Koyyuru. “Since cases are now coming up in the agency areas, we have decided for a voluntary lockdown,” said Uma Maheshwara Rao of the Girijan Sangham. From Thursday, all shops will be open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and hotels will only give parcels and diners will not be allowed. “We also demand that weekly shandies be closed for the time being, till things normalise,” said Killo Surendra of the Girijan Joint Action Committee. Villages barricaded The tribals have also erected barricades at village entry points to restrict the entry of outsiders and movement of locals. They also demanded that the district administration restrict the entry of tourists in Araku valley and organise screening centres at all entry points. “After Araku, we are planning to impose a similar lockdown in Paderu and other parts of the agency area,” said Mr. Surendra.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Styrene gas leak: high-power panel given time to submit report till June 30||The State government has extended the time for submission of report by the high-power committee that is probing the styrene monomer vapour leak incident at the LG Polymers unit here till June 30. The government had earlier asked the committee to submit the report by June 22. The committee was constituted to investigate into the May 7 incident that had killed 12 persons and hospitalised many others residing in the vicinity of the factory located at R.R. Venkatapuram village. The committee is headed by Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad and comprises three members – Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven, district Collector V. Vinay Chand and Police Commissioner R.K. Meena. A.P. Pollution Control Board member-secretary Vivek Yadav is its member-convener. The committee had held a series of meetings with the technical experts, stakeholders, kin of victims, the police, political parties and NGOs. The committee, besides probing the cause of the incident, would also find possible solutions to address the concerns raised by the victims and recommend steps to be taken, and identify hazardous industries. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had stated action would be initiated against LG Polymers based on the report of the committee. He did not rule out shifting of the industry.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID Pharma app helps check use of self-medication||A total of 14,031 people in Visakhapatnam district and nearly 2.5 lakh in the State have purchased drugs over the counter (OTC) for cough, cold and fever at drug stores in barely two months. However, keeping a tab on sale of these drugs has now become easy, thanks to the launch of the COVID Pharma app. The Drugs Control Administration (DCA) has made it mandatory for drug dealers to note the name and mobile no. of customers seeking drugs for these symptoms. A total of 2,325 medical shops in Visakhapatnam district and 25,515 across the State have downloaded the app. While none of those, who used these drugs, turned out to be COVID-19 positive in Visakhapatnam district, 33 persons tested positive in in other areas of A.P., among such users. Alerts to health staff The app, introduced on the initiative of the Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Katamneni Bhaskar, automatically sends the information to the Medical Officers of the PHCs or the government hospitals or dispensaries concerned in the area. “The app was launched in the last week of April. Our inspectors visited all the medical shops and ensured that it was downloaded by the drug dealers. The app has minimised the use of self-medication and prevented possible COVID-19 cases going unchecked. The names and mobile numbers of drug buyers have to be compulsorily taken by the shops. Our inspectors check compliance of this order during the routine inspections on Mondays and Tuesdays,” says the Assistant Director, DCA, K. Rajitha. Those having COVID-19 symptoms are reluctant to get themselves checked as they may have to remain in quarantine for two weeks. There are also complaints that doctors at private hospitals are not attending on patients with mild symptoms until they get a COVID-19-free report.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested, ID arrack seized||The officials of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Anakapalle have arrested five persons and seized about 60 litres of illicitly packed in 1,200 sachets. A team team lead by SEB inspector L. Upendra caught three persons when they were allegedly trying to smuggle the ID arrack in Anakapalle. Investigation led to arrest of two more persons at V. Madugula. The SEB officials said the kingpin of the racket is yet to be nabbed. Meanwhile, the excise officials arrested four persons including a former corporator on charge of bootlegging at Narsipatnam and seized liquor bottles.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally crosses 600-mark in dist.||The coronavirus cases crossed the 600-mark, with 44 positive cases including a death reported from the district, on Thursday. The tally shot by more than 100 in the last 48 hours. As many as 25 patients who were undergoing treatment were discharged after being tested negative. Health officials are on their toes as 502 cases were reported from the district this month. With the fresh cases, the total number of active cases have been put at 338 while the number of discharged patients have reached 272. According to District Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, a 41-year-old woman from Kobbarithota area who was admitted to Government Hospital for Chest & Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) on Monday in critical condition, died on Thursday. Fresh cases were reported from Jampavariveedhi, Kakaralova, Appughar, Peda Jalaripeta, Dondaparthy and various parts of the district. Commissioner of Police R.K Meena conducted a review meeting with GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana on Thursday and decided to strengthen the enforcement in the containment zones. “Containment zones will be extended to 500 metres in clusters with more than 10 cases, while the 200-metre rule will apply to the clusters with less than 10 cases,” said Mr. Meena. Additional force will be deployed and patrolling will be intensified in the containment zones. Movement of people will be completely restricted in the zones. All entry and exit points will be strictly monitored, he said. Night curfew “Night curfew will be strictly enforced in containment zones from 9 p.m. to 5 p.m.,” he added.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek better deal||ASHA workers led by the CITU staged a protest to press for their demands including social security benefits as part of the ‘Demands Day’ here on Thursday. Addressing the protesters, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that ASHA workers were being given a raw deal by the government despite the yeomen services being rendered by them. “Even as the government is hailing their services, the ASHA workers have no job security. Forget about leaves, pension, ESI and PF benefits, they are yet to be recognised as workers,” he said. Mr. Narasinga Rao said that the ASHA workers should get the benefits of social welfare schemes. “The government should give recognition to their services at the field level and regularise their services. CITU Greater Visakha City Committee leaders M. Subba Rao and Chandrasekhar and ASHA Workers Union president P. Mani and leader V. Varalakshmi and Manga participated in the protest. Protective gear In a separate protest, CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar sought personal protection equipment (PPEs) to municipal, ASHA workers, RTC drivers, police, secretariat staff, volunteers and health workers who are deployed in the containment zones.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garbage-free rating of city revised to ‘3-star’||The Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has revised the rating awarded to Visakhapatnam during the Garbage Free Cities (GFC) Star Ratings 2020 from ‘one-star’ to ‘three-star’. This was announced by MoHUA Secretary K. Durga Shanker Mishra in his official twitter handle on Wednesday night. Congratulating Visakhapatnam, Mr. Mishra said the representations submitted by Visakhapatnam and a few other cities on the recent certification were scrutinised by a third party which found the applicants fit for higher rating. The results of the (GFC) Star Ratings 2020 were announced on May 19 and the rating of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) was dropped to ‘one-star’ from the ‘two-star’. Last month, GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao submitted a representation to Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) Joint Secretary V.K Jindal and Director B.K Jha in New Delhi, attributing the fall in the rating to the survey team missing out the construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant which had been functioning since the last one year. Third party scrutiny Considering the GVMC’s representation, a third party team visited the C&D plant in Visakhapatnam for scrutiny on June 12. “We are thankful to the Ministry and the Swachh Bharat Mission officials for considering our pleas. The city deserves good rating, so we took up the issue immediately. Moreover, the GFC Star rating is important as it reflects on the Swacch Survekshan ranking,” said a senior GVMC official.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurned lover held for ‘attacking’ girl||A 20-year-old girl who is working as digital operator at the village secretariat at Gamparai under Pedabayalu mandal was allegedly attacked by a person, after she rejected his marriage proposal on Wednesday. The incident came to light on Thursday after the victim lodged a complaint with the Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) and police, seeking protection. According to sources, the girl, in her complaint, alleged that Ch. Prashant, a youth from Rudakota village, had been pestering her to marry him since the last few days. Prasanth allegedly assaulted her. When the parents came to her rescue, he allegedly manhandled them. The police arrested him on Thursday evening and registered a case.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: CPI(M) opposes giving more time to HPC||The CPI(M) has opposed the extension of time for submission of report on the gas leak incident at LG Polymers by the High Power Committee appointed by the State government. In a statement on Thursday, CPI(M) District Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said the committee had already delayed the report in the name of studying the cause of the mishap.  Accusing the government of safeguarding interests of the LG Polymers management, he alleged that efforts were being made to water down the case. “The government has failed in taking a decision on shifting of the LG Polymers plant from RR Venkatapuram,” he said. Highlighting that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued orders on payment of Rs. 50 crore as compensation, Mr. Ganga Rao alleged that the government was trying to obtain a ‘stay’ on it .
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Time to dispel fears over vitiligo’||Vitiligo is a disease occurring in 1%-2% of the population. Its symptom appears as white patches on face, hands and feet and some times, it can be a generalised disease, said K. Venkata Chalam, honorary national joint secretary of Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venereologists and Leprologists (IADVL), on the World Vitiligo Day, on Thursday. The day is an initiative to build global awareness about vitiligo, in memory of American singer Michael Jackson, who suffered from vitiligo from the early 1980s until his death in 2009. The pigment producing melanocytes are destroyed as a result of auto-immune process. Vitiligo creates psychological impact due to the stigma associated with it. Although it does not cause any physical harm, it comes in the way of life, education and job. All this is the result of misconceptions about the disease that it is contagious and that it cannot be treated. Apart from skin, there can be changes in eyes and ears though rarely, he said.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Leopard scare’ grips Madhurawada||Panic gripped the outskirts of Madhurawada over the movement of a leopard in the area on Thursday. News appeared in a section of media also claimed that some residents saw the animal prowling. However, the forest officials are sceptical about the authenticity of the reports. “The photo being circulated about the leopard is not very clear. The animal in the picture could be a leopard or a dog. We are not sure whether the photo is a recent one,” said District Forest Officer Anant Shankar. Patrolling team However, the Forest Department has deputed a patrolling team to check footmarks or any clue of the animal. “We have also installed cameras for confirmation. The residents need not panic,” he said.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six youth booked for ‘assaulting’ rowdy-sheeter||The police on Thursday booked six youths on charges of assaulting a rowdy-sheeter with iron rods in broad daylight, in Ramachandra Nagar on June 23. The accused reportedly chased the rowdy-sheeter, identified as P. Rupesh, on bikes and three children suffered injuries in the melee. CCTV footage According to IV Town police station SI P. Surya Narayana, one Rakesh alias Rakhi from Dondaparthy, along with Murali Krishna, Mahesh, Kishore and two others, chased Rupesh. the onlookers alerted the police . Basing on the CCTV footage, the police registered cases. Police said Rakhi was reportedly spreading rumours that Rupesh was a thief. An irked Rupesh allegedly threatened Rakhi with dire consequences on June 22. The next day, Rakhi, along with his gang, allegedly tried to assault Rupesh, but he escaped. Police said all the accused and the victim are below 30 years of age and the gang is absconding.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for Vahana Mitra applications today||The last date for submission of applications for availing of the benefits of YSR Vahana Mitra scheme is June 26. Owner and drivers having Aaadhar and white ration cards need to submit applications through ward volunteers in GVMC limits and at MPDO offices in rural areas, said DTC G.C. Raja Ratnam.
26 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cotton-laden lorry gutted||A lorry laden with cotton caught fire near Prahaladapuram on Thursday. According to reports, the lorry was heading to Prahaladapuram from Guntur. Police said no causalities were reported. The reasons for the fire is yet to be ascertained.
26 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New districts’ talk creates flutter in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||The State government’s proposal to make parliamentary constituencies as districts has led to an uproar in several parts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts with several public representatives, academicians and representatives of non-governmental organisations joining hands to step up pressure on the government to modify the proposal to minimise inconvenience to people of these parts. ‘Economic imbalances’ Though the government’s intention is to bring the administration to the doorstep of people, it could lead to economic imbalances between the districts, say experts. Currently, Etcherla and Rajam Assembly constituencies, part of the Vizianagaram parliamentary constituency, are major industrial hubs in Srikakulam district. They have been flourishing areas compared with the remaining eight Assembly segments of Srikakulam district. Centres of learning such as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University and GMRIT, major pharmaceutical industries such as Aurobindo Pharma and Reddy’s Laboratory, and sugar and jute factories will become part of Vizianagaram district if the proposal is implemented.  Dr. B.R. Amebdkar University former Vice-Chancellor Hanumanthu Lajapathi Rai felt that there would not be any progress in Srikakulam district. “The government should announce a special financial package for Srikakulam district to develop industries and establish educational institutions in other areas when Etcherla and Rajam are included in Vizianagaram district,” he added. Former MP of Parvatipuram DVG Sankara Rao urged the government to make Parvatipuram, which is part of the the Araku parliamentary, a separate district. ‘Stakeholders opinion’ “People Parvatipuram of Vizianagarm district and Palakonda of Srikakulam district will be put to inconvenience as there is no direct access and public transport system to Araku. The government should take the opinion of all the stakeholders,” he added. Parvatipuram Zilla Sadhana Samithi leaders G.V.Ramana Rao, Vangala Dali Naidu saidthe association would approach court since the proposal would defeat the concept of decentralisation and make life miserable to more than 4 lakh people of the area. “The government should continue Parvatipuram in Vizianagaram district if it cannot make it a separate district. We also willing to be part of neighbouring Srikakulam district instead of the proposed Araku district,” said Dalinaidu, spokesperson of the samithi.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hooked||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||At whose risk?||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool ride||
26 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Discarded liquor bottles light hearths in some homes||Liquor is known to have tempted thousands of poor people into abusing it and eventually destroying their own family and home but, in a kind of paradox, the discarded empty liquor bottles have helped in lighting hearths at least in tens of homes. Yes, some poor people depend on collecting discarded liquor bottles as a means of livelihood which involves selling it to the local scrap dealer, who in turn sells it to breweries and distilleries which bring the bottles back into circulation. Almost every mandal head quarter village has a few individuals who earn their living in this manner. The daily income for such individuals ranges between Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 every day, depending of course, upon the quantum of liquor consumption by local tipplers in a given area. Outdoor drinking The activity also sheds light on the changing trend in consumption of liquor in that people are preferring gulping down alcohol in the open, often when riding a bike. This has them discarding the bottles by the side of the road which makes the task of the bottle collectors that much easy. “We collect about 5,000 empty bottles of beer and whisky every day,” revealed Paithri Raju, a bottle collector from Utnoor mandal head quarter in Adilabad district. "We sell it to the local scrap dealer at the rate of Re. 1.20 per bottle of beer and 50 paise for empty nips and pints of the harder stuff," he added. Raju and his brother Sai Kumar hire an auto trolley and go on a bottle collection drive early in the morning starting at Utnoor and move towards Indervelli on one direction and Birsaipet on the other. The duo said the lockdown period was a difficult one and the current unlocking has put them back on course what with liquor consumption resuming. Kadari Sridhar, a scrap dealer from the same town sells the empty beer bottles at Rs. 1.50 each. "I send these bottles to places in Hyderabad where companies sanitise the bottles for reuse," he pointed out.
26 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Activists ‘lock up’ officials in Charla mandal||Activists of Adivasi Samkshema Parishad (ASP) on Thursday created a flutter by climbing an overhead water tank in R Kothagudem village of Charla mandal in protest against alleged irregularities in the selection of beneficiaries under the two bedroom housing (2BHK) scheme. They allegedly locked up the village sarpanch, the village revenue officer and other staff members in the Gram Panchayat Office for sometime demanding deletion of the alleged ineligible persons from the list of beneficiaries of the State government’s flagship housing scheme. The protest comes a day ahead of the scheduled inauguration of the two bedroom housing colony in the village in the tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam Agency, sources said.
26 June 2020||Choutuppal,TELANGANA||‘Tangedu Vanam’ inaugurated||Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy on Thursday inaugurated the much-awaited ‘Tangedu Vanam’, a mini-forest developed following Miyawaki plantation method, here in Lakkaram village along NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada). Planting more trees per acre as the technique, specialised by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, officials here had taken up one acre and planted 4,000 saplings of 36 native varieties in 2018. Today, the park resembles a mini natural forest. Thanks to funds from the Compensatory Afforestation Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) and others, of about Rs. 5 crore, apart from afforestation, the urban green space also has a walking track, a yoga hall in the open and theme-based bamboo constructions. Along with Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and District Collector Anita Ramachandran, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy planted more trees on the premises.  Adilabad The programme was launched with great enthusiasm across old united Adilabad district. In Mancherial district, SC, BC and Disabled Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar participated along with MLAs N. Diwakar Rao, Balka Suman, Collector Bharati Holikeri and others. Adilabad Collector A. Sridevasena and other officials planted saplings at the famous Nagoba temple in Keslapur of Indervelli mandal. In Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, ZP chairperson Kova Laxmi, Asifabad MLA Athram Sakku and Collector Sandeep Kumar Jha planted saplings near Jankapur jail. Khammam The programme got underway across the district with an objective to plant around 1.05 crore saplings. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan kick-started the green drive by planting saplings at the mini-tank bund here. Later, the Minister formally launched the mega green drive to plant around 1,500 saplings in Velugumatla Urban Park on the first day near here.  Kamareddy Minister V. Prashanth Reddy launched the programme on the premises of the new Collectorate.  (With inputs from Pradeep from Nalgonda, S. Harpal Singh from Adilabad, P. Sridhar from Khammam and P. Ram Mohan from Kamareddy)
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Camel slaughter: notice to govt.||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices to the State government and GHMC in a PIL petition seeking a direction to stop alleged ‘illegal transportation of camels from Rajasthan to Telangana’ for slaughtering for meat. A doctor from Hasmathpet of Bowenpally, K. Shashikala, who filed the PIL plea, charged that camels were being brought from Rajasthan to Telangana, especially Hyderabad, either on foot or in crammed vehicles. They were being slaughtered for meat, she stated. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the PIL plea, sought to know how many camels were being transported illegally to Hyderabad. The Chief Justice observed that camels were almost extinct in Rajasthan. The bench said GHMC should stop the nefarious activities of individuals indulging in the slaughter. Stating that there were several laws and special Acts which had banned slaughtering of camels, the petitioner said it was an offence under the provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The doctor said that Rajasthan accounted for 82% of camel population in the country. While there were an estimated 12 lakh camel in the country in 1997, the numbers dwindled to less than 2.5 lakh by 2019, the petitioner claimed. The petitioner’s counsel Divya told the court that a copy of the FIR issued on August 13, 2019, relating to slaughtering of camels in the old city of Hyderabad was furnished for examination. Already, the Apex Court, hearing a similar matter, gave direction in 2012 to all States and Union Territories to constitute State Committees for Slaughter Houses. Counsel apprehended that there was a likelihood of slaughtering of camels going up in Hyderabad in the backdrop of a festival to be celebrated on July 30. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar, appearing for the government, said all measures would be taken to stop slaughtering of camels. The matter was posted for July 15.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Explain denial of aid to white card holders: HC||Seeking to know the justification behind denial of Rs. 1,500 a month during lockdown to a section of white ration card holders, the Telangana High Court on Thursday asked the State government its stand on the matter. PIL pleas A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing two PIL pleas on the matter, wanted the State government to clarify if it was going to pay Rs. 1,500 to all white ration card holders or not. The government announced this monthly financial assistance along with 12 kilos of rice to white ration card holders during the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus pandemic. However, the officials put a condition that holders of the white cards, who did not draw rice for past three consecutive months, were ineligible to secure the financial assistance. Challenging this condition, two PIL pleas were filed in the HC. While the hearing was in progress, the State government moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the matter. The apex court, declining to give any stay order, directed the State government to approach the HC for adjudication of the matter. When the two pleas came up for hearing, the bench headed by the CJ observed that the government should realise the white ration card holders from the State had gone to far-off places for work. Due to the pandemic, they walked hundreds of kilometres back to their villages. With the denial of the financial assistance by their own State government, these card holders suffer further, the bench said. They would not have taken the rice here since they had gone to other States for work. That cannot be a ground for denial of financial assistance, the bench remarked. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said the government was ready to present its arguments but sought time. The bench posted the matter to July for next hearing.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Coronavirus scare throws auto rides in city off-gear||There are more than 50 autos parked on the road between Mehdipatnam bus stand and Rethi Bowli junction. “We sit idling as there are not many people on the roads. As there is no public transport, people are not venturing out,” says Shaikh Muhammad polishing his vehicle. Public transport in Hyderabad is limited as RTC has not resumed its services over fears of virus spread. Metro and MMTS are also not plying. This limited mobility has had its impact on cab and auto drivers. According to industry estimates, about 3.5 lakh autorickshaws ply on the roads of Hyderabad. “Passengers are afraid to step into autos, drivers are also scared of passengers. This distrust has affected the business in a big way affecting the lakhs of families that depend on earnings from the drivers. Earlier, in an 8-12 hour shift, auto drivers used to do eight to 10 rides. Now, these are reduced to just 3-4 rides,” says Shaik Salauddin of Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers. The steady surge in fuel prices in the country hasn’t helped matters. “I used to make Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 1,500 per day. Now, if I can take home Rs. 300, it is good enough. The price of diesel has gone up by Rs. 5 over the past 15 days. The fare I get from the app aggregator is between Rs. 11 and Rs. 13 per km,” says Ravi Banoth, who owns and drives an auto for a living. The only time auto drivers are having some business is during office rush hours where shared autos are the norm. On some stretches like Rethibowli-Nampally, Hyderguda-Bahadurpura, Charminar-Kala Pathar, Ameerpet-Jubilee Hills check-post, shared autos are doing brisk business. “We can make only one or two trips like that. But we are worried about being penalised by police. I do the Mehdipatnam-Nampally route in the evening and it is very risky with so many people. But I have no choice,” says Mr. Muhammad, who lives in the Toli Chowki area and pays Rs. 300 per day for the hired vehicle.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC park inaugurated||Kick-starting the sixth phase of Telangana Ku Haritha Haram (TKHH) on Thursday, Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy and Minister for Power G. Jagadish Reddy launched the urban forest park ‘Tangedu Vanam’ in Lakdaram reserve forest area in Choutuppal. The park was developed on 50.08 hectares of forest area, with an expenditure of Rs. 3.45 crore. The ministers later planted saplings as part of the Haritha Haram programme. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy expressed happiness at being able to inaugurate the park on the starting day of the programme. Mr. Jagadish Reddy promised to develop such parks, one in each constituency of undivided Nalgonda district. In the Greater Hyderabad region, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao, together with Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, started the Haritha Haram programme by launching a new GHMC park in Bhoiguda of Sanatnagar constituency. The ministers took a tour of the park developed with an expenditure of Rs. 20 lakh, and inspected the walking track, open gym, chess game, and sports equipment for children. They also interacted with local people, and asked them to maintain the park well. GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar and other officials too participated in the programme. Minister Rama Rao also launched the programme for HMDA by planting saplings near Dundigal Exit 5 of Outer Ring Road. He also released the Haritha Haram brochure, and announced that the HMDA’s site of 110 acres adjacent to the ORR, falling in Dundigal municipality purview, would be planted with 6.5 lakh saplings, for development of Miyawaki forest on the lines of Yadadri model. He attributed the ORR development to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s directions to develop a theme for every 10 kilometres of the ORR. Mr. Rama Rao also said a total of 12.5 crore saplings were due to be planted this year, across HMDA, GHMC and all municipalities across the State. He urged the people to plant saplings with the motto of ‘Each One Plant One’. The new municipal act had provisions to take action against those responsible for less than 85 per cent survival of saplings planted as part of the TKHH programme, he said.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers give a kick-start to Vaanakalam cultivation||Amid the Covid-19 despair, the farming community in Telangana appears to be undeterred in their zeal as they have given a kick-start to the Vaanakalam crop season by sowing seed in about 28% of the total extent planned so far. Buoyed by the favourable seasonal conditions, the cultivation of major Vaanakalam crops is also on course with the regulated farming plans of the State government. As per the government plans, cotton is to be cultivated in nearly 48% (60.16 lakh acres) of the total extent of 125.45 lakh acres planned to be covered this season, followed by paddy in 33.3% (41.77 lakh acres), redgram in about 9.9% (12.31 lakh acres) and soyabean in nearly 4% (4.68 lakh acres). The pattern of sowing of crops is indicating that the farming community is toeing the government line. As the government has advised farmers not to cultivate maize during the first crop season citing low productivity, pest attack threat and lack of market demand for the first crop, very few farmers have sown maize so far in about 0.16 lakh acres. According to the statistical section officials of the Agriculture Department, sowing of cotton has been completed in about 44%, soyabean in over 53% and redgram in about 27% of the planned extent so far. “In spite of the coronavirus pandemic impact and the delay in the disbursement of institutional credit, the Vaanakalam cultivation has made a swift progress, thanks to the early rains and availability of seed and fertilizer, although there have been some hiccups in seed supply, particularly that of soyabean,” the officials informed. Sowing of Vaanakalam crops has already been completed in about 85% of the season’s extent in Adilabad district followed by over 50% in Kumram Bheem-Asifabad and Vikarabad and between 40% and 50% of the seasonal extent in Warangal Rural, Nirmal, Rajanna-Sircilla and Sangareddy districts.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DPH halts COVID sample collection for two days||The Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare (DPH) has decided to halt sample collection for coronavirus tests via special camps for a couple of days due to piling up of samples collected already and for sanitisation of labs and sample collection centres. However, sample collection in designated government hospitals from symptomatic patients would continue. According to DPH, there was no need to panic as collection of samples through the special camps would resume soon. A statement issued by the DPH on Thursday stated that as part of the State government’s decision to conduct 50,000 tests in Assembly constituencies falling under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), about 36,000 samples were collected as on June 25. Among the samples collected, 8,253 were still pending for testing in different labs. A sample has to be tested within 48 hours by storing it at a specified temperature for the accurate result. The DPH stated that storage of new samples would become difficult until the existing ones were tested. Besides, storage for longer time would lead to possibility of false positives. To clear testing samples collected and stored in labs already, special camps for collection were being stopped for two days, the DPH stated.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clamour for SCR hospital as COVID facility grows louder||The demand to permit South Central Railway (SCR) to make use of its Central Hospital at Lallaguda as a COVID-19 care centre for current and retired railway employees and their families is growing louder by the day. After Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to give permission and BJP leaders like K. Laxman following suit, TS Deputy Speaker T. Padma Rao has appealed to Health Minister Eatala Rajender to consider the request made by General Manager Gajanan Mallya. There are at least five railway personnel, including a health official, admitted in various hospitals including Gandhi for COVID treatment. The railway hospital did not admit them pending government nod. With continuous running of passenger and limited passenger trains, there is fear among officials and staff about the mounting number of cases daily in the twin cities. Mr. Rao, also Secunderabad MLA, has several railway employees in his constituency. Incidentally, AP government had now allowed admission of COVID-19 ‘mild’ patients to the divisional railway hospital at Guntakal, after permitting the Vijaywada railway health facility to admit the same to make use of the 30 general isolation beds and 10 beds equipped with ICU facilities, senior officials, pleading anonymity, informed. The GM wrote to the government 10 days ago seeking permission for Central Hospital to admit patients after an officer got admitted to a private hospital for a ‘hefty package’ when the railway hospital refused admission, claiming it was yet to get requisite permission. This coupled with the nerve-racking experience of the official concerned in waiting for close to seven hours to get admitted to Gandhi Hospital spooked the railway officials and staff ever since. Workers’ union and employees’ associations wrote to Mr. Mallya seeking opening up of the railway hospital.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. for scaling up plasma therapy||The Telangana government should focus on using plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients as its success rate seems to be higher, suggested Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy. Mr. Narayana Reddy, who has just recovered from coronavirus, said that the trials of plasma therapy conducted last month were reportedly successful with many critical patients. In the absence of a vaccine or medicine, the results of plasma therapy, so far, have been highly encouraging. In plasma therapy, plasma of a person who has recovered from COVID-19, is drawn and transferred to people who have freshly contracted the disease as the same has sufficient antibodies to fight it. He said that the authorities were not finding enough plasma donors and the government should constitute a team of expert counsellors to convince recovered patients to donate their plasma. “People who have recovered from COVID carry the highest antibodies after two to three weeks of testing negative,” he said. Mr. Reddy pointed out that a critically-ill COVID patient from Hyderabad had fully recovered after receiving convalescent plasma therapy approved by the ICMR. Trials were started on May 11 and the patient recovered in 10 days. “Two units of plasma are required for each patient and therefore two donors are needed to treat one critically ill-patient,” he said, adding he was ready to donate plasma if he fulfilled ICMR criteria.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WE Hub invites applications||Telangana government’s initiative for women entrepreneurs WE Hub is inviting applications for the second cohort of the ‘Her&Now’ programme offered by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. As a partner of GIZ, WE Hub is implementing the programme in the State. A seven-month incubation and six-month acceleration modules form part of the programme. Close to 100 women entrepreneurs from tier II and tier III cities are expected to be handheld in setting up their enterprises in the second cohort. Interested start-ups from all the sectors, except trading and service sectors, can apply at http://wehub.telangana.gov.in/project-her-now.html in English or Telugu. The call for applications closes on July 20. The first cohort of 30 start-ups graduated last year by registering enterprises and raising finances through credit linkage and equity investments, a release from WE Hub on Thursday said. WE Hub CEO Deepthi Ravula said “the success of the first cohort has proved that the tier II and tier III regions of Telangana has women with a strong entrepreneurial spirit and we were proud to scout, speak, select and enable them to start up and scale up businesses thereby providing jobs and impetus in the local economy.” Project head of Her&Now Julia Karst said the programme was a collaboration between WE Hub and GIZ India and funded by the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro Rail to plant 5 lakh saplings||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) authorities said that forest species of different varieties are being planted in the blocks at Gollur in an area of 891 acres and Turkayamjal in an area of 142 acres allotted by the government. A total of five lakh saplings like Spathodea, Mahogani, Lagerstomia etc, besides Neem, Chinta and Ravi plants are being planted this year. The planting was commenced with MD N.V.S. Reddy and other senior officials planting saplings in the parking and circulation area adjacent to Metro Rail Bhavan, Rasoolpura, on Thursday. Mr. Reddy informed that as part of “Telanganaku Haritha Haram” programme this year, HMR is taking up large-scale plantation.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ensure complete, clear display of State Emblem on seals’||The State government has instructed departments to take steps to ensure the complete and clear display of the State Emblem of India on their seals. The government agencies which are using the State Emblem on their seals should ensure that the seals are replaced before they are worn out so that the impression of the seals on their papers should be clear and precise. Central guidelines Fresh guidelines issued by the Central government in this regard clearly mention that agencies which are authorised to use the State Emblem for various purposes should depict it completely with the motto Satyamev Jayate  in Devnagari script inscribed below the profile of the Lion Capital besides ensuring that no unauthorised use of the State Emblem is made on stationery, vehicles and others.  General Administration Department Principal Secretary (Political) Vikas Raj said it is observed that various government agencies which are using the State Emblem on their stationery, publications, seals, vehicles, buildings and websites often omit the motto Satyamev Jayate  and are are only depicting the profile of the Lion Capital. Grave violation The State Emblem without the motto is incomplete and incomplete display of the State Emblem is violation of the State Emblem of India (Prohibition of improper use) Act 2005 and the State Emblem of India (Regulation of Use) Act, 2007 as amended in 2010. He asked the departments to take necessary action in this direction warning that strict action would be taken against the officials concerned for incomplete display of the State Emblem.  Strict action will be taken against officials concerned for incomplete display of State Emblem.   Vikas Raj, GAD Principal Secretary (Political)
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Education must adapt to changing job market’||Telangana State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar said quality of education was an important aspect, but it was equally important to know the stakeholders’ expectations and needs of the job market which are constantly changing. He was speaking at the first advisory meeting of Research Cell for Studies on Education Policy, Planning and Governance held to discuss about the future course of research and areas of study to be undertaken for the Research Cell for studies on education policy, planning and governance jointly being set up in association with Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE). Agreeing with Mr. Vinod Kumar’s thoughts, former UGC Chairman Sukhdeo Thorat and Vice-Chancellor of NIEPA, Delhi, N.V.Verghese said that innovative methods should be adopted in teaching, learning and assessment methods. There should be a constant debate on these issues keeping in view the changing world so that students get upgraded with the latest developments. Mr. Vinod Kumar highlighted the challenges facing the sphere of education and also the major initiatives planned and implemented by the Telangana government to provide quality education and also focus on an inclusive and sustainable future. He also suggested that the linkages between the various stages of education — school to post-graduation must be carefully analysed with a view to develop the students to the best of their abilities. There is a need for developing ‘Out of the Box’ thinking. TSCHE Chairman, T. Papi Reddy, vice-chairmen R. Limbadri and V.Venkata Ramana and Director of CESS, E. Revathy also spoke.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Intensify research on immunity boosting crops’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has exhorted the agricultural scientists to intensify research on immunity-boosting crops. The Governor recalled how the older generations ate rice and lived longer and said younger generation is however distancing itself from rice consumption claiming it to be diabetic-prone food. Scientists need to come up with new varieties of rice that are low on sugar and maintain our traditions in south India associated with rice. Dr. Soundararajan made these comments during an interaction with the functionaries of Prof. Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University through a video-conference on Thursday. She stressed the need for research on improvised fine quality rice varieties like Telangana Sona, considered to be a low sugar variety crop. Palm trees The scientists at the same time should carry out more intensive research on palm trees ( thadi chettu ) as every part of the tree is useful, she said adding the palm tree was made official tree of Tamil Nadu, given its traditional importance She said efforts should be made to protect palm trees from diseases and they should be grown in large numbers to enable processing of different parts of the tree that is known for its medicinal and nutritional value. Neera, the tender palm water, is one such product that is highly nutritious and there is need to come up with technology enabling preservation of Neera for longer periods and for its packaged selling. There is also need for research on the part of the agriculture and horticultural scientists to come out with special crops that would give healthy oil as several health issues emanate out of the excessive use of unhealthy oils, said an official release.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||8 Meerpet police officers test positive||Eight police officers, including an inspector with Meerpet police station of Rachakonda Commissionerate, tested positive for coronavirus here on Thursday. “Most of them are asymptomatic and will undergo home quarantine,” an officer said. The entire premises will be sanitised.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Raja Singh’s gunmen and drivers test positive||Telangana State BJP legislator T. Raja Singh’s three gunmen and two drivers have tested positive for coronavirus. “Results of five more gunmen are pending for the last five days. Their samples were taken on June 20. Why is there a delay,” the Goshamahal MLA questioned. He added that this delay would increase the chance of virus spread. Further, he requested all MsP, MsLA and MsLC to get themselves and their security guards tested. “It’s for our safety,” he said.
26 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brothel raided, two rescued||Jubilee Hills police on Wednesday raided a brothel and arrested the organiser Tamatam Sailaja (33) and rescued two victims. Two customers, Ali and Raju Reddy, were also arrested. Police said that Sailaja operated the brothel in the guise of ‘Avani Wellness Center’ by posting advertisement on her mobile number and photos of the victims on ‘Locanto’ website to attract customers, inspector K Sathaiah said.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Photographer killed||A 31-year-old photographer was hacked to death by two persons over previous enmity in Saroornagar on Thursday. B Santosh Kumar and B Sandeep Kumar from Santosh Nagar, murdered Sandasari Vinay Kumar of Gowlipura around 1 a.m., police said. After killing Vinay, the accused who were brothers informed the former’s mother over the phone, who alerted her son’s friends living in the neighbourhood, police said. Vinay was rushed to OGH where he was declared brought dead.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Left parties stage protest against petro price hike||The Left parties have criticised the Central government for imposing huge burden on people in the form of steep hike in prices of petroleum products. At a time when people are facing several difficulties on account of incidence of coronavirus, the government is further compounding their problems through price hikes rather than coming to their rescue. Leaders of the Left parties, including the CPI (Marxist), CPI and others staged a dharna against the spiralling rise in the petrol prices here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, CPI (M) national secretariat member B.V. Raghavulu accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government of enforcing an unofficial state of emergency by stifling people’s voice and rights. The government is indulging in forcible collection of taxes during difficult times - helping the corporates rather than coming to the rescue of common people, he alleged.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Many left out of Rythu Bandhu’||Questioning the government’s commitment for Rythu Bandhu, former Congress MLA and AICC secretary, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, asked why were lakhs of farmers left out of the scheme in all its phases. The Congress leader claimed that as per the government records 59.30 lakh farmers were eligible for the scheme but only 50.84 lakh farmers received the amount in this phase. Similarly, 5.43 lakh farmers in second phase; 5.21 lakh in the third; 17.8 lakh in fourth and 8.46 lakh farmers in the 5th phase were denied the benefit, he alleged. He further said that during the 5th phase of Rythu Bandhu scheme, Rs. 7,000 crore was needed but only Rs. 5,294 crores were released so far. Similarly, the government did not release Rs. 1,500 crore in the second phase, Rs. 1,138 crores in the third, and Rs. 3,127 crore in the fourth phase accounting to a total of Rs. 7471 crores have been kept in pending, he said. He alleged that the Rythu Bandhu scheme was primarily planned and implemented just before the general elections.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS in top 100 emerging start-up ecosystems||A global report that assessed start-up ecosystem world over on various counts has ranked Telangana among the Top 30 Global Ecosystems for Affordable Talent in 2020. Hyderabad figures in the Top 100 Emerging Ecosystems – placed among the 71-80 ranks – as per The 2020 Global Startup Ecosystem Report (GSER) released on Thursday. A project of Startup Genome and the Global Entrepreneurship Network, GSER is the world’s most comprehensive and widely read research report on start-ups. A release from T-Hub on the GSER said of the 300 ecosystems that were studied, a Global Top 30 Ecosystems ranking and a Top 100 Emerging Ecosystems ranking were drawn up. T-Hub and Startup Genome had recently announced a partnership to foster Telangana’s innovation ecosystem and showcase success stories of the State’s entrepreneurs. Startup Genome has benchmarked Telangana’s performance. The State’s pool of innovation hubs and start-up support organisations had been cited as reasons a start-up should move to Hyderabad. The regional sub-sector strengths include Life Sciences and AI, Big Data and Analytics. CEO of T-Hub Ravi Narayan said over the last five years Hyderabad has emerged as a start-up hub, and has seen a growing push towards new-age technology start-ups.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Don’t obstruct vehicles carrying sand for govt. works’||The administration of Mahabubnagar district has cautioned people against obstructing vehicles carrying sand transported for the construction needs of government works such as 2BHK, individual sanitary latrines and rainwater harvesting pits. Collector S. Venkata Rao said on Thursday that the district sand committee has given permission for mining the sand silted (accumulated) at the checkdams constructed across streams and rivulets by the Irrigation Department for using it in government works. However, due to local political differences, the sand carrying vehicles are being obstructed by people in some villages. Suggesting that it is acceptable, he asked people not to obstruct the vehicles carrying sand for government construction works with the approval of the district sand committee. He stated that cases under civil and criminal procedures would be registered against those obstructing such vehicles.
26 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||M. Tech in smart electric grid||ABB Power Grids India and National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NIT-W) have entered into a memorandum of understanding to drive smart electric grid technology education, skills development and research activities. A key component of their partnership will be the launch of a unique Master of Technology programme in Smart Electric Grid (SEG) from the current academic year. Besides crafting the course content for the programme, the ABB team will support the Institute in setting up a laboratory for SEG technology and provide internship opportunities for SEG for the M.Tech students and Ph.D scholars.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable held for ‘raping’ niece||A police constable with Ramgopalpet police station was arrested on the charge of sexually assaulting his 13-year-old niece. The accused, a resident of Sikh Village, was arrested after the victim lodged a complaint with the Bowenpally police on Thursday, said DCP (North) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar According to the police, the accused officer had ‘trapped’ his cousin sister’s daughter living in the same area and had sexually assaulted her since April. The incident came to light after the girl’s mother confronted her for moving closely with the accused. Then the girl told her truth. “None is above law. We had to arrest a constable of Ramgopalpet who molested a girl. He is being sent to jail. I feel ashamed that there are such black sheep in our department,” Tweeted Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar.
26 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||665 kg of spurious cotton seed seized||With the arrest of three people, Hyderabad police busted a spurious cotton seed racket and seized 665 kg of seed and a car worth Rs. 10.22 lakh from them. In a joint operations, a team of Commissioner’s Task Force (North zone) led by inspector K Nageswar Rao and officials of Agriculture department intercepted a car near Rani Avathi Bahi statue in old city and found huge quantity of unauthorized herbicide tolerant cotton seed, which was illegally procured from Gujarat and being transported. “The seed was brought to road transport service without valid invoice or delivery chalan in order to sell it under the guise of genuine seed to farmers,” Mr. Rao said. The accused are Jogannagari Narvotham Reddy (48) from Kamareddy, Vangala Srinivas (43) of Mancherial and Uppula Venumadhav (36) from Asifabad districts. The trio were handed over to Shahinayatgunj police.
26 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSWREIS admission test results today||The results of RJCCET-2020 for admission into 1st first year Intermediate (Arts & Science streams) and vocational courses in Telangana social welfare residential junior colleges will be released on June 26. A total of 68,938 candidates appeared for entrance exam on March 1. Total available seats are 10,960 and candidates have to visit the TSWREIS websitewww.tswreis.infor results. The candidates will be intimated through SMS. Students are instructed to report to their colleges from July 1 to 10 along with documents.
26 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Release funds for SLBC tunnel project’||Former Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator and State leader Julakanti Ranga Reddy wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday requesting immediate release of funds for completion of Srisailam Left Bank Canal tunnel project scheme. “While its estimated cost was Rs. 1925 crore 15 years ago when it was started, works are still pending, and at least Rs. 2000 crore is required for its completion now,” he said. Mr. Ranga Reddy said 10.576 km of tunneling works are pending, and the State government had released only Rs. 3 crore per year in the last two budgets.
26 June 2020||NARSAPUR (MEDAK DT.),TELANGANA||‘Bring back those old forests, script new stories about State’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao called upon officials and people’s representatives to bring back the thick forest cover of old Narsapur. “There used to be around 92,000 acres of forest area in Narsapur. Where is it now? Are we not witnessing the degradation of forests? Why do we have to tell stories about America? Why can’t we script stories about Telangana?” he asked while addressing a meeting of limited gathering after formally launching the Haritha Haram programme at Eco park in Narsapur town on Thursday. He said it was the responsibility of everyone to bring back the forest with serious commitment. He said that serious action will be initiated against smugglers of forest produce and an intelligence wing has been collecting those details. “We are surging ahead in all-round development. Food Corporation of India (FCI) chairman Mr. Prasad stated that Telangana achieved 55% paddy procurement. Mission Bhagiratha water has reached houses. There is no problem with power or water supply. We have established nurseries in every village. Telangana is the only State in the country having nurseries in all villages,” said KCR adding that every effort is being made to improve rural economy. “Telangana has a bright future. The lives of farmers have to be improved. Their debts should be cleared and he should have adequate bank deposits. Then he can go in for farming without hesitation. Godavari water will reach both Narsapur, Sangareddy and Narayanakhed by next year. We can lift water to Zaheerabad,” said the Chief Minister hoping that Narsapur would become another Nagarjunasagar for visitors. Referring to Rythu Vediaks and regulated farming, KCR said that Vedikas will be common meeting point for farmers who will decide the crops to be sown. He said that this was aimed at benefiting farmers. He also announced the sanctioning of Rs. 20 lakh for each village in the constituency, Rs. 1 crore for mandal headquarters villages and Rs. 25 crore for Narsapur town. Forest Minister N. Indrakaran Reddy, Finance Minister T Harish Rao, Lok Sabha member K Prabahkar Reddy, MLAs M Padma Devender Reddy, Madan Reddy, Ch Kranthi Kiran, MLC S Subhash Reddy and others were present.
26 June 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Oustee farmer’s death attributed to stress||Seventy-year-old Singireddy Yella Reddy, a native of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal, passed away in the early hours of Thursday. A person passing away at this age is nothing unusual, but villagers here attribute his demise to the repeated stress he faced after losing land for Gouravelli reservoir. Yella Reddy owned 20 acres of fertile land in the village. In 2009, he lost about three acres for construction of Gauravelli reservoir and was paid Rs. 2.1 lakh per acre, totalling to Rs. 6.3 lakh. He spent the whole amount for improving the remaining 17 acres of land. But after formation of Telangana State, the Gouravelli reservoir was redesigned and the capacity increased from 1.2 tmcft to 8.4 tmcft. This time the government notified the 17 acres of Yella Reddy along with the lands of others and offered a compensation of Rs. 6.95 lakh per acre. He approached the High Court seeking better compensation and the case is still pending. More than a decade ago Yella Reddy’s second son Sampat Reddy died, leaving behind a family of three including a daughter and son. His elder son Ramachandra Reddy is totally dependent on farming and they do not know what to do now. “We have lost our entire land under the reservoir and my father was worried about our future. Recently officials made it clear that the compensation amount of those who approached the court would be deposited in the court. This added to my father’s worries,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy told The Hindu .
26 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Sircilla sees a turnaround||Once a barren upland town which attained the dubious distinction of highest number of suicides by powerloom weavers, Sircilla, also called as ‘Sholapur of Telangana’, is on a transition mode since the last six years. Now, this textile town is the most happening place in the State undergoing complete transformation on all aspects. Since the formation of Telangana State in 2014, Sircilla has made rapid strides in development and other aspects such as beautification of the town with widening of roads, traffic islands with water fountains, central medians on roads with greenery, by-pass roads and ring roads, and construction of parks, among others. Besides, after filling up of Mid Manair Dam (MMD) with Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project waters, the backwaters of the reservoir touched Sircilla adding new beauty to the town. Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K Taraka Rama Rao, who also represents Sircilla Assembly constituency, accorded top priority for beautification of the town. He provided round-the-year employment to powerloom weavers by providing bulk orders for weaving school uniforms, Bathukamma sarees, Ramzan gift etc. Simultaneously, he had transformed the Kargil lake and Kothacheruvu building tourist spots such as mini-tank bunds with all amenities for children including trackless train and Bungee jumping court, among others. The town has a swimming pool, gyms, eight parks, beautiful bus bays, modern rythu bazaar with an ethnic look, Bathukamma ghat along with musical fountain, ultramodern crematorium, modern AC library building, night shelters, Cinare Auditorium, community halls and many more. A state-of-the-art integrated Collectorate building is also coming up on the outskirts. Sircilla Municipal Commissioner Veldandi Sammaiah said that Sircilla Municipality had grown on a par with any municipal corporation in the State.
26 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IITH start-up collaborates with Japanese firm||The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH) mentored start-up CRIOT Innovations has struck a research collaboration deal with Technocorpus, Tokyo, Japan. CRIOT Innovations is working on building Dynamic Smart Home products that adapt to user behaviour. This collaboration is aimed to revolutionise the human authentication process using behaviour and lifestyle monitoring. Dynamic Smart Homes operate by themselves with minimal human interaction,said Mr. Varun Perumalla, chief executive officer & co-founder, CRIOT.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A saga of confused relationships||Director Ravikanth Perepu, who has co-written this film with his leading man Siddhu Jonnalagadda, borrows names from mythology for his key characters and narrates a contemporary romance drama in which ex-girlfriends/boyfriends are mentioned with an air of casualness, while new bonds are forged. After his directorial debut Kshanam (2016), Ravikanth negotiates a new, tricky territory. Had the characterisation of Krishna faltered, he could come off as a cold Casanova. Krishna (Siddhu) is an incurable romantic and the two women in his life are Sathya (Shraddha Srinath, as Sathyabhama) and Radha (Shalini Vadnikatti). The third crucial woman in this drama is Rukhsar (Seerat Kapoor), who can be perceived as a parallel to Rukmini. She watches the romance between Krishna, Sathya and Radha from the outside and is bemused. In the opening portions, Krishna is somewhere in Ladakh, a place where most filmi heroes go when they suffer a break-up or, in this case, confused in love. Krishna begins to share his predicament and urges us, viewers, not to laugh at his plight. But that’s what I ended up doing, as his relationship travails unfold. His first love, Sathya, is a college senior. Before we know the sweeter details of their romance, we learn that she has decided to move away, wanting some breathing space from the man-child whom she finds too clingy. Sathya moves to Bengaluru for work, and Krishna broods. But not for long. He chances upon Radha and instead of singing ‘Mustafa mustafa’ during the college farewell, croons ‘Kundanappu bomma’ from Ye Maya Chesave ! Radha is aware of Sathya and the break-up and doesn’t give it much thought until Krishna too lands a job in Bengaluru. The strains of the long distance bond notwithstanding, the happenstance meetings between Krishna and Sathya brings to fore Radha’s insecurities. Ravikanth shows how Krishna and Sathya think they have grown up since college days. She apologises for the hurtful break-up. Krishna realises that he’s an indecisive romantic and hasn’t really moved on from Sathya. And has she? The one who has the last laugh watching this muddle is Rukhsar (Seerat Kapoor), owner of a resto-bar and a co-inhabitant of the apartment with Krishna and his younger sister. No prizes for guessing that Krishna is attracted to her as well. Sricharan Pakala’s music score is mirthful and mischievous, elevating the fun drama. The classical strain of ‘Alaipayuthey kanna’ is invoked at an appropriate moment, amplifying Krishna’s wavering thoughts. The meet-cute portions and Krishna’s wavering romance lead to hilarious moments until things take a serious turn. Krishna doesn’t really deserve to be let off the hook, and the explanation of why he’s made that way is a weak one. The brief conversation with his father, played by Sampath Raj, tries to put things in context. It brings back the question of whether upbringing doesn’t matter at all, if the two-timing trait can be blamed squarely on the genes. Jhansi is impressive in her brief role as his mother. The women aren’t presented as pushovers and they certainly deserve better men. I can’t think of a better portrayal from Siddhu in recent years and the women, especially Shraddha and Shalini, put in effective performances. Seerat plays the quintessentially cool part with élan. There’s scope for more drama going by the open end. A fairly entertaining film, though I wish it hadn’t made two-timing appear cool.  (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)   Krishna and his Leela Cast: Siddhu Jonnalagadda, Shraddha Srinath, Shalini Vadnikatti, Seerat Kapoor  Direction: Ravikanth Perepu   Music: Sricharan Pakala Streaming on Netflix
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Carrying on the tradition||
26 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Containment zones to be clubbed into bigger clusters||Certain containment zones, especially in the Old City in Gurugram would be clubbed into bigger clusters for better management and monitoring. The orders in this regard are expected on Friday. Putting to rest the speculations of reimposition of lockdown in the district, a senior government official, on condition of anonymity, told The Hindu that certain containment zones would be clubbed into bigger clusters for better monitoring. As per the latest orders, there are 107 containment zones in the district. Residents of areas, presently not part of the containment zones, would be allowed sufficient time to make necessary arrangements if they are required to be included in the cluster, said sources. No activity, except the supply of essential items, is allowed inside these zones.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC reserves order on Sharjeel’s petition||The Delhi High Court on Thursday reserved its order on a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. Mr. Imam’s plea challenged a trial court order granting more time to the police to conclude investigation. Justice V. Kameswar Rao, who heard the matter through videoconferencing for over five hours, also asked the counsels for the police and Mr. Imam to give written submissions by June 28, following which the order will be pronounced. During the day-long hearing, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, appearing for the Delhi police, opposed Mr. Imam’s plea saying that there was no infirmity in the April 25 trial court’s order. Mr. Lekhi argued that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, following which the pace of investigation got disrupted as it was not done through videoconferencing. The ASG said that the application for extension of time for investigation was filed before the expiry of the 90-day period. On the other hand, senior advocate Rebacca John, appearing for Mr. Imam, contended that the police deliberately kept waiting for over 80 days before invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against her client. This, she contended, was done with the sole intention to curtail Mr. Imam’s liberty and deprive him of right to the statutory bail after custody of 90 days. Ms. John also stated that neither Mr. Imam, nor his lawyer was intimated by the trial court about the application of the special cell seeking extension of time to file the chargesheet. She also argued that the application by the police to the public prosecutor was made on April 25, adding that the report was made and the order of the court allowing the extension was issued on the same day. “Just because the investigating agency wants an extension, it was not incumbent on the public prosecutor to simply act as a post office and move a report endorsing the investigating agency’s request,” Ms. John said. She stated that there was no application of mind by the public prosecutor in his report as he had repeated words and spelling mistakes made by the investigating officer in the application. Mr. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 count rises, but recovery rate improves||As many as 3,390 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 73,780, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Moreover, 64 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 2,429. Delhi continued to be the city with the highest number of total COVID-19 cases, after it surpassed Mumbai on Wednesday. Though the total number of cases in Delhi is high, 44,765 people have recovered and there are only 26,586 active cases, which is 36.03% of the total cases. Also, 17,305 tests were conducted in a day in the city, taking the total number of tests to 4,38,012. According to a ‘Revised COVID Response Plan’ released by the Delhi government on Monday, based on direction from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday, officials have started preparing for a 100% survey of households in containment zones and a comprehensive survey of the rest of the city. Door-to-door survey Teams comprising officials from municipal corporations and Delhi government have been formed for the door-to-door survey and their training has begun from Thursday, according to officials. The survey will be done through a mobile application and is expected to be completed by July 6. “BLO [Booth Level Officer], municipal corporation workers, who check breeding of mosquitoes, ASHA workers and ANMs will be part of the team doing the ground-level survey. The details will be collected in a mobile app ‘Assess Karona’,” an official from the central district said. The official added that all households will be surveyed. According to the plan, the existing containment zones have to be assessed and a revised plan has to be developed by Friday. “We have been asked to identify new clusters and increase the number of containment zones,” the official said.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Keep vigil on street crime, L-G tells police||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday directed senior police officers to keep a strict vigil on street crime, while reviewing the law and order situation in the Capital. During the meeting, Raj Niwas stated, the L-G directed that the visibility of police on streets should be enhanced and be further extended inside the residential colonies, especially during night. “The L-G also advised the Delhi Police to reach out to the vulnerable groups through proactive measures and build bridges of trust,” Raj Niwas said. He also instructed the officers to make its presence more visible and its personnel more accessible, especially in crime-prone areas to check illegal activities. He also advised that all mobility modes of police such as PCR vans, patrol vehicles, emergency response vehicles, local police movement and motorcycle patrol should be aligned to ensure maximum coverage and reduce duplicity. Police presence “Technology may be used for monitoring police presence in the field. He further stressed that police pickets may be reoriented, focusing on street crime, especially snatching and lifting. He further directed the police to put all efforts to increase the prosecution and conviction rates for deterrence. He advised police to strengthen its investigation wing,” the statement said. With the ensuing Independence Day, Raj Niwas stated, the L-G directed the Delhi Police to ensure strict vigil and intensive checking at State borders and closely coordinate with Central agencies and neighbouring States to contain any terror attack.  The L-G also advised the Delhi police to reach out to the vulnerable groups through proactive measures Raj Niwas statement
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘No accommodation for Chinese nationals in city’||Responding to the “nefarious activities of China” in the Galwan Valley where 20 Indian Army personnel were allegedly killed, the Delhi Hotels & Restaurant Owners Association (DHROA) on Thursday announced that the budget hotels and guest houses in the Capital will not provide any accommodation to Chinese nationals. The organisation said it represents around 3,000 budget hotels and guest houses with about 75,000 rooms. “The manner in which the Chinese army is behaving with Indian forces at the borders which has resulted in the killing of 20 Indian soldiers. The hotel industry is deeply upset and has gross resentment against China and therefore it has thought better to join the campaign of the Confederation of All India Traders [CAIT],” Mahendra Gupta, general secretary and Sandeep, president, DHROA, said in a statement.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||CM launches video call facility at Lok Nayak||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched a video call facility for COVID-19 patients admitted at the Lok Nayak Hospital, which will assist them in talking to their loved ones. He also congratulated the doctors for working rigorously and successfully treating the infected patients for the last 100-odd days. While launching the videoconferencing technology for the patients, Mr. Kejriwal interacted with the doctors and patients admitted in the hospital through a video call. “Till now, the problem was that if a COVID-19 positive patient was admitted to the hospital, relatives of the patient were not able to meet them or talk to them. They were unable to get information on the condition of the patient. Now, tablets have been installed in every ward of the hospital. The family members can visit the hospital and talk to the patient through videoconferencing,” he said. Briefing Mr. Kejriwal on the services provided by Lok Nayak Hospital to the COVID-19 patients through a presentation, a team of doctors said around 2,751 patients had recovered and been discharged by the hospital, making this the highest recovery figure countrywide. Mr. Kejriwal congratulated doctors as the facility completed 100 days as a COVID-dedicated hospital, which was declared on March 17.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet filed in man’s murder in riots||The Special Investigation Team of Delhi Police on Thursday filed a chargesheet in connection with the killing of a 22-year-old youth during the north-east riots in February, said an officer. Monis from Brahampuri was killed during the riots in Brijpuri-Old Mustafabad road on February 25, the police said, adding that a case of murder and riot was registered at Dayalpur police station. Earlier, seven people were arrested in this regard. The chargesheet has been filed before a Magistrate at Karkardooma Court. The arrested persons — Ashish, Aman, Devender, Pradeep, Munna, Krishna Kant and Rahul — have been sent to judicial custody. The police claim to have recovered rods and swords from their possession. A 300-page chargesheet has been filed and around 35 witnesses have recorded their statements. “We have recovered the victim’s mobile phone from two arrested accused. Their presence at the murder spot was confirmed with the help of technical surveillance,” said an officer. He added that during the riots, people chanting pro-CAA and anti-CAA slogans, took to the streets. “Soon, both groups started throwing stones at each other and also used firearms,” said the officer. Monis, a labourer who was passing through Brijpuri road at that time, was beaten up by the mob. He was taken to GTB Hospital. “The biggest challenge was to trace the crime location because seven bodies were recovered from the Old Mustafabad Road. After going through CCTV footage of GTB Hospital, we identified the man who took the victim to the hospital. He helped us locate the murder spot. After this, we traced the man who had informed police about the incident as he was the eyewitness in the case,” added the officer. The police said they have examined more than 300 people to identify the accused. “The victim was returning from Rohini after meeting his father. He was killed after the mob confirmed his name and religion,” the officer added.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Take action against erring hospitals: HC||The High Court on Thursday asked the Centre and Delhi governments to take stern action against hospitals in the Capital, which are not providing real time update of the availability of beds for treating COVID-19 patients. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan made the observation after it was informed that four hospitals - RML, GTB, Apollo and Saroj - were not updating the real time availability of beds in websites and mobile app. The amicus curiae, appointed by the court to assist in the case, said when he had called some of the hospitals asking the availability of beds, they were hesitant to share details. “Either change your officer or we will do it. What the amicus has shown, your officers are unable to see. What is this?,” the court remarked.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU updates set of FAQs||The Delhi University’s admission branch issued an updated set of “Frequently Asked Questions” and answers along with a separate notice on entrance test-based courses on Thursday. For queries related to reservation, applicants have been informed that no seat has been kept aside for residents of Delhi or for Jain applicants. They are also instructed to obtain an OBC certificate dated on or before March 31. Instructions have also been issued with regard to release of cut-offs in the absence of board exam results and to do with admissions to minority colleges such as St. Stephens and Jesus and Mary college. This year only helpline numbers have remained open, which the applicants said were hard to get a hold-off. Apart from this, separate bulletins were issued over the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) 2020 for undergraduate and post graduate programmes, dates for which are to be announced depending on the COVID-19 situation.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cancellation of open book exams sought||About 25 members of the Academic and Executive Councils of Delhi University (DU) on Thursday wrote to Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi demanding immediate cancellation of open book examinations for final semester students. Citing reports that a University Grants Commission expert committee had recommended the cancellation of exams for terminal semester students, the letter states that the DU community welcomes the move.
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon arrives in Capital||The southwest monsoon advanced over Delhi on Thursday, the Meteorological Department said. While the usual date of onset of the monsoon here is June 29, this year, it has been declared two days earlier.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC asks Centre why ICUs in train coaches aren’t being considered||The Bombay High Court recently directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing steps taken by the Western Railway and the Central Railway to convert coaches into isolation or quarantine centres, and explaining why ICU facilities in coaches are not considered necessary. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by social activist Naresh Kapoor. The PIL has sought that the hospitals, nursing homes, and dispensaries, which are presently closed either due to departmental or judicial orders, should be reopened to meet the needs of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 as well as patients suffering from other ailments. It has further sought that private practitioners ought to be permitted to prescribe COVID-19 tests, and railway coaches should be converted into makeshift ICU facilities for effective treatment of COVID-19 patients. The PIL also highlighted the need for making rapid testing kits for the novel coronavirus available across the city. On reopening of closed hospitals and nursing homes, the HC said, “It has been noticed that facilities for treating COVID-19 as well as non-COVID-19 patients presently at the disposal of the State and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are not that insufficient so as to call for an order to reopen closed hospitals, nursing homes and dispensaries.” The Bench said instead of the judiciary entering the domain of the executive, opening up more facilities should be left to the latter’s judgement considering the need, if at all, therefor. “If the situation demands, the State or the BMC, keeping in mind the medical protocol required at the moment, may explore ways to make more facilities available at their disposal, other than reopening closed hospitals, nursing homes, and dispensaries,” the HC said. About rapid testing kits, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, representing the State, had in the last hearing placed a circular before the HC. The circular, which was issued by the State government on June 22, was in pursuance of an advisory issued on June 14 by the Indian Council of Medical Research on the use of rapid antigen detection test for COVID-19. The HC posted the matter for hearing on July 2.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||Class X students with learning disability in limbo amid pandemic||Most Class X students worry about what stream to pursue once they finish school. But Dheeraj Kumar (14) has an altogether different dilemma. While most of his classmates are following online lessons in mathematics, Hindi, English and Marathi during the lockdown, he wishes he would not be bogged down by subjects he finds difficult to navigate. His mother, Anita Kumar (names changed to protect identity), said he understands concepts, but writing is a challenge. “Asking teachers for one-on-one guidance during online lessons is not possible. We wish we could get some clarity on alternate subjects that our son can choose,” she said. Dheeraj is among the students in regular classrooms all over the city who have been diagnosed with learning disability, a neurological disorder that shows up as difficulty with language, reasoning or reading, writing and mathematics in people with normal intelligence. The lockdown has been particularly hard on these students affiliated to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education — they cannot choose subjects suitable to their special needs or have writers help with their exams, as they have not received government certification to this effect. Certification The certification follows testing and is provided in three of the city’s civic-run hospitals: Nair, KEM and Sion, which have diverted all their resources to tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. Many students, such as Dheeraj, had started the learning disability testing process before the lockdown, hoping to complete the certification process during the 2020 summer vacation. The academic year began on June 8, but there is still no clarity on the certification. “We went to Sion Hospital on March 24 for the last stage of testing, but were told everything was shut. We are confused: what subjects should my son study?” Ms. Kumar said. “Certification is critical at the right time, because these students need to choose the right subjects when they start their Class X and head towards their board exams,” said Sumati Purushottam, special educator and counsellor. “They need a little extra help, so that the playing field is made level for them.” Vocational subject Instead of Class X maths, for instance, the students are allowed to opt for Class VII maths. They are also asked to take up a vocational subject, and can drop a third language such as Marathi, French or Sanskrit, depending on what their school offers — it decides that in consultation with parents. Students affiliated to the ICSE and CBSE boards have time till December when they can send the certifications, so those who follow the State board’s Secondary School Certificate (SSC) syllabus are the hardest hit. “This is their right, and not something special that is being asked for,” said Ms. Purushottam. “A writer and extra time to write exams is the minimum concession that boards offer, but students cannot avail of these because they don’t have the certification.” Assessment reports Although most schools accept student assessment reports from private practitioners till the student is in Class IX, they prefer certificates from government hospitals once they are in Class X, as this is what colleges accept. For students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, getting testing done from private practitioners is not an option at all. At civic hospitals, the testing fee is Rs. 3,500, and private practitioners can charge up to Rs. 10,000. Also, a lot goes into convincing parents to take their children for testing, even if the disability is identified early, said Ms. Purushottam. “They have to invest time, money and effort, so it takes a back seat.” Parents from lower socio-economic strata don’t see the child as having a problem in the first place, said Jyoti Aiyyar , principal of the  Smt. Surajba Vidya Mandir in Jogeshwari (East).“They feel the child is not paying attention. It takes two to three years to make them understand the problem, and a lot of effort from school authorities, parents and special educators.” Dr. Sangeeta Gole, educational advisor to schools across the State, said for a daily wage earner, “a trip to hospital is a challenge.” There are times when someone from the school needs to accompany the parent and student, even if that means paying for the journey and the testing, she said.  Rising cases And with COVID-19 cases rising each day, parents will not be comfortable taking their children to public hospitals, said Mansi Chandorkar, special educator at The Orchid School, Pune. “I have seen parents hesitate to go to government hospitals fearing all kinds of things. They also say they won’t go as nothing is seriously wrong with their child.” Taking the tests — a battery of psycho-educational assessments — online is not an option either, said Dr. Gole.  “A lot of tests need visual or verbal assessment, and cannot be done on a digital platform.” The only solution right now, she said, is to allow school counsellors to certify students and use their reports as a credible source for concessions. Hospitals could also create area-wise testing centres in schools, said Ms. Aiyar. Parag Jain, secretary, Social Justice Department,  said the department was ready to clear a proposal that would be sent to it in this regard. “If this is the condition in Mumbai, we can imagine what it is in rural areas. We will take field reports from all assistant commissioners to get a clearer picture,” he said. Ms. Chandorkar pointed to the urgency of a solution. “The time is now. As it is, there’s a tremendous academic lag this year,” she said.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||Fire at 3 commercial premises; no casualty||Fires were reported at three commercial establishments in Mumbai on Thursday, including the office of the Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait at Nariman Point. There was no casualty, but a fire officer fainted while trying to douse the flames in one of the premises, officials said. Around 5.15 a.m., a major blaze erupted in the office and server room of the Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait, located on the ground floor of the 15-storey Jolly Maker Chamber 2 building at Nariman Point, a fire brigade official said. The flames spread across the electric wiring and installations, office furniture, records and important documents, computers, UPS battery and false ceiling in an area of 4,000 sq ft on the ground floor, he said. “No one was reported to be trapped inside.” Nine fire engines, including water tankers, were rushed to the spot to douse the flames, he said, adding the case of the blaze was not yet known. Later, a major fire broke out in the three-storey P-2 building in Raghuvanshi Mill compound at Lower Parel around 9.30 a.m., the official said. The fire spread from the ground floor of the building to its upper floors. It was initially tagged as a ‘level-2’ fire, but escalated to ‘level-3’ (major), he said. At least 12 fire engines were rushed to the spot to control the blaze. Earlier, two godowns, containing some electrical equipment, furniture and hydraulic compressor machine, were gutted in a fire at Nanddham industrial estate in Marol area of Andheri, around 12.45 a.m., another official said. There was no casualty, but a deputy fire officer fainted while trying to douse the flames and was rushed to a hospital, he said, adding that the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Won’t allow sale of spurious medicine’||Amid the ongoing controversy over Baba Ramdev’s company Patanjali Ayurveda introducing a “cure” for COVID-19, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday warned the yoga guru that the State government won’t allow sale of ‘spurious’ medicines. “The National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur will find out whether clinical trials of @PypAyurved’s ‘Coronil’ were done at all. An abundant warning to @yogrishiramdev that Maharashtra won’t allow sale of spurious medicines (sic),” the Minister tweeted. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Deshmukh said the Union AYUSH Ministry has not allowed the company to sell the product as it has not conducted clinical trials. ‘No permissions’ “Complaints have been made in several States against their advertisement (that the medicine cures COVID-19) as there has been no permission in the first place from the ministry or the Indian Council of Medical Science,” he said. “An offence will be registered against them if they try to sell the medicine in Maharashtra or advertise that COVID-19 can be cured with it,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Hours after the launch of Coronil on Tuesday, the AYUSH Ministry had asked the firm to provide the details, telling it to stop advertising it till the issue is examined. At the launch on Tuesday, the company had claimed that its medicine can cure the contagious disease within seven days. It said Coronil, taken along with another product developed by it, had shown a 100% success rate in clinical trials on infected patients, except those on life support. Baba Ramdev said the medicines were developed by Patanjali Research Center, Haridwar, in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science, Jaipur.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||People gather at mosque in city, five booked||A case has been registered against five people, including the trustees of an Andheri-based mosque, for allegedly violating the COVID-19 lockdown norms, after a group of people assembled in its premises on Thursday, the police said. The D.N. Nagar police received a call that some people had assembled at Eidgah Masjid in Andheri in the morning, following which a team was sent there, an official said. The police found that no social distancing norms were followed in the premises and further probe revealed that people had not gathered for prayers, but were there for some discussion, he said. “As of now, we have mentioned the names of five people, including the trustees, in the FIR. A case has been registered under Section 188 (disobeying an order issued by public servant) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code,” senior inspector Parmeshwar Ganame said. Meanwhile, a person who was present at the mosque, claimed that people had gathered to discuss the distribution of essential commodities to the poor and proper precautions were taken at the premises.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 claims life of dabbawala||COVID-19 has claimed the life of a 39-year-old ‘dabbawala’ (tiffin carrier) in Mumbai, the first from the fraternity to succumb to the infection, an officer-bearer said on Thursday. Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala Association, said the man died on Wednesday and is survived by his wife and a five-year-old son.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||Three more policemen succumb||Three Maharashtra Police personnel, including an officer, died of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the toll in the State force to 54, an official said on Thursday. Of the 54 victims, 34 were from the Mumbai Police force, he said. Three of the personnel who have succumbed to the viral infection so far, since its outbreak, were officers, he said. As of now, over 4,200 police personnel have been infected with the virus. Of these, over 3,000 have recovered. There are 991 active cases, he said, adding that seven police personnel were discharged in the last 24 hours.
26 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Joyride ends in tragedy as college student killed in Palm Beach Road mishap||A 20-year-old college student from Bonkode was killed while his friend was severely injured in an accident on Palm Beach Road on early Thursday morning. The victim, Stalyn Fernandes, along with his three friends — Omkar Shinde, Omkar Bhagat and Harshal Patil — all residents of Koparkhairane, had decided to go on a joyride after Wednesday midnight. In the wee hours of Thursday, the four started their drive in Mr. Bhagat’s Wagon R car, with Mr. Patil behind the wheel. “The car was speeding and after it crossed the nullah on Palm Beach Road, it was approaching the Sarsole junction. Around 1.45 a.m., the car rammed into the left side railing of the bridge over the nullah. The impact was such that two tyres got torn off of the car, sending it rolling towards the right side. The accident had left skid marks on the road,” assistant police inspector Keshav Dinde, Sanpada police station, said. All the injured were rushed to a hospital. Mr. Patil, and Fernandes, who was seated behind him, suffered serious injuries. Fernandes, who was alive during admission, succumbed to his injuries during the course of the treatment, Mr. Dinde said. A case of death due to negligence has been registered against Mr. Patil at Sanpada police station. According to the police, they are not sure if it was a case of drunk driving as their priority was to save lives and they did not have time to conduct a blood-alcohol test.
26 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Hotelier held, gutkha seized||The central unit of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested a hotelier for allegedly selling gutkha, which is banned by the State government. The accused, Keraram Ruparam Chaudhary (33), ran a hotel, Ishita, in Rabale MIDC, and also had a grocery shop adjacent to the hotel in the same compound. “He served tea and snacks in the hotel which he used to open early in the morning. People who knew that he had gutkha would buy from him as well. Depending on the customer, he would sell at double the rate,” senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar from the central unit said. A police team led by Mr. Kolhatkar raided the godown attached to the hotel and found gutkha packets with the name, Vimal , on them, worth Rs. 7.15 lakh.
26 June 2020||Pune,||State reports new single-day high, tally nears 1.5 lakh mark||Maharashtra recorded a new single-day high on Thursday, with a whopping 4,841 new COVID-19 cases that took its tally to 1,47,741 cases. The death toll rose to 6,931, with 192 more deaths being reported. Of these, 109 were reported in the last 48 hours while 83 were from an earlier period, said State Health Department officials. However, just 63,342 out of the total cases are active. As many as 3,661 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking total recoveries to 77,453. With 1,350 new cases, Mumbai’s case tally has crossed the 70,000-mark to reach 70,878. With 58 new fatalities, the city’s death toll has breached the 4,000-mark to rise to 4,062. Twenty-one deaths were reported from Pune as the total death toll shot to 659. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate had marginally risen to 52.42%, while the case fatality rate stands at 4.69%. Along with Mumbai city, most areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported record high case surges as well. Fresh cases continued to mount at an alarming rate in Thane, with the district reporting a record surge of more than 500 new COVID-19 cases to take the district’s total tally to 11,730. Massive spike in Kalyan Navi Mumbai piled up new cases as well with 256 fresh cases taking its total case tally to 6,663. Kalyan-Dombivli reported a massive spike of 391 new cases, taking its case tally to 5,234. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar, too, witnessed sharp spikes of 145 and 184 cases, respectively, to take their total case tallies to 2,883 and 3,424. Nashik district in north Maharashtra reported another steady surge of 172 new cases with Nashik city reporting 129 of these. The district’s total cases have risen to 3,276, of which 1,309 are active. A total 193 fatalities have been reported from Nashik till date. “Till date, of a total 8,48,026 laboratory samples, 1,47,741 (17.42%) have been tested positive with nearly 25,000 samples across the State tested today,” Dr. Awate said. He said presently, 5,56,428 people across the State were in home quarantine, and 33,952 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
26 June 2020||Pune,||Uptick in Pune continues, 390 new cases reported||The march of COVID-19 continued in Pune district, which reported another massive spike of nearly 400 new cases on Thursday, taking its total case tally to 17,905, said authorities. 390 new cases were reported while the district’s death toll rose to 640 fatalities till date. Of the total case tally, 6,664 are active positive cases while as many as 10,601 persons have been discharged thus far, said Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, adding that district’s recovery rate currently stood at 59.21%. The case fatality rate stands at 3.57% — a reduction from 3.73% last week. As many as 365 of the active cases are in a critical condition. Masks mandatory In the wake of surging cases, Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram has issued a directive making it mandatory for all persons to wear a mask and that those found violating this rule would be penalised with a fine of Rs. 500. Ever since the process of unlocking began on June 1, Pune district has been witnessing notably high daily case surges, especially since the past week. The bulk of the active positive cases are from Pune city, whose case count has exceeded 5,000. Yet, Pune civic body authorities claim that the situation is under control given that the both the case doubling rate as well as the sample testing capacity has increased. “Pune city’s present case doubling rate till June 22 stands at 20.77 days, higher than last week’s figure of 19 days. Moreover, we are adequately equipped to deal with any spike. While cases have certainly risen, this is precisely because we are now testing more samples,” said a senior Pune Municipal Corporation official. Many beds unoccupied He also said only 4,500-odd patients were undergoing treatment while the bed capacity was 15,556. Along with Pune’s total fatalities, the total death toll in Pune division has now risen to 935. The division’s case tally has reached 22,059 of which 7,548 are active cases while 13,576 people have been discharged. With 22 new cases today, Solapur’s total case tally has reached 2,209. However, the number of active  Meanwhile, Aurangabad in Marathwada recorded 230 new cases, taking its total case tally to 4,266. Authorities said 124 of these were from Aurangabad city while the remaining 106 cases had emerged from the rural areas of the district, which is a virus hotbed in the region. 218 persons had succumbed to the virus thus far, with at least 10 COVID-19-related fatalities being reported on Wednesday. Of these, more than 1,831 are active cases while a total 2,217 persons had been discharged thus far.  We are adequately equipped to deal with any spike... cases have risen because we are testing more Pune Municipal Corporation official
26 June 2020||Pune,||10 four-wheelers gutted||At least 10 four-wheelers, mostly cars, were gutted in a fire that broke out at a garage in Kondhwa of Pune city, a fire official said on Thursday. No casualty was reported. “The fire broke out on late Wednesday night in the garage where several four-wheelers and other material were kept. We received a call at 11.45 p.m.. Ten fire tenders were pressed into action and the blaze was doused by 12.30 a.m.,” the official said. The fire damaged at least 10 four-wheelers and other material, he said, adding that the cause of the blaze was not yet known.
26 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||No leave for police personnel in Gujarat||The Gujarat Home Department has asked the State Director General of Police (DGP) and other senior officers not to grant any leave to the police personnel, saying that their presence is necessary for the effective implementation of Unlock-1. A notification issued on Thursday by the State Home Department said the presence of all the available police personnel is necessary for the implementation of the Centre’s guidelines for the phased reopening or Unlock-1, which came into effect on June 1. “For the effective implementation of Unlock-1, it is necessary that police personnel remain active in the field. Therefore, all the police officers as well as lower rung police personnel are hereby advised not to demand leave unless it is for medical or any other unavoidable reasons,” the notification said.  Strict orders The department also asked all senior officers, including the State DGP, range inspector generals and all the district superintendents of police, not to grant leave to their subordinate staff, except for medical reasons or any other emergencies. Following the Central government’s guidelines, the Gujarat government had announced relaxations in lockdown starting June 1. As many as 29,001 people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gujarat so far. While 1,736 have died, as many as 21,096 have been discharged. Around 400 cases are being recorded in the State every day over the last one month.
26 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder govt. distorting SAD stance on ordinances, says Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal president and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, on Thursday accused the ruling Congress government of misleading the farmers about the Akali Dal’s stand on the Central government’s agriculture related ordinances during the all-party meeting held on June 24. Mr. Badal said the statement released by the State government on the all-party meeting had been manipulated to show that SAD had supported the resolutions moved by the government. “This is furthest from the truth. The Congress was supported by the Aam Aadmi Party which spoke its language and acted as a rubber stamp,” he said at a press conference here. The SAD chief said there was no discussion on the merit of the Central ordinances at the all-party meeting. He said he had made it clear that there was no mention of ending the minimum support price or assured marketing in any of the ordinances. Mr. Badal said he even pointed out that the ordinances did not contain anything against federalism. “I assured at the all-party meeting that MSP and assured marketing will not end. We as a party are ready to get a written assurance on this account from the Union Agriculture Minister and would get an assurance from Parliament also when the ordinances are tabled there. Besides, we even agreed to accompany a delegation to the Prime Minister to clarify doubts if any,” he said.  ‘Misinterpreted’ “However, this was misinterpreted by the government in its press release by stating that SAD would accompany a delegation of representatives of all political parties led by the Chief Minister to get the central ordinances withdrawn,” Mr. Badal said.
26 June 2020||Chandrapur,||Vijay Wadettiwar in favour of lifting liquor ban in Chandrapur||State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar has said he is in favour of lifting the liquor ban in Chandrapur district once the COVID-19 crisis ends. The previous BJP-led State government banned the sale and consumption of liquor in Chandrapur in April 2015. Liquor is also banned in Wardha and Gadchrioli districts. Mr. Wadettiwar, who is also the guardian minister of Chandrapur, claimed the number of kidney infections and cancer cases has increased in the district due to the consumption of “duplicate liquor” (fake brews of some brands) being smuggled there. “It has also been found that school students are getting addicted to the MD [mephedrone] drug,” Mr. Wadettiwar said. Liquor worth around Rs. 120 crore has been seized by the police since the liquor ban, the minister said. He claimed five times more liquor is being sold in the dry district since the ban came into force. “Due to the consumption of duplicate liquor, there is an increase in the number of kidney and cancer patients in the district. I am very positive about lifting the ban in the district. Let social activists and others burn my effigy after the ban is lifted,” the minister said. Mr. Wadettiwar also said he will propose stalling of increments of the security personnel under whose police stations liquor consignments worth over Rs. 10 lakh are seized. He claimed the liquor ban has failed to bring the desired results in Gadchiroli, as brewing of alcohol from Mahua flowers has grown manifold in the tribal district. “While Mahua liquor brewing is allowed in Gadchiroli, there is a ban on the sale of foreign-made liquor,” he said.
26 June 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU arranges exam for COVID-19 positive student||At a time when the COVID pandemic has completely derailed the examination system across the country, Aligarh Muslim University has arranged examination of a medical student who tested positive for novel coronavirus, a day before offline examination of final year postgraduate students of medical faculty began. According to the controller of examination, Mujibuddin Zuberi, the university made an innovative arrangement by involving both online and offline methods of examination. “The female student of Masters of Medicine (Pathology) was put in the isolation ward and the health workers, managing the ward in PPE kits, delivered the examination copy and paper to her. Through CCTV camera, online invigilation for three hours was conducted,” said Mr Zuberi. After the examination, the student was provided a mobile phone and the controller office created a special portal where she was asked to upload the photos of her answer sheet, pagewise.
26 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||NGT asks OIL to pay Rs. 25 crore for well blowout damage||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the public sector Oil India Limited (OIL) to deposit Rs. 25 crore with the administration of eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district for environmental damages due to the fire at one of its wells. Well Number 5 at Baghjan had caught fire less than a fortnight after it experienced a blowout — uncontrolled escape of natural gas at great speed — on May 27. The well is close to the Maguri-Motapung wetland, which is within the eco-sensitive zone of the fragile Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. Hearing separate applications by environmentalist Bonani Kakkar and Assam-based Wildlife and Environment Conservation Organisation on Wednesday, the NGT’s Bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and Siddhanta Das ordered OIL to pay the fine of Rs. 25 crore.  Environmental damage The amount was “in view of the prima facie case made out against OIL on the extent of damage caused to the environment and biodiversity, damage to both human and wildlife, public health and, having regard to the financial worth of the company and the extent of damage”. The Bench also constituted an eight-member committee to “look into the matter of and submit its preliminary report” within 30 days. Retired Gauhati High Court judge B.P. Katakey is heading this panel. The applicants had said that OIL should be held accountable for causing “irreparable damage” to the community as well as the biodiversity of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. The release of toxins due to the blowout and fire, they said, posed a serious long-term health risk.
26 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Floods: two dead in Arunachal, Assam toll 36||Landslide induced by heavy rain killed a minor in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar on Thursday while a woman drowned in twin city Naharlagun. Another person drowned in Assam’s Dhemaji district as the death toll due to flood and landslides since mid-May increased to 36. Officials in Itanagar said the body was of the minor was retrieved from under the debris at the city’s Doni Colony after 8 am on Thursday. Around the same time, a woman’s body was retrieved from the Lagun River near Naharlagun. “Heavy rainfall for three days has added to our problem of combating COVID-19,” Chief Minister Pema Khandu said, announcing an immediate release of Rs. 4 lakh to the next of kin of each victim.  Situation worsens The flood situation in Assam worsened with the number of affected people jumping from 37,675 to 1,89,314 across nine districts in less than 24 hours. “A person drowned in Dhemaji’s Sisiborgaon area today (Thursday). So far, 15 people have died by drowning in two waves of floods while landslides claimed 21 others,” a spokesperson of Assam State Disaster Management Authority said. Floodwaters inundated the Baghjan site in Tinsukia district where a natural gas wells caught fire almost a fortnight after a blowout on May 27, hampering Oil India Limited’s capping operations. A concrete bridge on the road to the site was also damaged, preventing movement of men and material. In the adjoining Dibrugarh district, heavy rainfall resulted in water-logging in several areas of district headquarters Dibrugarh. The worst affected was the All India Radio station, where short-circuit due to flooding led to the suspension of all broadcast services from the studios. “We are broadcasting from an emergency transmitter at Lepetkata, 18 km away. The entire complex is inundated because of faulty drainage system,” said AIR’s programme executive Lohit Deka. AIR Dibrugarh is among India’s 13 most sophisticated stations with high-power transmitter and has been broadcasting programmes in 12 languages and dialects – six in Assam and six in Arunachal Pradesh. It is also among the most awarded, having received 27 national awards for innovative programmes.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||State gives nod to set up shacks on eight beaches||The State Cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to set up shacks on eight beaches in Maharashtra. The move is expected to provide a boost to tourism in the State. The eight beaches selected for the pilot project are Guhagar and Areware in Ratnagiri district; Kunkeshwar and Tarkarli in Sindhudurg district; Varsoli and Dive-agar in Raigad; and Kelwa and Bordi in Palghar district. More beaches will be selected in the next phase. As per the government policy, a temporary shack can be set up at a spot agreed upon by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation in consultation with the Maharashtra State Coastal Regulatory Zone. Each beach can have maximum of 10 shacks and local entrepreneurs will be given preference to construct them. About 80% jobs will be reserved for locals. Three-year permit The Cabinet also decided the dimensions of the shacks, which will be given permission to initially operate for three years. The shacks must be 15 feet in length, 15 feet in width and 12 feet in height. The roof will have to be 20 feet in length and 15 feet in width. The rent for the first year will be Rs. 45,000 and for the second and third years, it will be Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 55,000 respectively. According to the proposal, the shacks can remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., but no loud music can be played. Land development The Tourism Department, headed by Aaditya Thackeray, has also decided to allow private firms to develop government lands under the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. Under the first phase of the project, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation resorts in Ganpatipule, Matheran, Mahabaleshwar, Harihareshwar and Mithbav and plots in Tadoba and Fardapur in Aurangabad will be privatised. A high-level committee will fix the annual rent and an independent consultant will be appointed for the project.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||PUDR urges CM to improve conditions in State’s prisons||The People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) on Thursday, the 45th anniversary of the Emergency, wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray highlighting the deplorable conditions in prisons and quarantine centres in Maharashtra, and sought urgent action to improve the facilities. In the letter, PUDR also requested Mr. Thackeray to grant interim bail or emergency parole to undertrials and convicts above 60 years and those with co-morbidities, irrespective of the offences for which they have been booked. ‘Prevent spread of virus’ The letter said physical distancing norms must be strictly implemented in jails, in accordance with the World Health Organization’s guidelines, to prevent the further spread of COVID-19. PUDR also called for action to ensure that inmates stay in regular touch with their families and lawyers through phone and videoconferencing till it is safe to have in-person meetings. The letter highlighted the abysmal conditions in which political activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, was living in along with 350 other inmates at the quarantine facility at Namdar Gopal Krishna Gokhale High School in Kharghar. PUDR said most inmates were crammed into six classrooms, while others slept in the corridors and passages. The letter said, “What is worse is that for 350 persons, there were only three toilets, seven urinals, and one bathing facility without either a bucket or a mug. The inmates also had no access to fresh air, as they were mostly locked in, with no place demarcated for them to walk or engage in physical exercise. This stands in contravention to the Maharashtra Jail Manual, which provides for at least one toilet seat for every six prisoners and thorough ventilation, among other things.”  PUDR also said the inmates are being kept arbitrarily at the facility beyond the 14-day quarantine period as Taloja jail is unable to accommodate more prisoners. “The jail has reportedly exceeded its capacity by 1,000 prisoners. Eight overcrowded prisons in the State have had to be ‘locked down’. This does not even remotely indicate the Maharashtra High Powered Committee’s resolve to reduce the jail population by at least two-thirds to implement physical distancing norms,” it said. Earlier, the Bombay High Court, after perusing the report submitted by the Inspector General of Prisons, had remarked on the sorry state of affairs in the State’s jails. The court said the conditions being reported were a source of grave and urgent concern, and posed an imminent threat of disease and death to undertrials.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||Film, TV bodies resolve issues; shooting all set for resumption||The Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE), the Cine And TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA) and the Indian Film and TV Producers’ Council (IFTPC) on Thursday said they have “amicably resolved” issues regarding insurance cover and salary for their members to restart filming immediately. Last month, the Maharashtra government allowed shooting of films, TV serials and web series with conditions. All production activities in the city were suspended in mid-March in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. There were reports that CINTAA and FWICE called off shootings of some TV shows, which were scheduled to start from Tuesday, after IFTPC failed to meet demands for insurance cover. In a virtual meeting held among the three bodies, IFTPC agreed to provide two sets of insurance coverage: a death cover of Rs. 25 lakh for COVID-19 and hospitalisation cover of Rs. 2 lakh across all hierarchy of the cast and crew. “Apart from the insurance, IFTPC also assured that every precaution as per the government’s guidelines will be put in place to ensure utmost safety for the entire cast and crew,” read a joint statement from the bodies. The 90-day cycle for payment in the TV industry has often come under scanner, with many in the industry asking for it to be done away with. In the meeting, a decision was also taken to reduce the period of credit for cast and crew from existing 90 days to 30 days for at least the first three months. “Mutually negotiated pay cuts without actors facing any sanctions, and continued dialogue with all parties for easing working conditions were also agreed to, without delaying the resumption of shootings. IFTPC acknowledged the contributions of CINTAA and FWICE, who in these extraordinary situations showed exemplary understanding and maturity in the workers and the national interest,” the statement read.
26 June 2020||Mumbai,||ASHA workers likely to get salary hike||Around 65,000 accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers in Maharashtra are likely to get a monthly hike of Rs. 2,000 as an incentive for their hard work during the COVID-19 crisis, a State official said. The ASHA workers, who have been assigned the task of surveillance in urban and rural areas, have so far been earning about Rs. 10,000 per month. “State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has finalised a proposal for their salary hike which would be discussed in the Cabinet meeting. If the proposal is cleared, ASHA workers will get a monthly hike of Rs. 2,000,” the official said. Their salary structure includes a basic payment of Rs. 2,000 each contributed by the State and the Central governments.
26 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||3 weeks after cyclone, 280 villages in Raigad district still without power||Power is yet to be restored to 280 villages in Raigad district, three weeks after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Murud and plunged 1,976 villages in darkness. Raigad District Collector Nidhi Choudhary said, “Gondghar sub-station, which provides power to some parts of areas such as Shrivardhan, Mhasla, Tala, Murud and Mangaon, has been badly damaged. The repair of the sub-station is taking a lot of time. Besides, heavy rainfall has been hampering the work. We hope to restore power in most of the villages by Sunday. We have been able to restore electricity in 20 villages every day.” Ms. Choudhary said the assessment of damages to houses, crops, and cattle has been completed. She said 1.83 lakh houses were damaged in the cyclone, while 16,060 hectares of land with coconut, mango, and cashew trees were destroyed. So far, the district has received Rs. 373 crore from the State government for the relief and rehabilitation of people. “Of this, Rs. 72.37 crore has been disbursed as compensation to owners of damaged houses, Rs. 8.72 lakh for the injured and deceased, and Rs. 1.23 crore for agricultural loss,” she said. Around 15,000 government schools and 186 private schools were also affected by the cyclone. Ms. Choudhary said, “Till now, around Rs. 66 crore has been transferred into the bank accounts of the affected people. The process of disbursing the money is tedious. First the punchnama is recorded into a software, then the bills are made.” Banks open on weekend Ms. Choudhary said banks will be kept open on Saturday and Sunday to facilitate disbursement of funds. “By this weekend, we hope that most of the people will get their compensation for the damage to their houses. All officers are working on a war footing,” she said.
26 June 2020||Panaji,||COVID-19 recoveries in Goa will grow, says CM||With 137 COVID-19 patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals in Goa in the last two days, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has expressed confidence that the number of recoveries in the State will grow in the coming days. Till Wednesday night, the overall tally of COVID-19 cases in the State was 951. On Tuesday, 45 new cases were recorded, while 53 patients recovered from the virus. The trend continued on Wednesday, with 84 people recovering and returning home, while the number of new cases was 42. These recoveries reduced the number of active cases to 660. ‘Result of hard work’ “The recovery of 137 patients in the last two days is a reflection of the hard work and efforts of our frontline novel coronavirus warriors, and the robust healthcare infrastructure that has been set up in the State. Similar number of recoveries are expected in the coming days,” Mr. Sawant said on Wednesday evening.
26 June 2020||Copenhagen,||Resurgence of virus in Europe as restrictions go, warns WHO||Europe has seen a surge of COVID-19 cases since countries began easing restrictions aimed at curbing the spread of the potentially fatal virus, the World Health Organization said on 1Thursday. “Last week, Europe saw an increase in weekly cases for the first time in months,” the WHO’s regional director for Europe Hans Kluge told reporters. He said more than two dozen countries in Europe had seen resurgences of the deadly virus. “Thirty countries have seen increases in new cumulative cases over the past two weeks. In 11 of these countries, accelerated transmission has led to very significant resurgence that if left unchecked will push health systems to the brink once again in Europe,” he warned. Mr. Kluge did not identify the countries by name, nor provide detailed numbers. Major setback Germany, which began easing measures about seven weeks ago, is however one such country that has suffered a major setback. On Tuesday, it reimposed lockdowns on more than 6,00,000 people in two districts in the western part of the country after an outbreak at a slaughterhouse infected more than 1,500 workers. Portugal also imposed new restrictions in and around its capital on Tuesday. Mr. Kluge noted that the European region was reporting a decreasing proportion of global cases than earlier in the year, as the pandemic hits the Americas with full force, but Europe continues to report close to 20,000 new cases and over 700 new deaths daily. Mr. Kluge meanwhile singled out Poland, Germany, Spain and Israel for their swift responses to outbreaks in schools, coal mines, and food production settings in recent weeks. “Where new clusters of cases appeared, these have been controlled through rapid and targeted interventions. This is very good news,” he said.
26 June 2020||San Francisco,||Google to pay for news content||Google will pay partnered media publishers in three countries and offer some users free access to paywalled news sites, the tech giant said on Thursday. The announcement comes after legal battles in France and Australia over Google’s refusal to pay news organizations for content. In a blog post, the company said it would launch “a licensing programme to pay publishers for high-quality content for a new news experience” due to launch later this year. Brad Bender, Google’s vice-president of product management, said they had been in discussions with partnered publishers — including the Spiegel Group in Germany, Schwartz media in Australia and Brazil’s Diarios Associados — for several months, “with more to come.” “Google will also offer to pay for free access for users to read paywalled articles on a publisher’s site,” the statement said, without offering any further details. Bender said the program will help publishers “monetize their content through an enhanced storytelling experience.” He added it would build on the 2018 Google News Initiative, a $300 million project that aimed to tackle disinformation online and help news sites grow financially. It comes after growing calls for internet tech titans, notably Google, to pay for content. A number of European and global publications — including AFP — have called on the European Union to adopt laws requiring internet companies to pay for the material they produce. In April, France’s competition regulator said the firm must start paying media groups for displaying their content, ordering it to begin negotiations after refusing for months to comply with Europe’s new digital copyright law. And earlier this month, Google rejected an Australian ruling that it pay hundreds of millions of dollars per year in compensation to local news media under a government-imposed revenue sharing deal.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No role in Sikh abduction: Taliban||The Taliban was not involved in the kidnapping of a Sikh leader in Chamkani district of Paktia province of Afghanistan and his abductors would face justice from the group, the Afghan Taliban said on Thursday. The comment came three days after Nedan Singh was kidnapped in the second such incident in recent months. “As a policy, we don’t kidnap anyone. Nor have we kidnapped this gentleman. Our goal is clear — putting an end to the [foreign] occupation. If we find his kidnappers, we will send them to our courts to punish them as per the law,” Suhail Shaheen, spokesman of the political office of the Taliban, said in a message to The Hindu . The statement is aimed at putting to rest speculations about the group’s involvement in the incident. The relatives of Mr. Singh had received phone calls from Afghanistan which claimed that they were part of the Taliban. But Mr. Shaheen said the kidnappers were not part of the group and had committed a crime. Minority rights The spokesman had said the Taliban remained “committed to minority rights” and blamed the Islamic State fighters for the March 25 attack on a gurdwara in Kabul that left at least 25 persons dead. Mr. Singh went missing on June 22 from Chamkani, where he was a regular visitor as the caretaker of the Sri Guru Nanak Sahib Gurdwara, which is considered special because of historic and religious reasons. It is believed that Sikhism founder Guru Nanak visited the region during his tour of Afghanistan in the 15th century. India had described the incident as a “matter of grave concern”. It said it was in contact with the government of Afghanistan to ensure the “safety, security and wellbeing of the minority community in Afghanistan. We believe the government of Afghanistan would be able to secure safe and early release of Mr. Nedan Singh”.
26 June 2020||ANKARA,||Turkish official slams Bolton memoir, says it is ‘misleading’||Turkey has denounced as “misleading, one-sided and manipulative” the explosive book by former U.S. National Security Advisor John Bolton’s that describes interactions between Turkish and U.S. Presidents Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Donald Trump. In the book “The Room Where It Happened”, Mr. Bolton contends that the U.S. leader was inclined to offer “personal favours to dictators he liked.” Mr. Trump was said to be receptive when Mr. Erdogan mentioned a criminal probe into one of his country’s largest banks over violating U..S sanctions on Iran. Mr. Bolton wrote that Mr. Trump told Mr. Erdogan “he would take care of things,” explaining that New York prosecutors handling the case were appointed by his predecessor Barack Obama and could be replaced. Fahrettin Altun, communications director of the Turkish presidency, on Wednesday sent out a flurry of tweets in English saying that the book “includes misleading, one-sided and manipulative presentations of our leader President Erdogan’s conversations” with Mr. Trump. “It is clear that... (these) mischaracterisations and falsehoods are driven by domestic political considerations as well as personal gain,” he tweeted.
26 June 2020||Stockholm,||‘Democracy under threat during pandemic’||Over 500 political and civil society leaders, Nobel laureates and rights groups, on Thursday warned that some governments were using the coronavirus pandemic to “tighten their grip on power,” undermining democracy and civil liberties. In an open letter signed by former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, actor Richard Gere and Nobel Peace Prize laureates Shirin Ebadi, Lech Walesa and Jose Ramos-Horta, among others, the authors called the ongoing pandemic a “formidable global challenge to democracy.” High stakes “Democracy is under threat, and people who care about it must summon the will, the discipline, and the solidarity to defend it,” the authors wrote. “At stake are the freedom, health, and dignity of people everywhere.” The letter — the aim of which is to raise “awareness and mobilise citizens” — was initiated by the Stockholm-based International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA). “Just as the pandemic is already having massive economic and social consequences, it is very likely already having very profound political consequences,” Kevin Casas-Zamora, the organisation’s secretary general, told AFP. Stressing that it was still early days and the full impact on democracy would have to be evaluated later, Mr. Casas-Zamora noted there were already worrying signs. Mr. Casas-Zamora pointed to “cases like Hungary where basically the emergency powers invoked by the government had no expiration date.” Those powers were lifted however by a unanimous vote in Parliament on June 16 that took effect the following day. Mr. Casas-Zamora pointed also to Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s expansion of emergency powers and El Salvador’s use of detention centres as other causes for concern. Noting that emergency powers were a “legitimate part of the arsenal” of democratic governments to deal with exceptional circumstances, Mr. Casas-Zamora said the exercise of those powers had to be “proportional to the emergency.”
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Abide by UNSC orders, UN tells members after U.S. report on Pak.||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expects all member states to “live up” to their obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions, his spokesperson has said, after a U.S. report noted that Pakistan remains a safe haven for terrorists as it did not take actions against JeM founder Masood Azhar. The U.S. State Department, in its Congressional-mandated 2019 Country Reports on Terrorism on Wednesday, said Pakistan remained a “safe harbour” for regionally-focused terrorist groups and that the suspension of US aid to the country remained in effect throughout 2019. Stéphane Dujarric, responding to a question during his daily press briefing, said while he will not comment on the report issued by the U.S. State Department, “Obviously, as a matter of principle, we do expect all member states to live up to their obligations as laid out in any relevant Security Council resolution or Security Council decision. The report said Pakistan took “modest steps” in 2019 to counter terror financing and restrain India-focused militant groups from conducting large-scale attacks following the Pulwama attack in February, but it remained a “safe harbour” for regionally focused terrorist groups. It further said that Pakistan took action against some externally focused groups, including Lashkar e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed but did not take action against Jaish-e-Mohammed founder and UN-designated terrorist Azhar and 2008 Mumbai attack ‘project manager’ Sajid Mir, both of whom remain free in Pakistan.
26 June 2020||Washington,||Pentagon lists companies ‘backed’ by Chinese Army||The Pentagon has published a list of 20 Chinese companies it says are backed by the military, in the latest instance of a running tit-for-tat economic battle between Washington and Beijing. Telecom giant Huawei — which has been dogged by allegations of stealing American trade secrets and aiding China’s espionage efforts — and video surveillance giant Hikvision are among the firms named in the list, according to Bloomberg. “As the People’s Republic of China attempts to blur the lines between civil and military sectors, ‘knowing your supplier’ is critical,” said Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Rath Hoffman. The list covers firms “owned by, controlled by, or affiliated with China’s government, military, or defence industry,” Mr. Hoffman said in a statement. “We envision this list will be a useful tool for the U.S. Government, companies, investors, academic institutions, and likeminded partners to conduct due diligence with regard to partnerships with these entities,” he added. U.S. President Donald Trump has pursued a bruising trade war with China, and warned last week of “complete decoupling” between the world’s top two economies despite both sides pledging to move forward on a trade deal. China last month warned it would take “necessary measures” to protect Huawei and others after the U.S. announced restrictions on the tech giant’s purchases of semiconductor technology.
26 June 2020||Tokyo,||Japan scraps U.S. missile system||Japan has scrapped the deployment of a multi-billion-dollar U.S. anti-missile system, the government confirmed on Thursday, days after saying the programme had been suspended. Interceptors for the Aegis Ashore system were to be placed in two regions under the costly programme. But the government reversed course under pressure from local residents. “The National Security Council reached the conclusion that the deployment of Aegis Ashore in Akita and Yamaguchi is to be rescinded,” Defence Minister Taro Kono said.
26 June 2020||Tehran,||Iran COVID-19 deaths cross 10,000 mark||Iran on Thursday announced 134 new deaths from the novel coronavirus, taking the overall toll in the country past 10,000. Tehran has struggled to contain the spread of the virus since it reported its first cases in Qom in February. “We lost 134 of our compatriots in the past 24 hours and the total number of victims is 10,130,” said Health Ministry.
26 June 2020||Islamabad,||150 Pak. pilots suspended in licence probe||Pakistan International Airlines said on Thursday it had grounded almost a third of its pilots for holding fake or dubious licences, a month after one of its planes crashed into houses killing 98 people. The move comes after the government released a report into the May 22 crash in Karachi. Investigators largely blamed the two pilots, who ignored flight protocols and had been discussing the coronavirus outbreak when they first attempted to land the Airbus A320. PIA spokesman Abdullah Hafeez Khan said that a government probe last year had found about 150 of its 434 pilots were carrying “either bogus or suspicious licences”.
26 June 2020||Seoul,||North, South Koreas mark 70 years of war||North and South Korea on Thursday separately marked the 70th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, a conflict that killed millions of people and has technically yet to end. Communist North Korea invaded the U.S.-backed South on June 25, 1950, as it sought to reunify by force the peninsula Moscow and Washington had divided at the end of the Second World War. The fighting ended with an armistice that was never replaced by a peace treaty. In the South, the remains of nearly 150 soldiers repatriated from Hawaii after being excavated in the North were to be formally received at a government ceremony on Thursday evening.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The myopia of 20/20 hindsight||As Indians we have the indefatigable propensity to use a contemporary and often biased prism to judge past actors and their actions affecting the nation’s interests. There is an unstated assumption that in taking certain decisions or in pursuing certain policies, these actors had the perfect astrological capacity to weigh the consequences and divine the changing context in which those actions would play out. We all have to make intelligent assessments of future trends and developments but these are mostly educated guesses at best. But we expect perfect powers of prediction in our leaders and decision-makers. When things work out differently, as they often do, because the circumstances have changed, we proceed to flay them for having let the country down. We profess perfect 20/20 vision by hindsight but are truly myopic in our perspective. Disengagement in Siachen Recently, I have been at the receiving end of this wisdom by hindsight. India’s relations with Pakistan are at an all time low. So everything remotely positive that may have occurred in the past becomes suspect. Those given the task of implementing the more hopeful policies during a certain phase in India’s relations with Pakistan then are turned into villains. In the specific case involving me personally, viral messages on social media accuse me of being an instrument of the Manmohan Singh government to hand over Siachen Glacier to Pakistan during negotiations with Pakistan when I was Foreign Secretary. There are selective quotes from my book and mischievous interpretations being circulated to promote this utterly false narrative. The disengagement of Indian and Pakistan forces from Siachen had been on the agenda of India-Pakistan talks for several years under several governments. The sticking point had been Pakistan’s refusal to agree upon an Actual Ground Position Line from which forces of the two sides would withdraw to new positions, negotiated between the two sides. Pakistan finally conceded this. The disengagement would be done in phases with less risky areas in the first phase and others in subsequent phases. There would be arrangements for continuous verification and monitoring of the zone of disengagement. Disengagement is not surrender just as I presume current disengagement between Indian and Chinese forces does not imply surrender of our territory. This proposed agreement could not be pursued because the Cabinet Committee on Security failed to approve it. It was not formulated by me alone but the government system as a whole. It was also put aside by the same system. That was the end of the matter. Whether the idea itself was wise given the unfortunate and hostile trajectory India-Pakistan relations have taken since is another matter. In the context of the then state of relations this was an initiative deemed worthwhile. The torrent of criticism that we now witness should then apply to several other instances. Should former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee have undertaken the bus ride to Lahore in 1999, in the light of what we now know of Pakistani coincidental plans to capture the heights over Kargil? Was his “hand of friendship” speech in Srinagar in 2003 based on romantic idealism now that we are convinced of Pakistan’s perfidy? Does Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unscheduled visit to Lahore in 2015 and the image of his walking hand in hand with then Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif count as unmitigated folly or as a well-considered political gamble to turn relations around? Do the Pathankot and Uri terrorist incidents thereafter show naivete on his part? Worse, should we accuse him of endangering India’s security because we were lulled into trusting Pakistani’s goodwill? How should we judge his highly publicised summits with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the light of what we have just gone through in Galwan? These decisions may still be commended even if they may have turned sour because at the time they were taken, they promised to re-orient India-Pakistan and India-China relations in a positive direction.  A historical perspective I am pointing this out because this tendency to be wise after the event can be very damaging to foreign policy formulation. The fear of being proved wrong may paralyse diplomacy. One should always have a historical perspective when formulating policy so that we learn from what turned out to be correct decisions and what turned out to be errors of judgement. But such success or failure can only be properly assessed in the light of then historical circumstances and the then regional and international environment. We cannot judge history through the prism of the present. For example, given western support for Pakistan on the Kashmir issue and China’s hostility, was the Indo-Soviet partnership between 1960 and 1990  a good strategic move or a bad one? Does the importance of the India-U.S. partnership today negate the earlier partnership with the Soviet Union? To my mind it does not because during the Cold War, and particularly after China and the U.S. became virtual allies after Henry Kissinger’s visit to Beijing in 1971, Indo-Soviet partnership acquired great significance and played a role in the birth of Bangladesh that year. Just as the India-U.S. partnership today makes sense for India, so did the Indo-Soviet partnership earlier. The great strength behind India’s foreign policy has been the broad national consensus it has enjoyed, according it a certain continuity and coherence. Despite holding various leaders to account for this or that error of judgement, there has been general acknowledgement that irrespective of their ideological or political persuasion, successive governments have upheld India’s interests firmly and judiciously. Limiting room for manoeuvre It is sad to see that now foreign policy, too, has fallen victim to very narrow and cynical jousting in domestic politics. This can be very damaging to intelligent and careful foreign policy-making. If policymakers constantly have their eye on how something will play out domestically then we will not be able to uphold the nation’s larger interests. For example, Pakistan has become a domestic political issue which prevents any kind of sober and well-considered posture towards that neighbouring country. We thus limit our room for manoeuvre. One is proud to have had the privilege of serving this great country as its representative and I do not take to heart the barbs being thrown at me. Let me also say that in my long years of service I have admired each of the Prime Ministers I have served under. Not for a moment did I ever feel that any one of them did not uphold the country’s interests with firmness and, importantly, with passion. And Dr. Manmohan Singh is no exception. Shyam Saran is a former Foreign Secretary and is currently Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Can online learning replace the school classroom?||The COVID-19 outbreak has disrupted the academic year, cancelled classes and examinations across the country. To ensure that students do not miss out on their studies, schools moved classes online, forcing students to attend lectures via their gadgets. However, this has also sparked a debate on whether the increased amount of screen time helps students learn or if it impedes their progress. While Maharashtra has banned online classes from pre-primary to Class II, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have extended the ban till Class V. In a discussion moderated by Puja Pednekar, Kiran Bhatty and Reeta Sonawat look at the pros and cons of online learning. Edited excerpts:  Has screen time for students increased because of online classes? Reeta Sonawat (RS):No, I do not think that online classes have increased screen time. Children are anyways hooked to screens whether it is in the form of television, mobile or computer. Children have been addicted to screens even before the COVID-19 pandemic began. They have been using the screen for eight to nine hours daily. When it comes to online lessons, most schools are not depending only on screens. They are giving students a blended approach by including various activities in their lessons. At pre-school level, children are asked to do painting or craft. Some schools conduct yoga sessions; ask students to experiment in the kitchen, make a salad at home. Children only have to watch their screens during storytelling sessions. But those too are designed creatively to engage students. So, there is a bit of screen time, but it is interspersed with hands-on activities. What we need to understand is that if we do not hold these classes, we will be hampering the child’s brain development. In early childhood, the child’s brain develops every day. So, we cannot afford to miss even a single day. And for brain development, children need to receive the right kind of stimulation, which only teachers can provide. They have been trained to provide age-appropriate stimulation. Kiran Bhatty (KB):Looking at the screen for long periods of time can be harmful. And since schools have shifted to online instruction, it does imply long hours of screen time for the child. And that doesn’t seem to be a healthy way of learning. In addition to the impact on their health, online learning from home can also be very isolating and lonely for the child. They don’t have their peers around them and are sort of learning by themselves. Even the teachers’ role becomes limited. Children do not get the kind of supervision that they would in a classroom. Parents might be too busy with their own work to supervise online learning. These factors impact learning. Also, many children, especially those attending government schools, are being deprived of education during the pandemic as they do not have access to online facilities. They are actually missing out on their lessons. Though some families may have access to digital technology, there might not be enough devices for the personal use of all the family members. The parents may be working from home and need to use their computers. So, each household needs to have several gadgets that they can distribute among all of them so that that is really not possible for a large section of the population. Many schools are holding online lessons for children in kindergarten as well. What are the dangers of exposing children to screens at such a young age? RS:Exposing children to screens from a young age is not right. It can hamper their overall development. The light emitted from the screen can strain children’s eyes and could lead to vision problems throughout their lives. Watching a screen is also a passive activity that can make children lethargic and affect their thinking skills. Often, parents expose children to screens right from a young age — using videos to get toddlers to eat without a fuss is a common parenting method. This can lead to several behavioural problems.Schools should also keep this in mind while creating online content for younger kids. The lessons should be designed in such a way that the child only spends a few minutes looking at a screen. This can be done by integrating different activities into the lessons. The Karnataka High Court has asked for guidelines on online learning. What do you think some of these guidelines should include? KB:So, I think there are multiple issues surrounding online learning, which haven’t been thought through. There has been a rush to switch to online classes almost overnight. That’s why, some courts have asked the government to come up with guidelines on online instruction. They want to know what online classes entail, what it means, how is it going to happen and what will be its impact. RS:The Early Childhood Association (a think tank on pre-primary education) has prepared detailed guidelines to be followed in online learning. Schools should be opened only if they are able to follow these guidelines. Unfortunately, many of the balwadi s and anganwadi s (government-run creches and daycare facilities) might be located in congested areas, which may be hotspots. Many countries have started re-opening their schools. But in India, where metro cities — Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi — are reporting an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, is it viable to open schools? KB:What’s worrying is the fact that the entire conversation has shifted to the use of technology. It is not just about computers and smartphones, even watching Doordarshan amounts to screen time. Nobody (in India) is really talking about turning schools into safe places, where education can resume. Education is not just about information or content delivered to students via screens. It is about a lot more. And most of it takes place through the social interactions in a school, with peers, with the teachers. Since online classes have begun, all that has been cut out. And I think that would have other kinds of developmental and cognitive impact on the child and their development. It is high time that we started to talk about how the school actually can be made a space that is safe again, for children to come back to, rather than make a complete switch to online learning. RS:Schools may be reopening abroad, but we cannot compare that to the situation in India. The schools that have opened in these countries are taking utmost precautions. For instance, they are using tissue boxes for every class. Students can dump their used tissues in these boxes. But the waste generated is so huge, and it will also require to be discarded safely. Do Indian schools have that kind of infrastructure? Also, it is difficult to make children sit in the classroom wearing masks, without touching it. Or for them not to touch other children and their masks. What will education look like once schools reopen post COVID-19? Will online lessons continue and what will be the learning level of the students? KB:There is a large section of the population that is unable to access technology and that’s a huge concern. Children belonging to migrant families might have moved far away from their schools. I know government school teachers in Delhi were trying to reach some of the students whose mobile numbers they have, but they are not able to reach them, they have disappeared. And these are kids who are going to be out of school soon. We don’t know whether their families will return to the cities and what’s going to happen to them. Teachers are doing enough to develop better online modules, based on activities, but how many children are benefiting from it? The problem is that our policy has always neglected the marginalised child. That is why we still have so many children who are not in school. All our policies tend to focus on those who already have access to certain facilities. We just forget the invisible — the poor and the marginalised. RS:If we stop online education, even the children who have access to technology will lose out. So, stopping online classes is not the solution. Instead, we need to work on providing technology to these [disadvantaged] children. Some non-government organisations are already working on these issues. They are providing smartphones, electronic tablets and teaching children to make use of technology. We need more such initiatives. So what are the alternatives that can ensure that students don’t fall back academically because of this or any other pandemic that might arise in the future? KB:During this pandemic, many of the policy fault lines — across all sectors — have come to the fore. Most of all in public health. The fact that our public health system is not geared towards such situations has become evident and obvious to everyone. Even within the education sector, it has become clear that we have not invested in our education system in a way that it can take care of a situation like this. Going forward, we have to start thinking on these lines. We need to improve our education system in such a way that we do not have to keep schools closed in such situations. We need to make it possible for the students to have a safe environment in schools even during a pandemic. We need to ensure that there is no shortage of teachers. Itis not just about online instruction, but also about preparing action plans to deal with students who have lost out on education because of the pandemic. A majority of the students who were unable to access technology in this pandemic may become drop-outs. This goes against their fundamental right to education. RS:We (Early Childhood Association) have suggested that during pandemics, schools can be opened in a staggered manner, with 50% students attending every alternate day. This will help avoid crowded classrooms and give schools time to clean up their premises. Temperature checks of teachers, students and non-teaching staff should become mandatory. Teachers should not give students any books to carry home. Social distancing should be followed strictly by teachers and students. Second, it will be better to give priority to opening schools for marginalised and migrant children, as they might not have access to technology. We can create separate safe spaces for these children.  Education is not just about information or content... most of it takes place through social interactions in a school, with peers, with the teachers Kiran Bhatty, Senior Fellow, Centre for Policy Research
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Why China is being aggressive along the LAC||The ongoing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) pose the biggest national security challenge to New Delhi in at least 20 years. The clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh have claimed 20 Indian lives, the first incident of fatalities on the India-China border in 45 years. China has revived its claim on the entire Galwan Valley and has asked India to pull back from the areas. Satellite images in the public domain suggest that China has set up defence positions in the valley as well as the disputed “Fingers” of Pangong Tso. Both sides are engaged in a face-off at Hot Springs. Despite multiple rounds of military-level talks, tensions are unlikely to ease given the complexity of the ground situation. What led to the current situation? In 2017, India and China agreed to amicably resolve the Doklam stand-off that lasted for more than two months. No blood was spilt then, and no shots fired. The National Democratic Alliance government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been very careful not to upset China’s domestic and geopolitical sensitivities. Barring occasional joint statements issued with leaders from the U.S. and Asia-Pacific countries, reasserting India’s commitment to “freedom of navigation” (a veiled criticism of China’s claims over the South China Sea), India has stayed away from criticising China on controversial topics, whether its “de-radicalisation” camps in Xinjiang, crackdown on protests in Hong Kong, or disputes with Taiwan. Yet China chose to increase tensions along the LAC. Why? Salami slice strategy One popular argument is that China’s move, driven by local factors such as India’s infrastructure upgrade and its decision to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, was reckless. For some square kilometres of land, this argument goes, China has lost India strategically, to the West. Several experts have claimed that the tensions on the border are driving India deeper into a strategic embrace with the U.S. But it’s not as simple as it seems. There is a clear shift in Chinese foreign policy post the COVID-19 outbreak. This is seen in China’s rising tensions with the U.S., its threats against Taiwan, repeated naval incidents in the South China Sea, and a new security law for Hong Kong. The tensions along the LAC are part of this shift. To understand this shift, one has to get a sense of the sources of China’s conduct. Today’s China is an ambitious rising power which wants to reorient the global order. Unlike the Soviet Union of the 1940s (in the early stages of the Cold War), China is not an ideological state that intends to export communism to other countries. But like the Soviet Union of the post-war world, China is the new superpower on the rise. When it was rising, China had adopted different tactical positions — “hide your capacity and bide your time”, “peaceful rise” or “peaceful development”. That era is over. Under President Xi Jinping, the Chinese think they have arrived. With the global economy in the doldrums, globalisation in an irrecoverable crisis accentuated by the COVID-19 outbreak, and the U.S. under an isolationist President taking the most aggressive position towards China since Richard Nixon, Beijing believes the global order is at a breaking point. It is fighting back through what game theorists call “salami tactics” — where a dominant power attempts to establish its hegemony piece by piece. India is one slice in this salami slice strategy. Perception of decline China doesn’t see India as a ‘swing state’ any more. It sees India as an ally-in-progress of the U.S. Its actions were not reckless, taken at the risk of losing India strategically. Its actions are a result of what it perceives as a strategic loss that has already happened. If India is what many in the West call the “counterweight” to China’s rise, Beijing’s definite message is that it is not deterred by the counterweight. This is a message not just to India, but to a host of China’s rivals that are teaming up and eager to recruit India to the club. Within this broader framework there could be a host of factors — local, regional and global — that influenced China’s moves. When most of the world’s big powers are grappling with the pandemic, revisionist powers such as China have more room for geopolitical manoeuvring. Europe has been devastated by the virus. The U.S. is battling in an election year the COVID-19 outbreak as well as the deepest economic meltdown since the Great Depression. Its global leadership is unravelling fast. The Indian economy was in trouble even before COVID-19 struck the country, slowing down its rise. Social upheaval over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, and the National Register of Citizens had weakened the Indian polity. India’s traditional clout in its neighbourhood was slipping: tensions with Pakistan have been high keeping the troops occupied in the border areas; Nepal raised boundary issues with India; Sri Lanka is diversifying its foreign policy and China is making deep inroads into that region; and Bangladesh was deeply miffed with the CAA. Even in Afghanistan, where Pakistan, China, Russia and the U.S. are involved in the transition process, India is out. More important, last year’s Balakot airstrike was strategically disastrous. It may have helped Prime Minister Modi win a re-election, but there was no evidence that proved that Indian strikes hit the militants. India lost a jet to the neighbour and its pilot was captured and later released by Pakistan. The whole operation exposed the chinks in our armour, eroding India’s deterrence. A confluence of all these factors, which point to a decline in the country’s smart power, allowed China to make aggressive moves on the LAC. This is a strategic trap. India has reached here partly because of the lack of depth in its strategic thinking. A deep embrace of a declining U.S. is not a solution as many argue; rather, it’s part of the problem. Pakistan embraced a far steadier U.S. during the Cold War to check India. What happened to Pakistan thereafter should be a lesson for India. What India needs is a national security strategy that’s decoupled from the compulsions of domestic politics and anchored in neighbourhood realism. It should stand up to China’s bullying on the border now, with a long-term focus on enhancing capacities and winning back its friendly neighbours. There are no quick fixes this time. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Drug abuse amidst pandemic||More people are using drugs, and more illicit drugs are available than ever. The COVID-19 crisis has exposed our fragility, with health systems strained and social safety nets stretched to the limit. The economic downturn caused by the global pandemic may drive more people to substance abuse or leave them vulnerable to involvement in drug trafficking and related crime. We have been here before. In the global recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis, drug users sought out cheaper synthetic substances and patterns of use shifted towards injecting drugs, while governments reduced budgets to deal with drug-related problems. Vulnerable and marginalised groups, youth, women and the poor have been harmed the most. Now facing the gravest socio-economic crisis in generations, governments cannot afford to ignore the dangers illicit drugs pose to public health and safety. All over the world, the risks and consequences of drug use are worsened by poverty, limited opportunities for education and jobs, stigma and social exclusion, which in turn helps to deepen inequalities, moving us further away from achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). While more people use drugs in developed countries than in developing countries, and wealthier segments of society have a higher prevalence of drug use, people who are socially and economically disadvantaged are more likely to develop drug use disorders. Only one out of eight people who need drug-related treatment receive it, according to the World Drug Report 2020. Some 35.6 million people suffer from drug use disorders globally. The affected segments One out of three drug users is a woman but women represent only one out of five people in treatment. People in prison settings, minorities, immigrants and displaced people also face barriers to treatment due to discrimination and stigma. Around 269 million people used drugs in 2018, up 30% from 2009, with adolescents and young adults accounting for the largest share of users. While the increase reflects population growth and other factors, the data nevertheless indicate that illicit drugs are more diverse, more potent and more available. At the same time, more than 80% of the world’s population, mostly living in low- and middle-income countries, are deprived of access to controlled drugs for pain relief and other essential medical uses. Governments have repeatedly pledged to work together to address the challenges posed by the world drug problem, in the SDGs, and most recently in the 2019 Ministerial Declaration adopted by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. But data indicate that support has actually fallen over time, imperilling government commitment as well as regional and global coordination. Development assistance dedicated to drug control fell by some 90% between 2000-2017. Funding to address drugs may be provided under other budget lines, but there is little evidence of international donor attention to this priority. Assistance for alternative development — creating viable, licit forms of income to enable poor farmers to stop growing illicit opium poppy or coca — also remains very low. Leaving no one behind requires greater investment in evidence-based prevention, as well as treatment and other services for drug use disorders, HIV, hepatitis C and other infections. We need international cooperation to increase access to controlled drugs for medical purposes, while preventing diversion and abuse, and to strengthen law enforcement action to dismantle the transnational organised crime networks. Health-centred, rights-based and gender-responsive approaches to drug use and related diseases deliver better public health outcomes. As we seek to overcome and recover from the COVID-19 crisis, our societies cannot risk compounding illicit drug threats through inattention and neglect. We need drug strategies addressing the country-level, as well as regional challenges.  Ghada Waly is the Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Senseless deaths||Even for a country as inured to custodial violence as India, the death of a father-son duo arrested for a lockdown violation in Tamil Nadu is distressingly senseless. P. Jayaraj, 58, a timber trader, and his son, J. Benicks, 31, who ran a mobile phone service and sales centre, were arrested for allegedly keeping their outlets open after permitted hours at Sattankulam town in Thoothukudi district and remanded to judicial custody. The police claim they took ill on successive days while being lodged in a sub-jail and breathed their last in hospital. In a swift response, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which took suo motu cognisance of their death, has decided to monitor the progress of the statutory magisterial probe. It has asked for a status report from the police and also directed that the autopsy be video-graphed. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each, while two sub-inspectors have been suspended and an inspector placed on compulsory wait. The mere suspension of police personnel involved is an inadequate response to an incredibly wrongful abuse of authority by the law enforcement machinery. The police should register a case of murder and the matter taken over by an independent agency for a fair investigation. Custodial deaths are often the result of the pervasive use of torture in India’s police stations for extracting admissions of crime, but it is not uncommon, regrettably, for the police to use their power and authority to settle personal scores. If the death of Jayaraj and Benicks are ultimately established as custodial murder as a result of torture or assault by the police, it would only mean that the problem is much deeper than the mere lack of professionalism in investigative methods. It might indicate a different pathology among police officials that makes them inflict violence and harm against the weak. Since the early days of the current lockdown, there have been innumerable reports, often backed by video footage, of the police and officials attacking citizens in the name of enforcing restrictions, and awarding personalised punishment on violators, and sometimes kicking and overturning carts containing items for sale. In this case, the father was thrashed even before being taken to the police station. Their offence would have only attracted Section 188 of IPC (for disobeying the time restrictions ordered by a public servant), but they were also booked under Section 383 (extortion by threat) and Section 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation). It is well known that the police include ‘intimidation’ in the FIR solely to obtain an order of remand, as it is non-bailable, if they are bent upon sending someone to jail. The inclusion of non-bailable sections for a lockdown violation indicates a perverse and prior inclination to harass the two and cause suffering. The top brass of the police too will have to bear responsibility for this atrocity as it indicates a signal failure to lay down norms for policemen on the field to handle lockdown violations with humaneness.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Shut and open||Just three months ago, as COVID-19 raged across Europe and North America, the nerve centres of the sport, tennis tournaments began to fold like in an avalanche. The French Open shifted its dates from late May to late September, guided more by hope than logic. Wimbledon was cancelled for the first time since World War II. And when the Rogers Cup in Canada, which ushers in the fall season in early August, was dropped, it seemed the virus would outlast the year. But over a frenetic few hours early last week, the sport was given a new lease of life. It was announced that the U.S. Open, normally the last Major of the season, would go ahead as scheduled in New York (August 31 to September 13), and would be followed by the French Open in two weeks’ time in Paris. The Cincinnati Masters, which leads up to Flushing Meadows, and the Madrid and Rome Masters, warm-up events for Roland Garros, were also resurrected. While the ATP, the governing body of men’s tennis, stopped short of announcing the schedule post-Paris, its women’s counterpart, the WTA, went ahead full steam, listing events till the end of November, including the lucrative Asian swing in China. The restart, however, will be a humongous challenge. A Grand Slam like the U.S. Open is a major confluence of the world’s best tennis players and fans. To play it in a ‘bio-secure bubble’ involving no supporters, restricted movements, strict distancing norms and rigorous coronavirus testing protocols will be like a “sci-fi movie”, as English cricketer Mark Wood said recently. International travel restrictions are expected to be in place for the foreseeable future, thus rendering tournaments far from level playing fields. Just this week there has been an uptick in infections in the United States forcing a few states, including New York, to impose a 14-day quarantine for travellers from areas with high case numbers. The recent fiasco involving Novak Djokovic’s Adria Tour exhibition tennis in the Balkans, where a series of players including Djokovic tested positive, hasn’t helped. The World No.1 and the current president of the ATP Player Council came across as anything but a leader, becoming the face of an event which flouted the most important of WHO guidelines, of wearing masks and implementing physical distancing measures. It’s a stretch to say that the upcoming tennis calendar is now in jeopardy. Rather, the episode is a stark reminder of how easily things can go wrong if caution is thrown to the wind.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Outside the confines of an interview||Two Saturdays ago, I received an email from a friend saying “you have probably met him”. It was a message conveying the sudden passing of Veerakathy Senthan, an engineer based in Jaffna, in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province. I have met Senthan four times, at his small home in Varany, where he lived earlier, and later in Nelliady, Jaffna. The first time I met him over five years ago, I did not interview him. I didn’t even have specific questions to ask him. I was told he was an “interesting” man, an engineer by profession and Marxist by persuasion. Like every new person you hear about before you meet, Senthan too raised my curiosity. Irrespective of ideology, every insight or opinion from a senior resident is invaluable for a reporter navigating a new place with many histories, complex and contested. In Senthan’s case, I’d heard more. He was a fierce critic of the LTTE during the war, and the rebel group detained him for months for helping a fellow dissident escape the north. Trees as neighbours A narrow, muddy lane led to his small home. Its immediate vicinity had more trees than homes or neighbours. It seemed “interior” and felt quiet. Sporting a checked lungi and a half-sleeved shirt, the tall, lean man came out as he heard my van park. He was in his mid-60s then. “So, you’re The Hindu reporter. From Chennai?” he asked. “Yes,” I said. “What are Vaiko and Seeman saying?” he asked with a smile, not seeming particularly keen on a specific answer. He began speaking of current affairs, as if he were scanning headlines of a newspaper dedicated to world news and analysis. He spoke about Obama, the Democratic Party. He spoke about the Islamic State and of hard-line right-wing forces emerging everywhere. “The RSS too is gaining ground in India, isn’t it?” Between these observations were his own comments or questions, brimming with quiet irony. Though I spent well over an hour with him, he spoke very little about himself or Sri Lanka the first time. I wanted to meet him again. Barely years after having witnessed and experienced a brutal war at close range, here was a man sitting in his small home in interior Jaffna, talking about the whole world which, to him, wasn’t far away. “Marxists will tell you we have to mobilise people and build a movement against oppressive states. Don’t listen to them,” he’d laugh, in a self-mocking way. And seeing me tickled by his ready wit and sarcasm, he’d often ask: “Why are you laughing?” When I met him again, he spoke more about Sri Lanka, its war-bruised north, the Tamil polity that he felt was inadequate in addressing people’s concerns or aspirations. He was critical of nationalist politics in the Tamil-majority north and the mostly Sinhala-Buddhist south. His reflections had both, an unmistakable anger and regret about the past. However, neither sentiment interfered with what he thought could be done in the present. The engineer was active post-retirement and showed me around a local palmyra arrack distillery that he helped run. “Nothing like our palmyra tree to combat poverty,” he told me, the only time I interviewed him about local industries. Otherwise, Senthan was just happy to talk. In fact happier outside the confines of an interview.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. to Resume Sale of Arms to Pak.||There are strong reasons to believe that the United States has decided to lift the embargo on the direct sale of arms to Pakistan and that President Nixon has approved the supply of certain items of lethal military equipment to that country. The U.S. Administration has so far refused to disclose to India the nature and quantity of these weapons, but it is understood that at least 50 Patton tanks, and possibly even some fighter planes are immediately involved. The U.S. decision marks a major watershed in the U.S. policy towards the Indian sub-continent. It means that the U.S. after a long period of indecision, during which it had kept its five-year old policy of not supplying any weapons to either India or Pakistan, “under review”, has finally decided to disregard the Indian objections. The period since 1965, when the U.S. clamped the embargo, has in fact seen a gradual diminution of the U S. will to resist Pakistan demands for a resumption of arms supplies. The fact that during this period Pakistan succeeded in obtaining large quantities of arms first from China and then the Soviet Union, and Delhi’s persistent warnings that it would have serious repercussions in India, do not appear to have discouraged Washington from taking its latest decision.
26 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||‘Don’t know when chess will return to where it was’||When Viswanathan Anand left Chennai for Frankfurt in February, the city was waiting to see M.S. Dhoni back at Chepauk. The Southern metropolis was also talking about the latest Rajinikanth film, ‘Darbar’. All those classical music and dance stages were still alive, though the season had ended. It was an entirely different Chennai that he returned to, some three months later. The IPL had been postponed indefinitely, cinemas had been closed, dancers and musicians didn’t know when they would be able to get back on stage. The novel coronavirus has changed the world, almost unrecognisably. Anand is relieved and happy that he is finally be home again; that he can spend time with his wife Aruna and son Akhil, after being quarantined in Bengaluru on his arrival from Germany. He is also glad that he can play chess from his comfortable, familiar workstation at his home in Kotturpuram, Chennai. The five-time World champion wants to play in a tournament again, but doesn’t know when. “I don’t know when chess will return to where it was before,” he tells The Hindu over phone. “It seems some countries are coming out [of the lockdown], but they are not completely out of danger, while others are still in an earlier stage. “Only when the vaccine comes, can we breathe easy. A part of me hopes that by August or September we will at least be used to this and no doubt there will be a lot of precautions still. It could well be next year; I am getting used to that reality.” He is also getting used to playing competitive chess online. He had done quite a bit of that while he was stranded in Frankfurt. In good nick And he played some splendid chess, belying his 50 years — consider his 17-move demolition of World No. 4 Ian Nepomniachtchi at the Nations Cup. “I was very happy with the win against Nepo,” he says. “The funny thing is when I was preparing this line in the morning, this particular variation came up and I thought I should familiarise myself with it. I also liked the way I played against Teimour Radjabov, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave and Ding Liren.” He is not surprised that online chess really took off during the lockdown. “It has been around for many, many years, like video calls or working from home,” he says. “We didn’t imagine we would be doing those things this often”.
26 June 2020||London,||Liverpool on the brink of clinching title||Liverpool is on the brink of clinching the Premier League title after it powered to a 4-0 win against Crystal Palace, while Anthony Martial hit a hat-trick in Manchester United’s 3-0 victory over Sheffield United on Wednesday. Jurgen Klopp’s side took control thanks to first-half goals from Trent Alexander-Arnold and Mohamed Salah. Fabinho and Sadio Mane netted after the interval. Martial produced two predatory first-time finishes before half-time to put United in command at Old Trafford. United could have piled on much more pain after the break, but was content with one more goal.  The results: Premier League: Liverpool 4 (Alexander-Arnold 23, Salah 44, Fabinho 55, Mane 69) bt Crystal Palace 0.   Manchester United 3 (Martial 7, 44, 74) bt Sheffield United 0; Newcastle 1 (Gayle 68) drew with Aston Villa 1 (El Mohamady 83); Norwich 0 lost to Everton 1 (Keane 55); Wolves 1 (Jimenez 60) bt Bournemouth 0.   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 0 lost to Celta Vigo 1 (Aspas 45-pen); Alaves 0 lost to Osasuna 1 (Latorre 64); Real Madrid 2 (Vinicius Jr 19, Ramos 56) bt Real Mallorca 0.   Serie A: Inter Milan 3 (Lukaku 41-pen, Biraghi 45+1, Valero 86) drew with Sassuolo 3 (Caputo 4, Berardi 81-pen, Magnani 89); Atalanta 3 (Gosens 38, Malinovskyi 66, Palomino 80) bt Lazio 2 (De Roon 5-og, Milinkovic-Savic 11); AS Roma 2 (Dzeko 64, 85) bt Sampdoria 1 (Gabbiadini 11).
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Samaresh shoots down virus attacks on his family||The high performance coach of the Indian shooting team, Samaresh Jung, has had to deal with a string of coronavirus attacks on his family. First his brother caught the virus and was in a government hospital for about a week before he recovered. Next, Samaresh’s parents spent nearly 10 days at the Army Base Hospital. Samaresh, his wife Anuja and the children also began exhibiting symptoms of the disease, but dealt with it in home isolation, with regular guidance from doctors. Samaresh said he bought an Oximeter to monitor oxygen levels, and also hired an oxygen compressor to provide extra oxygen whenever required. No idea “We have been lucky. We have always been careful, and don’t know how we contracted the virus’’, said Samaresh, quite his cheerful self, after having visited his CISF office on Wednesday. Anuja who works with the Railways has been on leave. “Anuja makes the face masks at home,” said Samaresh, who lives in a big joint family. Betadine gargle, Vitamin C, multi-vitamin, etc, have been added to his vocabulary. Resultant strain He also talks of how much of a strain the affliction causes. He could not sleep for two days just because his eight-year-old son coughed twice, Samaresh says. Meanwhile, he finds people eating ‘golgappa” on the streets. He is shocked, but accepts it as “quite typical of Delhi’’.
26 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSLTA suspends tennis activities||With COVID-19 cases on the rise in the city, the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) has decided to suspend tennis activities temporarily at the facility. The decision comes two days after the Karnataka Golf Association (KGA) shut down after a playing member tested positive for COVID-19. “We have decided to suspend operations for at least two weeks. There has been a big rise in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru recently, so it is best to stop tennis activities as a precautionary measure. It is better to stay safe,” KSLTA joint secretary Sunil Yajaman said. Apart from members using the court, KSLTA had also started coaching classes for children. KSLTA had opened its courts only a month ago, after a long hiatus caused by the pandemic, with precautions in place.
26 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Sanjita Chanu to receive 2018 Arjuna||Two-time Commonwealth Games gold-winning weightlifter K. Sanjita Chanu, who was recently exonerated of doping charges, will receive the Arjuna Award for 2018, said Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) secretary Sahdev Yadav on Thursday. Sahdev informed Sanjita, who fought an over two-and-a-half-year battle to see her name being cleared of doping charges by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) earlier this month, about the development on Wednesday night. Sanjita had moved the Delhi High Court after being ignored for the Arjuna in 2017. After she was provisionally suspended for testing positive for a banned substance, the court, in its final order on August 30, 2018, directed the Arjuna Award Selection Committee to consider Sanjita’s nomination “uninfluenced” by the doping charges. “If the Selection Committee is of the view that the petitioner is entitled to Arjuna Award 2018, the decision shall be kept in a sealed cover and her name shall be disclosed only if the petitioner is absolved of the charges of doping…,” the order said. Following Sanjita’s exoneration, the IWLF reminded the Sports Ministry about the court order. “After going through relevant documents the Ministry confirmed that Sanjita would get the Arjuna award for 2018,” sahdev told The Hindu . Seeks SAI’s help Celebrating the moment, Sanjita — a Commonwealth Games gold medallist in 2014 and 2018 — sought some help from the Government for her training. “The Sports Authority of India had promised to provide me with equipment for training after my 2018 Commonwealth Games gold. Perhaps it was held up due to doping issues. I am facing problems in the lockdown. I request SAI to now provide the equipment so my training is not affected,” she said.
26 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Western model impractical: Gopi Chand||Chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand said it was not sensible to follow the Western model blindly to produce world-beaters and Olympic champions. Speaking at a webinar conducted by SAI-LNCPE on Thursday, Gopi said the Western model was expensive and impractical in a country like India. The former All-England champion said there was a need to promote sports which are fundamentally Indian. “In the Western model you need to spend around $10,000 each year on an athlete which is phenomenally expensive. For example you can’t build indoor stadiums everywhere for the kids to play basketball or 50m pools for the kids to learn swimming. “But we can do a lot by promoting local sports and our culture. I feel sports like wrestling, hockey, yoga, kho kho and tennikoit which are fundamentally imbibed in our culture should be given preference over others,” he said.  Gopi stressed the importance of physical literacy and said sports and physical activities definitely made children smarter. He also added that physical education (PE) teachers played a huge role in grassroots development and there was a need to recognise their efforts. “We should shift our thinking from winning medals to beyond medals. I must confess I also thought sports was all about winning until one incident during a coaching camp in 2015 changed my perspective. It was only then I realised the importance of physical literacy. “We should encourage children to play sports as it makes them smarter. Unstructured sports are important for a child’s development. “The little games we play in our backyard give us early lessons about leadership, adaptability and competition. Those who hate sports are the ones who were forced to leave sports early. “I think the role of the PE teacher at the grassroots level is very important. They are the ones who make the children love or hate sports. And like others, the PE teachers should be recognised for their efforts,” he said.
26 June 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Serving people’ is EB’s centenary celebration||East Bengal has turned to disaster management as COVID-19 and cyclone Amphan has affected its centenary celebration plans. The club announced its decision of “celebrating the centenary by serving the people” at a news conference here on Thursday. This was the first at-the-venue news conference hosted by any sports body or organisation in the State in more than three months. “Ours is a club that was formed out of the emotions of a diaspora. The club planned its centenary celebrations keeping in mind the emotions of its millions of members and supporters. But with the deadly pandemic and the devastating cyclone affecting the life and livelihood of lakhs of people in the State, we have decided to serve people whose lives have been impacted by the two,” said Kalyan Majumdar, general secretary, East Bengal. The club unveiled masks and hand sanitisers bearing its logo, a major portion of which will be donated to the State sports department and the city’s municipal corporation for distribution free of cost. “Our volunteers and the members of our fan club have already donated food and essentials to thousands of people since the beginning of the lockdown and after the cyclone ravaged large parts of Sundarbans and its adjoining areas. “We are still raising funds through different sources and will continue to help those affected,” said Debabrata (Nitu) Sarkar, a key functionary of the club.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We should never take the virus lightly’||Viswanathan Anand thinks the Novak Djokovic episode is a warning for everyone. “I heard that Serbia was doing well and that enough people felt the risk had receded,” he says. “But then you see what happened with the Adria Tour.” “We should never take the virus lightly,” says Anand. “It is like playing chess against the computer. You can’t completely understand the thing. All you can do is sit and focus on what you are supposed to do right, make your moves and hang in there.” — P.K . Ajith Kumar
26 June 2020||PARIS,||Thiem admits Adria Tour was a mistake||World No. 3 Dominic Thiem has acknowledged tennis players at the ill-fated Adria Tour made “a mistake” after Novak Djokovic and three other participants contracted coronavirus. Thiem took part in the Belgrade leg of the exhibition event organised by Djokovic where social distancing was minimal and matches were played in front of thousands of fans. Thiem, who left for an exhibition tournament in his native France after Belgrade, says he has tested negative five times since leaving the Balkans. “We put our confidence in the Serbian government’s coronavirus rules, but we were too optimistic,” he wrote on social media. “Our behaviour was a mistake, we displayed too much euphoria, I am extremely sorry.” He put this exuberance down to playing in front of fans for the first time “in weeks”. “I’ve been tested five times in the past 10 days and each time it was negative,” he added.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry withdraws recognition of 54 NSFs||Following an order of the Delhi High Court, the Sports Ministry withdrew the annual recognition of 54 Nationals Sports Federations (NSFs), including tennis, badminton, football, table tennis, chess, swimming, on Thursday. The latest letter from the Ministry, addressed to the Director General, Sports Authority of India, stated, “in compliance with the Order dated 24.06.2020 passed by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, the Department’s letter of even number 02.06.2020 granting provisional annual recognition of 54 NSFs stands withdrawn.” Fresh notice On Wednesday, a Delhi High Court bench, comprising Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Najmi Waziri, directed the Sports Ministry to “issue a fresh notice within two days intimating all 54 NSFs concerned that its order giving provisional renewal till September 30, 2020, stands recalled.” What irked the bench was the defiance of its February 7 order that clearly directed the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the Ministry not to take a decision related to the federations without informing the Court. Some of the prominent disciplines affected are: chess, football, tennis, carrom, baseball, kabaddi, athletics, badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, boxing, cycling, equestrian, hockey, polo, rugby, triathlon, weightlifting, kho-kho, shooting, squash, swimming, table tennis, ten-pin bowling, volleyball, wrestling, and motor sports.
26 June 2020||New Delhi:,||Plea for online chess Nationals||The newly formed Chess Players Forum (CPF) has urged the All India Chess Federation (AICF) to consider the possibility of holding this season’s Nationals online, with players making the moves from designated centres under arbiters’ supervision. In a letter addressed to AICF president Venketrama Raja and secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan, CPF president Varugeese Koshy referred to the recent suggestions made by Viswanathan Anand and FIDE director general Emil Sutovksy to explore the possibility of holding Chess Olympiad online. Koshy proposed the formation of a task force to discuss the SOP for such events.
26 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Vaishali cruises into semifinals||R. Vaishali stormed into the semifinals of the first leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess, with a crushing victory over Munkhzul Turmunkh of Mongolia. The Chennai girl won 7.5-3.5. In Friday’s semifinal, Vaishali will take on Anna Ushenina of Ukraine, who defeated Kateryna Lagno of Russia 6-4. In the other semifinal, an all-Russian affair, Alexander Kosteniuk will meet Valentina Gunina.
26 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen moves into the lead||World champion Magnus Carlsen produced yet another dominant display to dismantle World No. 2 Fabiano Caruana in 48 moves to take a 1-0 lead in their quarterfinal clash of the $150,000 Chess Masters on Thursday. In the other quarterfinal, Ian Nepomniachtchi gained from the connectivity issue faced by younger Russian compatriot Vladislav Artemiev and ‘won’ in a completely drawn position.  The results:   Quarterfinals (Game One): Magnus Carlsen bt Fabiano Caruana (USA); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) .
26 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rasquinha’s kind gesture||Saddened by the financial hardship being faced by the hockey community amid the COVID-19 pandemic, former India captain Viren Rasquinha has raised Rs. 22 lakh to be distributed as a one-time benefit among players, coaches and groundsmen working at the grassroots level. The fund has been raised in just one week through a joint initiative — #LetsStickTogether — of non-profit organisations Olympic Gold Quest, of which Rasquinha is director and CEO, and Go Sports Foundation.
26 June 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC chairman: process to be finalised next week||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board on Thursday deliberated, via a teleconference, the process for electing the next ICC chairman to succeed Shashank Manohar. While the ICC didn’t make any official announcement, it is understood that the process is likely to be finalised next week. Manohar has said he is not interested in continuing after serving two terms of two years each. It is expected that the next chairman will take over before the end of August. The ICC Board usually conducts its annual conference in June but the pandemic has forced it to being pushed back by almost two months. Manohar has agreed to continue until the annual conference.
26 June 2020||Kochi,||Saina nominates Aparna Balan for Arjuna||Saina Nehwal, the 2012 London Olympics bronze medallist and 2015 Worlds silver medallist, has recommended badminton doubles star Aparna Balan for the Arjuna Award. Aparna won a team silver in the 2010 New Delhi Commonwealth Games and a bronze in the Uber Cup, virtually the World team championship for women, in 2014 also in New Delhi. Being a Padma Bhushan and Khel Ratna award winner, Saina can nominate a player for the Arjuna award.
26 June 2020||CHENNAI,||IITM, German institute collaborating to develop green energy solutions||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras are collaborating with their counterparts in Germany to develop new materials for green energy solutions. The project, taken up under the Scheme for Promotion of academic and Research Collaboration or SPARC, aims at developing alternative technologies to produce green hydrogen in anticipation of transition to hydrogen-based economy. SPARC is an initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Around Rs. 66 lakh has been allocated for the project. N.V. Ravi Kumar of the Laboratory for High Performance Ceramics, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering at the institute, is collaborating with Sanjay Mathur, Chair of Inorganic and Materials Chemistry, Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Cologne, Germany and other researchers. Mr. Mathur is also an adjunct faculty in IITM’s Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering. Greenhouse gas Mr. Kumar said conventional methods of generating hydrogen result in a large quantity of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas that imposed serious environmental concerns. Whereas electrochemical splitting of water, called ‘Water Electrolysis’ (WE), is clean, facile, and highly efficient technology for large-scale production of high-purity H2. “Through this international collaboration we aim to develop novel low cost electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reactions,” he said. “This highly interdisciplinary team is working to broaden the understanding of advanced electrocatalysts with the potential to transform lab-scale research to deployable reactors/devices, Mr. Kumar said. The first phase of this project began with a visit to University of Cologne by IIT Madras researchers and Mr. Mathur’s visit to the Institute in February-March this year.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 09:42 IST,||Sudoku - June 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Down the rabbit hole||Milton the rabbit is staying indoors in his cave. He knows this is the best thing to do under the circumstances. For company, he has Amanda the butterfly and Conrad the hedgehog. In the illustrated book Milton And The Invisible Coronavirus , brought out by Danish publisher Milton Around The World, the three characters take children on a journey at the end of which they will better understand the pandemic, and how best to deal with it. Jesper Strømfeldt, the CEO of the publishing house, tells us how the book came about. Edited excerpts from an email interview: The rabbit and his world Milton Around the World is an educational universe for children aged 5 to 8. Considering the sparse information about COVID-19, we decided to use Milton’s universe as a starting point to create comfort around the situation. We felt that the children may not quite understand what is happening around them, but they notice huge changes in their everyday life and see the worry painted in the faces of the adults. They do not understand why they cannot go to school or see their grandparents. And why do they have to wash their hands all the time? Parents themselves feel challenged now and it is a considerable task to also have to explain in pedagogical and non-frightening terms what COVID-19 is and why we need to be so careful. It is something that the parents may not fully understand themselves. Power of words We believe that the combination between Milton’s universe, the book’s illustrations and story is helping shed light on what the pandemic is all about, and how we can play our part in fighting it. It can be used to alleviate concerns and explain the COVID-19 situation to young children, offering a way for parents, teachers and students to discuss some of the questions the pandemic has raised. Show and tell The hand-crafted watercolour illustrations are developed with children aged five to eight years in mind. With our colourful illustrations we believe the children are more encouraged to follow the curious rabbit Milton and his two best friends, as they navigate challenges in their daily lives as a result of the pandemic.  The book can be downloaded from pump manufacturer Grundfos’ website, grundfos.com/in, that has sponsored and is distributing it.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Summer with the Goldies Slip of the leash||The story so far: After Rayu and Rani narrowly escape Mad Malini’s wrath, Mrs. Charumathi makes a peculiar request.  Holding Rani’s hand, Mrs. Charumathi walked over to a tree and pointed to the fragrant white flowers on the ground. “Pick them up. I would have done it myself, if it wasn’t for my stiff back.” Rani filled the basket and they walked to the graveyard (one of our playgrounds). That’s where Rani and I spent our time after school. On Mrs. Charumathi’s instructions, Rani placed a flower on every tombstone. When they reached the far end, she pointed to an empty spot and said, “That’s where I will be buried.” For all her troubles, Rani received 20 rupees. I earned ten for walking Floppy but I would have done it for free. Floppy is such fun. He’s the reason we are banned from entering our parent’s clinic. Floppy was still a puppy then. A flashback Mrs. Charumathi had come to see Ma. They were just entering the waiting room, when someone objected to Floppy. “We will take care of Floppy till you are back,” offered Rani. “Don’t feed him anything,” said Mrs. Charumathi. Mrs. Charumathi handed over the leash and entered the waiting room. Suddenly, Floppy broke free and ran towards the left wing which housed the Sonography, X-ray and Pathology labs. The corridor was empty and Floppy ran from side to side, happy to have us following him. Then he stopped, deciding what to do next. Floppy looked at the signboard above the room and sauntered inside the sonography. Rani and I ran after him. The lab was supervised by Mad Malini. She was polite to the patients and the staff but, with Rani and me, she was rude. Rani says things would have been different if we hadn’t glued her slippers to the floor or put frogs in her car. We would have kept troubling her if it hadn’t been for our Ma. Mad Malini was good at her work and it was difficult to get talented doctors in the village. Ma threatened to confiscate our cycles. With a heavy heart, Rani and I agreed to be on our best behaviour at least when Mad Malini was around. The sonography room was empty, the sonography machine was still on. “Let’s see what the inside of his stomach looks like,” said Rani. I placed Floppy on the gurney. Rani took the gel from the tube and applied it on Floppy’s belly as she had seen Mad Malini do. Randomly pressing buttons, she tried to imitate Mad Malini, when we heard the devil’s laugh. It was too late to hide.  To be continued...   Floppy made the most of it, running from side to side, happy to have us following hm.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Spice it up with ginger||Run, run as fast as you can,   You can’t catch me, I am the Gingerbread Man.  All of you will be familiar by the tale retold by the Brothers Grimms, The Gingerbread Boy.  During Christmas, one of the many decorations that hang from the tree is this aromatic gingerbread boy, dressed up in red and green ribbons and sometimes, even with colourful buttons running down his front. In 2010, Croatia made it to the representative list of UNESCO’s Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity with Licitars or gingerbread. Licitars, is a sweet spicy biscuit-like bread made by the craftsmen known as the medicari. Licitars were highly valued and it was a popular gift, even more so than flowers. One licitar can take as much as a month to make. This intricate craft began in the Middle Ages, in the monasteries that dotted the mountains and valleys of Europe. Gradually, it made its way to Croatia to become an integral part of their culture. In the beginning, the secret of licitar making was passed from father to son. Today, women too have been included. Heart of love  Making of the gingerbread needs speed and skill. The ingredients are basic — sugar, water, a dash of baking soda and spices. The dough is shaped and moulded, baked and painted with edible colours. It can be decorated with tiny mirrors, pictures, messages and verses. The gingerbread heart is most popular, especially during weddings. The bride and groom have their names inscribed on it along with verses and wishes. It is also a favourite gift for Valentine’s Day. Licitars became famous when they were sold near the Marian shrine of Marija Basilica, in the capital, Zagreb. Pilgrims bought them to take home as souvenirs after attending a festival on St. Margret’s Day.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Dragon or dog?||All through each day of the vacation, Akash and Arvind enjoyed their favourite sport. As soon as their parents left for work, the brothers fixed a net between the gate and the garage, and played badminton. There was one drawback. That the shuttle could fly over the compound wall. That hadn’t mattered when Mrs. Murthy lived on the other side. When the shuttle had first landed there, she had said, “Whenever this happens, just climb over and collect it.” Since the wall dividing the properties was not high, that was easily managed. If Mrs. Murthy happened to be tending to her roses, she would smilingly toss the shuttle back to the boys. “Why don’t you play here?” she suggested one evening. “There’s more space.” Bad luck Unfortunately, a few days later, kind Mrs. Murthy took ill and went away to stay with her son. Soon after, school resumed. Only in the weekend could they pick up their racquets again. “Avoid the back court,” warned Akash, as Arvind prepared to serve, but the shuttle whizzed past him and over the wall it went. A grim-faced young man appeared. “Let this be the last time,” he snapped. The following afternoon, the shuttle took off again. Engrossed in an exciting contest, the boys abandoned caution. Akash jumped over the wall and back. “The dragon couldn’t have seen me,” he chuckled, but he was wrong. When the boys passed the house that afternoon, a board outside proclaimed: ‘Beware of Fluffy!’ “He’s got a dog!” muttered Akash. “Isn’t Fluffy the gigantic beast in the Harry Potter books?” remarked Arvind. Akash nodded. “I bet the dragon’s dog is as fierce as its master.” Armed with extra shuttlecocks, the boys played nervously the next morning. “Stick to smashes and drop-shots,” urged Akash, but Arvind hit high, and the shuttle vanished.  “No!” yelled Akash, as his brother leapt across to retrieve it. “Get out of here!” shouted the man who had warned them before. “Get out before I let Fluffy loose.” He almost had Arvind by his collar, but the latter managed to escape. When they had lost their last shuttle, the brothers sat gloomily on the grass. Pleasant surprise “I thought you’d like to have these,” called a pleasant voice. An elderly gentleman, with twinkling eyes, was holding out three shuttles over the wall. “Mrs. Murthy is my sister,” he explained. “She told me to invite you to play in this garden. I’m your new neighbour. You may call me Uncle Shyam.” “Then who’s the drag...?” began Arvind. “That’s my gardener,” said Uncle Shyam. “Terrified of trespassers, he insisted on that stupid notice.” “Then, Fluffy does exist!” exclaimed Akash. Uncle Shyam placed a fat furry cat on the wall. “This is Fluffy,” he said, stroking the beautiful creature that purred at his touch. “Aptly named, don’t you think? He’s huge, like his fictional namesake, but you need never beware of Fluffy!”  Engrossed in an exciting contest, the boys abandoned caution.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Not cool!||What do you do when you realise that someone you think of as a hero is… well, not so cool after all? I read about how Darren Sammy, the former West Indies cricket captain, was called ‘kalu’ by some of his teammates in the Sunrisers Hyderabad. He thought that they were praising him and and calling him a ‘strong stallion’. I read in the newspapers about how disappointed Sammy felt when he found out what the word ‘kalu’ really meant. That must have sucked. I felt really let down by the players who did this. To find out that people who you thought were your friends and teammates were being racist. Racist . That is what they were. I know some of you reading this might think ‘hey! Take a chill pill, bruh!’, they didn’t mean it, or it was just a joke or they were using it as a fun nickname. And that’s what a lot of the Sunrisers players said when they were asked about it. Don’t ignore But is it really okay? Is it really funny? I don’t think so. No way. To take a whole person and then call them something that ignores what a great sportsperson or singer or writer or actor they are and then make it just about the colour of their skin or how they look. NOT COOL! I know that there are all kinds of nicknames based on how people look — lambu, motu, Chinky — and people think it’s okay to use them because they’ve been around for so long. But, just because all the generations that came before us didn’t know any better, does that mean we shouldn’t know any better, either? And it’s not just the people who use these names who are awful, it’s terrible if YOU hear someone calling someone else that and don’t say anything. It’s called being a bystander. I’ve been a bystander before. I didn’t want to stand out for sticking up for someone. Or, get picked on myself. So I stayed quiet. The next time you hear someone use a word like ‘kalu’ or ‘motu’, say something. Speak out! Even if it’s your parents or grandparents or next-door neighbour. If we keep saying how wrong it is, who knows, maybe they’ll change. And maybe they won’t. But we have to speak out about these things. I really hope the Indian cricket players own up and admit that they were being racist instead of trying to pretend like it was all a big joke. Maybe, I’ll be able to respect them again if they do.  Take a chill pill bruh!’, they didn’t mean it, or it was just a joke? But, was it just a joke? Think!
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sand dunes and royal pyramids||The Republic of Sudan, is in northeastern Africa. It was the largest country in Africa till 2011, when a part of it became a separate nation called South Sudan.  History  This country was once home to the Nubian civilisation. As the years went by, the region comprised a collection of small, independent kingdoms until 1820-21 when it was invaded by Egypt. When the British took over Egypt, they also occupied Sudan. The country became independent in 1956. Since then, Sudan has been gripped by civil war. A fascinating attraction in Sudan are the pyramids of ancient Nubia. There are more than 200 pyramids, smaller and steeper than their Egyptian counterparts and relatively lesser known.     The country has several game reserves and national parks, including the Dinder National Park, which is a UNESCO biosphere reserve
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||For the love of||What you need: Chocolate crackers - 1 box Heavy cream - 1 cup and 2½ cups (separately) Chocolate chips - 600 gm What to do: Set aside a quarter of the chocolate chips. Place the remaining in a large bowl. Heat one cup of cream in a microwave-safe bowl for two minutes or until steaming hot. Now, pour the hot cream over the chocolate chips and leave to rest for two or three minutes. Then, stir until the cream and chocolate chips are mixed well. Beat the remaining cream until soft peaks appear. Takes about five minutes. Add half a cup of the chocolate-cream mix to whipped cream and gently fold it in. Once it is blended, mix the remaining cream until it is smooth and choclatey. Line a dessert dish with a layer of crackers. Top it with the whipped cream-chocolate mixture. Repeat the process till the crackers and the chocolate is done. Top it with the chocolate chips you saved earlier and refrigerate. Let it sit at room temperature for about 10 minutes before serving.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Mischief managed||For as long as she could remember, Joanne wanted to be a writer. She was your typical bookworm, replete with freckles and spectacles. She wrote her first book when she was six; a story about a rabbit called Rabbit . She was a perfect opportunist. Not even a delayed train could mess with her scheme of things. In fact, Joanne struck gold in 1990, when she was delayed on a train travelling from Manchester to London’s King Cross. Seven years later, on June 26, 1997, her big break became public. A bespectacled boy got off the train and entered the world. This was Harry Potter, created by Joanne or J.K. Rowling. With her first book Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, J.K. Rowling brought to readers a fantasy the world had never experienced before. Fantastic revelations Harry Potter thinks he is just another run-of-the-mill boy celebrating his 11th birthday. However, his mundane birthday, ignored by his overbearing aunt, uncle and a bully of a cousin, turns into a surprise that changes his life forever. A giant named Hagrid appears out of the blue, reveals to Harry that he is a wizard who can perform magic, and that he is all set to start school at the renowned Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to learn the trade of being a wizard. Here, he meets his friends Ron, and Hermione who would go on to stand by him through thick and thin, for many years to come. But not everything at Hogwarts is about mere magical education. Why does Snape hate him so much, wonders Harry. Why doesn’t Hagrid use a wand like everyone else? Why does everyone look at him with absolute awe or complete disdain? What’s the philosopher’s stone and why is someone planning to steal it? Join Harry in his first year at Hogwarts, as he tries to find answers to all that bewilders him.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sweet Tooth||Across  1 The last course (7) 4 ___ Lime pie: a tangy, sweet dish (3) 5 A popular kheer ingredient (10) 6 ____pop: a sweet on a stick (5) 7 Thin, crisp, curved biscuit (5) 10 Pie crust filled with custard (4) 11 Goes well with bread (3) 12 Said to keep the doctor away (5) 14 ___shake, the thicker the better! (4) 15 ____ Frutti: often found in sweet bun (5) Down 1 ____’s Food Cake: Rich, moist, chocolatey (5) 2 Coarse flour used for puddings and halwa (8) 3 A tasty tidbit (5) 4 Indian ice cream (5) 8 Adds zest to a cake (5) 9 To dunk (3) 10 Salad ingredient (5) 11 Goes well with peanut butter (5) 13 Cashew is one, so is almond (3)
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do eggshell break easily?  The basic purpose of an eggshell is to protect the embryo within, so, it is quite strong. But not too strong either, as the chick inside has to be able to break out of it when hatching. Eggshells are made almost entirely of calcium carbonate, and allow air and moisture to pass through. Yet, did you know that it is almost impossible to break an egg while holding it between two hands and pressing along its length?  How does a pressure cooker work?  The pressure cooker was invented by physicist Denis Papin. It works by trapping the steam from the boiling liquid inside. This increases the pressure inside, which in turn raises the boiling point of water, allowing for higher cooking temperature. This higher temperature is what cooks food faster. Once the cooker reaches full pressure, a release valve opens and lets out steam to maintain a constant temperature inside.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Tremendous time travel||Movie: Mr. Peabody & Sherman  Genre: Computer-animated, science fiction comedy  Mr. Peabody is an anthropomorphic dog, living in New York City, raising his adopted human son, seven-year-old Sherman. Peabody teaches him by travelling through history using the WABAC, a time machine. In the present day, Sherman’s first day at school leads to a fight with Penny Peters, over certain historical events. A couple of misadventures in the process of clearing up a misunderstanding leads to Sherman showing off WABAC to Penny and accidentally ripping a hole in the universe. This leads to more chaos, and some important events in world history are changed. Will history, as we know it, be altered forever?
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||When humour kept the spirit alive||While Chennai has never faced a threat such as the new corona virus, one cannot help smiling when newsreaders say that an exodus from Chennai was unheard of. Rewind to World War II. In the early years, the war seemed too distant to affect Madras, which continued its sedate existence, with the occasional thrill of a new film being released, or a new play being staged. When Sirikkaade — Ondril Aindu , a collection of five short comedies was released in Wellington theatre in December 1939, Madras flocked to see it, N.S. Krishnan and T.A. Madhuram being star attractions. Maali, Ananda Vikatan cartoonist, had set up carnival mirrors in the theatre lobby. Seeing their distorted images in mirrors was a new experience for Madrasis, and the mirrors created the mood for the comedy capers they were about to see on screen. In April 1942, the Government asked the citizens of Madras to vacate the city, fearing an attack by the Japanese. Although the evacuation lasted for a short period, return to Madras did not make lives of Madrasis easy. When we lived in our ancestral house Lady Napier Villa, in Vepery, father used to tell us stories about the war days, and would take us to see places where there had once been famous shops like D.K. Nathan and S.T. Paldano. D.K. Nathan was the only seller of Huntley and Palmers biscuits in Purasawalkam, and Paldano sold imported chocolates. But their businesses took a hit during the war. Father showed us an advertisement by Peek Freans biscuits in an issue of Ananda Vikatan . It had a picture of two ships and the advertisement said: “These ships are sailing under dangerous circumstances. Peek Freans biscuits are being supplied to naval personnel. Once victory is ours, you will get your favourite biscuits like Glaxo, Vita and Crisp Bread.” Hoping to grab a share of the market, local manufacturers of biscuits took to aggressive advertising. “Buy Charley’s, the Indian milk biscuit, made in Usilampatti,” said an advertisement. It was difficult to get even TSR’s sherbets from local stores. One had to go to Pushpavanam stores, Triplicane, who were the sole agents for Madras, and buy sherbets in bulk. Even essentials like milk and dhals were in short supply. It wasn’t easy to cope, and the harried womenfolk in our family unwound by reading Vikatan ’s hilarious takes on the situation. An illustration showed Vishnu reclining on Paarkadal, the milky ocean. A man goes up to him and says: “I am from Madras. The city is facing a shortage of milk. Can you divert your milky ocean to Madras?” The accompanying editorial criticised the Government’s suggestion that citizens of Madras should rear cows to beat the shortage, as an impractical one. One of the women’s programmes on All India Radio (AIR) suggested that wheat be soaked, ground and the milk extracted be used for coffee. Vikatan dismissed this idea with the contempt it deserved. Devan, editor, was a gourmet and must have been aghast at the thought of adding wheat milk to his filter coffee. Hotels began to serve Mysore uppuma soon after the war began. Vikatan ruled that the name was a misnomer. The dish had nothing to do with Mysore. Nor was it a new kind of uppuma. It was nothing but good old idli uppuma. The corona virus has shrunk Indian weddings, but this happened earlier too. During World War II, the government restricted the number of invitees at a wedding to fifty. Grandmother used to tell us about a distant relative, who wept buckets because her wedding in 1942 was a simple affair. The consolation offered to the girl was that once the war was over, she could have a grand reception. But that never happened, because by the time the war ended, she was the mother of two children! Restricted train travel Railway travel was not encouraged during the war. When the Mahamakham arrived in 1945, the department said that they would not sell tickets to Kumbakonam, a problem easily surmounted by buying tickets to Thanjavur, and getting off at Kumbakonam. Prepared for such an eventuality, the government had a huge posse of policemen at the Kumbakonam station. The people were told to go back to their hometowns, but they were warned not to take a train home! Since there was no other way of returning home, the people gladly stayed on in Kumbakonam, which was what the government had tried hard to avert.  Vikatan ran a hugely popular column called Thinnai pechu , a conversation between three imaginary characters — Sama, Sastri and Bhagavatar, the last one a vocalist. They would discuss everything — politics, films, music and food, with the Vikatan brand of humour. In one issue, the three friends discuss the government’s restrictions for Mahamakham. Bhagavatar says that he had travelled without any difficulty to Kasi a couple of years ago, but going to nearby Kumbakonam had become difficult now. Sama asks Bhagavatar what he had given up in Kasi, and Sastri says, “Bhagavatar gave up sruti.” Municipal Corporations, including Madras, came up with a bizarre proposal to augment their income — every municipality should collect a dowry tax when a wedding took place in an area under its jurisdiction. The tax was to be 10 per cent of the dowry the groom received! Vikatan came down heavily on the Government. It said that while it might lead to an improvement in infrastructure, the government should not encourage the practice of giving dowry. Among the many shortages faced by Madras, housing shortage was acutely felt by newcomers to the city. The problem arose because the government had taken over many houses for military purposes, and to build air raid precaution (ARP) shelters. To tackle this shortage, the government had an idea. In the case of a house fetching a rent of more than 15 rupees a month, the government would choose the tenants, from a register of those looking for rented accommodation. Needless to say, the proposal was dropped. Devan’s novel Gomathiyin Kaadalan begins with an air raid precaution rehearsal. Even as people are being chivvied into shops and shelters by the ARP warden Cheenu, the hero Rangarajan arrives from Kumbakonam. He sees the heroine Gomathi, and falls in love with her. And it is during this blackout, that we are introduced to Vedarama Sastri, who always speaks with rhyming words! He tells the hero that life is nothing but soka (sorrow), and if one comes to Madras, one is sure to catch a roga (disease). And yet none is able to get rid of the Madras moha (infatuation)! Vikatan’s Deepavali issue Because of paper scarcity, Vikatan printed few copies of its Deepavali special in 1944. It cost two rupees. Vikatan apologised to its readers, and asked them to lend their copy to their friends. It was a great issue — it had essays by Rt Honourable Srinivasa Sastri, R.K. Shanmugam Chettiar, a poem by Desika Vinayakam Pilai, an essay by P. Sri and lots more. Scarcity of goods continued even after Independence, and in 1949, when every family was offered one and a half kilograms of sugar for Deepavali, there were long queues outside ration shops. Vikatan said that what was offered by the government was not enough, because Madras with a population of 14 lakhs, consumed 1,600 tonnes of sugar a month! Clearly, the people of Madras were not eating healthy!  Vikatan with its humorous columns kept people chuckling during the war years. Surfing YouTube channels these days, one finds hilarious comments about recipes, and even about news! Meme producers are busy too. Humour, as always, keeps the spirit alive, when we are overwhelmed by anxiety. Postscript: Opposite the clock tower in Vepery, stood an old building, which housed Wilfred Pereira, the famous chemists and druggists. In those days medicines were prepared by pharmacies according to instructions given in the prescription, and so the pharmacist had to be completely reliable. Johnston medallist doctor C.R. Krishnaswami, who was our family doctor (he was a student of the legendary Dr. S. Rangachari) and Dr. A. Vasudevan, swore by Wilfred Pereira. After Wilfred Pereira closed down, Indian Overseas Bank moved into the building, which with its Madras terracing and high ceiling, was cool even in summer. But some years ago, a false ceiling was installed, the building was modernised and air conditioned, and one began to feel claustrophobic inside it. And what is the bank going to do now, when the government wants ACs turned off? When are we going to learn that some things are best left untouched?
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||What next, for the dancer?||The pandemic has brought up questions and conversations on a gamut of concerns in the dance fraternity, including performance spaces, content, consumption, programming, payment modalities and funding. These are not concerns in the dance world that have emerged now. They have only resurfaced in a ‘new normal’ existence, with a heightened urgency. Amidst these concerns, practice, a seemingly non-urgent aspect of dance, that has always remained so, deserves centre stage. While within the constraints of a lockdown, the ‘creation’ of some new ideas and the ‘dissolution’ of some old dependencies are being addressed by online platforms and alternative courses, ‘sustenance’ of skills as a dancer through meaningful practice, calls for more attention in the current enforced lifestyle. We tend to use certain words interchangeably with others, to the point that the intended meaning fades off. Practice and rehearsal, for instance. While both are seemingly synonymous, a rehearsal is often focussed on a certain performance or a similar outcome, while the goal of practice ideally is exploration and evolution. Typically, dance practice is associated with a session of sweating it out physically. While a good workout or an equivalent is not an exclusion, it is a limited definition of what practice constitutes. Such an association comes from reasons rooted in the culture and pedagogy of dance. Pedagogically, dance teaching over the years has shifted its emphasis significantly by encouraging ‘watching’ as the primary method of learning. Culturally, it could be traced back to notions of ‘technologies of domination and technologies of the self’ suggested by French historian and philosopher, Michel Foucault. The ‘technologies of domination’ may be defined as the modes of knowledge production and organisation, that determine the conduct of the individuals and limit their choices in such a way as to foster activity and productivity. The pressure to be productive in a certain way, in unprecedented times such as the current lockdown phase, takes away from the transformation potential of practice. The ‘technologies of the self,’ on the other hand, permit development of autonomous discourses, composed of ideas, attitudes and belief systems in movement, that enable as much as they restrain. The restraint, however, is a conscious choice, considering that the self-construction of these discourses is still a function of the culture and context they are embedded in. A thoughtful physicality within the established aesthetic, allows dancers to be active participants, taking ownership of their learning. Changing modalities A few conversations with dancers from different streams of invested practice, further reinforce the above discussion. “Practice extends beyond a certain form or style, to practice of a certain capability and flexibility. A capability of using spaces, resources or the perceived lack of them to explore, create and discover, and a flexibility to different possibilities, constitute a creative practice,” says Shabari Rao, dancer, educator and researcher. The lockdown led to cancellation of an artist residency at New York University and at Performatica 2020 in Mexico and allowed her a lot of time at her farm near Magadi. “What I practise and the modality itself has evolved. While mornings are more directed and with intention, I spend time during the day building on some ideas. It is sometimes the same yoga routine or a trek in the mountains and exploring my voice, which is inhibiting to do in my apartment in the city,” she shares. “While I am still figuring out how it feeds into my work, I now don’t see practice as something one is forced to do, rather, it just happens everyday,” she adds. As an intentional state of being, driving away notions of what counts and what does not, from getting in the way of creative ability, she feels now is a great opportunity to practise ‘letting go,’ without the urgency of an outcome. In an Indian classical context, it is that much more difficult to not succumb to productivity and tangibility in practice. For example, in Bharatanatyam, the triad of Arangetram, trend of item teaching, and strong performance orientation in the learning and career of a dancer, imposes a burden of productivity and takes away the opportunity to invest time and thought into understanding movement from a deeper perspective. The idea of understanding movement physically rather than visually, calls for new bodily experiences that are necessary but insufficient in the development of practices that constitute a technology of the self, enough to resist the technologies of domination. These thoughts were developed further in a conversation with Bharatanatyam exponents Vijna Vasudevan and Renjith Babu, on what is required for a mindful practice and for teaching online in the current scenario. The role and importance of breath in finding the flow of movement, turned out to be one of the most elaborated aspects of the conversation with Renjith Babu. He vouches for the creation of an awareness of basic movement, as it is achieved in Yoga, Pilates or any similar discipline, as essential for a dancer. It forms a basis for any further articulation or connection to be established in technique.  Mindful practice “It is mindfulness, strength and stability that come even before a mirror and inform a dancer of their appropriate stances,” he explains, after heaving a sigh over the trend of practice itself becoming a performance over the last few months. He further talks about elements of classical dance such as Mudras, Pada Bhedas, Charis, etc., as tools for mindful practice. “A simple Natyarambam with breath regulation, slowly moving to an Alarippu with a metronome, recording one’s own chollu, etc., may constitute a self-regulated practice,” he adds. Vijna Vasudevan highlights the typical challenges in teaching online, especially in the case of Abhinaya. “The importance of language/articulation and how it impacts the way a movement is perceived, and the understanding of the strengths and weaknesses as dancers, are crucial in teaching through online mediums,” she shares. She also empathetically talks about students, who are not full-time dancers and the importance of devising a plan, holding their hand and allowing them to take ownership of the process. To her, nurturing the mind translates to being able to let students see themselves, their existence with an individual balance of reality. At times, dance is also a way of momentarily breaking away from what is going on around us, she feels. Each approach to building a solid practice is individual and it might be considered as a salad, with a recipe nevertheless. An equal emphasis in honing the body as well as the mind in dance, leads towards a cohesive whole of a dancer. At a time when “normalcy” in dance seems a far-off vision, the opportunity of unlearning of habitual ways as a dancer, might be a more critical outcome than learning itself. The author is a dancer/teacher from the Temple of Fine Arts, pursuing her research studies at Royal Academy of Dance, London.  (The first of a two-part article on sustenance of skills as a dancer)   Illustrations are by Veena Basavarajaiah, a movement artist, who addresses issues of the art world through her insta profile cartoon_natyam.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon is here, where are the festivities?||Kerala artistes watched in anguish as the lockdown wiped away all the summer activities, including temple festivals, which are not complete without music and dance. The State now braces for Edavapathy or the South-west monsoon. As the skies open up, the temples generally gear up for the the monsoon treats — spellbinding and spiritual. So what makes the rainy season special in God’s own country? Art and religion are made for each other in this State. Para is a popular event of central Kerala. Technically Para means offering, usually in kind, made to the deity (here Goddess Bhadrakali). The ritual gets its name after the local measuring device for cereals. The entire sequence of the ritual happens inside the house or on the front porch, as it would be raining. Edavapathy generates pathos. Para, perhaps, comes as a life saver to beat the blues. The event takes off with a session of Pandi Melam (percussion ensemble) lasting for about an hour. Even though a trimmed version, this brings a pleasant surprise to the Melam enthusiasts when it is least expected. As the Melam concludes, the Velichapad (oracle) enters the scene. Attired in red, wearing a waist belt and carrying a sword, he moves — anklets jingling — in a trance around the Nirapara and Nilavilakku (lamp and the heaped measure of paddy) kept in the centre. The drum gathers steam and the Velichapad reciprocates. Holding Pookkulas (coconut flower), two assistants, apparently the troops of the deity, accompany the oracle. The whole spectacle is a treat of rhythm and ritual. The oracle then utters Kalpana or the dictate of the deity. He then acknowledges the offering and blesses the family. The event concludes with a feast for the participants. Divine awakening Legend has it that Lord Siva and Parvati descended to this part of the earth on a sojourn. Disguised as tribals, they visited households exploring life. They chose to move around in the early hours for fear of being recognised in day light. Burning torches lit their way. It was Dakshinayanam (mid-July), when Lord Siva is worshipped. The visiting couple followed the tradition and recited hymns in praise of Lord Siva. Local tribal couples re-enact this episode every year during Karkitakam (July-August). They visit houses in the wee hours, invoking Lord Siva through songs. The ritual is called Thuyilunarthal or Divine Awakening. People keep lighted lamps and other paraphernalia like paddy, coconut, etc., at the doorway to pay their respects. Another story is that Siva and Parvati once played dice in which the latter suffered a defeat. An upset Parvati threw the dice which fell on Siva, who fell unconscious. The local tribals woke him up by singing and drumming. Thuyilunarthal commemorates this incident. Whatever may be the lore, Thuyilunarthal songs are engaging due to their simple notes and subtle rendering. Tudi (resembling damaru) provides the beats. The tradition of Thuyilunarthal hardly exists now. But the songs stay alive in movies and stage shows. Stand up comedy Edavapathy keeps its date with another art form — Chakiar Koothu. The art form derives the name after the Chakiar community, who are the hereditary performers. Koothu is staged at many Koothambalams (temple theatres) during the monsoon months. An example is the Koodalmanikkam temple, Irinjalakuda, in central Kerala. The performance usually lasts for 41 days. Koothu primarily is a monologue spiced up with sharp wit. The performer narrates stories from epics in a prose-poetry format. The artiste is dressed like a jester of a royal court. Make up is done using organic ingredients such as powdered rice and turmeric as well as home-made soot. Accompaniments are mizhavu (big copper drum) and mini cymbals. Koothu is an extended form of Koodiyattam. While Koodiyattam is a full time vocation for many, Koothu has few takers. The winning formula of a Koothu performer is an innate sense of humour. Any shortcoming disconnects them from the audience. This performance anxiety is a deterrent to this art form from being pursued. Stand-alone performances in temples and art festivals are keeping koothu alive. Theyyam is quintessentially Kerala. Along with Thira, it is the distinctive ritual dance tradition of North Kerala. The performers dress up as various deities and enact incidents found in folklore. Traditionally, Theyyam and Thira are Thulavarsham specialities. Thulavarsham, which commences in October, marks the second spell of monsoon in Kerala. Theyyam is performed at various designated places located outside not necessarily in temple confines. Will these iconic events return to spaces, where they rightfully belong? Or will they be held at empty arenas for virtual audiences? Only the time will tell.  The winning formula of a Koothu performer is an innate sense of humour.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Revive, restore and reconnect||The Lockdown has redefined lifestyle for most of us. It has not spared any area, work coming to a standstill in many. The doors of temples closed and along with that restoration work too was suspended. The situation is slowly changing with work having resumed in certain places. Especially in the villages. Mahalakshmi Subramaniam, founder of Sri Mahalakshmi Charitable Trust, is relieved that workers are back on sites. “These are old temples in remote villages and in very bad state. The villagers are getting at least one puja done in a day. In every village it is at the request and with the support of the local residents that the Trust undertakes work,” says the veteran, who is overseeing renovation at several hamlets. Old temples in villages, which are in ruins and not maintained due to paucity of funds always draw Mrs. Subramaniam’s attention. “Once flourishing with pujas and festivals, they have become dilapidated because of the migration to city of the caretakers. The villagers need guidance and once initiated into the process, they are eager to maintain the worship places. It is with their involvement that the temples are restored, consecration performed and divinity revived. It’s like connecting them back to their roots,” she explains. Some temples date back to 1,000 years and have rare Murtis. The Siva temple at Aadhanur, first instance. It is in Komal, near Tiruvarur. Originally known as Aadhavanur, because Sun worshipped the Linga, the state of the temple brings tears to the eyes. Overgrown with weeds, the structure has all but collapsed. The villagers, however, manage to have puja performed once. The deity is Agatheeswarar and His Consort Akhilandeswari. According to sthalapuranam, Nandan, a poor farmer, who was going through a tough phase because of Saturn's impact took refuge here and the divine Couple offered him solace. Eventually Saniswaran chose to make Agnipuriswarar temple in Tirukkollikadu, nearby village, his abode. Muthukumaraswamy flanked by Valli and Deivanai provides relief from eye ailments and skin disorders. The villagers say that He is no less powerful than the deity of Vaitheeswaran Kovil. Location on the banks of Vennaru is another special feature of the village. The temple tank is Surya Pushkarani and also called Harichandra Tirtham, because the king bathed here. There is a beautiful image of Mahavishnu. “There are no details about the name. The donor, who undertakes the installation of the deity, can also give a name of his choice,” says Mrs. Subramaniam. Work, estimated at Rs. 50 lakhs, is under way. Arjuna link The other temples are: Sri Brahma Raghunthalambal sameda Bhramarendraswamy, Uchivadi, Vadapadhimangalam, Tiruvarur district. Uchivadi also has Sri Ramachandra Perumal koil, which needs attention. Maragadambal samedha Maruntheeswar in Orathur is another site. In Therku Pannaiyur two lingams were unearthed and have been housed in a shed. The deities are Sivapriya samedha Thanthonreeswar and Varamtharumnayaki samedha Chandrasekharendara swamy. The Uchivadi Sivan temple, said to be 1,000 years old, has a Mahabharata connection involving Arjuna. The Pandava prince hit Siva, who was in disguise, on his head causing a bleeding injury. The Lingam, here, has a depression on the top. For Mrs. Subramaniam, who has 13 years of experience and more than 100 projects to her account, this is a challenging phase with restrictions of all kinds. Advancing years does not make it easy to travel constantly and supervise renovation work, which often means building from the scratch. Her husband, V.C. Subramaniam, who has been a tower of strength, also is not getting any younger. “But I can’t stop,” she says. An ardent devotee of Mahaswami, the blessings of successive Pitadipatis of the Kamakoti Pitam keep her going. “Recently, I came close to winding up after finishing pending projects. While inspecting the site at one of the villages, an old woman came running and told me about an ancient temple, lying in ruins in the neighbourhood. She had walked all the way to meet me. When I revealed that I might not take up new commitments, she said, ‘You were my last hope in getting the Sivan temple in my village revived. Where will I go now,” and sobbed. It was like a slap on my face. When a poor old woman has such grit and deep faith, how could I shirk my responsibility,” asks Mrs. Subramaniam, who believes the mission is her destiny. Apart from the village temples, her Trust is supporting the Dharmapuram Adheenam in the restoration of Vaitheeswaran temple. Another project close to her heart is the Manimantapam for Sri Seshadri Swamigal of Tiruvannamalai at Vazhur, his birth place, and restoration of temples there. A committee has been formed and work has taken off after nine years of hibernation. The Trust, which thrives on donations, extended financial aid to indigent silpis, nagaswara vidwans and others, whom the Lockdown has rendered jobless. Contact: +919840053289, 9940053289. Email: vcsmani@gmail.com Earlier articles are available athttps:// www.thehindu.com/society/faith/memorial- to-seshadri-swamigal-at-vazhur/article 30931047.eceandhttps://www.thehindu.com/society/faith/ restoration-with-missionary-zeal/article 26396697.ece
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||All about meditation||The book ‘On Meditation’ by renowned spiritual guide and educationist Sri M has turned out to be comforting for many during the lockdown. This writer met him during the release of his fourth book, On Meditation. When asked if he expected a good response, he had said, “It's better to wait for a few months for feedback. I have to give people time to read, practise and analyse the subject. The chapters in the book are a result of whatever people have been asking me over the years during my discourses and Satsangs,” said Sri M, who heads the Satsang Foundation at Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh. Today Sri M is happy that copies of On Meditation are flying off the shelves of book stores, especially during the lockdown. “With silence around, it seems to have been the perfect time for people to indulge in introspection,” says Sri M on phone from Madanapalle. He was also conferred the Padma Bhushan earlier this year for his lifetime contributions as a spiritual guide, social reformer and educationist. Born as Mumtaz Ali Khan in a Muslim family at Thiruvananthapuram in 1948, M as a little boy was attracted to Vedic teachings. He followed his mind to reach the Himalayas for years of meditation and finding a guru. “ My Guru Babaji at the Himalayas called me Madhukar Nath. I learnt from my personal teacher Maheshwarnath Babaji about meditation and about being a true human, Manav. So I chose to be called M, although people call me Sri M out of respect,” he says. The Padma award has come as a shot in the arm for Sri M, which, he says will make him continue his social work with greater vigour. In his book, Sri M has sieved the essential to bring out 99 questions that have been answered in nine chapters, the idea being to connect with the people. Excerpts from an interview:   Why did you want to write a book on meditation when there are many proclaimed gurus on the subject?   My main idea was to demystify an established and time-honoured practice, which has been drawn into the commercial sphere. This has confused people. I thought it best to make meditation simple with in-depth explanations and tell people to Do-It-Themselves. Every nuance is answered in the question-and-answer format. All these were questions posed to me in India, Australia, England, Switzerland and many more countries.  How long did it take to write this book?  In 2019, the Penguin Editor came up with the suggestion of a book that answers everything about meditation. I said I already have them all recorded as part of my addressing people all over the globe. It took me just a month to get them all together, and bring in a few more to fill up the blanks. I wanted to make it easy to comprehend and less esoteric.  How exactly do you explain what meditation is and why should one meditate?  Meditation is a wide concept and it refers to the three parts of Patanjali's Yoga Sutras — Dharana (the practice that puts one’s mind in one stream of thought); Dhyana (matures into one continuous process) and Samadhi (where one can experience and understand a sustained Dhyana). When you can do this for a period of time without distraction and forget that you are meditating, that is the state of meditation. Whatever one is subjected to — happiness or sorrow — what one finally seeks is inner bliss.  So regular practice is the key for meditation...   Patience and one-pointed attention is required for remaining tranquil under all circumstances. This is achieved through constant practice in meditation. I advise my followers not to just think of meditation as a technique. A beginner must find at least half an hour a day to practise meditation that shouldn’t be looked at as a chore, but as an experiment. I always tell people that only regular practice whilst 'feeling the inner self' can get you there, and there is no compromise. And mere reading about meditation for a readymade formula may help initially for gaining knowledge.   What would you underline as points to note in the book?   If someone goes through the whole book with a theory-based approach, more and more questions will appear. Even for practice, the book doesn't answer all the questions. People want to know what they should wear while meditating, whether to keep eyes open or closed, if one can meditate after alcohol consumption, can music or sloka be part of the exercise, or even if improper food and overeating interfere with meditation. I would say, please go through the book that has easy-to-practise concepts and explanations and lend yourself to the meditative routine first. Then start with simple dhyana. The more you do, the more you can relate to the suggestions given. Improper diet, for example, will play havoc on your gut which is the second brain. It is best to begin meditation in teenage, which is a turbulent decisive phase. Meditation and yoga, therefore should be part of high school curriculum to have the body and mind trained.  Your childhood years and the gurus who have influenced you...   My father, a PWD contractor, was a graduate in Indian philosophy from the Kerala University, who practised Yoga. He studied Malayalam and Sanskrit. I know he had a copy of the book on Gayatri Mantra, which he read for his general knowledge. His open-mindedness helped me in pursuing my interests. My mother on the other hand did not quite approve but was silent because of her abundant love for me. The lives of great people such as Ramana Maharishi, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and Swami Vivekananda had an influence on me, while Swami Tapasyananda of the Ramakrishna Ashram, Thiruvananthapuram, helped me immensely to get associated with the best of vedantic scriptures for study.
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||ART within walls||An inanimate golden frame on an immaculate white wall suddenly comes alive as Kathak exponent Aditi Mangaldas's face turns into a canvas of emotions. Her hands, torso and eyes traverse the moods of the popular Puriya Dhanashree khayal of Pt. Kumar Gandharva, ‘Aajra Din Dooba.’ Vocalist Faraz Ahmed and tabla artiste Mohit Gangani convey the beauty of the lyrics through melody and rhythm. Although the dynamics of a dance piece are expressed through the physical language of choreography, most often its essence is conveyed neither by narrative nor movements, but by the body of the dancer. ‘Enframed,’ is part of a series of short films, ‘Within...From Within,’ created by Aditi Mangaldas with well-known designer Sanjay Garg of the label Raw Mango and Teamwork Arts. The mask that has become a must during the pandemic turns into a prop in ‘Wrapped’, which features dancers with their faces covered in cloth. The protective gear gains a deeper meaning in this performance of how you could hide your face from the world yet you are answerable to yourself. “The effort is to explore the art’s ability to heal and reach out. The films have been made to raise funds for 150 performing artistes, who have been struggling to make ends meet during the lockdown. They will receive Rs. 15,000 for three months. But my objective was not just to make an appeal for donation, but to offer an artistic experience through these short films,” says Aditi. The six films — ‘Entwined,’ ‘Meltdown,’ ‘Enframed,’ ‘Wrapped,’ ‘Unravel’ and ‘Empassion’ — bring together the original work ‘Within’ by Aditi Mangaldas Dance Company, and captures the dancers’ creative impulses in the confines of their homes. “It has not been easy building morale of the many youngsters in my team in this most challenging time. But we are in it together. We are constantly finding ways to not lose hope by keeping the creative spirit high,” says the dancer, whose cutting edge choreographic works doesn’t reject tradition even while moving away from the familiar. Though the films explore diverse human expressions, the connecting feature among them is chakkar , the soul of Kathak. As vigorous whirls and unhurried turns expose our emotional state, you realise what it means to dance in the time of COVID-19. Connecting thread Sanjay Garg, whose design philosophy draws liberally from Indian cultural motifs, sees this fashion intervention in performing arts as the need for an easy exchange between arts to tide over this traumatic phase. Clothes, choreography and composition make up the cultural fabric that sustains the heritage of the country. This aspect has been put to good use in this collaboration. “In the time of physical distancing arts have to find a new intimacy. We have to become each other’s support system even as we grapple with the reality of performing within the walls of the home or studio or in digital spaces,” says Aditi, wondering what kind of transformation the art will once again go through as it did when moving from temples and courts to proscenium. Artistes have already begun to adapt to the change by re-imagining the presentation technique and approach. Over the past few years, group choreography and dance dramas have been gaining prominence, now solo shows would seem a safer option. “But the most disturbing outcome is many folk and supporting artistes and backstage staff being pushed to the brink because of cancellation of rehearsals, major festivals and regular performances. Isolation and uncertainty have further added to their misery. More than ever, it is during such distressing moments that I draw strength from the hard training and life lessons imbibed from legendary gurus,” says Aditi.  The films can be viewed on Drishtikon Dance Foundation’s instagram.   Through the quintessential features of Kathak and contemporary expressions the short films portray life under lockdown
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards holistic education||The Chennai camp of Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswati vibrated with the elaborate pujas that the Acharya conducted, special yagams performed for global welfare, discourses and conferences. A regular visitor noticed batches of young people often congregating at Asthika Samajam to chant Veda mantras and offer their obeisance under the watchful eyes of their gurus. It was a sight to behold as young children sitting in rows chanting mantras during the Chandramouleeswarar puja. Also there were groups of young girls and boys playing the nagaswaram and thavil, under the baton of their teachers. Special days like Pradosham, Arudra and Mahasivaratri found these vidyartis at the camp showing their skills as the Acharya listened. The cool air of Dhanur Masa in the wee hours was filled with music and Tirumurai rendered by these children. The vidyartis were from the integrated patasalas under the care of Sri Prathyaksha Charitable Trust, affiliated to Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Pitam. “The integrated system, where education is free, was conceived by the Pitam to enable a child pursue regular academics along with Vedic learning,” says Lakshmi Mandhata, coordinator and administrator for 16 such institutions situated in five States — Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Telengana, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Some of the main centres are Chennai, Bangalore, Tirupati, Karvetinagaram, Thandalam, Tiruttani, Hyderabad and Nasik. Holistic education under the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) system, is imparted at these patasalas, which cover various aspects of Sanatana Dharma — Smartha, Pancharatra and Saiva Agama and so on. The Nagaswara Patasalas for boys and girls belonging to the Viswabrahmin community train students in mangalavadyam and allied instruments along with regular education, which includes English and computer skills. This is to empower them to find various jobs and also continue their hereditary art, which is linked to temples. A rare gem in this precious garland of Patasalas is the Vaikhanasa Agama Patasala, Vaikhanasa being one of the oldest ways — the other being Pancharatra — followed in Vishnu worship. With dwindling practitioners, the system needed a boost. Started in 2012, the Avadi campus of the Vaikhanasa Gurukula Patasala in Chennai is integrated with the Jaigopal Garodia School (CBSE). The boys learn Agama and other scriptures in the morning and join regular classes at school. It is back to the Gurukulam after school hours, where they perform their anushtanam and study under the supervision of two dedicated tutors. For practical experience, the Perumal temple in the neighbourhood has been adopted. The Gurukulam boys perform the pujas at the temple. It was the Patasala students, who conducted consecration of the temple last year. They are taken on visits to temples for field experience. The syllabus adheres to the practices observed at the Tirumala temple, which follows the Vaikhanasa system. Examinations in Agama are conducted by senior pundits from Tirumala. “The students are well-equipped to perform all temple rituals, including Kalyana Utsavam,” informs Mandhata. Boys are admitted between classes four and six. After completing school and the Gurukulam education, a boy has the option to continue studies at the Kanchi University or serve at a temple. “Several boys have preferred to go to Divya Desam temples to serve as priests. Thus the integrated system addresses the issue of priests shortage in the village temples,” says Lakshmi. The Gurukulam building on the Avadi campus, which boasts a strength of 72, has a neatly maintained dormitory and work stations for the boys. A niche for prayer and ablutions sports beautifully decorated vigrahas of Srinivasa and Thayar. The students can draw images and even fashion them. “The children leave for school, only after finishing puja here,” says the proud caretaker, a couple dedicated themselves to the task. An area of land has been set aside for floral plants and herbs. “It is important to learn about the wealth of medicinal plants, unique to this land. Education here creates an awareness of this precious heritage,” informs the preceptor. “The students excel in academics too,” says Lakshmi Mandatha. In fact, Patasala students everywhere have consistently topped school final examinations. Another success story is that of ‘Sampradaya,’ Patasala for girls, established at Nasik, Tirupati and Hyderabad. Started in 2015 with 15 students, the institution at Tirupati has a strength of 400. Along with regular education, girls are trained in life skills. Classes include Sanskrit, art, music, tailoring and cooking. “A girl, who leaves the campus after completing her course will be a well-rounded personality, ready to face the world and lead a life according to dharmic principles,” says Lakshmi Mandata. “Women are the backbone of society and given an exalted status in the scriptures. ‘Sampradaya’ was started to lead them in the direction of ethics and values,” she adds. Girls are admitted seventh standard onwards. After completing school, the girl can opt for higher studies, up to P.G. level (Sri Venkateswara University). Besides there are short-term courses for those girls, who wish to learn any of the culture-oriented subjects offered. “Online admissions for the next academic year are currently in progress and already 70 candidates have joined,” says Lakshmi. First graduate This writer recalls Sivapriya, the first graduate of Sampradaya, Tirupati campus, who was brimming with confidence as she related her experience at a meeting convened at the Asthika Samajam camp. A commerce graduate, she said that she enjoyed the disciplined and positive vibrations of the campus. “One doesn’t miss home in this environment,” she said. The cost-free education system keeps stretching the financial limits of Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust, which, however, is determined to take the concept to more places. Expenses in terms of infrastructure, tuition, amenities, health care, insurance, etc., amount to Rs. 84,000 per annum per student (Rs. 7,000 a month). Contributions to the Trust may be transferred to City Union Bank, Mount Road Branch. Chennai 6. A/c no 049001000645148. IFSC CIUB0000049. For foreign donation (Other than India) FCRA approval available: Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust. City Union Bank, Mount Road branch, Chennai 6. A/c No 049001000667618. IFSC CIUB0000049. SWIFT CIUBIN5M. Email: sripratyaksha@gmail.com Visit https://sampradaya.org Contact +919500195021  There are 16 Patasalas offering free education Chennai’s Avadi campus is dedicated to Vaikhanasa Agama, in line with the Tirumala temple tradition It is learning unlimited for girls at ‘Sampradaya’
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Against the odds||“I’d like to go back one day, hopefully in a few years,” Nayanika sighs wistfully. Despite her multiple visits to India, the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic has made her, like many others, homesick. But ask her what keeps her going, and she gives you the same answer she gave when she was five years old: dancing. Born and brought up in New Delhi, Nayanika’s mother’s interest in jazz and ballet led her into her first class at The Danceworx. She stayed with the company for the next 14 years. It almost became her home and fostered in her an unrelenting desire to dance. “I was ten years old when I walked up to my parents and said, ‘This is what I want to do! I want to become a dancer,” she laughs. A role in the ‘Kingdom of Dream’s Jhumroo’ at age 15 cemented the young dancer’s future — being the youngest of the lot, she made an impact and, in turn, the production impacted her greatly. With sights set abroad, Nayanika had her hands full, managing to clear her pre-board exams while compiling video auditions and applying for a host of performing arts academies. While her dream of attending New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts didn’t materialise, she calls what followed ‘pure destiny.’ “Just a few weeks after NYU fell through, Philadelphia’s ‘University of the Arts’ made an attractive, scholarship-inclusive offer. I was overjoyed,” she reminisces. And so she jetted off, leaving India at 17 to pursue her dream in America, a land she had never visited. Struggles aplenty, being the only native Indian in the university, she credits her parents for getting her through the toughest of times. “I was thrown into a batch of 75, each more talented than the other. To say I was intimidated would be a gross understatement and at the beginning, I spent more time playing catch-up than I did progressing!” she exclaims. Yet, Nayanika made her mark, finally producing a Senior Thesis that integrated Bollywood dance and Bharatanatyam with contemporary training to produce ‘A Tribute to Her Roots.’ The performance was the only one of its kind to get a standing ovation for both of its shows. Of course, adversity wouldn't stop there: despite auditioning for months, Nayanika found no dance company to join, often overlooked due to her short stature and dark skin. So she moved to New York City on a whim, now auditioning every day before finding a home last September with Bloodline Dance Theatre.  Dream contract And yet, there was a vacuum — Nayanika was missing home. She says: “The Universe must have known,” landing her a contract with Ajna, a dance company specialising in Indian dance, while also allowing her to become licensed as a teaching artiste in New York. That is where she sees her journey heading over the next few years. “ I’d like to travel back to India soon, now enriched by my adventures and learnings over these past four years or so. I would like to give Delhi’s young dancers the opportunity to embrace their art as a profession without having to travel abroad,” she says. For now, Nayanika feels it’s time to payback to the community she still calls home. “In India, dance is still an unconventional career choice. Having chosen the path less-trodden myself, I want to give back to dance and my Indian roots what it gave me.”
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Azhwar with maternal instinct||Sri Vallabha Deva was a popular king of Madurai. On his nocturnal rounds, he comes across an old Brahmin seated on a pyol in a remote street. The king enquires of his condition. The Brahmin replies with a subhashitham:  Varshartham ashtauprayadeta maasaan   Nishartham artham divasam yadetha   Varthakya hethor vayasa navetha   Parathra hethoriha janma naasa  (Work hard for eight months to save for the four months of rainy season. Work in day time for a peaceful night. Attempt something useful during youth for a peaceful old age. Make efforts in this birth for attaining Moksha.) The king starts wondering about his own life. What is expected of him? What should he do to gain eternal bliss? He consults Acharya Selva Nambi, who advises a conference of scholars who will debate and arrive at a consensus on the concept of the Paramathmaswaroopa. Out goes the announcement inviting scholars to assemble at the conference hall. Selva Nambi sends out a special invitation to a scholar he has been admiring at Srivilliputtur. This is Vishnuchitta, a priest at Vatapathrasayee temple, Srivilliputtur. (His father, Mukunda Bhattar, named him as Vishnuchitta in the hope that his mind and heart will be focused on Lord Vishnu). Vishnuchitta, a native of Tirukoshtiyur, goes to Madurai and participates in the debate. Incidentally, Selva Nambi also hails from that place. Quoting sruthi, smrithi and other sacred texts, he establishes the parathvam of the Thiruashtakshara mantra. Even as he is expatiating, the pot of gold hoisted at the hall falls into his hands, showing divine acceptance of his view point. The king names him Pattarbiran. A flash in the sky is followed by the appearance of Lord Narayana with His consorts on Garuda. This happens, The whole gathering was stunned into reverence. This happened in front of the Koodalazhagar temple. Even as he is worshipping, along with others, Vishnuchitta fears some harm for the Lord. Spontaneously he chants,  Pallandu Pallandu Pallayirathaandu Palakoti Noorayiram   Mallanda Thin Tholl Manivanna un sevadi sevvi thirukappu  This is the first verse in the Divya Prabandham. His deep concern for the Lord Himself earned him the name Periyazhwar. Vishnuchitta was wondering from an early age what form of worship would please the Lord. He drew inspiration from Malakara of Mathura, whose humble house was visited by Krishna to get garlanded by him. Periyazhwar started laying flower gardens. He worshipped the Lord Vatapatrasayee with several kinds of flowers. He also raised the temple tower with the gold coins he received. The poet in him woke up. His outpourings flooded the Srivaishnava world.  Focus is on Krishna Krishna — baby krishna — was central to all his pasurams. Concerned about Krishna’s safety, he doesn’t want to reveal the Lord’s birth place. He is Achyutha, born ten stars from Hastha Nakshatram. Count ten stars backward, you get Rohini; and count ten stars forward, it is Thiruvonam – Athhathin patham naal thondriya Achyutan. (1-2-8). Periyazhwar enjoys the childhood of Krishna — Krishna in the cradle, Krishna growing up, taking tiny steps to walk, the imprint of sangu and chakra on His feet and so on. He becomes Yasodha in the process. No wonder Periyazhwar is considered the original pioneer of Pillai Tamizh. Of the 473 pasurams, the first 285 poems reflect the joy and ecstasy the Azhwar felt in describing the beauty and antics of baby Krishna. Suddenly, there is a complete reversal and the Azhwar is lost in melancholy. His only daughter has gone away with Lord Krishna. He assumes the role of the mother, the friend and the heroine and describes the agony. The most famous is verse 300 of Acharya Hridayam:  Oru magal thannai udaiyen Ulakam niraintha pugazhaal   Thirumagal pol valarthen Chengenmaal than kondu ponaan...  When Koorathazhwan attains Paramapadam, Ramanuja in his discourse quotes this pasuram and sheds tears. Our acharyas and commentators don’t agree with the view that the change in the mood was brought about by the exit of Andal, who proudly described herself as Vishnuchittan Kodhai. Her authority is derived from Vishnuchitta. ‘Meimei peru vaarthai vishnuchittar kettiruppar.’ The second half of Periyazhwar describes various divyadesa yatras. Srirangam and Thirumaaliruncholai are repeatedly referred to. He even sings the glory of Lord Purushottama of Devaprayag (Kandam ennum kadinagar). He sings the glory of the devotees of the Lord. Periyazhwar completes his Prabandham with an invocation to Thiruvengadamudaiyaan. He is his Kula deivam, the tutelary deity. He has placed the Lord in himself and himself in the Lord. He concludes that the Lord gave up the ocean of milk to take abode in the ocean of the heart of the Azhwar. Casting aside Vaikunta, Thirupparkadal and Dwaraka, the Lord chose to reside in his heart – Vishnuchittan manathae koil konda kovalan.   gurumugam anadithya praha veddan aseshaan   narapathi parikliptham sulkam aatha thu kaamaha   svasuram amara vanthyam ranganathasya sakshaath   thvijikula thilakam vishnuchittam namami   Periyazhwar’s birth will be celebrated on June 30
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||SPIC Macay’s concert series||The Parampara Utsav 2020, being hosted by SPIC Macay from June 20, has been featuring music (vocal and instrumental) and dance performances of eminent artistes. The series also includes live interactions with some of the well-known artistes to be followed by either a short live or recorded performance. On till June 28, it is being streamed live on SPIC Macay’s YouTube channel: https://youtube.com/spicmacayofficial. Artistes to be featured on the last three days are: Today, 6.30 p.m .: Salil Bhatt (Satvik Veena). June 27 , 6 p.m.: Tripti Mukherjee (Hindustani voal) followed by Carnatic concert of Sikkil Gurucharan (7.30 p.m.). The final day of the special lockdown series ( June 28 ) will feature the performances of Shakir Khan (sitar at 6 p.m.) and Sameehan Kashalkar (7.30 p.m.).
26 June 2020||June 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Glimpses of Kekoo Gandhy’s Mumbai||Filmmakers Behroze Gandhy and Dilesh Korya’s documentary, Kekee Manzil - The House of Art offers a glimpse into the interiors of a heritage home, shedding light on its iconic residents Kekoo and Khorshed Gandhy. Kekoo established the only picture-framing company in Asia in the 1940s and later opened the city’s first contemporary art gallery, Gallery Chemould, now known as Chemould Prescott Road, run by his daughter Shireen Gandhy. The documentary captures how Kekoo and Khorshed displayed compassion during challenging times, stayed true to their secular ideals, and remained engaged civically, while building frameworks within which art could grow in postcolonial India. In an interview with The Hindu , Behroze shares how despite the fact that her grandfather, who built the house (naming it after Kekoo) was a traditional Parsi patriarch, Kekoo invited all kinds of people home. “It was a source of much amusement to us as kids watching our grandfather’s face, as various folk used to troop through,” she shares. Later, Kekoo opened up his home as a space for community meetings, for artists to live and practise in, and as a place of refuge. The bungalow, located in a secluded sea-facing neighbourhood, became a site where the socio-political and artistic climates of the city were nurtured. At the beginning UK-based Behroze, grew up in Kekee Manzil and moved to London when she was 19. In her mid-thirties, while producing the show, On The Other Hand in the UK that dealt with South Asian issues, she realised, “How connected [her] father was as [she] had access to guests from every walk of life.” She elaborates, “When the riots in Bombay exploded after the demolition of the Babri Masjid, I was commissioned to do a show in Delhi. This was when my father was busy with the Peace committees in Bombay and our work interconnected.” She began recording her parents in 2002, realising how they were a repository of the early years of the Indian art movement. She also interviewed their contemporaries - members of the Progressive Artists’ Group including SH Raza, Akbar Padamsee, and Krishen Khanna. She took a short hiatus after her parents passed away between 2012-13, but soon began examining the material she had access to. Despite losing footage and being unable to clean-up profound interviews like the one with artist Ram Kumar, she had enough to construct a narrative in close collaboration with Korya that featured family members, friends, and old archives from 8 mm film. She says, “The story was a curious one — of how my father, a casualty of the Second World War, as far as his incomplete studies at Cambridge were concerned, landed up being one of the catalysts of an art movement, which was totally at odds with his family’s Parsi business background. It all revolved around a shop selling picture frames and a series of curious co-incidences which led him to the point of opening Gallery Chemould.” Korya persuaded Behroze to embody the narrative voice in the film. It’s a powerful choice that adds sensitivity to the story. She narrates Kekoo’s life, acknowledging how her distance from Mumbai gave her a necessary “insider-outsider perspective.” “Kekoo was excited I was filming him; he felt like someone was taking him seriously in his old age,” says Behroze adding how Salman Rushdie, Nalini Malani, and Anish Kapoor instantly agreed to be interviewed for the film, a testament to his influence. Family and friends Intimate family scenes around the dining table and living room highlight the joint-family life in Kekee Manzil . Behroze’s siblings Adil (who runs Chemould Frames), Rashna, and Shireen, Kekoo’s brother Rusi, as well as the eldest surviving family-member, his cousin, Dara feature prominently. Behroze says, “I wanted to bring out how crucial my mother was in running a gallery like Chemould. We try to address this in the way my siblings and artists like Nalini Malani speak about her contribution, but somehow my father dominates the film.” Kekoo, she describes was chaotic, “Khorshed had the persistence to see his visions through.” The musical score of the film, produced by Talvin Singh, evokes the Indian classical music that Khorshed sang in the house every Thursday, or listened to frequently. While Khorshed is absent physically in much of the film, she is entirely present through the music. The film narrates Kekoo’s chance encounters in the city, with Italian prisoners of war who educated him in art, Jewish emigres who escaped Nazi Germany, and Belgian businessmen who wanted to invest in pictureframe moulding. Kekoo’s meeting with Austrian artist Walter Langhammer was transformative; through him, Chemould Frames on Princess Street became a hub for artists. It led to Kekoo meeting the Bombay Progressives. The Gandhys’ close friendship with MF Husain is highlighted — although their conflicting stances following Indira Gandhi’s Emergency strained their relations, they later reconciled. “Something I learnt about my father is that he interacted with people at a human level. He would talk to the local sweeper, policeman, neighbours, strangers on the streets; he never made distinctions. He was wildly impractical and helped those in need at his expense,” says Behroze. She acknowledges how his phases of depression during his later years were times when she spent reflective moments with him. She did not see his bi-polar disorder as a disease, “If he gave so much, he had to be able to recharge himself.”  Art and politics The film transports viewers to an old-world city — scenes in a quieter Bandra, Juhu Beach where the Gandhys would go swimming, and other parts of the city evoke simpler times. Kekoo and Khorshed watched the city develop, witnessed historic moments of optimism and disillusionment, and simultaneously built relationships with artists grappling with the times. It showcases Tyeb Mehta who was offered a solo exhibition at Gallery Chemould in 1964, “became known as the conscience of the nation.” Over the years, as the Gandhys witnessed the city transform topographically, they also found their ideals come under threat during crises like the Emergency and the Mumbai riots. For the Gandhys, secularism and freedom of speech were paramount. Kekoo showcased exhibitions at his gallery that embraced abstractionist, narrative, and conceptualist perspectives, featuring works by Vivan Sundaram, Nalini Malani, Gieve Patel, Mehlli Gobhai, and Rummana Hussain, among others. These artists reflected upon the events around them, challenged injustices, and even, as in the case of Bhupen Khakhar, “Scandalised the artworld with sexual depictions featuring his long-term partner, Vallabhai.” The documentary, for us is then a reminder that the fabric of art is intrinsically tethered to socio-political happenings.  Emailcommunication@ gallerychemould.comfor details on how to view the film online.
