26 July 2020||JAIPUR/ NEW DELHI,||Gehlot to make fresh push for Assembly session amid face-off||Amid a serious face-off with the Governor, the Congress government in Rajasthan on Saturday deliberated on a fresh proposal to convene a session of the Assembly next week to enable Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his majority on the floor of the House. Governor Kalraj Mishra had on Friday refused to give immediate approval to a similar proposal. New submission A Cabinet meeting, presided over by Mr. Gehlot, decided that the government would make a fresh submission to the Governor for calling the Assembly session, while responding to his questions raised over the original proposal. In a fresh communication to the Raj Bhavan, the Cabinet conveyed that the Governor has no discretion in the matter and has to follow the advice of the Cabinet, The Hindu has learnt. Citing previous Supreme Court rulings on the matter, the Cabinet is believed to have said that the Governor can neither question the period of convening an Assembly session, fix the procedures for the conduct of the session nor set the agenda. “The Cabinet met at 4 p.m. again and conveyed these points to the Raj Bhavan. We will wait for his response as we don’t want to escalate things,” a senior Congress leader said. The Governor had earlier stated that the note containing the request forwarded by the government neither explained the urgency nor did it mention the agenda for the session. The Governor sought a clarification on six issues and asked why the session should be convened for a floor test when the government itself was claiming that it had full majority in the House. “No justification has been given for calling the session at such a short notice,” he said. While accusing the Governor of stalling a decision on summoning the House session under “pressure from above”, Mr. Gehlot had said that the people from the entire State could lay siege to Raj Bhavan. Mr. Gehlot wants to prove his majority to end the political uncertainty created after the rebellion of Sachin Pilot, who has since been sacked as the Deputy CM. BJP leaders meet Mishra Meanwhile, a 15-member delegation of the Opposition BJP met the Governor on Saturday evening and demanded action to control the “anarchy” in the State. It accused the Congress government of threatening constitutional institutions and violating the COVID-19 advisory on social distancing in the protests and demonstrations. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the Congress leaders were making false accusations against others for their “internal crisis”, while Mr. Gehlot’s statement on laying siege to the Raj Bhavan was a criminal act under Section 124 (assaulting President/Governor with intent to compel or restrain the exercise of any lawful power) of the Indian Penal Code.
26 July 2020||Srinagar,||Ladakh left out in the cold 11 months after becoming a Union Territory||Eleven months after it was carved out as a separate, administrative Union Territory (UT), the high-altitude desert region of Ladakh is at a crossroads, with minimal staff functioning from makeshift accommodation, no recruitment agency to fill gazetted posts, no formal bank and a dispute over its capital. The challenge to ensure efficient administration in this high plateau located at an altitude of 9,800 feet can be gauged from the recent process to recruit doctors under the National Health Mission (NHM). Out of the 110 doctors recruited from across the country, including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, in April-May this year with a package up to Rs. 2,50,000 per month, only 15 have opted to join so far. “We have re-advertised these posts,” director, NHM Ladakh, Dr. Phuntsog Angchuk said. Recruitment stalled With demand growing for a separate recruitment agency on the lines of the Public Service Commission (PSC) in the UT of J&K, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has balked at filling any gazetted post so far. Ladakh saw the creation of over 400 posts after being declared a separate division within J&K prior to August 5, 2019. The number of vacant posts multiplied after it was declared a UT to around 5,000. “Ladakh needs a PSC so that only locals are preferred for these jobs,” said Feroz Khan, chairman and chief executive councillor (CEC) of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Kargil. Staff from J&K Over the past week, the J&K government administration has transferred over 118 officials on deputation to Ladakh to bring some semblance of normalcy in the understaffed departments including Education, Irrigation, Flood Control, Jal Shakti and Higher Education. The transfers followed a letter from Umang Narula, adviser to the Lt. Governor. “The UT of Ladakh is facing serious constraints of manpower at various levels. Some directorates and heads of departments are headless, which is adversely affecting the delivery of public services (in Ladakh),” the letter reads. As per the official records, many directors hold charge of as many as five departments. Many departments like Disaster Management exist only on paper. But there is opposition to the deployment of staff from J&K. “We face unemployment of trained and qualified youth in Ladakh. Instead of conducting a special drive to fill up the vacant positions, the officials here are requesting UT of J&K to depute staff,” said Sajad Kargili, who contested the 2019 parliamentary polls as an Independent candidate.  Since the implementation of the J&K Reorganisation Act in October last year, a cumbersome process of division of assets from banks to fans and sofas between the UTs has hit a dead end. While the J&K Bank remains the official bank of J&K, the new J&K domicile law bars outsiders, including the Ladakh people, from applying for recently announced posts in the bank. “The J&K Bank’s assets remain a common entity. Our youth should be allowed to sit for the test,” LAHDC-K chairman Mr. Khan said.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 1,103 new cases||The State on Saturday registered the highest single-day spike till now with 1,103 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the cumulative case burden to 18,098, while over 1.54 lakh people are under observation. While the steady rise in the new cases reported daily brings no cheer to the health administration, the number of active cases was stabilised by the 1,049 recoveries that were reported the same day. Local transmission Local transmission continues to drive the case burden in the State, with 875 out of the 1,103 cases being locally acquired infections, including 72 cases for which no epidemiological link has been found. These cases include 21 health-care workers. The number of active cases or patients currently under treatment in hospitals in the State is 9,420. The number of recoveries so far has been 8,613. Five more deaths The death toll has reached 59, with two deaths reported from Kozhikode and one each from Ernakulam, Kasaragod and Palakkad. Capital leads As has been the trend for the past several days, Thiruvananthapuram district reported the maximum number of cases, with locally acquired infection accounting for 229 out of the 240 cases reported. The district also has the maximum number of active cases with 2,666 persons undergoing treatment in hospitals. Kozhikode district, with 110 new cases, came second on the list of most number of cases, after Thiruvananthapuram. Eighty-eight people contracted the disease through local transmission. Kasaragod has 105, Alappuzha 102, Kollam 80, Ernakulam 79, Kottayam 77, Malappuram 68, Kannur 62, Pathanamthitta 52, Idukki 40, Thrissur 36, Palakkad 35 and Wayanad 17. Of the over 1.54 lakh people who are currently in quarantine in the State, 8,981 persons with mild COVID-19-like symptoms have been isolated in various hospitals in districts. 22,013 samples tested The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 22,013. More areas in the State have become hotspots now and the total number of hotspots now is 481. Couple infected Meanwhile, the 105 new cases from Kasaragod includes a bride and her groom, and 41 others who took part in their wedding ceremony held in the district on July 17. Kasaragod has a total of 584 patients.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu’s case count crosses two-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu on Saturday became the second State in the country to cross two lakh cases of COVID-19. As many as 6,988 fresh infections were reported, taking the State’s overall case count to 2,06,737. Maharashtra has the highest case tally, with around 3.57 lakh infections (as of Friday). With 3,409 deaths, Tamil Nadu ranks third in terms of fatalities, after Maharashtra and the National Capital Territory of Delhi. In Tamil Nadu, the cases account for 0.27% of the State’s population*, i.e., roughly three out of every thousand persons have tested positive. The first case in Tamil Nadu was reported on March 7. While it took 118 days for the State to cross the one-lakh mark on July 3(1,02,721 cases), it took just 22 more days to add another 1.4 lakh cases. Interestingly, Maharashtra, which took 95 days to cross the one-lakh mark on June 12, also took exactly 22 days to add another one lakh cases by July 4. The progression of cases from one lakh to two lakh in Tamil Nadu also coincided with the burden of infections shifting geographically across the State. For instance, when the State crossed the one-lakh mark on July 3, the Chennai region, comprising Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, accounted for 75.4% of all the cases. On Saturday, when the State crossed two lakh cases, the Chennai region accounted for only 59.7% of the total cases, while the remaining 40.3% of infections came from other districts. Moreover, if the 1,04,016 new cases added since the State crossed the one-lakh mark is taken into consideration, only 44.3% of them came from the Chennai region. The other districts accounted for the remaining 55.7% of the cases. Despite the high infection count, Tamil Nadu has managed to keep the number of active cases fairly under control, thanks to the high recovery rate reported in the State, aided by the Indian Council of Medical Research’s revised guidelines relaxing the conditions to be met for discharging patients. When the State crossed one lakh cases, the number of active cases were 42,955 (41.8%). Decision follows complaints of delay in taking patients with breathing difficulties to hospitals
26 July 2020||Mangaluru/Kalaburagi/Yadgir,||DK records eight more fatalities||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday announced eight more COVID-19 deaths. A district-level committee of experts will look into the cause of the deaths. The bulletin by the district administration said 218 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Saturday. Of this, 87 had influenza like illness, 46 were primary contacts of positive persons, and 15 had severe acute respiratory illness. Contact tracing of 70 positive persons was on. As many as 140 persons were discharged. In all, the active COVID-19 positive cases stood at 2,370 on Saturday, the bulletin said. In Udupi, 182 new cases were reported on Saturday taking the active cases to 1,199. While 99 persons were from Udupi, 46 were from Karkala, and 29 from Kundapur. There were 79 persons who were discharged, while 539 were in home isolation. Kalaburagi district reported four more deaths, taking the COVID-19 tally to 58, as per the data released by the Health and Family Welfare Department. The district also recorded 183 new cases. Yadgir and Raichur districts saw 136 more cases on Saturday, with both districts reporting 68 each.
26 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Fear of contracting COVID-19 results in death of three of a family||Three members of a family were found dead in Dharwad on Saturday. It is believed that the fear of contracting COVID-19 drove the family to decide to take the extreme step. The incident occurred at Kavalikai Oni at Mehboob Nagar in Dharwad city. According to the police, the 36-year-old man reportedly was depressed after 30 employees of the private company, he worked for, tested positive for COVID- 19. The deceased have been identified as Mounesh Pattar, Arpita, 28, and their four-year-old daughter. The police said that the man hailed from Asuti village in Ron taluk of Gadag district and was employed with a firm in Dharwad. According to the police, the man left behind a note in which he said that 30 of his co-workers had tested positive for the pandemic and that he was afraid of his family contracting the disease. Initial investigation revealed that his daughter kept falling sick repeatedly and his wife suffered from low blood pressure. On being informed by neighbours, the Dharwad Suburban Police shifted the bodies to the civil hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Army working to restore LAC position’||“We shall continue all efforts to restore the status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China,” said Lt. Gen. Y.K. Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Northern Command, on Saturday. However, he remained non-committal on the timeline for the resolution of the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, which has been ongoing for 12 weeks. During the talks for disengagement, India has consistently called for the restoration of the status quo ante at the LAC or the pullback of Chinese troops to pre-May positions. “There are certain commitments required from the two sides which is essential for the process to move ahead and deliver the outcomes that are desirable. There are certain factors though, such as territorial integrity of the country, that are not negotiable at all. While we are investing sincerely in this ongoing endeavour to bring about peace along the border, we also remain prepared at all times for any eventuality,” Lt. Gen. Joshi said on the current situation in an interview to a TV channel. The negotiations and process of disengagement and the commitment of both sides to adhere to the laid down methodology would dictate the timelines of the stand-off, he stated. A decorated soldier of the 1999 Kargil conflict, Lt. Gen. Joshi said the challenges during the Kargil conflict and the present situation are in a totally different domain. “In the given circumstances, the LAC in Ladakh is a challenge today. We as an organisation concluded that situation in 1999 to our satisfaction then and so would be in this case too,” he said.  While we are investing sincerely in this ongoing endeavour , we also remain prepared for any eventuality
26 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. CM tests positive for COVID-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said he has tested positive for COVID-19. He was admitted to Chirayu Hospital, a private COVID-19 facility. Sharing the news on Twitter, the 61-year-old Mr. Chouhan wrote, “My beloved residents of the State, I was having COVID-19 symptoms, and after a test my report has come out to be positive.” Appeals to aides He appealed to those who had come in contact with him to get themselves tested, and his close contacts to go into quarantine. “All required tests have been carried out and the results have been found to be normal. His condition is normal,” said Ajay Goenka of Chirayu Medical College and Hospital. An MLA from Budhni, Mr. Chouhan is the seventh legislator from the State — six from the BJP and one from the Congress — to have contracted the illness so far.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||No bulletin issued on COVID cases||The Telangana Health Department did not issue a media bulletin on Saturday night, which has details about number of COVID-19 cases, samples tested, the number of COVID-19 patients who died and other details. The State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said that the bulletin will be issued on Sunday morning in a new format. To address the dearth of sanitation staff to clean COVID-19 hospitals, a decision was taken to use advanced equipment to maintain hygiene at the health facilities. As many COVID-19 warriors had to be quarantined after getting infected with the infectious disease, there is dearth of sanitation staff too. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that they will use the equipment to clean floors, walls and bathrooms in the hospitals. He called upon officials to procure the equipment and provide it to the hospitals. Besides, the machines will be used to move biomedical waste, and to carry waste generated by patients in ICU. .
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet filed against Sharjeel Imam||The Delhi police on Saturday filed a chargesheet against former JNU student Sharjeel Imam at Patiala House Courts. The chargesheet has been filed under several sections of IPC and UAPA. The police claimed that Mr. Imam delivered seditious speeches and incited “a particular section of society to indulge in unlawful activities”.
26 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 toll surges, 42 more dead in WB||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 42 COVID-19 fatalities, its highest in a single day so far, taking its death toll to 1,332. The State also reported 2,404 new cases in the past 24 hours, pushing its total case tally to 56,377. Of the latest deaths, 11 were recorded in Kolkata and 12 in North 24 Parganas district. Of the total case load, 19,391 are active cases. Since Friday, 2,125 patients have been discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 35,654. A total of 15,628 samples were tested across the State in the past 24 hours. To break the chain of transmission of the novel coronavirus, West Bengal observed a complete lockdown on Saturday, bringing life to a standstill. All modes of transport went off the road as part of the government’s plan to clamp restrictions in the State twice a week. Flight operations at Kolkata airport were suspended and several trains at Howrah and Sealdah stations were cancelled. Only medicine shops and health establishments were allowed to remain open. Police personnel strictly enforced the lockdown in Kolkata and districts across the State. Till 6 p.m., 703 people were arrested for flouting lockdown rules and 368 pople were fined for not wearing masks. In Malda town, police personnel were seen chasing people who had violated lockdown norms, while roads wore a deserted look in Siliguri in north Bengal. Barricades were put up in various parts of the State to stop people from coming out of their homes, officials said. The police also patrolled all major traffic intersections in Kolkata to keep a check on people coming out on the streets without any valid reason. The State will observe its next lockdown on July 29.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||52 deaths, 7,813 new COVID cases reported||The State reported 52 new deaths and 7,813 fresh COVID cases in the past 24 hours as of Saturday morning. The tally has gone up to 88, 671 and the death toll increased to 985. The number of active cases drastically increased in the past few days and as of Saturday 44, 431 patients are undergoing treatment. With 3,320 patients being discharged in the past day the number of recoveries stand at 43,255 and the recovery rate has come down to 48.78%. Guntur district reported nine new deaths and its overall death toll has inched close to 100. West Godavari reported eight deaths and East Godavari, Kurnool and Krishna reported six deaths each. Chittoor district reported five deaths, while Vizianagaram reported four and Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam reported three deaths each. Similarly, Nellore and Prakasam reported one death each.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Hospitals finding it tough to get COVID-19 drugs||A number of private hospitals, especially those outside Chennai, are finding it difficult to access Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, used in the treatment of COVID-19. A section of doctors said only limited stocks of the drugs were available in the market, and there had been instances of dealers quoting high prices.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. takes possession of Veda Nilayam||The Tamil Development and Information Department has formally taken possession of Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in Poes Garden here. The house will shortly be transferred to the proposed Tamil Nadu Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation for converting it into a memorial.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Corporation to strengthen ambulance services||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to strengthen the system to provide mobile oxygen support units and ambulan- ces for COVID-19 patients and those having breathing difficulties. At present, 81 units of 108 ambulances have been deployed in the city to transport patients with breathing difficulties.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. increases fees for revenue services||After a gap of 18 years, the government has increased the fees payable for certain services offered by the Revenue Department, including the surveying of lands and for copies of the village, taluk and district maps. The decision follows the recommendation of the Director of Survey and Settlement.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Coimbatore sees another spike with 270 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 270 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest single day figure so far. The district also crossed the 3,000 mark in terms of total number of positive cases, and the total tally stood at 3,237. Selvapuram alone reported 28 cases on Saturday.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka targets U.P. govt. over COVID cases||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over its handling of the COVID-19 situation and accused it of adopting a mantra of “no test is equal to no corona” even as cases rise.
26 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Ayodhya, Kanpur district police chiefs transferred||Kanpur district police chief Dinesh Kumar P. was among the 15 IPS officers transferred by the U.P. government on Saturday evening. The government also transferred the district police chief of Ayodhya days before the scheduledbhoomipujanfor the Ram Mandir on August 5.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against JNU scholar over tweet||Delhi Police has registered an FIR against JNU scholar Sajid Bin Sayed for allegedly tweeting against the Army and the Rashtriya Swayam-sevak Sangh. The FIR was registered on July 8 on the complaint of a BJP worker.
26 July 2020||Madurai,||Minister clarifies on spike in cases||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said there was a spike in the number of cases recorded in Madurai on Friday because contacts of positive cases were reconciled and added to the list of positive cases. He said the reason why 326 people tested positive was because they were testing at least 10 contacts of each positive case.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. turns one, but there are battles to be won||The Bharatiya Janata Party government in Karnataka led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is turning one on Sunday amidst the health crisis created by COVID-19. But the last one year, moving from one crisis to another and the serious financial crunch, has left the government not much to claim in terms of administration, admit leaders.
26 July 2020||Mangaluru,||NMPT improves traffic performance in Q1||Notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT), one of the 14 major ports of India, in the current Q1 has surpassed the performance recorded in last year’s Q1.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Id-ul-Adha prayers banned at idgahs||With Id-ul-Adha approaching, the State government has banned congregational Id namaaz at idgahs and open spaces. People can offer prayers at mosques by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and taking other precautions, said an order issued by the Minority Welfare, Haj and Wakf Department.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases: State now second in India||As the State reported over 5,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday, it now has the second highest number of active cases in the country at 55,388, pushing Tamil Nadu to the third place. Maharashtra continued to remain in the first position with 1.45 lakh active cases.
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maha adds 9,251 COVID-19 cases; record 7,227 recover, 257 die||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 9,251 new COVID-19 cases, taking its cumulative case tally to 3,66,368. The State also recorded 257 fatalities, including 116 in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), pushing its death toll to 13,389. With the addition of 1,080 cases, Mumbai’s case load shot up to 1,08,060, while its death toll rose to 6,036, with 52 more fatalities. The MMR saw a spike of 3,523 cases, taking its total case tally to 2,20,840. The death toll in the region now stands at 8,895. Pune city saw a staggering rise of 1,913 cases and 45 deaths, while Pimpri-Chinchwad registered 866 new cases. Aurangabad, Nagpur and Ahmednagar recorded spikes of 238, 126 and 115 cases, respectively. Nashik city reported 306 fresh cases. There are 1,45,785 active cases in the State, while its tally of recoveries has risen to 2,07,194, with 7,227 patients being discharged on Saturday. A total of 18,36,920 people have been tested so far. Maharashtra’s recovery rate now stands at 56.55%, while its case fatality rate is 3.65%, according to health officials.
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||Not in favour of entirely lifting lockdown: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said he was not in favour of completely lifting lockdown measures in Maharashtra just to address the State’s economic concerns. He said there is a need to strike a balance between issues of health and economy, considering the challenge posed by COVID-19. “I have started reopening a few things gradually. Once reopened, it shouldn’t be shut again. Hence, I prefer taking steps in phases,” he said, in an interview published inSaamanaon Saturday. The lockdown in the State will continue till July 31.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||New cases almost touch 7,000 mark in T.N.||Kerala’s course of COVID-19 management was marked by the addition of 1,103 new cases on Saturday, taking cumulative cases to 18,098. While the steady rise reported daily brought little cheer to the Health administration, active cases were stabilised by 1,049 recoveries on the same day. Local transmission continued to drive the State’s case load, with 875 out of the 1,103 cases being locally acquired infections, including 72 for which no epidemiological link was found. These included 21 health-care workers. The number of active cases or patients currently under treatment in hospitals in the State was 9,420. Recoveries recorded so far in the State stood at 8,613. The death toll touched 59, with two more fatalities in Kozhikode and one each from Ernakulam, Kasaragod and Palakkad. Thiruvananthapuram reported the maximum number of cases again, with locally acquired infection accounting for 229 out of 240 cases. The district had the maximum active cases with 2,666 persons being treated in hospitals. Kozhikode had 110 cases, Kasaragod (105), Alappuzha (102), Kollam (80), Ernakulam (79), Kottayam (77), Malappuram (68), Kannur (62), Pathanamthitta (52), Idukki (40), Thrissur (36), Palakkad 935) and Wayanad (17). Over 1.54 lakh people were under quarantine, of whom, 8,981 with mild COVID-like symptoms were in hospitals. The number of samples tested in 24 hours was 22,013. Andhra Pradesh reported 52 new deaths and 7,813 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The tally was up, at 88,671 and the death toll was 985. Active cases shot up in the past few days and as of Saturday 44,431 patients were under treatment. With 3,320 patients discharged in the past day, recoveries stood at 43,255. The recovery rate was down to 48.78%. Guntur district reported nine new deaths and its overall toll was closer to 100. West Godavari reported eight deaths and East Godavari, Kurnool and Krishna six deaths each. Chittoor district reported five deaths, Vizianagaram four and Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam three deaths each. Similarly, Nellore and Prakasam reported one death each. East Godavari once again topped the single-day tally with 1,324 cases, West Godavari had 1,012 new cases and Visakhapatnam 936 cases. Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported its highest yet number of new COVID-19 cases, recoveries and deaths on a single day. There were 6,988 new cases, 89 deaths and 7,758 recoveries. Active cases marginally came down from 53,132 on Friday to 52,273 on Saturday. The State crossed the 6,000 mark for third consecutive day with 22 of the 36 districts reporting more than 100 cases, of which 13 had more than 200 cases.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet decision binding on Governor||A Constitution Bench judgment of the Supreme Court has held that a Governor is bound to convene a meeting of the Assembly for a floor test on the recommendation of the Cabinet. The five-judge Constitution Bench judgment of the Supreme Court in Nabam Rebia versus Deputy Speaker on July 13, 2016, held that a Governor cannot employ his “discretion”, and should strictly abide by the “aid and advice” of the Cabinet to summon the House. Rajasthan deadlock The judgment is significant in the present deadlock between Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over the summoning of an Assembly session for a floor test. “The Governor can summon, prorogue and dissolve the House only on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister as the head. And not at his own,” the unanimous judgment by the Bench led by then Chief Justice J.S. Khehar held. The Nabam Rebia judgment was a consequence of then Arunachal Pradesh Governor J.P. Rajkhowa’s decision to advance the Assembly session, a move which led to unrest in the State and culminated in President’s Rule. The Constitution Bench held Mr. Rajkhowa’s decision to be a violation of the Constitution. The judgment led to the restoration of the Congress-led Nabam Tuki government. The judgment said even the Constituent Assembly was wary of extending the Governor’s discretion. Though the draft Constitution had vested the Governor with the discretion to summon and dissolve, it was latter omitted by the framers of the Constitution. “It is an accepted principle that in a parliamentary democracy with a responsible form of government, the powers of the Governor as Constitutional or formal head of the State should not be enlarged at the cost of the real executive, viz. the Council of Ministers,” it said. The Supreme Court highlighted how Article 163 of the Constitution does not give the Governor a “general discretionary power to act against or without the advice of his Council of Ministers”. The court said the Governor’s discretionary powers are limited to specified areas like giving assent or withholding/referring a Bill to the President or appointment of a Chief Minister or dismissal of a government which has lost of confidence but refuses to quit, etc. “The area for the exercise of his discretion is limited. Even in this limited area, his [Governor’s] choice of action should not be arbitrary or fanciful. It must be a choice dictated by reason, actuated by good faith and tempered by caution,” the court said.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India testing over 4 lakh samples a day||India has now hiked its COVID-19 sample testing capacity to over 4 lakh tests a day with 4,20,898 samples tested in 24 hours, said a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. “With this, the tests per million (TPM) has further increased to 11,485 and cumulative testing to 1,58,49,068. This elevated number comes on the heels of 3,50,000 tests having been done every day consistently over the last one week,” the Ministry said. Test, track, treat The Central government has now advised the States and Union Territories to keep up the strategy of “test, track and treat”. “Aggressive testing may lead to a higher number of daily positive cases initially but would eventually achieve a decline as has been demonstrated after the Central government’s targeted efforts in Delhi,” the Ministry said. Lowest CFR  India has one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) in the world, according to the Health Ministry, with 32,223 COVID-19 patients having recovered in the 24 hours. “The cumulative number of recovered cases has reached 8,49,431 currently. The recovery rate stands at 63.54%. “The gap between recovered patients and active COVID-19 cases has further increased to 3,93,360,” the Ministry said. Stating that this has been achieved with the effective and standardised clinical management protocols based on the “holistic standard of care approach”, the Ministry said the CFR continued its downward trend, which meant that the collective efforts of the Centre, the State governments and Union Territory administrations had resulted in keeping a check on the mortality due to COVID-19. “The CFR has significantly dipped to 2.35% currently,” the Ministry said. Srong factor It added that a strong factor contributing to this achievement was the increase in the number of laboratories from one in January 2020 to 1,301 currently. This includes 902 government labs and 399 in the private sector. “Revised facilitative guidelines of testing by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and all-round efforts by the governments have also aided in widespread testing,” it said.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress raises concern over anti-defection law||The Rajasthan High Court’s order asking forstatus quoon the Assembly Speaker’s disqualification notice to dissident Congress lawmakers seems to have triggered a debate within the Congress on the broader issue of the anti-defection law, or the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution, and political parties regularly approaching the courts over the way it is applied. Former Union Law Minister Kapil Sibal, who is arguing for Speaker C.P. Joshi in the Supreme Court, on Saturday said the BJP was using the Tenth Schedule to “destabilise” the elected Congress government in the State, and called for amending some provisions. In a series of tweets, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, who is a senior advocate in the Supreme Court, referred to court orders on the Tenth Schedule. “In 1992, the Supreme Court ruled: “Having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/Chairmen; and no quia timet actions are permissible. Those words are simple and clear enough. That statement of the law by 5 judges was binding on all courts, HC or SC. Now, dear average citizen, you be the judge,” he said on Twitter. In Rajasthan, senior legal minds of the party argue that a court cannot issuequia timetorders or an injunction in anticipation of an action by the Speaker. However, when the Speakers have “inordinately delayed” their decision on disqualification petitions filed by the Congress, the party had moved courts to seek directions. In the past six years, the Congress has witnessed mass desertions by legislators in States such as Goa and Manipur after being elected on party ticket, or has lost governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh through mass resignations. “The government is using the Tenth Schedule to destabilise governments. So, it should be amended and some provisions added. First, a disqualification petition must be mandatorily decided, irrespective of whether a legislator has resigned or not. Two, if one is disqualified, he should be barred from any public office for five years. And three, a person who stands disqualified should be barred from contesting not just a byelection but the next election as well,” Mr. Sibal said. Another senior leader and also former Law Minister, Ashwani Kumar, focused on the balance of power between constitutional authorities.  Balance of power “Politics should work itself out on the floor of the House or in the peoples’ court. Political moralities cannot be enforced by constitutional courts. This is the lesson of the working of the current anti-defection law which needs to be revisited. A situation in which political parties have to repeatedly knock at the door of law courts has weakened the political institutions of democracy and has upset the balancing of constitutional power,” said Mr. Kumar. On the face-off between the Rajasthan Governor and the State government, he said, “The Governor’s decision to not honour the State Cabinet’s decision to convene the Assembly session is contrary to established constitutional position and conventions and will escalate inter institutional conflict.”
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jairam slams draft project clearance rules||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday sent in his strong objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020 to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, and said the proposed changes display a mindset that “environmental regulations are unnecessary regulatory burden”. The former Environment Minister, who now heads the Parliamentary Committee on Science & Technology, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said that the notification ignored the health and welfare of the people. Feedback sought The notification is right now open to public comments before the government gives its final seal of approval. “These changes are not based on the three As — audits, assessments and analyses. The changes are not based on any research. They reflect a mindset that sees environmental regulation as an unnecessary regulatory burden and not as an essential obligation to be met for the health and welfare of our people and for ensuring development that is sustainable,” Mr. Ramesh said in the letter which he posted on his Twitter handle. Mr. Ramesh opposed it on five grounds and marked a copy to Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. “It allows for post facto approvals which go against the very principle of assessment and public participation prior to environment clearance and has provisions that will routinely legitimise illegality. It reduces public participation in all steps of the environment clearance process by lessening the notice period for public hearings and doing away with them for a large category of projects.” ‘Encourages land grab’ Apart from doing away with environmental impact assessment, the Congress leader noted that the proses changes would encourage “land grab” in many cases of expansion. “It gives the Union government full powers to appoint State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority. This is yet another nail in the coffin of cooperative federalism,” he said. “The Chairman of the Rajya Sabha very recently in his characteristic style said Nature+Culture=Future. I am marking a copy of the letter to him as well to let him know how the equation he has so rightly and nicely formulated is being thrown out of the window....” Mr. Ramesh said.
26 July 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in encounter near Srinagar||Two unidentified militants were killed in a gunfight with security forces during an anti-militancy operation near here on Saturday. A police spokesman said the the operation was launched “on a specific input regarding the presence of terrorists at Ranbirgarh-Panzinara village”. “The hiding militants were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party. Two unidentified terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,” the police said. However, the identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained, the police added. One AK-47 and a pistol were recovered from the encounter site, the Army said in a statement. “The bodies shall be sent to Ganderbal for their last rites. In case any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in the last rites at Ganderbal,” the police said. People said both the militants were locals. Preliminary reports suggest they belonged to the Lashkar-e-Taiba. Student held A Kashmir University (KU) student, Aaqib Malik, was arrested on Friday in connection with an FIR registered in 2018 under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). “Malik was arrested on Friday. He was also arrested earlier,” a family member told The Hindu . According to the family, the police accused Mr. Malik, a postgraduate, of “anti-India activities on the campus of the KU”. In a separate case, the police said he helped in the return of a terrorist, a week after joining the Al-Badr outfit, in the Awantipora belt of Pulwama. In a separate operation at Tral in Pulwama, a militant hideout was busted in the forest area of Chinphadi, Machama area. “It was a Jaish-e-Muhammad hideout. Incriminating materials were recovered from the hideout,” the police said.
26 July 2020||Kolkata,||IIT-Kharagpur develops rapid test kit||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT-KGP) have developed a new technology for low-cost COVID-19 tests using a portable device. The test results (from saliva samples) can be made available in a customised smartphone application for dissemination within one hour without requiring manual interpretation, researchers said. “This first-of-its-kind device will bring the testing for COVID-19 out from the walls of expensive laboratories and RT-PCR machines and enable testing at affordable costs for the under-served community across the world,” a press statement from IIT- KGP said. Prof. Suman Chakraborty from the Mechanical Engineering Department said the technology was “very different from traditional detection systems used across world”. “This method has eliminated the need for a PCR machine. It includes a portable, automated pre-programmable temperature control unit, a special detection unit on genomic analysis and customised smartphone app for test results without any manual interaction,” Prof. Chakraborty said. He also added that RT-PCR based tests suffer from a compelling constraint of requiring an elaborate laboratory infrastructure and support system, including the operational and maintenance cost, to perform the test. Rs. 400 per test The equipment developed by IIT-KGP will cost about Rs. 2,000 if used at a pilot facility, while its usage in a large-scale commercial facility will further reduce the costs with increase in the production scale. This compares very favourably with the RT-PCR machines that cost Rs. 15 lakh. The same portable unit can be used for a large number of tests, on mere replacement of the paper cartridge after each test and the cost of test is Rs. 400 per test, taking all components of expenses and business model into account, the institute said. Arindam Mondal, assistant professor from the School of Bio Science department, said the portable device was “capable of detecting any other kind of RNA virus by following the same generic procedure”. IIT-KGP director V.K. Tewari expressed the hope that the innovation “can make significant breakthrough in global viral pandemic management” and added that the unique innovation was aligned with the institution’s vision to “develop high-end healthcare technologies that can be afforded by the common people”. IIT- KGP in a press statement said it was ready for commercial production of the product.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka targets U.P. govt. over handling of COVID-19||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday targeted the Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over its handling of the COVID-19 situation and accused it of adopting a mantra of “no test is equal to no corona” even as cases rise. In a letter to the U.P. Chief Minister, Ms. Vadra said the battle against the pandemic could not be fought by just “managing publicity and news”. She noted that 2,500 COVID-19 cases were reported in U.P. on Friday. “Quarantine centres in U.P. are in a pathetic state. Because of this, people are not stepping out of their homes for getting tested,” she said. Focussing on the shortage of beds in hospitals, she said, “The Prime Minister is a Member of Parliament from Varanasi, the Defence Minister from Lucknow, many other Union Ministers are from U.P. Why can’t temporary hospitals be opened in Varanasi, Lucknow, Agra?” In a separate tweet, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi too attacked the Union government over news reports that Railways earned Rs. 429 crores by running special Shramik trains during the COVID-19 lockdown. “There are clouds of disease and people are in trouble, but one seeks to benefit — this anti-people government is converting a disaster into profits and is earning,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted.
26 July 2020||Bhopal,||Row over man’s death outside hospital||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission on Saturday has sought a report within three weeks from the Guna Collector and the Chief Medical and Health Officer over the death of a man who was reportedly unattended at the district hospital for 14 hours as his family didn’t have money to pay for registration. Commission Chairman Narendra Kumar Jain took cognisance of media reports of the incident and issued notices to the two officials. According to the Commission, Aarti Rajak, 20, a resident of adjacent Ashoknagar district, brought her husband Sunil Dhakad, 22, to the Guna district hospital around 6 p.m. on Wednesday. When she approached the counter, she was told she needed to pay for registration, Since she did not have any money, she waited with her seriously ill husband on the hospital premises. “The next morning, when she tried again to get a registration slip to admit her husband, she was told another counter outside would open soon for the slip. As she waited, her husband died at 8 a.m,” the Commission notes. Stating that the hospital always had a security guard, and a police post, apart from two ward boys deployed at the main gate at night, doctors on emergency duty and two officials at the slip counter too, the Commission said: “All of them ignored the critical condition of the woman and her husband.” Speaking to reporters, Ms. Rajak said, “No one came to our help from the hospital. When the slip wasn’t made, how could a doctor see him? Even after his death, no one came for an hour at least.” Following media coverage of the official apathy, Guna Collector Kumar Purushottam on Friday initiated a magisterial inquiry.
26 July 2020||MYSURU,||Hotels and resorts reopen in Mysuru||The Chamarajanagar district administration has ordered the reopening of tourist places and rescinded its earlier directives forbidding hotels, resorts and homestays from accepting reservations and bookings. Chamarajanagar is known for its forests and has the Bandipur National Park, BRT Tiger Reserve and M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, apart from drawing pilgrims to the Male Mahadeshwara temple. Safaris will be offered on only half the carrying capacity of vehicles, according to officials. The order, which came into immediate effect, was issued late on Friday evening. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said the Sunday lockdown would, however, continue with its associated restrictions. He said the reopening was necessitated to give a kickstart to the district’s flagging economy. Soon after the unlocking began in June, there was a surge in tourists visiting Bandipur and other places of interest, following which restrictions were clamped again in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases. However, Mr. Ravi said it was imperative to protect the economy. Temple tourism at M.M. Hills was not affected by the earlier orders as the authorities had put in place measures to ensure social distancing. Also, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district was 170 as on Saturday, and hence there was no need for a prolonged lockdown of tourist places, officials said.
26 July 2020||UNited Nations,||UN report flags IS threat in Karnataka, Kerala||A UN report on terrorism has warned that there are “significant numbers” of Islamic State (IS) terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka, noting that the Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) terror group, which reportedly has between 150 and 200 militants from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, is planning attacks in the region. The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning the IS, the Al-Qaeda and associated individuals and entities said that the AQIS operates under the Taliban umbrella from the Nimruz, Helmand and Kandahar provinces of Afghanistan. The group reportedly has between 150 and 200 members from Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Pakistan. The current leader of the AQIS is Osama Mahmood , who succeeded the late Asim Umar. The AQIS is reportedly planning retaliation operations in the region to avenge the death of its former leader, the report said. According to the report, one member state reported that the IS Indian affiliate (Hind Wilayah), which was announced on May 10, 2019, has between 180 and 200 members .  IS attacks The report added that there are significant numbers of IS operatives in Kerala and Karnataka. In May last year, the terror group (also known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh) claimed to have established a new “province” in India, the first of this kind of announcement that came after clashes between militants and security forces in Kashmir. The dreaded outfit, through its Amaq News Agency, had said that the Arabic name of the new branch is “Wilayah of Hind” (India Province). A senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer had rejected the claim. Previously, the IS attacks in Kashmir were linked to its so-called Khorasan Province branch, which was set up in 2015 to cover “Afghanistan, Pakistan and nearby lands”.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ceasefire violations, smuggling along LoC rising this year||While tensions continue on the border with China, ceasefire violations have continued unabated along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, along with attempts to smuggle in weapons. There have been over 2,500 violations along the LoC so far this year, an Army source said. In comparison, the figure for the corresponding period of last year was just over 1,500 with the entire year recording 3,200 violations. Fourteen civilians died and 38 were injured along the LoC this year, while last year, the figures were 18 and 127. Huge cache of weapons “They are deliberately targeting civilians. Pakistan has also attempted to smuggle in a large number of weapons,” the source said. In three instances in the Keran sector, large numbers of small arms and grenades were recovered recently. On March 22, eight AK assault rifles, nine pistols and 77 grenades were recovered, on March 31, two AK assault rifles and one pistol were recovered and on June 8, three AK assault rifles, five pistols, two under barrel frenade launchers and 57 grenades for them were recovered. On July 22, one AK assault rifle, five pistols and 24 grenades were recovered at Rampur in the Uri sector. More encounters These recoveries are in addition to weapons being brought in by terrorists trying to infiltrate. A terrorist who was killed on July 16 in the Keran sector had four pistols and 17 hand grenades. So far this year, 12 terrorists have been killed while trying to infiltrate along the LoC. In addition, there have been a series of targeted operations by security forces in the Kashmir Valley in which over 130 terrorists were killed so far. In the past few months, there has been regular exchange of fire on the LoC with small arms and mortars.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kovind completes three years in office||President Ram Nath Kovind completed three years of his presidency on Saturday with the Rashtrapati Bhavan noting that he guided the country in the fight against the pandemic and had been “everyone’s President” with nearly 7,000 people, including soldiers and scientists, calling on him in the past one year. “The President, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, completes three years in office today,” the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan posted on Twitter. “He epitomises the qualities of nobility and humility and has enhanced the dignity of the office of the President. Shri Kovindji’s graciousness and warmth touches everybody. It has been a wonderful experience to work with him over the last three years for the development of the nation,” Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu wrote on Twitter. In a series of infographics, the Rashtrapati Bhavan highlighted various initiatives and work done during Mr. Kovind’s third year in office. Expenditure rationalised Apart from forgoing 30% of his salary for a year, Mr. Kovind donated a month’s salary to PM-CARES fund, rationalised expenditure of the Rashtrapati Bhavan for optimal use of resources, including introducing e-invites for important functions such “At Home”, the President’s office said. In keeping with the requirements of physical distancing, the Rashtrapati Bhavan for the first time in its history, introduced a system of presenting credentials of diplomats through video conference. President Kovind, along with the Vice-President, held two video-conferences with Governors and Lieutenant-Governors of the States and Union Territories to bolster the efforts at the Central and State levels to contain and manage COVID-19, it said. Apart from hosting the high-profile visit of U.S. President Donald Trump, President Kovind received heads of Sri Lanka, Zambia, Brazil, Sweden, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Portugal and Myanmar in the past year.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,||In worsening pandemic, no respite in sight for Mollywood||The worsening pandemic crisis has cast a shadow over the resumption of shooting of new Malayalam movies though the Kerala Film Producers' Association (KFPA) has given its nod to register new films from August 1. Even though the government had permitted indoor shooting with a maximum crew of 50 persons from June, the increase in number of containment zones and stringent regulations have doused the hopes of a gradual return to normalcy. The Malayalam film industry has been hit hard by the nationwide lockdown imposed following the COVID-19 outbreak since March end. "Only six movies could be shot under the relaxation period. The chances of shooting of new movies resuming soon seem remote with the spike in the number of containment zones across the State,” says M. Renjith, president, KFPA. "The continuity of scenes may turn difficult if a location falls under a containment zone midway of the shooting. The uncertainties will not permit the producers to stick on to the original schedule," he says. Sujith Vaassudev, cinematographer-director, says that ensuring the safety of the people remains key in these tough times and he does not prefer resuming work amidst this crisis despite the fact that the situation has affected the financial prospects of many in the film industry. "We have to cooperate with the efforts being made by authorities to contain the outbreak. If the shooting is absolutely essential, each and every equipment used for the work has to be sanitised. Physical distancing has to be maintained. This would incur an additional cost on the producers ," he says. Mr. Renjith says a majority of the producers would not prefer to delay the return on investments by undertaking new projects at a time when there is no clarity on when cinemas would open across the country and abroad.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC rejects petition of DKS’ relative questioning nod to CBI||The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed a petition filed by a close relative of the former Minister D.K. Shivakumar questioning the permission given by the State government to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the alleged corruption charges against the Congress leaders and others. The government, acting on communications from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which has been probing a money-laundering case against Mr. Shivakumar, had written to the CBI and the State’s Home Department, which had on September 25, 2019 granted “sanction” for the CBI to probe the case under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order while dismissing the petition filed by Shashi Kumar Shivanna, 58, chief manager with Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd., Bengaluru, and a close relative of Mr. Shivakumar. The petitioner was found allegedly engaged in property transactions on behalf of Mr. Shivakumar, who is facing charge of involvement in benami investments in a number of properties as per records of the ED. It was contended in the petition that the State government could not have granted “sanction” for his “prosecution” as he is not an employee of the State government and that the CBI had not sought the State government’s sanction. The petitioner had also claimed that he had the right to challenge the “sanction” since the letter from the ED and the Home Department contained reference to his name. However, the court said that the word “sanction”, used in the September 25, 2019 order of the State government, in fact, means that it is only the “consent” granted, under Section 6 of the DSPE Act, to the CBI to investigate the case in the territory of Karnataka against Mr. Shivakumar and others, and not the “sanction” for prosecution of the petitioner under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The reference to the petitioner in the consent order was only incidental while recording the findings of the ED and nothing else and the petitioner failed to establish as to how any of his rights were infringed or violated by the consent granted by the State government, the court observed. “The petitioner may probably have a right to question any inquiry or investigation if it is commenced by the CBI without the approval of the Central government but certainly, he has no locus standi to challenge the order of consent granted by the State government,” the court said.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State to press for e-way bill for gold transportation||Kerala is gearing up to reiterate its demand with the Centre and at the Goods and Services Tax Council to make e-way bill mandatory for gold transport to curb smuggling and deter tax evasion. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac who had consistently voiced the State’s concerns and the need for streamlining the movement at council meetings had to retreat for want of adequate support from other States. A spurt in gold smuggling cases of late and a recent instance of seizing gold smuggled in air cargo shipments addressed to the United Arab Emirates consulate here have once again brought into focus the need to regulate and monitor gold movement within the country. Finance Department sources told The Hindu that the State government does not favour a raid regime to harass traders. Being a complex and laborious process, it is not feasible to mount a foolproof operation either. Hence, Kerala has been flagging the demand, but it has been allegedly cold-shouldered by the Centre, primarily citing security concerns, sources said. The present GST infrastructure does not offer any room for plugging the source from where the contraband originates and detecting the end beneficiary. Even if the State’s tax sleuths track and seize illegally carted gold, the culprits get away paying a 3% tax and 3% fine. Seizure in ornaments Department officials booked 344 cases, seized 307.64 kg of gold and collected Rs. 6.98 crore as tax and penalty between 2017 and 2020. A lion’s share of the seizure was ornaments. Such carriers usually cart ornaments from manufacturing centres in Maharashtra and Gujarat and if it is not for sale they carry only a delivery chalan. Having e-way bill is the only option to check the menace, sources said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Made in India: the handmade copy of a Stradivarius violin||Violin entered the Indian musical scene from the subcontinent’s colonial rulers. Balaswami Dikshitar, the brother of Muthuswami Dikshitar, and Vadivelu, the youngest of the legendary ‘Thanjavur quartet’, were pioneers in adapting the instrument for Carnatic music. But the art of indigenously designing a handmade violin remained a mystery for centuries. Now four craftsmen — three from Kerala and one from Tamil Nadu — have achieved a milestone in creating handmade copies of a Stradivarius violin dated to 1702, first designed by the great Antonio Stradivari in Italy, thanks to training imparted by the Lalgudi Trust. These craftsmen were taught by the internationally renowned luthier (maker of stringed instruments) James Wimmer of Santa Barbara. Mr. Wimmer in turn learnt the art in Germany from Wolfgang Uebel, one of its foremost specialists. “It is indeed a giant leap in the art of violin-making in India. It is a gratifying experience and the success coincides with the 90th birth anniversary of my father Lalgudi G. Jayaraman, who founded the Trust,” said violinist Lalgudi Krishnan, who invited Mr. Wimmer to Chennai. Murali and Vinay Murali, the father and son duo from Chendamangalam in Kerala; K.P. Ranjith from Kannamangalam in Tamil Nadu; and violinist B. Sathyanarayana from Chennai became qualified craftsmen after completing their learning in a series of rigorous workshops titled ‘Violinwise’. “The professional skills to make handmade violins and to repair string instruments was totally absent in India. The incomparable Stradivarius model is the best to replicate,” explained Mr. Krishnan. The first workshop was held in 2013. It was followed by similar workshops in 2015, 2016 and 2018. Every year, the craftsmen made steady progress. During the 45-day workshop held in 2019, the four craftsmen learnt every aspect of creating a handmade violin.  Mr. Vinay and Mr. Ranjith said the speciality of the handmade violin, when compared to a factory-made instrument, is its superior tonal quality. “In India, we use teak or jackfruit wood for making the instrument while maple and spruce wood is used in Western countries. We imported the wood and strings for making the instrument and it takes two-and-a-half months to complete making an instrument. One instrument costs Rs. 1.5 lakh,” Mr. Vinay said. Mr. Sathyanarayana said that if the government extended a helping hand in importing raw materials, India can export handmade violins. Mr. Krishnan requested all violinists in India to engage the skills of these special craftsmen and support them.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Serum Institute seeks nod for vaccine trials||The Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the University of Oxford vaccine candidate for COVID-19, has sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting “phase 2/3 human clinical trials” of the potential vaccine, highly placed sources said on Saturday. The sources told PTI that the Pune-based drug firm submitted its application to the DCGI on Friday, seeking permission for conducting trials of ‘Covidshield’. “According to the application, it would conduct an observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ‘Covidshield’ in healthy Indian adults. The firm said around 1,600 participants aged above 18 would be enrolled in the study,” a source said. Initial results of the first two-phase trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the U.K. showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, the source said. SII plans to start the phase 2 and 3 human trials in India in August. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla has said, “Serum Institute of India has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce and supply 1 billion doses of the COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University.” These vaccines will be for India, and middle- and low-income countries, he had said.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Army is working to restore LAC position’||On the ongoing disengagement process, the first phase of which has only been partially completed so far, Lt. Gen. Joshi said the same is happening on the ground and also being verified by the commanders on the ground to ensure its veracity and correctness. “It is a complex and integrated process which needs diligent execution,” he told News18, adding once complete disengagement is achieved, de-escalation would take place which would be guided by the principle of mutual and equal security. During the first phase of disengagement, Chinese troops pulled back from standoff areas at Galwan and patrolling Point 15 but only partially from PP 17A. At Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved in about 8km from Finger 8 to Finger 4 claimed by India, they only moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5 but continue to remain on the ridgelines of Finger 4 overlooking Indian positions. The fourth round of Corps Commander talks on July 14 discussed this and the second phase of disengagement but there has been no progress on the ground since then. On Friday, the third round of talks under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) since the beginning of the standoff were held, where both sides agreed to hold another round of senior military talks to take forward the disengagement process.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. Chief Minister tests positive for COVID-19||On Wednesday, Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria had tested positive, hours after he attended a Cabinet meeting. A day before, he accompanied Mr. Chouhan to Lucknow to pay their last respects to Governor Lalji Tandon. Earlier, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia had also contracted the illness. Mr. Chouhan said he was following all guidelines. “Based on the doctor’s advice, I will quarantine myself. My appeal to the State’s people is to be cautious. Even a little negligence is like inviting corona. I made all possible efforts to keep corona at bay, but people met me on several subjects.” Despite being in the Cabinet meeting where Mr. Bhadoria was present, Mr. Chouhan held one-on-one meetings with at least 17 Ministers, including Health Minister Prabhuram Choudhary, on Thursday. A day before, he met six Ministers, the Chief Minister’s office said. On Thursday evening, he attended a function at the party office here where former Congress MLA Narayan Patel switched over to the BJP. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath, in a tweet, wished Mr. Chouhan a speedy recovery. “The only regret is that when we were serious about COVID-19, then sometimes you called it drama, and other times a tool to protect the regime. We were saying from the start this is a serious disease. “There is a need to be cautious, follow its protocols,” he wrote. Had Mr. Chouhan been cautious and “followed the protocols, didn’t take it as a joke, then probably you would have been saved from it”, he said.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Ladakh left out in the cold after becoming UT||Since the implementation of the J&K Reorganisation Act in October last year, a cumbersome process of division of assets from banks to fans and sofas between the UTs has hit a dead end. While the J&K Bank remains the official bank of J&K, the new J&K domicile law bars outsiders, including people from Ladakh, from applying for recently announced posts in the bank. “The J&K Bank’s assets remain a common entity. Our youth should be allowed to sit for the test,” LAHDC-K chairman Mr. Khan said. The J&K Bank has around two dozen branches in Ladakh and remains its largest bank with presence in the tough and remotest pockets of Leh and Kargil. The clamour for domicile laws for Ladakh are growing now. Phuntsog Stobgyal, a BJP youth leader from Leh who met Member of Parliament Jamyang Tsering Namgyal and other senior officials over the issue recently, said, “Domicile laws for Ladakh are coming soon and will address these issues.”  Hill councils The fate of both the councils, LAHDC-Kargil and LAHDC-Leh, that manage governance issues at the micro level with budgetary independence and also give representation to people, is also hanging fire. “There is confusion in the minds of people because there is no formal order on demarcating the functioning of the hill councils by the Ministry of Home Affairs so far,” said Phunchok Stanzin, executive councillor of the LAHDC-Leh. Mr. Khan said the absence of business rules has failed to delineate powers. “The council should be granted legislative powers on the lines of Bodoland Council to frame laws. Otherwise, the councils will be ineffective,” he said.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC takes serious view of plea on Indians in Kuwait||The Supreme Court has taken a serious view of a plea highlighting that Indians, mostly blue-collar job workers from Tamil Nadu and other parts of the country, are still stranded in quarantine camps and “open spaces” in Kuwait amid the COVID-19 pandemic, awaiting repatriation to their homeland. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to consult with the government and obtain instructions. The court listed a hearing in 10 days. The petition was filed by Velinadu Vazh Tamilar Nala Sangham, represented by senior advocate S. Nagamuthu, advocates Prabu Ramasubramanian, K. Paari Vendhan and Ragunatha Sethupathy. The petition said the pandemic may continue for an indefinite period of time and citizens cannot be left stranded in inhuman conditions in a foreign country. It sought a direction from the government to make a list of stranded Indians, draw up a schedule for their repatriation and, in the meanwhile, get in touch with the Embassy in Kuwait to provide them with basic essentials and medicines. The petition said that in dire situations orchestrated by a global crisis, each country takes care of its own. A foreign country will prioritise its own people over the Indians there. Added to this fact, the majority of countries are finding it difficult to match their efforts to the alarming spike in cases, it pointed out.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Party plans protests outside Raj Bhavans||The Congress will launch on Sunday a “Speak Up Democracy” campaign on social media to protest against the BJP’s role in the Rajasthan crisis. On Monday, the PCCs of all States will protest in front of Raj Bhavans against the Rajasthan Governor’s refusal to accept the State government’s recommendations to hold an Assembly session to conduct a floor test. In a statement, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal said,“The Governors, instead of protecting the Constitution, are acting in a blatantly partisan manner.”
26 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar House to convene outside its premises||For the first time in the history of the Bihar Legislature, the upcoming monsoon session scheduled to begin from August 3 will be held outside the Legislature premises. The Bihar Governor, on the request of the Bihar Assembly to hold the forthcoming four-day monsoon session outside the Legislature premises, has issued a modified summons letter to convene the Assembly. Earlier, Speaker Vijay Choudhary had written to the Bihar government that due to social distancing norms, it would not be possible to hold the session at the central hall of the premises. Later, the government selected Patna’s Gyan Bhawan for the purpose. The Bihar Assembly has a total strength of 243 members. Gyan Bhawan has enough space to accommodate legislators while following social distancing norms. “The Assembly session will be held at the conference hall on second floor which has a seating capacity of 800 people, while the Legislative Council session will be held in the meeting hall on the first floor of the Gyan Bhawan,” Mr. Choudhary said.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||SC panel, lawyers mull on physical court hearings||A seven-judge committee of the Supreme Court led by Justice N.V. Ramana has brainstormed with lawyers on the subject of resuming physical court hearings, which were stopped in late March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a meeting held on July 24 with Bar leaders, the committee finally decided to wait for another two weeks and see how the situation panned out. A source in the Supreme Court said that during the discussion physical court hearings with glass shields to protect the judges was considered. However, the proposal was dropped. The committee is considering a phased opening of the physical court system as and when the situation improves. Various proposals are on the anvil, including a suggestion that cases in the admission stage can be heard in the virtual court while cases of death penalty, criminal appeals and custody could be sent to the physical courts. Judges do not want to take a unilateral call in the choice of cases and may want the lawyers to have a detailed discussion to work out a mechanism with the Supreme Court Registry.
26 July 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir saffron now has GI certificate||The J&K administration on Saturday issued the certificate of geographical indication (GI) registration for saffron grown in the Kashmir Valley, even as the crop sees a decline in its production and shrinking of land under cultivation. Describing it as “a momentous decision of the Centre”, J&K Lieutenant-Governor G.C. Murmu said this was the first major step to put saffron produced in the Kashmir Valley on the world map with authentication. “With the GI tag, Kashmir saffron will acquire more prominence in the export market and would help farmers get the best remunerative price,” he said. Mr. Murmu, while complimenting the Director-Agriculture, Kashmir, said restoring the pristine glory of Kashmir saffron is top priority for both the government of the Union Territory as well as the Centre. The GI tag would also stop adulteration prevalent in its trade, he said. Kashmir saffron, grown at an altitude of 1,600 metres, saw a steep decline in production by around 65%, from 16 tonnes to 5.6 tonnes in 2018. According to an official data, land under saffron cultivation has also come down to 3,715 hectares in 2009-10 from 5,707 hectares in 1996.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Gehlot to make fresh push for Assembly session||Earlier in the day, Mr. Gehlot told the MLAs at a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting here that he would go to Rahstrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, if needed, to make sure that the “BJP’s conspiracy” to topple his government did not succeed. “If we have to picket Rashtrapati Bhavan or even the Prime Minister’s residence, we will do that,” he said. As the legislators raised their hands in support, Mr. Gehlot asked them to maintain solidarity and stay strong, while indicating that they may have to stay in the hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur for 21 more days to complete the time of advance notice for convening a new session of the Assembly. “The majority is with us,” Mr. Gehlot affirmed. The Congress workers staged demonstrations at district headquarters across the State on Saturday to protest against the BJP's alleged role in the political turmoil and to press for an Assembly session. Party workers held a rally in Kota and staged a dharna in Jodhpur, while accusing the BJP of destroying the democratic norms. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas said at the demonstration in Jaipur that though the Congress did not want any confrontation with the Governor, the ruling party had the right to call an Assembly session when it had the mandate.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||LDF calls off State panel meeting||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has called off a State committee meeting scheduled on July 28 considering the spurt in COVID-19 cases. The State committee meeting had gained political significance in the wake of a row triggered by the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case and the United Democratic Front (UDF) training its guns on the government following the suspension of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The CPI had also levelled veiled criticism of the government. The government had earlier cancelled a one-day session of the Assembly citing the spread of COVID-19 cases. No date has been fixed for the meeting, sources said.
26 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland govt. puts onus on Raj Bhavan||The Nagaland government has clarified that its definition of extremist organisations in the State does not match with that of the Raj Bhavan. The clarification follows reactions from extremist and civil society groups to an order asking all State government employees to list relatives in “underground organisations”. In a statement on July 24, the Neiphiu Rio government said that the term “underground organisations” used in its July 7 office memorandum was “as conveyed by Raj Bhavan”. It also said that the order relating to filling a self-declaration form listing such family members was issued on the direction of Governor R.N. Ravi. It further said that Mr. Ravi had first sought the information on February 14 with an April 2 deadline. A reminder was sent on June 24 with a revised deadline.
26 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Governor Mukhi broke norms: Gogoi||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Saturday accused Governor Jagdish Mukhi of violating the COVID-19 protocol by stepping out of the Raj Bhavan, marked a quarantine zone, to visit flood-hit areas. Mr. Gogoi also criticised the BJP-led State government for the “sudden” withdrawal of restrictions from the Raj Bhavan to facilitate the trip on Friday. “The Governor’s House was declared a containment zone after 73 officials and staff tested positive. But the restrictions were suddenly lifted,” he said. “Besides, the 77-year-old Governor visited the affected areas in violation of protocol, instead of being an example to the fellow citizens,” he said. Raj Bhavan officials said all safety measures were adhered to during his visit. Barring the 972 cases on July 22, more than 1,000 positive cases have been recorded in Assam every day since July 20. Till Friday evening, Assam recorded 29,921 cases, of which 9,143 were active while 76 persons had died. Tripura recorded 11 deaths followed by Meghalaya with five, Arunachal Pradesh with three and Nagaland one. Sold infant rescued The police in Kokrajhar district on Friday reunited a woman with her month-old daughter. Her husband, a jobless migrant labourer, sold the baby for Rs. 45,000 on July 2. “We arrested the man from Dantola Mandaria village and two women on charges of human trafficking,” the police said. He said he had been facing extreme poverty after returning from Gujarat, where he worked as a labourer.
26 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Centre yet to approve flights to GCC||Passengers seeking to fly back to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations will have to wait until the Ministry of Civil Aviation clears a proposal to resume operation of international flights via air travel bubbles reached among the countries. As of now, India has a specific agreement with United Arab Emirates (UAE) among the GCC nations to allow its flights to operate till July 26. This apart, countries such as the U.S., the U.K., France and Germany have made agreements with India. This was after the UAE and others, including the U.S. and the U.K. objected to the monopolisation of Air India in the busy routes. It was also learnt that India would enter an agreement with Israel on flights in the Tel Aviv- Delhi- Kochi sector next week, sources said. Since March, international air travel came to a halt owing to COVID-19 induced lockdown. And Vande Bharat Mission, under which Air India and other private airlines have been repatriating stranded Indians across the globe, is entering its fifth phase from August 1. Sources said that air travel agreements would be based on the easing of travel restrictions in the GCC nations. As of now, only UAE has opened its airports to residents and tourists. However, all passengers arriving in UAE will need a negative COVID-19 PCR test. The new requirement was introduced on July 24 for all airports and will become mandatory from August 1. Travel restrictions in other nations have not been lifted till now.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Assam flood death toll rises to 97||The death toll in Assam floods since May 22 increased to 97 with a person drowning in Morigaon district on Saturday. Another 26 people died in landslips during the period. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said the number of flood-affected people reduced by a few thousand overnight to 26.38 lakh. About 2,300 people returned home from the relief camps where 47,772 people remain, an official said.
26 July 2020||Alappuzha,||Thushar accused of fund fraud||Subash Vasu, former president of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam Mavelikara union, on Saturday levelled allegations of fund misappropriation against SNDP Yogam vice president Thushar Vellappally. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Vasu said Thushar was behind the fund mismanagement at the SNDP Kanichukulangara union that forced SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K.K. Mahesan to take his own life. “Before his death, Mahesan had told me about the financial fraud done by Thushar ,” Mr. Vasu said. He alleged that Thushar was involved in hawala deals.
26 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Fake baba held for cheating COVID patients||A 50-year-old fake baba, who promised to cure COVID-19 patients and prevent the deadly virus from infecting them, was arrested by Miyapur police here on Saturday. Stating that he had special powers to cure the deadly virus, Mohammed Ismail recently collected Rs. 40,000 from a man. According to the police, “Depending on the financial status of devotees, he would demand anywhere between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 50,000.” There are allegations that since March, Ismail’s disciples started a propaganda that their master can treat COVID-19 patients. “So far, only one person approached us, and we are yet to get more complaints against the accused,” police said.
26 July 2020||Chennai,||‘Cancel creamy layer for reservation’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday urged the Centre to dispense with the creamy layer concept to determine reservation, saying that the creamy layer had come in the way of implementing the 27% reservation for the OBCs in the country. “People in the country will not tolerate for long the onslaught on the reservation policy by the BJP government,” he warned in a statement. Mr. Stalin said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the self-proclaimed champion of the Backward Classes, should ensure implementation of the 27% reservation and cancellation of the creamy layer. He pointed out that though the National Commission for Backward Classes recommended Rs. 15 lakh for determining creamy layer in 2015 and the Committee on Welfare of Backward Classes fixed the amount at Rs. 20 lakh, the BJP government just raised the amount to Rs. 8 lakh. “Now instead of taking into consideration the gross income, the BJP government is keen on net income for determining the creamy layer. It is against social justice and the Constitution,” he said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports highest daily case load, recoveries and deaths||Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported its highest-ever COVID-19 cases, recoveries and deaths on a single day. There were 6,988 fresh cases, 89 deaths and 7,758 recoveries. With the recoveries exceeding the new cases, the number of active cases came down from 53,132 on Friday to 52,273. The State crossed the 6,000-mark for the third consecutive day, with 22 of the 36 districts reporting more than 100 cases. Of them, 13 had more than 200 cases. This coincided with the State increasing its testing further, with more than 60,000 persons getting tested every day for the past three days. The Chennai region topped the list, with Chennai reporting 1,329 cases, followed by Chengalpattu-449, Kancheepuram-442, and Tiruvallur-385. These were followed by the southern districts of Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi and Madurai with 376, 317, and 301 cases respectively. Coimbatore, which witnessed more cases in the past couple of weeks, reported 270 fresh cases. The other districts that reported more than 200 cases were Kanniyakumari, Ranipet, Theni, Tirunelveli and Vellore. The majority of the recoveries were reported from Chennai-1,131, Madurai-946, Tiruvallur-682 and Chengalpattu-563. The State’s daily toll crossed the 80-mark for the third consecutive day. Of the 89 deaths reported on Saturday, 60 were aged 60 and above. The oldest was a 96-year-old man from Coimbatore who was brought dead to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Thursday night. His COVID-19 test result came in positive on Friday. The youngest was an 18-year-old from Thoothukudi district, who had neuromyelitis optica and was on immunosuppressants, according to the bulletin issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department. She tested positive on July 19 and was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on July 23. She died on the same day. Among the fatalities, 84 had co-morbidities, the bulletin said. A total of 23 deaths happened at private hospitals and the remaining 67 in government facilities. The State added one more private laboratory to its testing infrastructure on Saturday, taking the total number of laboratories capable of performing RT-PCR tests to 115. Three more deaths took the Union Territory’s COVID-19 fatalities to 38 on Saturday. The UT also reported 139 new admissions during the last 24 hours. Situation in Puducherry The death of two patients in Puducherry and one in Yanam took the death toll to 38 in the Union Territory. The case tally has gone up to 2,654, and 1,055 patients are undergoing treatment in the four regions of the U.T. As many as 1,561 patients have been discharged.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More ambulances to reduce fatalities||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to strengthen its fleet of mobile oxygen support units and ambulances for COVID-19 patients and those having breathing difficulties. At present, 81 ambulances have been deployed for the city to transport COVID-19 patients with breathing difficulties. But many residents complain that the ambulance had failed to arrive in time. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Saturday said COVID-19 case fatality rate could be reduced to 1.5% from 2.1% in the city by proper patient management by increasing the number of ambulances with oxygen support system and other vehicles to transport patients in time. “Our aim is to reduce the case fatality rate to less than 1%. We have planned to provide one vehicle for each of the 200 wards of the city. Each sanitary inspector will have one vehicle for transportation of patients. Each COVID-19 care centre and testing centre will get an ambulance with oxygen support. We will hold a meeting on Monday with other agencies to identify gaps in patient management,” said Mr. Prakash. At present, just 50% of the ambulances in Chennai have oxygen support. At a meeting in Ripon Buildings on Saturday, sanitary inspectors spoke about non-availability of ambulances in many wards, leading to delay in admitting patients with breathing difficulties to hospitals. Stressing the need to improve patient management, Mr. Prakash said all sanitary inspectors had been told to report to him directly on WhatsApp any issues in ambulance availability. At present, zones such as Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar and Teynampet had reported a high number of COVID-19 cases and deaths. Dengue control Meanwhile, the Corporation has launched a dengue control drive in the city to prevent the outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Prakash asked sanitary inspectors to advise all the 24,000 owners of vacant plots to clean the sites to prevent mosquito breeding. The owners who fail to comply with the directive would be penalised. In the event of deaths due to dengue, the civic body was planning to take action against the sanitary inspectors who failed to eliminate mosquito-breeding sources from private plots. The civic body was planning to take over the maintenance of private land by putting up a board saying: “This land is maintained by Greater Chennai Corporation.” The civic body will collect fine from government buildings that had mosquito-breeding spots.  We have planned to provide one vehicle for each of the 200 wards of the city  G. PrakashCommissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Information dept. takes possession of Jaya’s residence||The Tamil Development and Information Department has formally taken possession of Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in Poes Garden here. The house will shortly be transferred to the proposed Tamil Nadu Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation, which will be headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, for converting it into a memorial, according to senior officials of the department. The idea is to get the memorial inaugurated at the earliest. Also, there is no plan to use a portion of the property as the Chief Minister’s camp office as the suggestion of the Madras High Court has been found “not feasible,” the officials clarify. The takeover was preceded by the land acquisition award passed by N. Lakshmi, Revenue Divisional Officer, South Chennai Division, a few days ago. Till now, the property was under the control of the Chennai Collector. Pending completion of the land acquisition proceedings, an Ordinance was promulgated by Governor Banwarilal Purohit on May 22, facilitating the “temporary transfer” of the property, including movable items, to the government for upkeep and maintenance. According to the award, the land, measuring 24,322 sq. ft., has been valued at about Rs. 29.33 crore, based at the rate of Rs. 12,060 per sq ft. After taking into account other components of the award such as multiplier factor of one, 100% solatium and value of buildings and trees, the total value of the award amount is about Rs. 67.9 crore.  There were three claimants for the property — J. Deepa and J. Deepak, niece and nephew of Jayalalithaa and declared by the High Court as legal heirs — and the Income Tax department. The legal heirs had reiterated their opposition to the takeover of the property but did not make any submission regarding the apportionment of the award amount. The IT department had contended that around Rs. 36.87 crore was due from the former Chief Minister to it and the property had been under attachment. The department had argued that only after discharging its liability, could the State government convert the property into a memorial. However, the RDO has referred their claims and objections to the City Civil Court and freed the government of all encumbrances. While justifying the government’s proposal to have the memorial, which will serve a “public purpose,” the official has rejected the legal heirs’ claims and termed their objections as those which are “devoid of merits.” The RDO has also observed that the entire land acquisition proceedings were conducted in a “transparent way.” At every stage, legal heirs were given opportunities and their representations and claims were considered and disposed of, as per the 2013 law on land acquisition, the official adds.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Small comfort in falling rate of active cases||While the key marker of the pandemic — increasing number of daily positive cases — continues to be unrelenting, small comforts can be derived from other parameters that show some improvements. Among them, in T.N., is the falling rate of active cases, calculated as a percentage of total number of cases. While the active case rate saw two peaks, one in April and the other in May, after the COVID-19 epidemic began its march in the State, the rate has since been steadily on the decline. On July 25, it dropped to its lowest, at 25%. In sheer numbers, of a total of 2,06,737 cases, 52,273 were active. Active cases are the “currently infected cases” we get after removing deaths and recoveries/discharge from the total cases. These include people in hospitals, home quarantine, and those in COVID care centres. In the first month, March, it hovered between 100% and 50%, while in the next month, April, the peak hit 97%, and it also recorded 40% the same month. May’s high point was an active case rate of 75%, and the lowest was 42%. June stayed in the 40% region right through, while in July it dropped to 25% towards the end of the month. “This is an indication of employing a good clinical protocol, that people who tested positive are making a quick turn around,” says Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. He claims that active testing and isolation of persons who test positive has a role to play in this. “Early testing is basically catching the patients early and treating them early, so that they do not lapse into complications,” he adds. Testing average Tamil Nadu does an average of 60,000 tests per day, with Chennai alone accounting for 12,000-13,000, the highest anywhere in the country. This plays a role in early tracking of cases, and ensuring that people get the health care they might require early enough, Dr. Radhakrishnan adds. Former Director of Public Health K. Kolandaisamy says the data is dynamic, and will tend to have highs and lows. The denominator — the total number of cases — continues to increase on a daily basis, and it needs to be accounted for. When there is a decline in the total number of positive cases, daily positive cases, the positivity rate, there can be an indication of a declining epidemic, he says. The admission (into hospitals)-discharge rate is also a statistic that would yield information on how the epidemic is progressing, in addition to the mortality rate. Keeping an eye on the gender ratio of new infections (it started out infecting more men than women) and the 60-plus positivity rate will indicate the transmission to the vulnerable populations. In addition, Dr. Kulandaisamy says, the positivity rate among pregnant women admitted for delivery should be regularly calculated.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. hospitals finding it tough to access remdesivir, tocilizumab||A number of private hospitals, especially those outside Chennai, are finding it difficult to access remdesivir and tocilizumab, used in the treatment of COVID-19. A section of doctors said only limited stocks of the drugs were available in the market, and there had been instances of dealers quoting high prices. In the past few days, there have been instances of relatives of patients and doctors at private hospitals seeking help to get the drugs in different parts of the State. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has ordered 1,02,500 vials of remdesivir and 6,500 vials of tocilizumab so far, and has supplied them to government hospitals across the State. “We help out private hospitals too. TNMSC has provided around 130 vials of remdesivir and tocilizumab to private hospitals across the State so far,” an official said. A senior government doctor in Madurai said a few corporate hospitals had a minimal stock of these drugs, while smaller hospitals did not have any. “Most of these hospitals manage with the available stock. They treat mild cases and refer severe cases to government hospitals. We have found that tocilizumab is effective and life-saving, while remdesivir is also good,” he said. He pointed out that black market sales were already happening, and the drugs were priced at double or triple their cost. C.N. Raja, president of the Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu Branch, said it was very difficult for private hospitals in many places to get the drugs. “Very limited stock is available in the market. Some dealers quoted high rates. For instance, dealers quoted a heavy price of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 for remdesivir, which is priced below Rs. 5,000,” he said. Recently, two doctors in Theni and Nagercoil, who were admitted to private hospitals, had no access to these drugs and had to be shifted to government hospitals, where they received them. Inquiries in various districts, including Erode, Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruchi, did not help, he said. “It is not easy to get the drugs for patients admitted to private hospitals. However, the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services has said we can get them through TNMSC. But this is not practically viable. Instead, the government can indent for the drugs and supply them to private hospitals,” Mr. Raja said. J. Amalorpavanathan, a vascular surgeon who received a call for help recently, said these drugs could be made available at dispensaries run by the Central and State governments. A representative of a drugs manufacturers’ association pointed out that the drugs were being supplied only to hospitals. “There is a lack of regulation governing how patients admitted to private hospitals can access these drugs,” he said. Officials of the Directorate of Drugs Control have not received any complaints of high pricing thus far.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will never give up the house, will start another legal battle’||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa said she will appeal against the Tamil Nadu government taking over the late Chief Minister’s house Veda Nilayam in Poes Garden. Pointing out that the issue of Jayalalithaa’s private property should only involve the family, she asked the AIADMK cadre to not remain silent on the grave injustice being meted out to her and her brother, Deepak. “We [Deepa and Deepak] will never give up Veda Nilayam. This is the start of another legal battle. My aunt never wanted to give up the house. She wanted the house to be with her family,” Ms. Deepa said. She said Veda Nilayam was a private property and not the AIADMK’s party headquarters to be taken over by the government. Ms. Deepa insisted that property ownership is a private issue and asked if the siblings had laid claim to the party headquarters. Questioning the rationale behind the government’s action, she asked what was the guarantee that the AIADMK would not break again and what would happen to the property then. “You want to build a memorial for her, you can build it anywhere, but not on what is legally ours,” Ms. Deepa said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online yoga, meditation classes launched for police||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday launched online yoga classes for police personnel, to help them beat stress during their COVID-19 duty. “Yoga, pranayama and meditation were introduced in ancient India for the well-being of people. These are part of our culture, and the world has recognised the usefulness of these techniques. Though these techniques are useful during normal times, they are much more useful during a pandemic. Through yoga, pranayama and meditation, we can reduce stress and improve our immunity,” said Mr. Aggarwal. From Additional Commissioners of Police, Joint Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners of 12 police districts to inspector-level officers, many police personnel participated in the programme, which was conducted by a team from the Art of Living Foundation.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Steep increase in fees for revenue services||After a gap of 18 years, the Tamil Nadu government has recently effected a multi-fold increase in the fees payable for certain services offered by the Revenue Department to the general public, including the surveying of lands and for copies of the village, taluk and district maps.  The State government’s decision followed the recommendation of the Director of Survey and Settlement, an officer told The Hindu . “The last time the fees were revised for these services were in 2002. The fees from these services are expected to boost the department’s revenue,” he said. As per the revised structure, the fees for applying for surveying and pointing out the limits of boundaries of landowners in the joint holdings prior to subdivision/partition have been revised from the existing Rs. 30 for dry lands (punsei) and Rs. 50 for wet lands (nansei) to Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 respectively. The fees for re-measurement of sub-division have been revised from the existing Rs. 60 for dry lands and Rs. 60 for wet lands to Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 4,000 respectively. Likewise, the surcharge levied on the cost of the survey marks has been revised from the existing 400% to 800%. The government has also increased the fees for pointing out field boundaries (‘F’ line) from the existing Rs. 20 to Rs. 200. For pointing out the boundaries using theodolite, the fees has been increased from Rs. 30 to Rs. 300. The fees for pointing out the limits of field boundaries (for one ‘F’ line) on appeal against the survey of maintenance field surveyor has been hiked from the existing Rs. 50 to Rs. 400. As per the revision, the fees for obtaining a copy of the field measurement book extract would be Rs. 50 per page for A4 size sheets and Rs. 100 per page for A3 size sheets. Cost of maps increased A copy of the taluk map which was costing Rs. 357 so far would cost Rs. 1,000. In the case of taluk outline maps, it would cost Rs. 500 from the Rs. 51 earlier. The cost of obtaining a copy of the district map has been increased to Rs. 500 from the existing Rs. 189 and in case of district maps (outline) from Rs. 51 to Rs. 300. The cost of town block maps and village maps have also been hiked from Rs. 27 and Rs. 85 to Rs. 50 and Rs. 200.  The last time the fees were revised for these services were in 2002. The fees from these services are expected to boost the department’s revenue
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rejuvenated Villivakkam tank almost ready||The Villivakkam tank redevelopment work, one of the showcase projects of the Chennai Corporation, is progressing well towards completion before the start of the north-east monsoon. About 75% of the restoration of the sprawling waterbody has been completed and the remaining work will be completed by the first week of September, say civic officials. The tank restoration project, executed under the Smart City mission costing around Rs. 25 crore, would have several amenities, including a hanging bridge, a floating wetland, pathways, food court and play area for children. The work, which was launched by Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani in May 2018, was to be completed by September 2019, but was delayed after the civic authorities faced hurdles in deepening the waterbody. A senior civic official said the project work was delayed because of the huge silt formation caused by the dumping of excavated debris of the Chennai Metro Rail. He said: “It took more than six months for removing the debris and deepening the lake leading to the delay. The lockdown due to COVID-19 caused further delay.” More than 90% of the tank rejuvenation work, along with ‘stone pitching’ around the 17 acres of the waterbody, has been completed, and the pathway work is in progress. Also, the pile foundation for the suspension bridge has been completed, he said. The Villivakkam tank — spread over 36.50 acres — was proposed to be renovated after the deluge in December 2015. A senior official of the civic body said a few private amusement parks have shown interest in taking up maintenance of the tank spread over more than 1.10 lakh square metres.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister must seek President’s assent to anti-NEET Bills, says Alagiri||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami must immediately take steps to get the President’s assent to the two Bills adopted by the Assembly against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri said. He said the State government must stop the Centre’s imposition of the NEET. “If the Tamil Nadu government is unable to take steps to stop the imposition of NEET, there will be a situation where we will have to decide on the method of protest to prevent NEET,” he said. The NEET has already been postponed twice this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, but now it has been announced that the exam will be conducted on September 13.  “I request the government to cancel the exam, as backward class and OBC students from villages have been denied the opportunity to get admissions to medical colleges,” Mr. Alagiri said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen pool money, help late colleague’s son||More than 2,500 police personnel, from the 1999 batch of constable recruits, have offered to support the education of the 14-year-old son of their batch-mate, who died recently. They collected Rs. 13.9 lakh and handed it over to Hari Shriram. The teenager lost his mother, a month before his father died. The batch-mates helped more than 17 families of police personnel over the past three years. A month ago, Durai Murugan, 42, who was a head constable at the Minjur police station, ended his life at his house. “A month before his death, his wife had Jaya also died. The boy, who is in Class 9, is now under the care of his uncle,” said S. Sabarinathan, a head constable. The batch, comprising over 3,400 police personnel, pooled in money and handed over Rs. 13 lakh as an LIC bond and Rs. 90,000 for his immediate educational needs. The money was handed over to Hari Shriram in the presence of P. Aravindan, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur. “We have assured him of help in the future,” said Mr. Sabarinathan. The batch-mates have donated close to Rs. 70 lakh to 17 families. “If our batch-mate dies, we collect the bank details of his wife or family member and each of us directly deposit some amount into the account,” said another member of the group. They have helped in covering hospital expenses. “We don’t want the families of our batch-mates to suffer. Now, we have started collecting money for the families of Robert and Desingu, two police personnel who died recently,” he said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police register case against ABVP chief||The Adambakkam police have registered a case of harassment and nuisance against ABVP national president Subbiah Shanmugam, who works as an oncologist at a government hospital in Chennai. The police have booked cases against Dr. Subbiah under three Sections of the IPC and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act, based on a complaint filed by a resident of Nanganallur. According to the complaint lodged by Balaji Vijayaraghavan, a few months ago Dr. Subbiah approached his 62-year-old aunt in the same apartment building to use her parking space. In June, Dr. Subbiah, who also lives in the same apartment building, went into quarantine. Trouble started when used masks were found around the flat of the 62-year-old woman. Mr. Vijayaraghavan has alleged that the CCTV footage showed Dr. Subbiah urinating in front of his aunt’s house and throwing garbage. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said he had sent emails to senior IAS and IPS officers after lodging a police complaint on July 11.  Dr. Subbiah was unavailable for comment.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMA pills seized||Four postal parcels containing 276 MDMA pills and seven grams of MDMA crystals worth Rs. 9 lakh were seized by Chennai Air Customs at the Foreign Post Office. According to a press release, the parcels were received from Germany and the Netherlands. Two persons, one in Chennai and another in Villupuram, have been detained in this connection.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Crowd management better at Kasimedu’||About 120 tonnes of fish, including s ankara , vaalai , paarai and kaarai, were sold at the Kasimedu fishing harbour from 2 a.m. on Saturday. These were mostly sold to wholesalers and retailers who in turn sold them to consumers, who were allowed into the harbour by around 6 a.m. “The crowds were managed better than last Saturday. Hopefully, by next weekend, the lockdown would be lifted and things would return to normal,” said a fisherman. Since most boats engaged in fishing or a day, they brought back only smaller varieties of fish that catered to the local market. Varadhan, president of the Deep Sea Fishing Association, said that very few deep sea boats had ventured into the sea. “We need loans to restart our business since the boats are all damaged. The Minister has promised to get us small loans, we are still waiting for that. We also need better rates for the fish we catch. There are only two exporters here and they pay less than what fishers in other districts get. We need the government to bring back labourers from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. The department has not done anything for us so far,” he added.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK effects reshuffle of district secretaries||The ruling AIADMK on Saturday made organisational changes that included addition of 11 district units and the dropping of five district secretaries. Twenty-eight persons have been named to different positions. Prominent among them is Tamil Development Minister K. Pandiarajan, who has been made a deputy propaganda secretary. V. Karuppasamy Pandian and C. Sivasami, who returned to the party from the DMK and the AMMK, have been made organisation secretaries. The total number of district units has gone up from 56 to 67. Those who lost their position as district secretaries were Walajahbad P. Ganesan (Kancheepuram West), M Budhichandran (The Nilgiris), T. Ratnavel (Tiruchi – Suburban), V. Marudharaj (Dindigul) and K.R.P. Prabhakaran (Tirunelveli – Suburban). Four of them have been made organisation secretaries and Mr. Prabhakaran is the Amma Peravai’s district secretary for Tenkasi (South). Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, co-coordinator and coordinator of the party respectively, named 29 district secretaries. Among the new district secretaries were Forest Minister Dindigul C. Seenivasan (Dindigul West), former Ministers Natham R. Viswanathan (Dindigul East); V. Somasundaram (Kancheepuram) and M. Paranjothi (Tiruchi Suburban-North). Two Tiruvallur district units have become five with ex-Ministers B.V. Ramana and V. Moorthy named district secretaries of Tiruvallur West and East.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New shipping corridor worries Tamil Nadu, Kerala fishermen||Fishermen are worried about the Director General (DG) of Shipping’s recent order regarding the exclusive shipping corridor for use by commercial ships, which passes through the Quilon Bank used by fishermen of Kanniyakumari and those from Kerala. “These are rich fishing grounds and if the shipping corridor passes through this area, thousands of fishermen will lose their livelihood, since fishing will not be allowed inside the corridor. The order is to be implemented from August,” said T. Peter, general secretary, National Fishworkers’ Forum. Though such a corridor was welcome to prevent conflicts between fishing boats and cargo carriers, it could not usurp a major portion of fertile fishing grounds used by boats from Neerodi and Thengaipattinam in Kanniyakumari, Neendakarai, Jonahpuram and Pozhiyur in Kerala, he said. U. Arulanandam, of the Alliance for Release of Innocent Fishermen Trust, said the order seemed to be one-sided and was against the interests of fishermen. “Fishermen from Rameshwaram to Kollam go to the Quilon Bank to fish. If the Centre wants to continue with the present plan, then what is the use of the stakeholders meetings conducted in our areas,” he said.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 8,000 books among Jayalalithaa’s movable assets||As many as 8,376 books, 14 gold items weighing 4.37 kg, 11 television sets and 38 air conditioners are lying at ‘Veda Nilayam’, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s residence in Poes Garden here. They are among over 32,700 items of movable assets belonging to the former Chief Minister. The others include 394 mementos, 867 silver items weighing about 601.4 kg, 6,514 kitchen vessels, 556 pieces of furniture, 162 small utensils made of silver, 108 cosmetic items, 29 telephones/mobile phones, 15 puja utensils, 10 refrigerators and six clocks. There are 10,438 dress materials and furnishings, according to an Ordinance promulgated by Governor Banwarilal Purohit in May. One of the reasons cited for the promulgation of the Ordinance was to preserve the movable properties, which had been in a “state of disuse” for over three years. The law has stated that the government will value the movable items and deposit the amount with the Claims Commissioner, who is going to be appointed for the purpose.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against GO to use funds of rich temples for renovating those in villages||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court questioning the authority of the State government and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to force 20 financially stable temples to spare Rs. 10 crore from their surplus funds for the renovation of 1,000 village temples. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha are slated to hear on Monday the PIL petition filed by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam in Tiruchi district. Claiming that it was not a one-off incident and that it had become a common practice for HR&CE officials to divert temple funds at will, he has sought for a thorough inquiry and auditing. The petitioner said the Chief Minister had made an announcement in the Legislative Assembly on March 24 for providing Rs. 10 crore to renovate 1,000 financially unstable village temples under the control of the HR&CE Department. Proposal accepted Subsequently, the HR&CE Commissioner forwarded a proposal to pool in the money from surplus funds of other temples. The proposal was accepted and a Government Order was issued on May 15. It was followed by the HR&CE Commissioner’s June 26 proceedings for using about Rs. 25 lakh to 1 crore from the surplus funds of 20 temples, which included the Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram and the Subramaniaswamy Temple in Tiruchendur. Executive officers of the Kabaleeswarar Temple in Mylapore, the Vadapalani Aandavar Temple, the Subramaniaswamy Temple in Marudhamalai, the Bannari Amman Temple, the Parathasarathaswamy Temple in Triplicane, the Kallazhagar Temple at Alagarkovil in Madurai, the Kamatchiamman Temple in Mangadu and others were also instructed to contribute.  Supervisory control Assailing such a directive issued by the HR&CE Commissioner, the petitioner said the HR&CE Act empowers the Department only to have a supervisory control over the temples which should otherwise by managed by their individual Board of Trustees. Any decision on parting with surplus funds should emanate from the temple management and then sent to the HR&CE department for approval.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbazhagan’s son gets party post||The DMK Youth Wing appointed Raja Anbazhagan, the son of late MLA J. Anbazhagan, as the organiser for its West Chennai brach. Youth Wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin said Mr. Raja Anbazhagan replaced N. Sittarasu, who has been appointed as the in-charge of the party’s West Chennai unit.
26 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Poompuhar to launch virtual services||In an effort to support artisans, especially those affected due to COVID-19 restrictions, Poompuhar, the retail arm of Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, has come out with a couple of services to connect customers with the artisans. Virtual reality technology These services, that are developed using virtual reality technology, are being tested at the Poompuhar outlet in Coimbatore since Thursday and will be rolled out across the State from July 31. The outlet’s manager, R. Narendra Bose, told The Hindu the website of of Poompuhar (tnpoompuhar.org) has a page for artisans. The catalogue has photos and details of the artisans. Customers from any country or State, who want to interact with the artisans for a handicraft product, can ask for support and the respective Poompuhar outlet that is working with the artisan will connect him or her with the customers through video call. The Coimbatore outlet of Poompuhar works with nearly 250 artisans and details of almost 55 of them have been uploaded on the site, he said. Customers who visit the Poompuhar outlets and are interested in knowing about the varieties available for a particular product will also be helped to connect with the artisan concerned immediately.  “We are talking to the artisans regularly and have asked them to keep ready all the products in stock. The artisans can show these products to the customers through the video call. Poompuhar will organise and get the product supplied to the customer,” he added. Another service is for artisans who do not have resources to pack and ship the products to customers. If they have a particular product that a customer is interested in, Poompuhar will ensure that the product is supplied to the customer, he added.
26 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police sound alert on movement of burglars in Coimbatore city||A group of men found roaming residential areas here in minimal clothes at night could be burglars, according to the police. The police said attempts were made to tamper door locks of at least four houses at Balaguru Garden at Peelamedu where three such men were caught on a surveillance camera in the early hours of Saturday. Surveillance camera visual from a house showed the trio, wearing only a loincloth and with their faces covered, walking on the road around 1.20 a.m. The police suspect that the three could be part of a group that was found roaming the residential areas of Deepam Nagar at Irugur in the early hours of Thursday. Visuals from a surveillance camera at Deepam Nagar showed seven such men, some of them carrying sticks. “We suspect that the men caught on camera at Balaguru Garden were among the ones spotted at Deepam Nagar. They attempted to break door locks of four houses at Balaguru Garden. They aborted the attempts after sensing people’s presence in those houses,” said M. Somasundaram, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore East. The official said the police would carry out more patrols in the residential areas of Peelamedu from Saturday. Police stations alerted Balaguru Garden is around 15 km from Deepam Nagar. The police also checked surveillance camera visuals from other locations. All police stations in the city have been alerted about the group.  Police would carry out more patrols in the residential areas of Peelamedu from Saturday. M. Somasundaram,Assistant Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore East.
26 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Journalist held for disclosing identity of sexual assault survivor||The Negamam police on Saturday arrested a journalist on charges of disclosing the identity of a minor girl who survived a sexual assault. Ramesh Babu of Velandipalayam who runs a news portal named Seithi Saral was arrested on a complaint filed by the father of the girl, police said. The accused published on July 15 a report on a sexual assault case registered by the All Women Police in Pollachi on July 13. The girl’s father lodged a complaint with the police on July 18, stating that the report disclosed the identity of the survivor. The police registered a case against Babu. He was released on bail.
26 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose opening of new Tasmac outlet||Opposing the opening of a new Tasmac outlet in their area, over 50 members of Hindu Munnani and people residing near Anakalpalayam Ring Road gathered in front of the shop and staged a demonstration here on Saturday.  Few months ago, a structure was built to house the Tasmac outlet. Due to stiff opposition from the people, the opening of the outlet was postponed. On Saturday, Hindu Munnani members and residents gathered near the outlet. They were warned by the police for gathering without permission. Later, they raised slogans and left the place. Women stage protest Similarly, over 30 women staged a protest condemning the opening of an outlet at Singiripalayam village in Gobichettipalayam. The women alleged that the outlet was located along the main road to their village and tipplers used to sit on the road and consume liquor, causing inconvenience to road users. They wanted the outlet closed. The protesters left the place after the police directed them to submit a petition to revenue officials.
26 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of works at Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted in the following places: Market electric lines (July 27, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.): Periyanna Street, Pavaadai Street, Kalaimagal Educational Institution, Vamalai Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Perumal Street, Vasugi Street, Nachiyappa Street, Thillai Nagar, Kasiyanna Street, Agilmedu Street, Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Palanimalai Street, Krishna Street, Masjid Street, Brindha Street, Ottukara Chinnaiya Street, Kandasamy Street, A.B.T. Road, K.A.S. Nagar, Meera Moideen Street, Madhava Krishna Street, Krishna Theatre Road, SS Layout, Venkataperumal Street, Ayanarappan Kovil Street, Mosikeeranar Street, Periya Mariamman Kovil area and market areas.  Agraharam electric line, July 28, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Sakthi Road and Agraharam Junction, PKD Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Pitchankadu, Nandavana Thottam, Gnanapuram, Pachapali Medu, Pachaiyee Thottam, K.R. Kulam, Sakthi Road, Arul Velan Nagar, Soolai, Kandaiyan Thottam and V.I.P Nagar.
26 July 2020||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||Armed gang attempts to rob farm house on East Coast Road||The Mamallapuram police arrested three youngsters who attempted to rob a farm house on the ECR after brutally attacking the watchman with a modified taser and a knife. According to police, the accused have been identified as Dinesh, 25, of Red Hills, Karthikeyan, 20, and Mithun, 19, from Perambur. On Thursday night, the youngsters scaled the walls of the farm house in Therkupattu on the East Coast Road in Mamallapuram police station limits. The house belongs to one Vyjantimala, a business- woman. Modified taser “Upon seeing the watchman Rajendran they attacked him with a modified taser gun and butcher’s knife. They also tied up his 5-year-old and 8-year-old sons,” said a police officer. The three then took the watchman’s wife into the house in an attempt to open the doors and identify the room in which valuables were kept. “However, by then the milkman entered the house and the three fled the house with a woman’s mobile phone and a ring,” added the police officer. The police were informed about the incident and the watchman was rushed to the hospital. A special team was formed by E. Sundaravathanan (ASP, Mamallapuram) comprising Mamallapuram Inspector Vadivel Murugan, Sadras sub-inspector Thirunavukkarasu, and Koovathur sub-inspector and three police constables. “The sniffer dog helped us by identifying the direction in which the trio left. We tracked the CCTV footage and nabbed one suspect and based on the information provided by him we nabbed the other two,” explained Mr. Suntharavathanan. The police found that Dinesh, who knows electrical works, had modified a torchlight into a taser. “It was not very effective though,” added the ASP. Further investigation is on. The police, with the help of experts, are providing counselling to the watchman’s children who saw their father being attacked with sharp weapons.
26 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Municipality allocates funds for animal birth control programme||Krishnagiri Municipality has sanctioned Rs. 4.05 lakh for Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme for sterilisation of street dogs. Municipal Commissioner Chandra told The Hindu the fund has already been set aside. “It would touch Rs. 5 lakh, taking into account fuel charges, etc. We will start the programme soon,” she said. The programme would take off once the COVID-19 situation eases. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to animals has requested the municipality to expedite the programme and allocate land to set up of an animal shelter. “There is a proposal, but land availability is the key issue here. But, our Collector is keen on such a shelter,” Ms. Chandra said. The ABC programme entails sterilising and vaccinating the animals, and giving them time to heal in a post-operative care shelter, before they are released back into their neighbourhood. The municipality is, perhaps, taking up the ABC programme for the first time in many years, and the practice so far was to relocate the animals to the periphery. The ABC programme forbids relocation of street animals from their usual habitat as it would lead to stress in them. In 2016, the municipality engaged contractors to pick up street dogs and abandon them in the fringes of the forests along the Krishnagiri-Andhra Pradesh border. Reports of animals being hauled up brutally using strings, in the absence of animal welfare activists, led to the Animal Welfare Board issuing a notice to the municipality.
26 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Prayers held in protest against eight-lane expressway project||Resorting to a different mode of protest, land owners and farmers at Harur and Paapireddypatty held prayers on Saturday to oppose the project for an eight-lane expressway to connect Salem and Chennai. They also performed “rituals of curse” targeting politicians who supported the project. Land acquisition The project envisioned acquisition of lands across Kancheepuram,Tiruvannamalai, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri and Salem districts. It ran into opposition from farmers ever since farmlands were notified in Harur and Paapireddypatty taluks. In 2019, the Madras High Court had quashed the land acquisition proceedings on various grounds; one of these included the utility of the project. The Centre moved the Supreme Court for a stay on the High Court order. Last month, the National Highways Authority of India had filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court, seeking an urgent hearing on the matter and calling for a stay on the Madras High Court order. The protest on Saturday followed reports that amendments to laws were proposed to fast track the land acquisition proceedings without public hearings.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Clarify discrepancy in number of COVID-19 deaths: MLA||Citing discrepancy in the number of COVID-19 deaths in Madurai district provided by the government as compared to the number of bodies cremated through COVID-19 protocol in the city’s crematoriums - Thathaneri and Moolakarai - Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan had written a letter to Collector T.G. Vinay seeking clarification. The MLA said that he conducted an enquiry at the two crematoriums based on an article that appeared in The Hindu on July 11. Thathaneri crematorium falls within his constituency. Both the crematoriums are working round-the-clock and COVID-19 bodies directed from private hospitals and Government Rajaji Hospital are cremated here. Based on the enquiry, it was found that in the first 15 days of July, 305 bodies dressed as per COVID-19 protocol were cremated at Thathaneri crematorium. At Moolakarai a total of 42 bodies dressed as per COVID-19 protocol were cremated during this period. “But, the COVID-19 deaths as per government’s reports were 97 for this period,” said the MLA. “This data is apart from COVID-19 bodies that could have been buried at cemeteries and burial grounds,” he adds. So, the MLA asked the Collector to undertake an assessment and validate the data procured by him. “If the numbers are inaccurate, I have asked the Collector to give an official data based on his enquiry,” he says. According to Collector T. G. Vinay, when persons suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness expire, their bodies are cremated through COVID-19 protocol, irrespective of their COVID-19 test results. “Sometimes a person suffering from breathlessness might expire, even before the COVID-19 test results are out. Even in such cases, the bodies are packed with triple layers and completely disinfected. That is why a higher number of bodies are being cremated through COVID-19 protocol at the two crematoriums,” he says.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All 30 wards in Srivilliputtur turn containment zone from tomorrow||A total of 301 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday raising the overall tally of patients to 9,595. The district recorded a high number of discharges with 946 persons and the total number of active cases dropped to 1,999. With nine deaths recorded, the death toll rose to 202, the highest in south Tamil Nadu. Virudhunagar For the first time since March-end, Virudhunagar district recorded the highest number of single-day deaths with nine patients succumbing to the viral infection. With this, the death toll has gone up to 52. The district registered one of the highest number of fresh positive cases with 376 taking the total number of people infected with the disease to 5,573. With 217 patients having got discharged on Saturday, and the total number of people who have been discharged till date stood at 3,164 and the number of active cases stood at 2,357. The district administration has increased the number of containment zones from 106 to 166. Meanwhile, the local Incident Commander for Srivilliputtur Taluk, R. Murugan, who is the Assistant Commissioner (Excise), has declared the entire 30 wards of Srivilliputtur as containment zone from Monday till next Saturday. Some 20 positive cases have been recorded at the make-shift vegetable market functioning at a school at Mangapuram on Thursday. “So, the traders have come forward for closure of shops in the containment zone,” he said. All shops and commercial establishments, except milk and medical supply, would remain closed. “The uzhavar sandhai would function as usual,” he said. Theni Theni district recorded 235 fresh cases, which took the tally to 3,556. There were 246 discharges. The positive cases included 124 men, 86 women and 25 children. There were 46 deaths so far. Dindigul Dindigul had 103 new cases which took the total positive cases to 2,115. The district has so far reported 34 deaths. The hospital discharged 53 people. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram had 86 fresh cases, which took the tally to 2,951. The district has reported 55 deaths so far. Twelve people were discharged from the hospital after treatment. Sivaganga Sivaganga had 85 fresh cases taking the total number of positive cases to 1,991. The district has seen 33 deaths so far and on a single day, the hospital discharged 177 people which took the total number of discharged persons to 1,159. Tirunelveli The southern districts added 897 more COVID-19 patients with Thoothukudi continuing to lead with 317 fresh cases. As the district of Thoothukudi recorded 317 cases, its total cases moved up to 5,291 and the number of active cases now stands at 2,366. At the same time, 307 patients were discharged from the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and other COVID Care Centers and the district witnessed the death of one patient. In Kanniyakumari, 269 cases were reported on Saturday that took the tally to 3,393 and active cases to 1,644. While 397 patients were discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centers, a positive patient died on Saturday. The Tirunelveli district’s tally moved up to 3,595 with the addition of 212 more cases and the district now has 1,458 active cases after 207 patients were discharged and two patients succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday. In Tenkasi, 387 patients were discharged on Saturday while 99 new cases were reported. This took the tally to 1,607 and active cases to 760.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Reasons for spike in cases explained||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said that there was a spike in the number of cases recorded in Madurai on Friday because contacts of COVID-19 positive cases were reconciled and added to the list of positive cases. At a press conference here on Saturday, he said that the reason why 326 people tested positive was because they were testing at least 10 contacts of each positive case. The number of cases were not a point of worry in Madurai district. “From being second after Chennai in terms of active cases, we have come down to the fourth position. Our positivity rate is between 7 and 8 % which is better than it was before,” he said. He said that though the number of positive cases had seen a drop in the last week, it did not mean that the district administration was reducing the number of tests. “We are still conducting between 3,200 to 4,000 tests a day purely because we have ramped up the total number of fever camps across the district,” he said. He said until a vaccine was administered, people should wear masks, practise physical distancing and wash hands regularly to fight the virus.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL petition on sand quarrying||The Madurai Bench of the Madras court has directed the State government to file counter affidavits in the public interest litigation petitions filed complaining of illegal sand quarrying in the southern districts. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam sought the response of the Stateon the allegations of illegal sand quarrying. The petitioners complained that illegal sand quarrying had affected groundwater levels. The court also directed the State to file a counter affidavit in the PIL petition filed by CPI seeking a direction to the State to form a Sand Corporation to identify, excavate and sell sand. The case was adjourned by four weeks. Earlier, the court had taken a serious view of the issue and directed the Principal Secretaries to the Revenue and Industries Departments to file status reports on the nature and duties of the district level monitoring task force. The court had asked what action can be taken against those officials who failed to curb illegal sand quarrying.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Last date for PG applications||Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) in a press statement said that the last day to receive filled-in application forms for various postgraduate programmes for the academic year 2020-2021 is July 31. Courses are being offered in the different departments, schools and centres of MKU. According to the press statement, selection lists of various postgraduate programmes will be published in the university’s website soon after the preparation of merit lists in the second week of August 2020.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 31 lakh seized||Officials of Air Intelligence Unit of Customs Department have seized gold worth Rs. 31 lakh from two passengers who arrived here since July 15. According to officials, while a 22-year-old youth from Ramanathapuram district had smuggled 560 grams of gold from Sharjah, another passenger, a 28-year-old youth, who had come from Ras Al Khaimah in UAE was caught with 224 grams of gold on July 19. Both had come through special flights and carried gold in powder form and mixed it with clay-like material.
26 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Signing of MoUs welcomed||Tamil Nadu government’s initiative of signing eight Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) worth Rs. 10,399 crore on July 20 will help in creating more jobs and protect livelihood of people, said Hari K. Thiagarajan, Chairman, Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) , Tamil Nadu. In a press release, he said this was a positive outcome of efforts made by the government following the CII’s initiative - ‘Luminous Tamil Nadu - Virtual Conclave’ held on June 6. The conclave, which was inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, helped to create a positive environment for new investments. The new projects will help to create jobs for 13,500 persons across the State. The State has futuristic industrial policies and resources. He said that investments in areas like solar energy, light engineering, food processing and industrial parks will create employment opportunities. He hailed the government’s support for industries during COVID-19 pandemic.
26 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Random testing to be made more effective in Nagapattinam district||Random COVID-19 testing would be more effective after establishment of a testing centre proposed at Mayiladuthurai, according to Health department sources. For the last two months, the COVID Testing Centre at Nagapattinam Government Hospital has been handling samples in excess of capacity. The testing centre has a capacity to process results of swab samples taken from 80 persons on a daily basis. The random samples taken by the health department for testing are far higher. For instance, more than 350 samples were taken for testing on Tuesday, and a similar number of swab samples on Monday. “There was an accumulation of 800 samples and testing of every sample was the cause for Nagapattinam district accounting for 42 positive cases on Tuesday,” District Epidemiologist Liakath Ali said. Though the district has been in a better position during June-July in conducting COVID 19 testing after establishment of a testing centre at the Nagapattinam GH, there was scope for expanding the testing capacity through installation of additional RNA extraction machines. The government has placed bulk orders for the equipment for ramping up COVID 19 testing capability,. At present, the gab between testing and arrival of results is in the range of 24 hours. The situation is deemed better than two months back when it took nearly two days since the samples from Nagapattinam district were to be sent to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. The Health department sees scope for further prevention of infection. Advocating quarantining of suspect cases in quarantine centres, Dr. Liyakath Ali observed that instances of COVID 19 positive patients passing on infection to their family members and relatives were becoming noticeable. There is a general tendency among people from whom swab samples are taken to pressurise officials to free them from quarantine without waiting for results. The Health department was dependent on media support to educate the public on this aspect, Dr. Liyakath Ali said.
26 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry MLA contracts infection||All India N.R. Congress legislator N.S.J. Jayabal tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, prompting the Assembly Secretariat to shift the ongoing budget session to an open space on its premises. Mr. Jayabal, who was present in the Assembly on July 20 when the budget was presented and also on the subsequent day, has been admitted to a private hospital. He is likely to be shifted to JIPMER, said an official. The Kadirgamam legislator had also participated in the walkout staged by the Opposition on the budget day. After the MLA tested positive, health workers disinfected the Assembly chamber. The Health Department has also directed those who came in direct contact with the MLA to remain under isolation. The Assembly was scheduled to convene at 10 a.m. on Saturday, but the session was delayed as an alternative place had to be chosen and arrangements had to be made to conduct proceedings. The Assembly has to pass the budget to enable the government to incur any expenditure. The vote on account adopted by the house in March lapsed on June 30. Bills have been pending before the Finance Department for 25 days. “The government is likely to apply a guillotine to fast-track the passing of the Finance Bill and adjourn the House sine die on Saturday itself,” a government source said. Earlier, the government was planning to hold the proceedings till Sunday.
26 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Assembly adjourned sine die||The Legislative Assembly for the first time held its proceedings outside the chamber to pass the Finance Bill after a legislator tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Though the House was scheduled to assemble at 10 a.m. to initiate a discussion on the Budget, Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu delayed the proceedings for a few hours after the Health Department decided to close the legislative chamber as All India N.R.Congress member N.S.J. Jayabal tested positive. The Speaker informed Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi through Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar the circumstances for conducting the proceedings in an open place on the premises of the Assembly and adjourn the House sine die on Saturday itself. After getting the necessary approval, the Speaker convened the session around 1 p.m. under a neem tree in front of the portico of the House. Once the proceedings commenced, the Speaker decided to skip the general discussion on the Budget and invited Ministers to move demands for grants for their Departments. The House passed the Appropriation Bill, envisaging spending of Rs. 9,000 crore during the financial year 2020-21 after the Speaker applied a guillotine (a procedure to fast-track financial Bills) on demands for grants. AIADMK members staged a walkout after the Speaker allowed Congress MLA K. Lakshminarayanan to move a resolution demanding Statehood.
26 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Minor held under POCSO Act for sexual assault of girl||A 17-year-old boy was arrested on Saturday for sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl on Monday. According to the police, the boy had gone to the girl’s house, which was opposite his, and sexually assaulted her when her mother was away. The girl narrated the ordeal to her friends the following day and they brought it to the notice of her mother. Following this, a complaint was lodged with the all-women police station in Gandharvakottai. The girl was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital in Pudukottai. The police arrested the boy under Section 9 (l), (m) and (n) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
26 July 2020||R. KrishnamoorthySIRKAZHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ wish takes a concrete shape||Farmers in the tail-end areas of Cauvery river in Sirkazhi taluk can heave a sigh of relief as the Public Works Department will soon construct a tail-end regulator, a dream project that the ryots have been seeking for decades for reversing soil salinity caused by ingress of sea water at times of high tide. The regulator will be built about 1.8 km away from the sea. The PWD has recorded ingress of sea water to a distance of 5.6 km into the Cauvery river. The tail-end regulator which would run for a length of 48 metres between the embankments will hold fresh water at the time of flooding that would otherwise drain into the sea, for recharging the groundwater benefiting farmers in Tharumakulam, Kasankulam, Pazhaya Agraharam, Sayavanam, Kaveripoompattinam and Vanagiri villages and help them take up cultivation and rear livestock and cattle without hassle. Hitherto, farmers in these villages used to face acute scarcity of drinking water, and were pushed into a situation of buying water during summer to keep their livestock alive. The farmers were a worried lot as the soil in large chunks of land was turning saline at a rapid pace. The existing regulator at Melaiyur, from where the irrigation canals with an ayacut of 3,057 acres branch out, is situated a few kilometres upstream of these villages. Due to the absence of the tail-end regulator, saline lands in these villages on the sides of the embankment of the river had to be left fallow. Though the requirement for the tail-end regulator has been there for the last 40 years, the demand was articulated vociferously by the farming community during the last decade. The ground-breaking ceremony for the Rs. 7.87 crore project was performed on Thursday by Textiles Minister O.S. Manian in the presence of Collector of Nagapattinam Praveen P. Nair, the Special Officer of Mayiladuthurai district R. Lalitha and other officials.
26 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rail tracks turn ideal spot for tipplers in Salem||With no passenger trains being operated owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, tipplers have chosen the tracks near Salem Town Railway Station as their ideal spot to consume alcohol. While the government allowed Tasmac shops to open, the bars remain closed. With the Railways operating only goods and parcel trains, the relatively rail traffic-free tracks seem to compensate for the closed bars. Within the less than two kilometres distance between the town station and Pal market, there are at least four Tasmac outlets that see a sizeable crowd in the evenings. All that these people need to do is to cross the road and settle on the tracks with their quota of booze. Track patrolling Divisional Security Commandant S. Shivashankaran said that the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police are jointly conducting track patrolling and that they had written to the authorities concerned that the Tasmac outlets be shifted from the station area.
26 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wrong person released on bail from prison, brought back||Salem Central Prison authorities were in a fix on Friday after a wrong accused was released on bail. They brought him back later and released the right person on bail. Police said Ranjtih Kumar and Pavithra, a couple residing near Ethappur here, were arrested and remanded in June allegedly for murdering their relative over a land dispute. Recently, the Madras High Court granted bail for Pavithra on a plea filed by her relatives Upon receiving the orders on Thursday, prison authorities misunderstood that the bail was granted for Ranjith Kumar and he was released on that day. They realised the mistake when Pavithra’s relatives came to the prison on Friday to know why she was not out on bail. After Ranjith Kumar was brought back, Pavithra stepped out on bail.
26 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers to stage indefinite stir||Over 600 contract sanitary workers under the Salem Corporation have threatened to launch an indefinite strike from July 27 if their jobs were not regularised. According to the Salem Corporation Daily Wages Contract Sanitary Workers’ Association president R.Sudhakaran, 659 sanitary workers have been employed on daily wages directly under the Salem Corporation for more than one year and under a private contractor for over 10 years. However, their jobs were not regularised till date. The association members wanted the civic body to act immediately on their demand.
26 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Quarantine centre to come up soon||A minority educational trust in Adhiramapattinam has come forward to lend its educational institution premises for setting up of a quarantine facility, in view of surge in COVID-19 virus infection in the region. Besides, there are difficulties in keeping asymptomatic persons under home quarantine and transporting them to and from the institutional quarantine facilities in Thanjavur. Stating that setting up of this facility would help contain the spread to other parts of the district, sources said that if the asymptomatic persons needed additional care but not special medical care, they would be lodged in the COVID-19 Care Centre set up at the Slum Clearance Board tenements in Pattukottai. Collector M. Govinda Rao visited the Pattukottai centre and the educational institution premises at Adhiramapattinam on Saturday. Mr. Govinda Rao also inspected special fever camps being conducted at Adhiramapattinam and Pattukottai the same day.
26 July 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Unemployed Theni youth turn entrepreneurs||P. Usainna Parveen, a home-maker until five years ago, is a successful entrepreneur now. Thanks to the initiative of the District Industries Centre (DIC), she has proved herself an employer. Aided by a loan from the Central Bank of India and a 25% subsidy from the DIC under the State government’s Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP), she is giving jobs to women after training them as beauticians. She told The Hindu that the orientation she received from experts helped her run a business. They taught her business terms like project report preparation, break-even, return on investment, profit or loss, payment of taxes, margin on capital and interest on capital. After an assessment by the task force committee, the officials guided her to approach the bank, of which field officers checked out the assets and sanctioned the loan. Hundreds of educated and unemployed youths in the district are taking the assistance of the DIC and public and private banks. Saravanan, who is running a browsing centre in the town, says the subsidy helped new entrepreneurs like him as a small capital was enough. The DIC has been offering technical expertise and guidance to the youth to make them entrepreneurs in the manufacturing and services sectors. Youth are opening shops in Bodi, Cumbum and Periakulam in the district, the officials say. After passing out of an ITI with a diploma or a Plus-Two certificate, many were interested in starting their own business. Hence, the district administration planned to offer free counselling to such aspirants with the help of experts, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said. When the assessments of the candidates indicated that they were keen on business or manufacturing, the officials guided them in preparing project reports. With the help of the UYEGP, the district achieved the full target last year and stood first in the State, Ms. Baldev said. Despite the pandemic, the administration reached out to the applicants through the Internet; so far, 58 applications have been received for the current fiscal. “During such an emergency, youth are keen on starting businesses, which shows that Theni is setting a trend among youngsters to become entrepreneurs and job-givers,” DIC General Manager L. Ramasubramanian said. Under UYEGP, the project cost shall be Rs. 2 lakh and above, and the government offers a 25% subsidy. The aspirants undergo training for seven days and the task force committee holds interviews.
26 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Safety apart, this mask smells good too||A city-based costume designer has sought to combine the benefits of vettiver (fragrant root of a grass) and the sustainability of cloth face masks to make reusable masks with inserts made of the root. Tresa Lavanya who runs a boutique on Vayalur Road says to adapt to the changing times, she put a pin on her clothing business and begun making face masks. Initially, she made plain masks using cotton cloth. However, her mother suggested the usage of vettiver.  Ms. Lavanya, who pored over material on the grass and its properties, said, “There are many medicinal benefits - it is helpful in relieving fatigue, stress and considered a cooling agent too. Its oil is used in aromatherapy.” She decided to use vettiver as one of the three layers in the mask and cover them with pure cotton sourced from Erode or Karur. The vettiver is purchased in bulk from a vendor in Puducherry. The mask is stitched along with the vettiver and cannot be separated. “Initially we planned on making a removable vettiver insert so that it can be replaced from time to time. However, we realised that the customer will then replace only the insert and not the mask, which is much more important,” she said. A team of three - Ms. Lavanya, her mother and a friend - runs the unit from her home. Ms. Lavanya also takes the help of two tailors whenever necessary. The initiative to make the masks, which began in March, has had a good response, Ms. Lavanya said. The masks are sold in four sizes - for children aged two to five, six to nine, adult men and adult women. The sizes, prints and fabric change accordingly. The masks are sold at Rs. 65 each and can be used for up to 20 days. So far the team has completed around 50 orders and has also donated a few masks.
26 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to hold sheep shandy on the sly||Police and revenue officials on Friday thwarted attempts made by a group of persons to conduct a weekly shandy for goats and sheep at Samayapuram on the outskirts of the city. Acting on inputs that a group of farmers and middlemen had planned to convene the shandy, which remains suspended since March 24 due to the nationwide lockdown, the authorities monitored their movements. As expected, sheep and goats were brought in at least 15 vehicles from different parts of Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Perambalur districts in violation of Section 144 of Cr.PC, which is still in place to prevent people assembling in public places. On seeing the officials, the farmers and middlemen, who brought the livestock, sped away with their vehicles. But the police caught hold of five persons along with their vehicles. However, they were subsequently let out after registering a case for lockdown violation.
26 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Poorly covered trenches pose hardship to residents||The callous work of underground drainage at State Bank of India Officers’ Colony in Cantonment poses grave danger to pedestrians and vehicle users yet again. The Tiruchi Corporation dug up deep trenches in the middle of the roads to lay pipelines to provide UGD connections to the left-out and newly developed areas in the SBI Officers’ Colony a few weeks ago. Besides a couple of earth movers, at least 20 workers were involved in the work. They worked for four days at a stretch to lay the pipes. As and when the pipes were laid, they closed the trenches with the soil dug up for the work. Noticing the improper closure of the trenches, the residents complained to the site supervisor and Corporation officials, urging them to close the pits properly to ensure free flow of vehicles. The poor quality of work also claimed a worker at the site. A 30-year-old casual worker was killed on the spot after a heap of soil and gravel caved in on him when he was working inside a 10-feet-deep pit to lay the pipes. Those who were witnessed to the accident felt that he could have been saved, had safety standards were in place. They also complained about the callous work to City Engineer and senior Corporation officials when they carried out a field investigation on the circumstances that led to the death. The few spells of rain have left the road slushy. Moreover, a big crater has come up on the middle of the road and a truck was stuck on the poorly-closed trench.
26 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Expansion of Thoothukudi airport begins||The Thoothukudi airport is all set for runway widening and extension to handle wide-bodied aircraft. ‘Bhoomi puja’ for widening the runway with Blast pad, RESA (runway end safety area), Taxiway, Apron, GSE area, Isolation bay and miscellaneous works was performed on Saturday and N. Subramanian, Airport Director, was present. The ritual marked the commencement of excavation for widening of existing runway from 30 meter to 45 meter by constructing 7.50 m wide pavement on either side of runway edge to handle Code-4C type aircraft like Airbus 321 carrying 220 passengers with the wingspan of 34 meter and length of 45 meter. Presently, the fifth busiest airport of Tamil Nadu, it handles only ATR 72, Q 400 and Dornier AN32 type of aircraft. For expansion of the runway, 600.97 acres of land, free from encumbrance, was acquired by the State and handed over to the Airports Authority of India on December 31, 2018. The expansion work for Rs. 96.77 crore was awarded to a Mumbai-based company on August 22, 2019. Though the concept and execution level safety case assessment and reporting approval for widening of runway was obtained from the regulatory authority, Director General of Civil Aviation, all construction work could be resumed after getting nod from the district administration. Extent of the new apron will be 191 m x 89 m for parking 5 aircraft (A-321 type aircraft). New isolation bay will be 91 m x 76 m with 3.5 m wide shoulder suitable for handling code C type aircraft (Boeing 737), for which link taxi provision also made for the length of 244.5 m X 23 m with 3.5 m shoulder on either side to operate code-C type aircrafts. Due to the expansion work, the runway will remain closed between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. and will not be available for night operations. The mandatory Notice to Airmen has been issued.
26 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID interrogation continues||The CB-CID’s investigation into the death of construction labourer S. Mahendran of Srivenkateswarapuram near Sattankulam continued on Saturday. After interrogating the mother and sister of the victim, Investigation Officer and Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar grilled relatives at the Revenue Inspector’s Office at Peikulam. The interrogation started with Mahendran’s brother Durai. Sub-Inspector of Police of Sattankulam Raghu Ganesh and his team had picked up Mahendran on May 23 after they could not locate his brother Durai in connection with the murder of a police informer on May 18. After being released by the police allegedly with multiple injuries, Mahendran was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital where he died.
26 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two die in accident||Two persons were crushed to death when a truck fell on the two-wheeler they were riding on Udumalpet-Palladam Road near Kethanur in Tiruppur district on Saturday evening. Police said their identity was yet to be established. According to preliminary investigations, the truck was hit by a motorcycle coming in the opposite direction. The driver lost control because of the collision and the truck overturned and fell on the two-wheeler that was coming behind the motorcycle. The truck driver and the motorcycle driver suffered minor injuries and were admitted to the Government Hospital at Palladam. Kamanaickenpalayam police registered a case and further investigations are on.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees another spike with 270 fresh cases||Coimbatore district reported 270 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest single day figure so far. The district also crossed the 3,000 mark in terms of total number of positive cases, and the total tally stood at 3,237. Selvapuram alone reported 28 cases on Saturday. The patients belonged to NSK Street, Ashok Nagar, Indira Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Swami Iyer Street, Rajammmal layout and CMC Colony of the Selvapuram cluster. Ten cases each were reported from parts of Pollachi and Singanallur. Ramanathapuram had seven cases. Six cases were reported from Kurichi junction and four each were from VK Road near Peelamedu and Vadamadurai. Coimbatore district had 1,373 active cases and 1,829 had recovered from the disease as on Saturday. As many as 167 persons got discharged from various hospitals on Saturday. Two COVID-19 patients admitted to the ESI Hospital gave birth to male babies on Saturday. So far, 12 babies were born to COVID-19 patients at the hospital. The health wing of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam said in a statement that they performed burials of two women who died of COVID-19. As many as 112 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. Health officials said among the positive cases, 106 are indigenous. Two persons have travelled to Chennai and four persons have returned from Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. Rise in Tiruppur A police constable, a staff nurse and five Tangedco employees were among the 51 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tiruppur district on Saturday, which is its highest single-day increase. The constable, aged 31, was attached to the Mulanur police station near Dharapuram. Police sources said he might have contracted the corona virus at the checkpost he was posted. Mulanur police station was disinfected on Saturday and Health Department officials lifted swab samples of 23 police personnel at the station. The 29-year-old staff nurse works at the Udumalpet Government Hospital. The five infected employees of the Tangedo office at Kumaran Nagar in Tiruppur Corporation limits are three women aged 52, 42 and 46, two men aged 41 and 36, Health Department sources said. Six other cases, including a two-year-old girl, were reported from Mission Street in Tiruppur Corporation limits. Cases were also reported in Udumalpet, Avinashi, Pongalur, Dharapuram, Uthukuli and Gudimangalam Blocks. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan tweeted that 1,009 swab samples were lifted across the district as part of contact tracing, and 30 COVID-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. In Namakkal, 51 cases were reported. Among them, 42 are contacts of previous cases, four persons have travelled to districts like Erode, Salem, and Kalakuruchi and one person has returned from Karnataka. A total of 31 persons recorded positive in Krishnagiri taking the total number of active cases to 322. In Dharmapuri, a total of 30 persons tested positive and 25 persons were discharged. Erode district reported 22 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 586. While six cases were contact of positive cases, 10 were unlinked, two cases were inter-district travel and four were inter-State travel.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore city sees rush at shops before total lockdown||Coimbatore district went into complete lockdown from 5 p.m. on Saturday in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19. However, several shops saw people rushing to buy the weekend needs before the lockdown. Supermarkets and grocery shops saw higher than usual crowd till evening in several areas. Tasmac outlets in the district witnessed rush on Saturday evening as sales were wound up by 5 p.m. The police said that they had to control buyers at a few outlets in the city and rural areas. Dorairaj Chinnasamy of Pazhamudhir Nilayam says the supermarkets saw a rush from morning till 2 p.m. or so and the demand was mainly for fruits and vegetables. MGR Market traders said they had to stop about 100 tonnes of vegetables from coming to the city on Saturday evening as they would not be able to unload it because of the lockdown. The lockdown will end at 6 a.m. on Monday and MGR market will start functioning from 6 a.m. However, normal functioning and arrival of vegetables will be only on Tuesday, they said. Anna Market traders, who have stalls at GCT campus, said they will open the shops at about 5 a.m. on Monday. The police and revenue department officials also stopped vehicles at several checkpoints in the district after 5 p.m. They imposed fine on motorists who crossed the check points after 5 p.m., though many of them claimed that they were unaware of the complete lockdown starting Saturday evening. The police registered cases against motorists who violated prohibitory orders. At Karumathampatti, tahsildar Meenakumari and police inspector Shanmuam led the vehicle check. Ukkadam to Karumbukadai road, where the flyover works are going on, witnessed heavy traffic on Saturday evening with two-wheelers moving slowly. A video of the traffic congestion on the stretch was shared widely on social media.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jewellers launch drive to identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms||With increasing number of COVID-19 cases in jewellery making localities in Coimbatore Corporation limits, the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association and Coimbatore Jewellers Association have launched a drive with the support of Coimbatore Unified Goldsmiths Association to identify persons with COVID symptoms in these areas. B. Muthuvenkatraman, president of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association, said they have formed six teams with five members in each. The members are provided with thermal scanners, oximeters, face shields, masks, disinfectant cans, and sanitisers. They will visit about 50 houses/goldsmithies a day - two hours in the morning and evening each - and check the residents for temperature or any other COVID-19 symptoms. If they identify anyone with symptoms, they will inform the associations, which in turn will alert the officials concerned. “We have provided the team members with uniforms too and have advised them to be polite to people when they visit the houses. This drive is to help the district administration control the spread of COVID-19 in the jewellery making cluster in Coimbatore. If any of the team member is unable to go for the checking on a particular day, another person will join the team,” he said. The associations have spent Rs. 40,000 so far for the the drive, will continue to provide disinfectants and sanitisers and will also support the Coimbatore Corporation with disinfectants to be sprayed in these areas. “This is the first phase and it will continue till the cases reduce,” Mr. Muthuvenkatraman added.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.K. Market to reopen at 6 a.m. tomorrow||T.K. Market, off Raja Street, would reopen at 6 a.m. Monday after the end of the total lockdown, said the Market Traders’ Association president M. Rajendran. The traders would abide by the district administration’s order extending the lockdown from 5 p.m. Saturday to 6 a.m. Monday. Usually the traders opened shops for business at 5 a.m. and wound up by 2 p.m. Keeping in mind the extension of the complete lockdown by 13 hours, the traders closed down at 3 p.m. Saturday. The extension would not affect the business as they stood to lose only an hour on Monday. Instead of opening shops at 5 a.m., they would have to open at 6 a.m. Mr. Rajendran also said that the medical camp that the Corporation had conducted a few days ago had showed that there was no new COVID-19 case among the traders or daily wagers dependent on the market. Therefore, the traders had reopened the market on Thursday last, three days ahead of the scheduled reopening on Monday.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation shuts down wholesale fish market||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday shutdown the wholesale fish market after Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath found violation of COVID-19 safety precautions. The Corporation had shutdown the market indefinitely, until further orders, Mr. Jatavath said after he paid a surprise visit to the market around 4.30 a.m. When he went there, there were around 1,000 people. At least 60% were without mask and the majority of the rest had their mask on the neck. The market was so full of people that it was impossible for neither the sellers nor buyers to observe physical distance norms, he said. “A handful of sand dropped from above would not have reached the ground as it was over crowded,” he said. It was only after he took to task the traders that many started pulling their mask towards nose. And many others pulled it out of their pockets to wear it. This was completely in contravention of the directions the district administration and Corporation had issued and the promises traders had made. To stop the violations and prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Corporation decided to shutdown the market. Following his instruction, when the Corporation officials attempted to seal the market, they faced resistance from the traders, who wanted the market to be kept open. H.S. Bawa, president of the wholesale fish traders’ association, said it was only a few weeks ago that the Corporation had allowed them to resume business, after having shut it during the early phases of the lockdown. This closure until further orders would affect those dependent on the trade to make their ends meet. In fact, more people like autorickshaw drivers had taken to the fish trade as they had lost their source of income. After some tough negotiations, the Corporation officials in the South Zone managed to shut the market. Fever clinic held In a related development, the Corporation conducted a fever clinic at the retail fish market on Perur Bypass Road.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation conducts targeted disinfection drive||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday began a targeted disinfection drive in the city. Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said the civic body began the drive in Central Zone, targeting Big Bazaar Street, Raja Street, Sullivan Street, Vysial Street, Telugu Street, Karuppa Gounder Street and Ukkadam G.M. Nagar – all areas that had seen COVID-19 positive cases in the past few days. The civic body had assembled all vehicles in the zone at a particular spot for a rally in the affected areas before beginning the drive. The move was aimed at drawing the residents’ attention and conveying the seriousness of COVID-19. The drive, Mr. Jatavath said, was for two hours where the civic body deployed all the vehicles to spray disinfectants. This would be the norm henceforth in areas that had persons with COVID-19 and those that the civic body identified vulnerable. The Corporation had not drawn up a schedule for the drive because the COVID-19 hotspots in the city changed by the day. The targeted drive was unlike the regular disinfection measure where a vehicle would spray disinfectant in a given area, irrespective of whether or not it had a COVID-19 positive person. But the new drive would not in any way affect the regular work as after being a part of the targeted drive, the Corporation would redeploy the vehicles to spray disinfectant on routine course.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribute to a dancer with a special Chennai connection||Legendary dancer Amala Shankar, who died at the age of 101 on Friday, had a special connection with Chennai. She and her legendary husband Uday Shankar lived in a house on Boag Road in T.Nagar, and it was in that house after a performance that Uday Shankar proposed to his fellow artist Amala. She had loved the handsome artist intensely, imagining him to be her Karthikeya. She knew there were many other women wooing him too. At 97, she recollected the incident with glee in her eyes. Late night, there was a knock on the door and it was Uday Shankar! He told her he had decided to get married. Concealing her grief at the sudden news, she congratulated him. He, 19 years older than her, asked her if she was not interested in knowing the name of the girl. He, in a movie script fashion, pronounced her name and swept her off her feet. She recollected, sitting in the house of Dr. Jagadeeshan of KJ hospitals, the agony and ecstasy of being married to the legend and how his heart was stolen by someone else but that it was she, Amala, who cared for him in his last days. That house at No. 19, Boag Road (now Chevalier Sivaji Ganesan Road) was the venue for many rehearsals. Dancers Lalita, Padmini, Ragini and musicians Lakshmi Shankar and Kamala and several known names of art world conversed there. The house was leased out to the Communist Party of India by Uday Shankar when the family moved back to Kolkata. But when the building was razed down for renovation, Amala Shankar was in Chennai and was engrossed in memories as she stood on the site and even danced a few moves. She was able to retrieve the name plates but not the steps on which the footprints of Uday Shankar, hers, son Ananda Shankar, daughter Mamta Shankar were embedded in cement. She considered the family of Dr. Jagadeeshan her Madras family and kept coming back as often as she could. Their son Keshav and the grandchildren Manav and Vaibhav became very dear to her. Meera Jagadeeshan says their first meeting was in the eighties when she brought her troupe to perform for a function of KJ Hospitals. They had a long friendship and hosted her each time she came to Chennai. She would make a beeline to her tailor in T.Nagar who made perfect blouses for her. “She made our grandson play the mridangam and dance to it, making the nine decades of gap between them disappear. They cried, Don’t go! each time she went back to Kolkata,” says Meera Jagadeeshan.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State’s case count crosses 2-lakh mark||However, while the overall case count had grown by more than 100% since, the number of active cases had increased by only 21.7%, to 52,273, as of Saturday. As much as 73% of COVID-19 patients have recovered. The State has also maintained a comparatively low case fatality rate of 1.65%, as of Saturday. T.N. has tested 2,200,433 persons so far — the highest in the country. *Population is taken as per UIDAI’s projection of 7.78 crore as of May 31, 2020.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hoping for a revival||
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six die in Coimbatore, one in Salem||Six more persons have died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, Health Department said on Friday. Four persons died on Thursday and one each on Friday and Saturday, taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district to 38. As per the media bulletin issued by the Department, a 51-year-old man who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday died around 5.30 a.m. on Saturday. Four others aged 57, 55, 65 and 96 also died of the disease at the CMCH on Thursday. The sixth death was that of a 52-year-old man at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday. An elderly man affected by COVID-19 died during the early hours of Saturday at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem. According to authorities, the 65-year-old man from Attayampatti had suffered severe injuries in a road accident, a few days ago and the patient was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 66.23 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 4,757 cusecs, and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.
26 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Poll code violation case against Yediyurappa||The Judicial Magistrate First Class, Gokak, has taken cognisance of an offence of violating the election code of conduct by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The court has ordered the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru, to issue summons to the CM, returnable by September 1. The judge issued the order on June 26. The case refers to a speech by Mr. Yediyurappa during his campaign for the BJP candidate Ramesh Jarkiholi during the Assembly bypolls in November 2019. Officers of the flying squad of the model code of conduct enforcement cell had registered a case against Mr. Yediyurappa for his speeches made in Gokak during his campaign. Mr. Yediyurappa had allegedly addressed a group of Veerashaiva-Lingayat community voters and asked them to ensure that the community’s vote goes to the BJP candidate. He “appealed that the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community members’ vote shall be consolidated and they shall not disperse here and there….’’ The squad had sought action against him as per the relevant laws. The case was taken up by the JMFC court in Gokak in 2019. However, the investigation officer filed a B report saying there was not enough prima facie material evidence to go ahead with filing the criminal case. The officer quoted the flying squad members who said that they had filed the case under the wrong assumption due to pressure of work. However, Judge Veeresh Kumar C.K., who watched the video of the speeches, found enough documentary evidence to reject the B report. The court has directed assistant public prosecutor to register a criminal case under the Representation of the People Act and Indian Penal Code 171F (punishment for undue influence during elections).
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. turns one, but there are battles to be won||The Bharatiya Janata Party government in Karnataka led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is turning one on Sunday amidst the health crisis created by COVID-19. One year ago, just when the government took over, the State was faced with another crisis - devastating floods. On the first anniversary, there is little enthusiasm for any celebration in the government. Though leaders attribute it to the health crisis, it is quite a picture of contrast to the recent first anniversary of the Union government which was marked by a series of web-based conventions and outreach programmes. An astute politician, Mr. Yediyurappa brought his party to power by bringing down the erstwhile coalition government through defections, with the promise of better governance. The anniversary would have been an occasion to show how the promise was made good. Financial issues But the last one year, moving from one crisis to another and the serious financial crunch, has left the government not much to claim in terms of administration, admit leaders. “In fact, we have not been seeing any changes in terms of administration between the erstwhile coalition government and the present dispensation,” observed a party leader, who was an staunch critic of the coalition government. He argued that this has happened mainly due to the lack of hold on bureaucracy and administrative machinery, the all-too-visible lack of coordination among Ministers and a certain confusion on whether Mr. Yediyurappa is calling the shots or the party high command has too firm a grip. There is also efforts by some sections to take advantage of the age factor of the Chief Minister, who is now 77. Lateral entrants In fact, there is apprehension that history might be repeating itself, with the situation being somewhat similar to Mr. Yediyurappa’s earlier stint as Chief Minister in 2008 when those who made a lateral entry into the BJP from other parties got aligned with him. So much so that those from the party cadre started feeling that they were being alienated. This paved the way for a gulf between Mr. Yediyurappa and the party, resulting in his downfall as Chief Minister. Even now a significant number of party leaders feel that they are left out, considering that Mr. Yediyurappa is obligated to provide ministerial berths to defectors who came from other parties. Some of the defectors who got ministerial berths do not have administrative experience, which is showing up during COVID-19. Barring one or two, most of the new Ministers are yet to make their presence felt in their departments. The lack of coordination among Ministers is showing up publicly in pandemic management. A section of party workers feel that even the party State organisation is not strong enough to intervene and provide clarity. “Since we have opted for Operation Lotus route to come to power this time also, such problems are bound to arise,” observed a strategist of the party. Single-handed effort However, a Minister close to Mr. Yediyurappa maintained that it is because of the COVID-19 situation that the government has not been able to focus on other issues. “This should not be seen as under-performance,” he said. “The situation with respect to development is more or less similar in all States,” he added. Seeking to downplay Mr. Yediyurappa’s age factor, he pointed out that the Chief Minister had handled a major crisis marked by floods single-handedly in the initial days after he took over. Amidst all this, the government is also facing criticism over sweeping legislative changes, including those to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and APMC Act. Interestingly, even Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, backed by RSS, plans a protest from July 27. Meanwhile, the Opposition has also upped its ante on allegations of irregularities in purchase of medical equipment. In fact, some of the Ministers admit that the government would have been in a crisis over other issues of performance if not for the COVID-19 situation, which is currently occupying all the public and administrative attention.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students face new set of hurdles as college admissions kick off||Admissions to undergraduate courses is proving to be a challenge for students and many of them have requested colleges to defer the collection of fees.Others have petitioned their colleges for infrastructure fees to be waived as they no longer have access to these facilities. A student of a deemed-to-be university in the State said they require labs, access to libraries, and studios to learn. “Our university has said that online classes will commence shortly, but they made little investment to improve digital infrastructure. We want them to remove the infrastructure costs from our fees for this academic year,” she said. Classes for the 2020–21 academic year are expected to commence on September 1, but students say they are struggling not just with the payment of fees but also the admission process. Applicants from rural areas have to travel to Bengaluru to complete admission formalities as many colleges have insisted that students need to come to campus in person. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, said colleges need to make internal arrangements to ensure that students were not at a disadvantage. “No student should suffer for their inability to pay fees. Colleges should allow them to pay in two or three instalments,” he said.  Manystudents’ organisations are worried that students, especially those from lower economic background, may drop out and not pursue higher education owing to financial constraints. Sithara H.M., Bengaluru district president, All-India Democratic Students Organisation, said students were clueless about the admission process and there was a need for the government to intervene. “College managements should not collect fees till physical classes resume. The number of COVID-19 cases is expected to rise in September and it is not practical to have physical classes at this time,” she said. Seniorofficials in the Higher Education Department, however, said the government cannot not prescribe fees for private colleges. Lack of rooms Another problem is the lack of rooms for students from other parts of the country as many university hostels are being used as Covid Care Centres. “Universities need to ensure that students are given accommodation in these hostels only after the premises have been sanitised,” Ms. Sithara added. A few colleges such as National College have decided not to increase their fees for the coming academic year. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal of National College, Basavanagudi, said the college management had taken this decision in light of the pandemic and its impact on the financial resources of families. However, students applying for seats still have to personally submit hard copies of their admission forms even if they have completed the process online. St. Joseph’s College has done away with parking fees, and is allowing students to pay tuition fees in three installments.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In 23 days, Bengaluru city saw 36,563 more cases||The data coming out of the COVID-19 war room paints a rather grim picture of Bengaluru, with the city adding a whopping 36,563 cases to its tally in just 23 days since June 30. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area accounted for nearly half the total number of cases, with 41,467 as on Friday evening. On Saturday, it added another 2,036 cases. As of 8 a.m. on Saturday, Karnataka had 85,870 cases, behind Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, according to the Centre’s Corona Watch. Bengaluru’s BBMP area went from 386 positive cases as on May 31 to 4,904 by June 30. The positivity rate has correspondingly seen a sharp spike: from 1.17% until May 31 to 6.91% by June 30 and 16.2% by July 24. But are allegations of the city “losing the plot” true? Though the BBMP has admitted that unlocking contributed significantly to the rise in numbers, it has also maintained that testing numbers have gone up. According to the BBMP war room data, 45,928 tests were conducted till until May 31. By June 30, the number was 70,973, and as on Friday it was 2,54,985. Unlock effect Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said, “The unlocking had a major effect. Cases spiked, tasks also increased manifold. It was not impossible, but it definitely became difficult. Everyone was trying to ramp up mechanisms. Primary contacts are most likely to contract the virus, so when the patient is identified, testing and tracking happens continuously. Testing numbers have also gone up. Every city will go through this cycle where there will be a plateau, then it will taper down. There is a cycle for the pandemic also. Bengaluru has seen the spike. Now we are at it to ensure we can reduce fatalities. The idea is to make it minimal,” she said. She also said the “behavioural aspect” cannot be disregarded in pandemic management, which is why decentralisation is among the measures introduced to cover ward, booth, and zonal levels. “We are not in isolation from the context in the country. Wealso had an idea that numbers would spike once the lockdown ended. Several steps were taken in the last one month — ambulances at the ward level, hospital bed management, decentralised COVID-19 care centres, and zonal command centres,” she said. ‘Dynamic’ situation The BBMP is also relying on the ‘INDEX Application’ introduced this month for real-time push of information on COVID-19 cases for action by zone, including shifting of patient to either hospitals or CCCs based on symptoms, arranging ambulances, and tracking the patient. “The pandemic is dynamic and we are in a fluid situation. It is not a predictable or controlled environment,” Ms. Korlapati said. Citizens, she said, can play a r role as the pandemic has a lot to dowith civic behaviour. Behavioural changes and self-discipline, with community initiatives, would help.  Every city will go through this cycle where there will be a plateau, then it will taper down. There is a cycle for the pandemic also. Bengaluru has seen the spike. Now we are at it to ensure we can reduce fatalities Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alternate shops to open by turn in pete area from tomorrow||After over a month of being shut down and declared as a containment zone, the wholesale hub in the old pete area of the city will adopt an odd-even formula to return to business from Monday. These areas include Chickpet, BVK Iyengar Road, Avenue Road, N.T. Pet, and City Market. “It was suggested that shops along the left and right lanes open on alternate days. But since this may also lead to crowding on one lane, we have decided that alternate shops will open by turn on alternate days in the pete area from Monday till further orders,” said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad.  CM’s nod Multiple stakeholders, including traders, the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) and local elected representatives had petitioned the government citing financial losses, on Friday and Saturday. A decision to the effect was taken after a green signal was given by the Chief Minister on Saturday, sources said. Mr. Prasad said he would issue orders on Sunday with detailed guidelines to prevent the spread of infection. These will include strict implementation of social distancing, shops to work at 50% of their staff strength, and other hygiene measures, he said. C.R. Janardhana, president, FKCCI, who met Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Saturday, said the closure of the wholesale hub in the heart of the city had also had a cascading effect on several small-scale industries and retail markets of the city. “We are happy that the government has begun the process of return to normalcy. We hope all restrictions are removed after July 31 till when these areas have been declared containment zones,” he said. Sajjan Raj Mehta, senior trader from Chickpet, said the traders were in dire straits. “During the first lockdown, we shut shop for 54 days and again for a little over 30 days after the area was declared a containment zone. Over the last four months, we have not done business for nearly 90 days. The government has not helped traders at all,” he said. He welcomed the reopening of the market hub but predicted that business would be dull, as out-of-State customers who account for the bulk of business in the pete area are staying away.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After almost three weeks, Shramik Special train services resume from city||For the last three days, Khairul Munshi has been camping out at the mustering centre at Tripura Vasini waiting for a train to take him back to his family in Howrah. Finally, on Saturday evening, South Western Railway (SWR) restarted Shramik Special train services after a nearly three-week-long gap, and operated one train for people from the northeast, and from States such as Odisha and West Bengal. The Guwahati-bound train pulled out of Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station with 1,540 passengers at 6.40 p.m. It will stop at Nirgundi (Odisha), Howrah, and New Jalpaiguri. Prior to Saturday’s train, the SWR operated the last Shramik special on July 6 from Bengaluru to Dimapur with 1,600 passengers. E. Vijaya, chief public relations officer, SWR, said the service was resumed as per the requirement of the State government. “We received intimation on Friday. The train will cover multiple States for the benefit of the passengers,” she said.  Having lost his job, Mr. Munshi is relieved that he is finally getting to go back home. “I was working as a construction worker near Hoskote, but I lost the job after lockdown was imposed. I have spent months without any revenue. I hoped the situation would improve, but that didn’t happen,” he said. After the second lockdown ended on July 22, he decided to return home. “There is a lot of uncertainty and suffering here. In the past, I used to visit my family members in Howrah with some money in my pocket, but this time I am going back empty-handed,” he added. At the mustering centre, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike provided food and accommodation to migrants. Families, including children, were seen gathering at the centre waiting to board the train. In the past, the police were deployed in large numbers to oversee the process, but on Saturday, it was BBMP and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation officials who ensured that the over 1,500 passengers boarded the train safely. 264 trains run so far As per the requirement of the State government, the SWR started running trains for migrant workers from May 3. To date, the Railways has operated 264 Shramik Specials from various points across Karnataka, but the majority from Bengaluru Division. More than 3.85 lakh people have travelled back to their home townsince the outbreak of the pandemic. Demand for Shramik trains started reducing after June 20. Incidentally, services have resumed at a time when migrant workers who had left a few months ago are turning to Bengaluru in other special train services from various States. There are reports of builders booking flights to bring back construction workers to complete the pending projects in Bengaluru and other parts of the State such as Mangaluru.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Id-ul-Adha prayers banned at idgahs||With Id-ul-Adha approaching, the State government has banned congregational Id namaaz at idgahs and open spaces. People can offer prayers at mosques by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and taking other precautions, said an order issued by the Minority Welfare, Haj and Wakf Department. Advising people to maintain a distance of six feet from one another while offering prayers, the department said that not more than 50 persons can pray at a time. If required, prayers can be held in batches. While senior citizens and children are strictly not allowed to come out and pray, greeting each other by hugging and shaking hands should also be avoided, stated the order. Mosque management committees have been directed to ensure that every person who enters the mosque undergoes thermal scanning and sanitises his hands. People should be asked to carry their own prayer mats, theorder stated. However, religious head of the community in Karnataka Ameer-e-Shariath Moulana Sageer Ahmed Rashadi has issued an advisory stating that Id prayers can be offered at masjids, idgahs and available big Shadi Mahals. Advising people to offer prayers at 6.30 am on Id day, the Ameer-e-Shariath said that people should strictly follow all COVID-19 precautions. He also advised children and senior citizens to pray at home. With regard to the sacrifice of animals that is done during this festival, the religious head said people should strictly follow the government’s norms by not sacrificing cows and camels and should maintain cleanliness and hygienic conditions. Qurbani should not be performed on roads and streets, stated the advisory.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State now second only to Maharashtra in number of active cases in country||After reporting over 5,000 COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday, Karnataka now has the second-highest number of active cases in the country at 55,388, pushing Tamil Nadu to third place. Maharashtra continues to remain in first position with 1.45 lakh active cases. With the 5,072 new cases on Saturday, the total number of positive cases in Karnataka touched 90,942. The State continues to remain in fourth position in the country in terms of total number of positive cases. As many as 2,403 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 33,750. After recording 110 deaths on Friday, the number of daily fatalities came down to 72 on Saturday. The overall death toll now is 1,796. Of the 5,072 new cases on Saturday, Bengaluru Urban reported 2,036 cases. Thirty of the 72 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. The death toll in the district is now 862. With this, the total number of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 43,503, while the active case count touched 31,882. The numberof people discharged also crossed the 10,000-mark to touch 10,758. As many as 686 patients from Bengaluru Urban were discharged on Saturday. The State also conducted a record 32,765 tests on Saturday. This included 11,256 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests conducted in the State touched 11,43,262. After Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Belagavi, and Dakshina Kannada reported a major chunk of the positive cases, with 341, 222, and 218 cases, respectively. Sample testing Taking note of the delay in sample testing in ICMR-approved labs in the districts, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Saturday reviewed the progress and discussed the reasons for delayed results with district administrative heads through a videoconference meeting. The Chief Secretary directed the district heads not to delay sample results beyond 72 hours from time of collection. “There should be a maximum gap of 24 hours between sample collection and transportation to labs, a maximum of 24 hours between arrival of sample at the lab and data entry, and a maximum of 24 hours between data entry and getting test results.” Software is being developed to monitor the process, from sample collection to movement between labs and districts, he said.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four designated crematoriums in city for COVID-19 victims||Four crematoriums have now been designated for COVID-19 fatalities by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has also announced waivers and incentives to streamline the process. In two orders dated July 24, the civic body listed a slew of measures to benefit both families of the victims, as well as crematorium staff. Complaints As Bengaluru continues to see a surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths, there have been an increasing number of complaints of bereaved families being made to undergo long waits and pay unspecified amounts to ensure that their loved ones get a dignified farewell. At the same time, the crematorium staff have expressed anxiety in handling the bodies as they fear contracting the infection. In the other order, the civic body has announced a waiver of the Rs. 250 cremation fees, as well as Rs. 1,000 worth of other cremation expenses, which the BBMP will bear, and Rs. 500 incentive to the staff of the crematorium. So far, the BBMP had extended the timings of electric crematoriums to operate from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. to prevent overcrowding, as it had become common feature for ambulances carrying bodies to be seen queued up outside awaiting their turn. This had been attributed to deaths related to both, COVID-19 as well as other causes, coming to the same crematorium, leading to a pile up and delays. Premises have to be sanitised after the cremation of a COVID-19 victim. New order In the new order, the BBMP has designated one crematorium each in Rajarajeshwarinagar (Kengeri), Yelahanka (Medi Agrahara), Mahadevapura (Kudlu), and Bommanahalli (Panathur) as designated COVID-19 facilities. The BBMP has also said that the vehicles, the crematoria, and the equipment and materials used to transport the bodies must be sanitised, while the staff should be wearing PPEs.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curfew in force today||Though the weeklong lockdown ended earlier this week, the weekend curfew will remain in effect till early Monday morning. The State government had imposed curfew till the end of July and unless otherwise extended, this will be the last Sunday that movement will be restricted. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said all the rules of the Sunday lockdown would remain effective and only essential services and emergency travel would be allowed. No passes would be issued and anyone seen loitering in the street would be seriously dealt with. While all grocery, meat, and milk stores will be allowed, hotels will only be open for takeaways, and e-commerce platforms will only deliver essentials. The noon deadline imposed during the weeklong lockdown would not apply, sources said. All forms of transport would be off the road, while malls and places of worship, etc. would remain closed. The Bengaluru traffic police have closed all flyovers and barricaded major roads. The curfew began on Saturday at 9 p.m. and would be lifted on Monday at 5 a.m.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kame Gowda recovering||Octogenarian shepherd Kame Gowda from Mandya, who had earned praise for building waterbodies in his native village Dasanadoddi in Mandya district near here, was shifted to Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) on Saturday after concerns were expressed over his health. Mr. Kame Gowda, who was under treatment for a fractured leg, had been admitted to a dedicated COVID-19 hospital in Malavalli after testing positive. He was shifted to MIMS on Saturday and the district administration put out a statement that he was responding well to treatment. Earlier in the day, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had tweeted that he had called the Director of MIMS soon after he learnt that Mr. Kame Gowda’s condition was serious and directed that he be provided with proper medical treatment. He also said he would pray for the early recovery of Mr. Kame Gowda, who has been an inspiration to the entire country.
26 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||PESSAT 2020 from August 1||PES University will be conducting PES Scholastic Aptitude Test (PESSAT) 2020 for admission to B.Tech programme. According to a release, the test will be held across the country in over 35 centres from August 1 to 20. Slot bookings for PESSAT 2020 willcommence from July 26. For details, email info@pes.edu or visitwww.pes.edu
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Donation sought||Women of Charaka and Desi Trust, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, will honour #CovidFrontline Warriors through their campaign #Weave Lives Gift Warriors.Women of Charaka and Desi Trust have sought support through donation with a minimum of Rs. 101 and multiples, before August 3. For details, email desitrust@gmail.com, or call 9483361466.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 31.6 cr. for purchase of equipment||The State government has released Rs. 31.62 crore to the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society for procurement of medical equipment such as ventilators. A Government Order, dated July 23, stated that the amount was released from the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority COVID-19 CSR fund.
26 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA seeks govt. support for MSMEs||The industry body representing the MSME sector in Karnataka, KASSIA, has asked the State government to extend a few benefits to help the sector sustain itself. In a memorandum to Jagadish Shettar, Minister of Large and Medium Industries, K.B. Arasappa, president of KASSIA, flagged the need for State departments and public sector undertakings to procure from the State’s MSMEs all their requirements for products, materials and services. “The State should take immediate steps to ensure that notices and penalties are not issued for minor transgressions at least for the current year,” he added.
26 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi recovers||Minister for Tourism and Kananda and Culture C.T. Ravi has recovered from COVID-19. He was under home isolation after he tested positive on July 12. He tested negative on Thursday. Speaking to presspersons at his farmhouse near here on Friday, the Minister said he had recovered after spending 14 days under home isolation. “As I had no symptoms, the doctors suggested home isolation. I used to walk and do yoga regularly. I ate regular food and took immunity boosters suggested by an Ayurveda doctor,” he said. Fresh cases The total number of confirmed cases in Chikkamagaluru increased to 616 on Saturday. As many as 42 people tested positive on Saturday. So far, 314 patients have been discharged and 223 are under treatment. So far, 17 people have died due to the infection.
26 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||152 new COVID-19 cases reported in Hassan dist.||The total number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 crossed 1,500 in Hassan district on Saturday, with 152 fresh cases reported. So far, 41 people have died of the infection. A bulletin issued by the district administration said 1,508 people had tested positive for the infection here so far. Among them, 778 people have been discharged and 689 are undergoing treatment. As many as 25 are being treated in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases reported, 41 are from Arsikere taluk, 35 from Hassan, 20 from Holenarsipur, 18 from Channarayapatna, 15 from Arkalgud, 11 from Belur, eight from Sakaleshpur, and four from Alur taluk.
26 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa lists RDPR’s achievements||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that his department registered remarkable achievements last year since the BJP came to power in State. Addressing a pressmeet in Shivamogga on Saturday, he said the department focused on providing drinking water, improving groundwater table, road development, basic infrastructure facilities, and employment generation in rural area this year.
26 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Surgeon Arunkumar Badsheshi passes away||After battling cancer for a year, noted surgeon and former Head of the department of general surgery at Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College, Arunkumar Badsheshi, 75, passed away on Saturday morning. Dr. Badsheshi, who had the distinction of being the first plastic surgeon in Kalaburagi, had a large community of students who were serving as doctors. “Dr. Badsheshi was a great surgeon and the finest human being. He was my teacher and mentor. Dr. Badsheshi was one of the earliest persons in my life who encouraged me and infused a great deal of confidence in me. His values will always remain a guiding light to us,” Dr. Vikram Siddareddy, student of Dr. Badsheshi and chairman and MD of United Hospital, said, condoling the demise of his teacher. Terming Dr. Badsheshi as a humble and creative human being, Dr. Sharad M. Tanga, Head of department of surgery at Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College, said the departed doctor was known for neat and demonstrative surgery. “Dr. Badsheshi has mentored and helped many young and budding surgeons,” Dr. Tanga said.
26 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Varsity staff complain about non-payment of salaries||Heads of various departments and faculty members of the Khaja Banda Nawaz University, Kalaburagi, have written to various authorities complaining of non-payment of salaries by the management from January to June. President of India, Prime Minister, Union Human Resources Development Minister, Union Labour and Employment Minister, Chief Minister of Karnataka, Higher Education Minister of Karnataka, chairman of University Grant Commission, and chairman of All India Council for Technical Education, were among those the letter was addressed to. Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi B. Sharat, who was one of the addressees, confirmed the receipt of the letter. The faculty members alleged that the non-payment of salaries for months together has been the habit of the management. “But, this habit had attained a new low because the thought of not getting salaries for six months during the pandemic is scary and yet we have been forced to live with it. The faculty members have been taking online classes regularly,” the faculty said in the letter.  A.M. Pathan, V-C of Khaja Banda Nawaz University, a private university under which the institution functions, told The Hindu: “I am on leave and I have to contact the Accounts Department to know the issue.” However, Syed Muhammad Ali Al Hussaini, vice-president of the Khaja Education Society, accepted the non-payment of salaries to the staff for the last “few months” and attributed the problem to the pandemic. “COVID-19 has caused crisis everywhere. Students are not paying fees and we are finding it difficult to run the institution,” he said.
26 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||ASHAs continue protest||The ASHAs’ Statewide protest under the banner of All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) demanding minimum monthly wage of Rs. 12,000 and other benefits, entered 15th day on Friday. They said that amid the pandemic, they were risking their lives to combat COVID-19 as they regularly conduct surveys to identify high-risk individuals and those with comorbidities. They also visit the containment areas without the optimum protection needed. The association district organiser Shivalingamma Nandur said that ASHAs in the State had stopped work for the last 15 days. “Though Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar promised to fulfil our demands within a couple of days, he has not done so,” she added.
26 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘District, taluk hospitals will have high-flow oxygen by August 15’||The State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Saturday that all district and taluk hospitals in the State will have high-flow oxygen facility by August 15. Addressing presspersons on the occasion of the BJP government led by B.S. Yediyurappa completing a year, Mr. Kateel said the facility would help treat many COVID-19 patients who required oxygen support. He claimed that Karnataka occupied second place in managing COVID-19 effectively in the country. Mr. Kateel said the State government had planned to provide piped drinking water supply to all houses in rural areas by 2023. As part of the project, it had been planned to connect 23.57 lakh rural houses at an estimated cost of Rs. 8,984.52 crore during 2020-21. Mr. Kateel said that notwithstanding the drought, flood and spread of COVID-19 during the last one year, the government had tried its best to maintain economic stability. The COVID-19 had forced the government to shift the focus of its priority areas. Justifying the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, he said that it would help farmers. Replying to a question on deaths due to COVID-19 nearing 100 in Dakshina Kannada, Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada, said that in addition to COVID-19 patients from Dakshina Kannada, other patients from neighbouring districts and States are also getting admitted in different hospitals in the district to avail treatment for comorbidities. Such patients are also getting tested positive for COVID-19. Hence, it would will take time to analyse the exact reasons for the deaths of such patients. In some cases, patients were getting admitted to hospitals very late, he said.
26 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SDM College launches digital lock facility; uploads e-lectures||Students at Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheswara College, an autonomous institution under Mangalore University, at Ujire can henceforth store their educational documents in a digital platform, SDM Digi-lock, launched recently. The facility has been made available to students from the 2019-20 batch onwards. With this the students can preserve their marks cards, certificates and other records in the digital form. “Every record of an individual student will be made available in the protected server of the institution. There is also a provision to provide PDF copies of all documents,” secretary of SDM Educational Society B. Yashovarma said in a release. Students can get their original documents by entering separate user name and password through the institution’s website and the new mobile app developed for the same purpose. Graduates can get certificates of educational qualification from anywhere across the globe and use them for government administrative requirements. “It is a reliable source of systematic digitalised preservation which also protects all documents from manipulation. The Digi-lock is eco-friendly with online authentication of certifying so that students need not take printout of the records. But options have been given to take printout as well,” Mr. Yashovarma, former principal of the college, said. The college video-recorded 1,000 lecture sessions during the lockdown and has uploaded 800 of them on the YouTube channel. The e-lectures differ from the traditional method of taking class for one hour. Each e-lecture session lasts from 8 to 10 minutes. This module consists of PPT, digital board and other teaching aids which attract students to perceive the syllabus topic comprehensively. It is an asynchronous learning method in which students can rewind audio-visual texts from anywhere around the globe. It is useful for both regular and non-participant class students. The e-lectures are not only for the undergraduate and post-graduate students of the college but also for those who are pursuing their studies in other government and private colleges in different parts of the country. The lectures which are available through the online ‘SDM E-Resource’ channel cover Arts, Science and Commerce streams. In the coming days, the society intends to record lectures related to Naturopathy and Engineering streams and make them accessible freely to students on the same online platform. In another move, the college has converted its annual magazine, Manisha, into electronic mode and its PDF is shared among students. Launching the initiatives, society president D. Veerendra Heggade said: “The college has unveiled innovative initiatives to enable students face different challenges of the forthcoming competitive world. It is done by ensuring a digitally enriched qualitative educational system, based on eco-friendly perspectives.”
26 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NMPT improves traffic performance in Q1 this fiscal||Notwithstanding COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT), one of the 14 major ports of India, has surpassed the performance recorded in Quarter 1 of 2019-2020 during the current Q1. As against 8.9 million tonnes of cargo handled during the previous Q1, the port handled 9.2 million tonnes of cargo during the quarter ending June 30 this year. This despite handling lesser number of vessels (277) during Q1 this fiscal as against 321 vessels handled during Q1 of the previous year. There were considerable improvements in average pre berthing delays (from 1.68 days to 1.44 days), average turnaround time of vessels (from 48.74 hours to 47.8 hour), and average output per berth (from 14,774 tonnes to 17,746 tonnes), according to statistics prepared by the research department of the port. The increase in traffic volume during Q1 of the current financial year was mainly due to increased unloading of crude oil for Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) and Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve (ISPRL). As against 2.5 million tonnes of crude unloaded during Q1 of 2019-20, the port unloaded 4.2 million tonnes this Q1 to facilitate government’s move to store as much crude as possible when international prices were down during April-May. Commenting on the performance, port chairman A.V. Ramana said it was very good considering the pandemic time when there was considerable reduction in demand from major captive cargo consumers, including JSW Steel, cement industries in North Karnataka and the Udupi Power Corporation Ltd. Crude import made good the reduction in demand from other sectors. Captive cargo, including crude and coal, constituted 78% of the port traffic, Mr. Ramana told The Hindu.  He said the performance should be considered good at a time when MRPL was functioning to about 40% of its capacity due to reduced demand for fuel while KIOCL could not dispatch three consignments to China during the period. There were no cruise vessels either. However container traffic, fertilisers etc., have helped the port to tide over the crisis, the chairman said. Despite a few COVID-19 positive cases getting reported among workers, the port is functioning to its full capacity as it has put alternative plans in place, he said.
26 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on charge of murder||A 45-year-old resident of Yermal was allegedly murdered by his friend Albert D’Souza, 50, and the latter set the body ablaze in Punchalkadu of Kapu Taluk on Friday, according to Udupi Shivra police. The police gave the name of the deceased as Hemant Poojary. They said Hemant and Albert had and argument in an inebriated state and the latter hit the former. Hemant died around noon. In the evening, D’Souza set the body ablaze in an open space on his premises.
26 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner stumped to hear he had tested ‘positive’!||The district administration is on a wild goose chase to trace a local resident who appeared for COVID-19 test but left behind the Deputy Commissioner’s phone number in his contact details. The individual suspected to be from Hebbal went to the local health authorities for the test on Saturday and filled the details, including his contact number. Sources said the test results on Sunday showed up as positive and the control room promptly called the number provided by the individual and broke the news to him. “You have tested positive and should undergo quarantine,” said the person at the control room. But the call was received by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar who was for a minute taken aback and identified himself and questioned what it was all about. Verification of details This baffled the personnel at the control room and the district health authorities who immediately dug into the details of the individual who had appeared for the test, verified his address as provided at the time of being tested and then discovered that the contact number that was registered against his name, was that of the Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Sankar, who confirmed the incident, said someone had apparently done so and the identity of the person was yet to be ascertained. He later said the individual was identified as a primary contact and not positive and it was being verified.  Contact tracing issues Whether it was a deliberate act of mischief to evade quarantine is not clear. If so, the address given should be bogus too. But a senior MCC official said it may be an inadvertent error while noting down the number that may have led to the confusion or else the person would not have come for the test in the first place. However, other sources in the district administration averred that of late many people were playing truant and withholding details, switching off their mobile phones and creating hurdles in contact tracing.
26 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Nagara Amavasya celebrated||Residents of the police colony and locality of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes at old Ashraya Colony in Raichur city celebrated Nagara Amavasya. Early on Saturday, C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, visited the police staff quarters and joined colleagues and their families to celebrate amavasya. He distributed varieties of saplings and told the staff to plant them to ensure greenery. “We should focus on planting trees and protecting the environment for the next generation,” Dr. Vedamurthy said.  Grievance meeting Later, he held a Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes grievance meeting in old Ashraya colony and addressed the problems of residents. Dr. Vedamurthy promised them protection of their rights under law and criminal action against those who disturbed them. Dr. Vedamurthy distributed sweets to the colony residents. Usually, people pour milk on the stone idol of snake during amavasya. But, here they received trees to be planted instead.
26 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Five more held in murder case||The Sindhanur police on Saturday arrested five accused in connection with the murder of five persons at Sukal Pet in Sindhanur city on July 11, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has said. He gave the name of the arrested as Dodda Fakirappa, Hanumantha, Honnurappa, Basalingappa, and Amaresh. Mounesh and Manjula were from the same community and had gotten married against the wish of the girl’s family. Her father Sanna Fakirappa, who was arrested on the same day of the crime, had developed enmity against Mounesh’s family. He and four others attacked Mounesh’s family with weapons and brutally murdered five people including his father and mother. The police made five arrests on the day of the crime, Dr. Vedamurthy said.
26 July 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Rowdy-sheeter murdered||Unidentified miscreants hacked a rowdy-sheeter to death in Vijayapura on Friday night. Satish Reddy Naganur, 28, was killed by three miscreants who attacked him outside a dhaba on Solapur road. The police said he bled to death after he was attacked with sticks and stones. The victim was returning home after dinner with two friends, when the miscreants waylaid them, said a police officer.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Belagavi registers highest single-day spike in cases||Belagavi district recorded 341 COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday. This is the highest single-day peak since the pandemic broke out. The total number of active cases in the district are 1,461. A total of 491 persons have been discharged. There have been a total of 40 deaths. Of the 39,005 samples collected, 33,290 have tested negative.  Court sealed The court in Athani was sealed after a judicial officer tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Swab samples of some employees were collected. The court may reopen in a few days, an officer said. The Ramdurg town municipal council office was sealed after 15 employees tested positive. The swabs of others have been collected. Some employees at the NWKRTC (North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation) office were asked to remain home quarantined. Three staff at the Katakol police station tested positive and the other staff were asked to home quarantine themselves. The police station is working as usual. Traders oppose move Meanwhile, traders at Nandagad opposed complete lockdown in their village, saying it would affect business. They submitted a letter to the gram panchayat officers to allow them to follow lockdown for part of the day while conducting business from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Prayers amid pandemic||
26 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha sees a spike with 102 cases||The district’s COVID-19 graph continues to make the upward climb with 102 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, taking the total caseload to 1,437. Of the new cases, 47 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Two health staff, a 58-year-old man from Muhamma whose source of infection is unknown, 32 who came from abroad, and 20 from other States also tested positive for the virus. Among the contact cases, five policemen were on the contact list of a policeman at Alappuzha South police station who was diagnosed with the disease earlier. Another eight persons, including three from Vettakkal, two from Cherthala, two from Ezhupunna, and one from Chandiroor were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients associated with a seafood factory at Ezhupunna. Six people from Chettikkad were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients from the same place. Three natives and a person from Chengannur have links to the Kayamkulam market. Another two from Ezhupunna were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients with links to the Chellanam harbour. Rest of the local contact cases were reported from Pallippuram (six), Arookutty (three), Thamarakulam (three), two cases each from Alappuzha, Thaikkal, Karichal, and Cherthala and one case each from Pattanakkad and Chettikkad. Ambulance driver The two health staff diagnosed with COVID-19 include an ambulance driver from Alappuzha and a woman from Mulakuzha who works at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Meanwhile, 70 people, including 22 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel at the Nooranad unit who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 811. Ward 1 to 9 at Kavalam, ward 16 in Mararikulam South, and ward 11 in Pallippad grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
26 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Thottappally estuary widened, deepened||The Irrigation Department has completed the deepening and widening of the Thottappally estuary. Arun K. Jacob, executive engineer, Irrigation Division, Alappuzha said on Saturday that the work was finished in 59 days. Apart from deepening the estuary, the width of the estuary mouth was increased to 360 metres by removing sand. Earlier the estuary mouth had a width of 190 metres. The work in the downstream of the Thottappally spillway was carried out to ensure the smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad to the sea. A narrow sandbar Now, a narrow sandbar separates the channel and sea. The sandbar would be removed only when the need to drain excess water arose, the official said. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty, who visited Thottappally on Thursday, congratulated Irrigation Department officials for completing the work way ahead of the schedule. Tree felling In May, as part of widening and deepening of the ‘pozhi,’ around 550 trees on a plot in the possession of the Irrigation Department close to the pozhi had been cut down by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. The government further allowed the Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) to remove mineral-rich sand from the pozhi and from the place where the trees stood. This led to massive protests. Local residents, especially fisherfolk, alleged that the government’s move was aimed at large-scale extraction of mineral sand under the disguise of flood mitigation. High Court order Although the residents were not against sand removal from the pozhi, which was an annual process to ensure the flow of floodwaters into the sea, they vigorously opposed the transportation of mineral sand to KMML’s unit at Chavara. On June 17, the High Court passed an interim order directing the KMML to comply with the stop memo issued by the Purakkad grama panchayat against the transportation of sand. However, the court lifted the ban two days later. The protest was suspended recently after the KMML temporarily stopped transportation of sand in view of the COVID-19 situation. The Irrigation Department is also dredging the 11-km-long leading channel (upstream) of the spillway, for which the work has been awarded to a separate contractor.  550 trees on a plot in govt. possession had to be cut as part of work Width of estuary mouth increased to 360 metres by removing sand Sand transportation by KMML had incurred wrath of local people
26 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ardhra’s wait for laptop ends||Ardhra Babu is happy that her long wait for a laptop ended on Thursday. She and her sister Anagha Babu from Nedumkandam had applied for laptops from the grama panchayat in 2019 under a scheme for indigent families. Frustrated with the long wait, they approached the Kerala High Court and it ordered that laptop be given to the two within five weeks. The Devikulam Subcollector intervened to make available the gadgets. The grama panchayat handed over the laptop to the family on Thursday.
26 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||40 test positive in Idukki||Forty persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Thirty of them were infected through local contact. The source of infection for four persons, who are residents of Devikulam, Thankamani, Karinkunnam and Mariyapuram, remain unknown. One new patient is a Kottayam resident. Seven persons who returned from other States too have tested positive. Those who contracted the disease through local contact include residents of Rajakkad, Karimban, Cheruthoni, Kattappana, Kumily, and Vannappuram. The District Collector has announced that ward numbers 15 and 16 of Kattappana municipality, ward numbers 2 and 3 of Vathikudy grama panchayat, and ward numbers 10, 11, 12 of Kamakshi grama panchayat will be on the list of the containment zones. The number of those recovered from the disease has reached 262.
26 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Patient dies on way home from Bengaluru||A 62-year-old woman died of COVID-19 at the taluk hospital at Sulthan Bathery in the district on Saturday. Laila, a native of Thalassery in Kannur district, died on Saturday morning. She was undergoing treatment for pneumonia and was en route to Thalassery from Bengaluru in an ICU ambulance for specialist treatment, Health Department sources said. She was accompanied by two relatives. When they reached Muthanga on the Kerala-Karnataka border, the woman felt uneasy and was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival. The Truenat examination conducted on her samples, collected posthumously, at the hospital showed her positive for the virus, the sources added.Meanwhile, 17 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Seven of them contracted the infection through local transmission. Two of the new cases had come from abroad and eight from other States. SA total of 202 persons, including 45 persons on the day, have been cured. As many as 2,914 persons have been placed in quarantine in various corona care centres as well as houses in the district. Containment zones Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Saturday declared 15, 23 and 24 divisions of the Sulthan Bathery Municipality and ward number 4 of the Vellamunda grama panchayat in the district as containment zones.
26 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||75-year-old woman dies in Kannur hospital||A 75-year-old woman died of COVID-19 at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Nabeesa, a native of Padanakkad in Kasaragod, died early on Saturday morning. She had visited the Kanhanagad District Hospital after experiencing severe breathing problems. She was diabetic and was also under medication for thyroid issues, said A.T. Manoj, District Surveillance officer. She tested positive for SARS-COV-2 after her swab was collected when she arrived here for treatment. Later, her condition deteriorated as she was diagnosed with pneumonia and she was referred to the Medical College Hospital in Kannur, he added. Her body oxygen levels too dropped drastically, and she was on ventilator. The source of infection is not yet known, Dr. Manoj said. The samples of her family members will also be collected for testing. High alert The number of patients getting infected through contact is on the rise in the district. In several cases, unidentified sources have put the health authorities on high alert. In two of the four deaths in the district, the sources of infection were unknown. Youth died In Kannur, a 19-year-old who succumbed to his injuries was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Though the Health department is yet to confirm COVID-19 as the cause for death, preliminary examination at the Government Medical College Hospital here found him positive for the virus. However, his samples have been sent to the Virology Institute in Alappuzha for further examination. Amal Joe Aji had been undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit of the Government Medical College after he was seriously injured in a car accident last week. He died on Friday. 43 guests test positive Meanwhile, in Kasaragod, 43 people who attended a wedding, tested positive for COVID-19, forcing the health department and district administration to press the panic button, on Saturday. Of those tested positive, 43 people attended the wedding on July 17 at the residence in Chengala panchayat. District Collector D. Sajith Babu said that all those who attended the wedding should stay home for 14 days under self observation and contact the nearest primary health centre if they show any symptoms. The Collector directed the police to take action under the Kerala Infectious Diseases Control Act against the person who conducted a wedding ceremony without complying with the COVID-19 norms. The offence is punishable by up to two years' rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local contact cases spiral in Ernakulam||Of the 79 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, only four had arrived from outside the State, and all 75 others acquired the infection through local contact. A 53-year-old cancer patient from Kozhikode who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, died on Saturday. He had been undergoing chemotherapy at a private hospital in the district when his COVID-19 test result returned positive, and he was shifted to the MCH on Saturday morning. As many as 13 persons have tested positive from a few divisions of the West Kochi area. An official on the surveillance team said a family from the Fort Kochi area had been on the primary contact list of a patient from Chellanam. Two others who had been engaged in unloading of fish in the Fort Kochi area, and some of their family members also tested positive, he said. A total of 49 persons, including 11 nuns, have tested positive so far from a home for the elderly and destitute in Thrikkakara, said C.A. Nishad, local councillor. Eight of them were being treated at a private hospital at Pazhanganad, while most of them were receiving treatment at the institution itself, which had been converted into a medical facility. Seventeen persons from the institution were included in Saturday’s district-wide tally. As part of the Aluva cluster comprising nearby panchayats as well, eight persons from Keezhmad, five from Kadungaloor, nine from Choornikkara, and five from Alangad tested positive. Two health workers, a 51-year-old and a 25-year-old, both working at private hospitals, tested positive. As many as 76 persons recovered from the disease on Saturday, while 911 are receiving treatment. A total of 344 samples were sent for testing. Antigen tests In an attempt to ensure widespread testing, antigen tests will soon be conducted at primary health centres, said Dr. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. For asymptomatic patients admitted to first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district, antigen tests are now being used to check if they have turned negative before their discharge. This will, to some extent, speed up discharge from the centres, he said. A new RT-PCR machine, which can process around 200 samples daily, has been set up at the Ernakulam Public Health Laboratory. The machine is expected to be operational next week. An emergency mobile medical team will begin functioning in the district from next week onwards. Food kits District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing that in the Chellanam, Kumbalangi and Palluruthy areas, around 4,000 food kits would be distributed in the initial phase. Similar distribution would be done in all other coastal panchayats as well. “The number of positive cases and symptomatic people from the area is reducing, and Chellanam is limping back to normalcy,” he said. Kalamassery and Fort Kochi are now areas of concern. As many as 7,113 beds have been set up at FLTCs. The target is to set up 130 FLTCs in the district, he added. “We will need about eight to 10 COVID hospitals, apart from the Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. Besides PVS Hospital, will identify other hospitals and convert them into COVID hospitals,” the Collector said. Around 430 old age homes in the district will now be under the Health Department’s surveillance.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demolition debris choking Vembanad waters||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has confirmed that the debris from the demolition of Alfa Serene apartments at Maradu still remains uncleared under the waters of the nearby Vembanad Lake. The board has used the services of a diver to ascertain whether the firm responsible for the task had fully cleared the debris and it has been found that steel and concrete debris still remains beneath the waters. Dredging will have to be carried out to excavate the demolition waste from the bottom of the lake, the board says. The probe has been conducted after the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the board to submit a factual report on the matter. It had taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that the Maradu municipality and the firm had not cleared the debris despite repeated reminders. Fishermen in the region had complained that fishing nets were getting damaged due to the presence of concrete and steel debris lying beneath the waters. The Southern Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta had observed that the State authorities were duty-bound to protect the lake. SLMC Chairman A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai told The Hindu on Friday that he would submit an updated report along with the factual findings of the board before the Southern Bench of the NGT. The tribunal had asked the committee to play a supervisory role in ensuring that the removal of debris was done as per the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016, he said. Order issued An order issued by the tribunal on May 14 had pointed out that the Maradu municipality could not shirk its responsibility in implementing the rules pertaining to construction and demolition waste management in letter and spirit. The tribunal had also directed the PCB to impose environmental compensation on those found violating norms and polluting the environment as well as the nearby lake. The tribunal had asked the committee appointed by the SLMC and headed by the District Collector and the board to initiate action against defaulters.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police to have centralised quarantine facilities||Centralised quarantine facilities for police personnel have been identified within the city and rural limits, as the police, being on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19, remain highly vulnerable. Primary and secondary contacts among police personnel will be moved into these facilities. Circular from SPC In a circular issued on July 15, the State Police Chief (SPC) had asked District Police Chiefs to earmark one barrack complete with mess facilities for quarantining police personnel. Initially, the facility will be run using the existing funds before funds are allocated from the Police Welfare Bureau, the circular said. “We have identified a private building at Perumbavoor with toilet facilities, since we didn’t have an ideal barrack that could be converted into a quarantine facility. Already five police personnel are being quarantined there. The number of beds can be increased, if need be,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Similarly, the City police have also identified a private hall on TD Road for quarantining police personnel. Deputy Police Commissioner (Kochi City) G. Poonguzhali inspected the facility that can accommodate around 50 persons. COVID-19 panel The City and Rural police have also formed the District/Battalion Police COVID-19 Management Committee to assist and monitor the quarantine facilities. It comprises the District Police Chief or Battalion Commandant, as case may be, Additional Superintendent of Police or Deputy Police Commissioner, DySPs of special units and president or secretary of police service associations. N.V. Nishad, district secretary of Kerala Police Association, said the centralised quarantine facility was long overdue, especially for men who could not afford home quarantine, as many of them have young families. Demands The district association is set to place at least two demands before the newly formed management committee. “One-third of the force in every police station should be put on reserve, as it will help avoid a situation where police stations have to be closed down in the event of the entire force having to go into quarantine,” he added. He also called for a turn system restricting duty time of police personnel to insulate them from exhaustive long working hours. “Unlike in the initial stages during the complete lockdown when any potential contact by police personnel with infected persons was remote, things have reached a state where such a contact is possible anywhere any time,” said Mr. Nishad.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism professionals now venture into unfamiliar terrain||Tourism professionals, including those in senior managerial positions who were laid off or are on unpaid leave in the State, have understood the adage ‘do not put all your eggs in one basket’ the rough way, following the COVID-induced crisis. Many have ventured into a variety of jobs, including selling wares on the wayside. Armed with soft skills gained through years of exposure in the tourism trade, most of them have shed their initial inhibitions and are now game for any work, from selling products on the streets with bare minimum investment to tying up with like-minded people to begin enterprises. One such young but experienced professional is Rajaneesh S.R., an MBA in tourism and finance from the Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management, Gwalior. He was in the inbound tourism sector for the past 15 years and went on to co-partner a venture named The Sanchari. “I was already in distress since the firm, where I was head of southern India operations and later went broke, still owes me Rs. 6 lakh. The COVID crisis worsened the plight. I thus sold my car and also my apartment at a lesser price than I had purchased,” he said. But willingness to try a variety of in-demand options sustain him. He has tied up with a few friends and have together taken on lease 75 cents in the city to do organic farming. “The vegetables are moving fast during weekends, since people have become highly health-conscious. My weekdays are spent mostly on selling grow bags, plastic, mud pots, and fertilisers purchased from wholesale dealers and high-yield seeds procured from the Kerala Agricultural University, considering the heightened interest in kitchen gardens,” Mr. Rajaneesh added. His industry colleague has joined him in the manufacture and sale of home-made pickles at residential colonies and hotels. “The crisis taught me to have multiple sources of income. I know at least 60 people from the tourism sector who are now eking out a living by selling face masks. Still, the State government has not readied a plan of action to help out Kerala’s tourism sector, which earned Rs. 45,000 crore in 2019,” he said. There are others like Paul M.S., executive committee member of Tourism Professionals Club, who joined like-minded stakeholders and began ventures to provide door delivery of groceries.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Wall paintings, icon being restored in church||Artists have begun restoration work on a set of wall paintings, including a 150-year-old icon, at St. Peter's and Paul's Orthodox Church, Kolencherry, in Ernakulam district. These wall paintings and the icon were damaged as the church had remained closed for a while. Dampness and age began to show on the pictures which the parishioners felt needed to be restored to their original glory. There are 14 wall paintings that depict the life of Jesus from birth to resurrection. These paintings were done before the church was re-consecrated in 1963, said Father Jacob Kurien, vicar of the parish. He said that the icon of the patron saints of the parish St. Peter and St. Paul was around 150 years old and was transplanted to the new church from the old one. Artist V.M. Jijulal said that the parishioners had invited them to work on the set of wall paintings, done in oil, when the older icon was discovered. It was then decided that the icon would be studied for its old qualities and restored to its original shape using natural pigments. The icon has three dominant colours - red, green and golden. The golden colour in the old icon is achieved using gold leaves while the restoration work used natural gold pigments, said Mr. Jijulal. He said that four other artists were at work and they expected to complete the restoration work by the middle of August. The works began in June. Father Kurien said that the establishment of original church at Kolencherry went back to the fourth century. New structures had come as time passed and the present church was dedicated in 1963.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Meat stall closure by officials kicks up storm||The closure of a meat stall in the Thykoodam area by health officials of the Kochi Corporation has kicked up a storm. Officials of the Vyttila health circle had closed down the stall on Friday after an order was issued by the corporation Additional Secretary earlier this month. “When the health inspector visited the area earlier, it was found that the shop did not have a corporation-issued licence. The shop owner was told to apply for one. When this was not done and complaints from residents in the area persisted, an order was issued to close it down,” said Mayor Soumini Jain. The stall owner, in a video, claimed that he had obtained self-certification through the K-SWIFT portal, and that he could rear poultry as per the certification obtained in June this year. He said in the video that the certificate had three-year validity, and a licence from the corporation was required only once this period had expired.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tik-Tok artiste arrested on sexual abuse charge||A 29-year-old Tik Tok artiste was arrested on the charge of sexually abusing a young woman after promising to marry her. The Kalamassery police arrested Shanavas, a native of Karunagapally and a Tik-Tok artiste, on a complaint by the woman. He was charged under Section 376 of the IPC for rape. Two held The special police team arrested two more persons on the charge of attempting to dupe actors. The action followed complaints by aspiring actors against the gang, which attempted to dupe, among others, actor Shamna Kasim. The arrested are Najeeb, 27, and Jaffer Sathiq, 27, both from Coimbatore.
26 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Innovations to counter pandemic||From a mask-vending machine to software that diagnoses COVID-19, youngsters demonstrated a range of innovations at an event to promote technological interventions relating to the pandemic on Saturday. The ‘Innovations Unlocked — Kerala Student Innovators Meet’ by Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) showcased innovative products fashioned by students since the lockdown. The event also selected innovators to groom them as entrepreneurs. 300 participants Over 150 models were displayed at the interactive forum, which featured 300 participants in the virtual expo KSUM held in association with Wadhwani Foundation and TCS DISQ. Among the items on display were cutting-edge equipment for emergency medical care, crowd control, Artificial Intelligence-based devices that function by maintaining physical distancing, technology to sanitise large spaces against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, novel check-up methodology, and improvised PPE kits. A total of 21 items were selected by KSUM following an appraisal.
26 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 80 cases||The district reported 80 new cases of COVID-19 and 50 recoveries on Saturday. Among the patients are 63 contact cases, 15 NoRKs and two health workers. The district currently has 8,710 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,378. While 753 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 5,069 primary and 1,691 secondary contacts of the new cases. The health workers who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 are a 42-year-old doctor from Kottarakara Taluk Hospital and a 54-year-old Vadakkevila resident who was working at the Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. 40 clusters “At present, we are focusing on the clusters and all LSGs have been asked to set up COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FTCs) near them. With the help of various departments and volunteers, vigil will be strengthened in places that have been reporting consistent contact cases. At present Kollam has around 40 clusters and coastal belt from Alappad to Paravur is another vulnerable area,” said an official. Thickly populated parts like the Pullikkada Colony in the city will be brought under close monitoring and clusters of 10-15 families will be formed for the purpose. Better security The district administration has also decided to strengthen security measures at FTCs after some miscreants entered a centre at Kummallur and supplied alcohol to the inmates. Outside food will not be allowed in the centres and a common menu for all FTCs will be prepared to ensure quality food. PPE kits for police PPE kits needed for police personnel will be stored at all centres and strict action will be taken against those who hand over alcohol or drugs to the patients. COVID-19 patients suffering from withdrawal symptoms and those undergoing psychiatric treatment will be admitted to the special centre at Karunagappally equipped to handle such cases.
26 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||67 cases via local contact in Kottayam||As many as 77 people, including two health-care workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the new cases, 67 were through local transmission while six persons had landed from abroad. Four patients had returned from other States. Two health-care workers — a 61-year-old doctor of a private hospital and a 29-year-old staff nurse from the taluk hospital at Pampady — were among those who infected through local transmission. Paippad, declared a COVID-19 cluster, reported 12 new cases while six cases were reported from Changanassery, another cluster. Nine persons in Kottayam municipality contracted the virus through local contact while Vaikom recorded two cases. Grama panchayats, including Kurichi, Thrikkodithanam, Vazhappally, Erumeli, Thalayazham etc.too reported local contact cases. Collector tests negative Forty-six people who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals, bringing down the active cases in Kottayam to 396. District Collector M. Anjana and 13 others at the District Collectorate tested negative for the virus at an antigen test on Saturday. These officials had been in quarantine since July 21 after an office assistant at the Collector’s office tested positive. District Police Chief G. Jaidev might continue in quarantine as his wife, a doctor at the Radio Diagnosis department at the Government Medical College, Kottayam, has been among the primary contacts of a patient. A COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) exclusively for women and children started functioning in Ettumanur on Saturday. The facility is being launched in view of the reluctance shown by women to undergo COVID-19 tests for fear of being isolated from their infant children. The district administration seeks to set up 55 FLTCs in the first phase and this will later be enhanced to 90. The staff required for running these units will be pooled from various departments, including Homoeopathy and Ayurveda wings. Presently, three doctors and four nurses are being planned for 50 beds along with nursing assistants, cleaning staff, and data-entry operators.
26 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Spike continues, 110 more cases in Kozhikode||As the State recorded the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Saturday, Kozhikode district, with 110 new cases, came second on the list of most number of cases, after Thiruvananthapuram. Eighty-eight people contracted the disease through local transmission. Eight persons had come from abroad and nine from other States. There are five cases in which the source of infection has not yet been identified. These cases were reported from Kozhikode city, Kayakkodi, Moodadi, Edacheri and Vadakara. At present, 558 people are under treatment at various first-line treatment centres and the Government Medical College Hospital in the district. Meanwhile, 128 squads have been formed to ensure that the COVID-19 protocol is being followed. Seventeen quick response teams have also been formed in the most vulnerable areas. In Malappuram As many as 185 infected persons recovered from COVID-19 even as 68 new cases were detected in the district on Saturday. Thirty-eight of the new patients, including a health worker, were found to have contracted the disease through local transmission. However, the source of infection could not be identified for 16 people. Twenty-two patients had come from abroad, while eight had returned from other States. District health officials said that it was the first time that such a large number of infected persons had recovered on a single day. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said the high recovery number was a positive sign for the district. While 1,630 people have been infected since March, 1,030 have recovered. The district has 592 patients under treatment at present. In Kannur In Kannur, 62 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said of the patients, eight came from abroad, 29 from other States and 22 contracted the disease through contact with patients. Among the infected are two DSC employees and one health worker too. Meanwhile, 34 who were undergoing COVID-19 treatment at various hospitals have been discharged. The total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district rose to 1,158, while 687 patients have recovered. There are currently 12,788 people under observation. In Thrissur Thirty-six new cases were recorded in the district on Saturday. Of the patients, 27 were infected through contact. The total number of cases recorded in the district reached 1,093, while 660 patients have recovered. While 12 people were infected from the Kerala Solvent Extractions (KSE) cluster, two were infected from the KLF Industries cluster. One person was infected from the Border Security Force (BSF) cluster and five from the Pattambi cluster. The source of infection of five patients has not yet been traced. As many as 411 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. A total of 13,388 people are under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur and Thrissur bureaus)
26 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fishers demand special relief package||Many fish workers’ associations in the district have reiterated their demand for a special relief package in the wake of continuing restrictions on fishing harbours to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and the poor catch due to rough weather conditions. What most of them are seeking is direct monetary aid not less than Rs. 10,000 to temporarily manage the financial crisis. The association leaders say the crisis in the sector is likely to worsen in the days to come with the threat of community spread of COVID-19 in the district. The restrictions have also affected small-scale fish traders who used to earn a living through door-to-door sales, they add. Matsya Thozhilali Congress district secretary Irfan Habeed says the aid of Rs. 2,000 announced earlier by the government as temporary relief was insufficient. “We are heading for a big crisis. Many harbours and coastal areas are now containment zones, which makes survival tough in the days to come,” he adds. Many coastal families have already raised their objection to limiting relief aid to ration card holders. Janata Matsya Thozhilali Union leaders say a comprehensive relief package should be announced immediately by the State government that ensures at least Rs. 10,000 for each fish worker.
26 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth drowns||A 21-year old ITI student drowned in the Iruvazhinji river on Saturday. Ranjith met with the tragedy while he was swimming near the Chulliyattukadavu stretch of the river.
26 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tamil Nadu returnee dies in Palakkad||One more COVID-19 patient died in the district on Friday night. The 40-year-old woman from Kollengode had returned from Tamil Nadu nearly three weeks ago. She was admitted to the District Hospital on July 19 in an unconscious condition. She had multiple illnesses, including renal failure. She was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on July 22, and died at 11 p.m. on July 24. District medical authorities said high sugar levels coupled with kidney failure and COVID-19 infection caused the death. Earlier, a 73-year-old woman from Kadambazhipuram had died of COVID-19, and a man from Kunissery had ended his life while in quarantine. Thirty-five persons tested positive for the virus in the district on Saturday. Seventeen of them were found positive in rapid tests conducted in and around Pattambi. As many as 23 persons in the district recovered on Saturday.
26 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||More pilgrim amenities at Sabarimala||Works on pilgrim amenity projects worth Rs. 27.6 crore are fast progressing at the Sabarimala Sannidhanam so as to facilitate their commissioning ahead of the forthcoming annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season in mid-November. Though the work on two Annadana Mandapams had begun at Malikappuram four years ago, the high-power committee for the implementation of the Sabarimala Master Plan had decided to merge the two complexes. In the new two-storey Annadana Mandapam, food can be served to as many as 5,000 pilgrims at a time. Earlier, a buffet system used to be followed, whereas now, chairs are arranged for 2,500 persons on each floor. The TDB Assistant Engineer in charge of the master plan projects at Sannidhanam, K. Hareeshkumar, told The Hindu that the Annadana Mandapam spread across 7,000 sq m had been constructed at a cost of Rs. 21.55 crore. First-aid health kiosk Mr. Hareeshkumar said works on two first-aid health kiosks, estimated to cost Rs. 54 lakh, was under way at Paandithavalom and near the police barracks at Sannidhanam. The high-power committee had also undertaken works on 10 drinking water kiosks and a Rs. 22.5-lakh toilet complex at Marakkoottom. Renovation of Bhasmakkulam, estimated at Rs. 4.25 crore, too was fast progressing. TDB Assistant Engineer at Sabarimala Sunilkumar said the board had undertaken the Malikappuram Devi Temple complex renovation project and flooring work would be completed in a few weeks. Repair work on all TDB buildings would be completed before October 30.
26 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||52 new patients in Pathanamthitta||Fifty-two people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday with 27 of them identified as primary contacts of infected cases, a release said. Of the new cases, 15 came from abroad and 10 from other States. The overall tally of COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 1,033 on Saturday. Of this, 367 have contracted the disease through contact. There are 316 active cases in the district as on Saturday evening. Of this, 310 are in hospitals in the district while six are undergoing treatment outside the district. There are 26 persons with symptoms in isolation wards in hospitals. Forty-nine persons recovered from the infection on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 716 in the district.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local transmission unabated in capital||Local transmission continued unabated in the district as 218 of the 240 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday contracted the infection through contact. While most of the cases were reported from the critical containment zones where the government has detected five major COVID-19 clusters, several cases have also emerged from the other parts of the district, including the city, rural, and high-range areas as far as Kottoor. The critical scenario suggested the possibility of extending containment zones in the district. Eleven health workers, including two nurses at the Neyyattinkara General Hospital, where over five patients have contracted the infection, were among those who tested positive. Two doctors at government-run hospitals in Varkala and Pulluvila also tested positive. Three KSRTC employees, including a ticketing inspector and a conductor, at the Kattakada depot were also among the infected. A driver had earlier been diagnosed with COVID-19 at the depot, which is expected to reopen on Monday after a week. Two officers attached to the Kanjiramkulam and Malayinkeezhu police stations joined the list of police officials testing positive in the district. Over 15 people went in quarantine in the two cases. Mayor tests negative Meanwhile, Mayor K. Sreekumar, who went in self-quarantine after seven councillors contracted the infection, tested negative, it has been informed. Eleven imported cases were reported from among people who came from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, UAE, Tamil Nadu, and New Delhi. With 229 patients recovering from the illness, the number of people convalescing in hospitals and COVID first-line treatment centres in the district stood at 2,666. The City police arrested two persons for allegedly smuggling fish from Tamil Nadu. The accused were identified Shaji of Manikyavilakom and Manaf of Vallakadavu. They were apprehended from near the Kumarichantha market. Containment zones New containment zones were declared at Panayarakunnu ward of Balaramapuram grama panchayat; Vandoorkonam, Kunniyode, Charottukonam wards of Karode grama panchayat; Venkolla, Chippanchira, Kollayil, and Madathara wards of Peringamala grama panchayat; Kalipara and Alumkuzhi wards of Nanniyode grama panchayat; Thoongampara ward of Kattakada grama panchayat; Peringamala ward of Venganoor grama panchayat; Panayammoola ward of Kollayil grama panchayat; and Neduveli ward of Vembayam grama panchayat.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lack of staff, funds at COVID FLTCs||Faced with a possible shortage of manpower to run COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and institutional quarantine centres, the city Corporation has requested the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), under the district administration, for more personnel. The civic body is also facing a major financial burden in running these facilities, even as tax revenue has fallen this year, especially due to difficulties in collection. The Corporation currently runs eight FLTCs including the Greenfield stadium at Karyavattom, the Homoeo Hospital at Iranimuttam, G.V. Raja School, St. Thomas School at Poonthura, ESI Hospital in Peroorkada, Ayush Panchakarma hospital at Poojappura, the Institute of Management in Governance near PMG, and the Government UP School at Beemapally. One more FLTC will be opened at the shooting centre in Vattiyurkavu on Sunday. As on Saturday, the FLTCs had 334 patients in them. In addition, the Corporation also runs 34 institutional quarantine centres, housing 656 people. 8-hour shifts The Corporation has appointed its staff, including junior health inspectors, as charge officers in the FLTCs in three shifts of eight hours each. In addition, cleaning staff are also being deployed at a rate of one for every ten beds. In the larger FLTCs like the Greenfield stadium, five charge officers are deployed at a time. But, when a junior health inspector tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, all of the staff on duty during that time had to go in quarantine. According to officials, if such a situation arises in more centres, there could be a severe shortage of charge officers. Officials in various wings of the Corporation have gone into quarantine this week, after seven councillors, including two standing committee chairpersons, tested positive. “As per the government order on the running of the FLTCs, issued on June 10, the DDMA has to make available the required staff. If the current situation persists, there could be a severe shortage of staff to run these facilities in the near future, to prevent which more personnel have to be deployed,” says a Corporation official. Rs. 15 crore spent During this pandemic period, the Corporation has spent around Rs. 15 crore for various purposes, from running of institutional quarantine centres and community kitchens to disinfection activities. As of now, funds of only Rs. 30.5 lakh have been cleared for the Corporation from the disaster management funds. With some of its institutional quarantine centres taking care of even people from the nearby panchayats, the civic body’s financial as well as human resources are under severe strain, say officials.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Help desks in schools for Plus One admission process||The Plus One admission process for the State stream that gets under way on July 29 will be held completely online in the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the State. Students need not upload any certificates along with their applications. Applications can be submitted till August 14. The students can submit applications on their own on the higher secondary admission websitewww.hscap.kerala.gov.inby clicking on the link ‘Apply online-SWS.’ The students should exercise care to fill in accurate details. Any mistake found in the documents submitted during verification for admission will lead to cancellation of the allotment and denial of admission. Application fee can be submitted with the fee at the time of admission. Also, printouts of applications need not be submitted in schools for verification. Help desks with facilities for submitting applications online will function in schools from July 29 till the end of the admission process. The students who cannot submit applications on their own can approach the help desks in high schools or higher secondary schools near their residence. Special children Children with special needs should indicate it specially on the online application and upload the medical board certificate. Their parents should consult with resource teachers and other teachers to select the school or course of their choice as option on the application. The sports quota admissions too will be held in two phases online. In the first phase, candidates who have excelled in sports should register their sports certificates online with the district sports council concerned. The councils should verify the certificates and prepare a score card. Those who receive the score card should submit the application online on the link ‘Apply online-sports’ link. Regional levels Help desks will function at the district, regional, and State levels to remove doubts of students, parents, and teachers. At the district level, district coordinators will lead the help desks, and at the regional level by the regional deputy directors. The State-level help desk will be set up under the higher secondary wing Joint Director (Academic).
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New norms no hurdle for Chinese cranes||Procuring cargo-handling cranes from China will not be a hurdle for the upcoming International Multi-Purpose Deepwater Seaport at Vizhinjam. The seaport got a breather as the Centre has made it clear that the new order will apply only to fresh tenders for public procurement. The restrictions on port operators using Chinese gear has come at a time when Adani Vizhinjam Ports Private Ltd (AVPPL), the multi-port operator of the ambitious project, was gearing up 0for taking delivery of eight shore cranes and 24 yard cranes from Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Co. Ltd (ZPMC), the world’s largest port crane maker.  Rs. 1,500 cr. for 32 cranes Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. (APSEZ) have sourced most of their cranes from Chinese suppliers and the orders for 32 cranes, estimated to cost around Rs. 1,500 crore, for the Vizhinjam seaport went to ZPMC. Of the 32 cranes ordered for the seaport, eight are rail mounted quay cranes, each worth Rs. 75 crore and with an outreach of 65 metres, and the remaining cantilever rail mounted gantry cranes. “The orders were placed by AVPPL three years ago. The new norms are not with retrospective effect”, a top AVPPL official told The Hindu . As per the order issued on Thursday, bidders from countries sharing a land border with India will be eligible to bid in any procurement whether of goods, services or works only if they are registered with the Competent Authority. Political and security clearance from the Union Ministries of External and Home Affairs has also been made mandatory. Aimed to strengthen defence and national security in the wake of the recent border conflicts, the norms are applicable to autonomous bodies, Central Public Sector Enterprises and Public Private Partnership projects receiving financial support from the government or its undertakings. As the upcoming seaport at Vizhinjam is a PPP project and the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) from the Centre is Rs. 818 crore, placing the order three years ago has helped AVPPL to get the cranes.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for six-laning NH corridor||The six-laning of National Highway 66 has cleared another hurdle with the Standing Financing Committee (SFC) of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways clearing the 29.95-km Taliparamba-Muzhappilangad reach in Kannur. With this, all six-laning works of the National Highway in Kasaragod, Kannur, and Kozhikode districts spread over four reaches have got the MoRTH approval. (Thalapady-Chengala, Chengala- Neeleswaram, Neeleswaram-Taliparamba are the other reaches.) While the Thalaserry-Mahe bypass work is on, the Kozhikode bypass work has been disrupted due to financial issues faced by the company engaged for the purpose. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has informed the State that tenders have been invited for the 29.95-km corridor and that the six-laning works will be completed in 30 months, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said on Saturday. The NHAI has estimated that the civil works on the Taliparamba-Muzhappilangad corridor will cost Rs. 1,428.94 crore and land acquisition Rs. 1,234.80 crore. The State will pay 25% cost of the land to the NHAI . The funds are to be made available by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. A major bridge, three minor bridges, 91 culverts, five rail/road overbridges (ROBs), and five viaducts and 38.46 km of service road and slip road are part of the proposed six-lane corridor that will have a right of way (RoW) of 45 metres, the Minister said. Bharatmala project Hybrid annuity mode will be adopted by the NHAI for executing the works to be taken up under the MoRTH’s Bharatmala Pariyojana project. The stretch is part of the 526-km NH 66 corridor from Talapady on the Kerala-Karnataka border in Kasaragod to Kazhakuttam in the State capital that is being six-laned by the NHAI.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Silver Line: higher compensation for surrendered land||A higher compensation that will be about two to four times the market value will be provided for the land to be acquired for the proposed Silver Line — the 529.45-km semi-high-speed rail corridor connecting Kochuveli and Kasaragod, says V. Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, Kerala Rail Development Corporation, (K-Rail), the implementing agency of the mega project. “The land acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation proceedings will be conducted in a transparent manner under the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and propaganda to the contrary are totally baseless,” he said on Saturday. The alignment has been chosen in such a manner that the line passes through the least populated areas with minimum possible land acquisition. Houses, other buildings, and even trees are entitled to a compensation that would be double the market rates. Land in the range of 15 m to 25 m is needed and the alignment has been routed through areas with low population density and vacant lands. Viaducts have been planned for 88 km to spare paddy fields and built-up clusters. Underground tunnels In hilly regions and high-density locations such as Kozhikode, underground tunnels have been proposed. Cut-and-cover technology would be adopted to avoid impact on houses. House-lifting technologies would be used to shift the affected structures to nearby locations. The Thiruvananthapuram-Tirur stretch of the existing line has a large number of sharp curves. A new parallel line would also have to pass through these points and would fail to achieve the targeted speed of 200 km per hour. However, Silver Line would be running parallel to the existing line from Tirur to Kasaragod since this stretch does not have many sharp turns.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for Rs. 240-crore works for improvement of dams||The State government has given in-principle approval for carrying out works to the tune of Rs. 240 crore in Phase II of the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) on dams under the Irrigation Department. The WB-aided project is aimed at enhancing the safety and operational performance of selected dams. Last year, the department had listed 16 dams, barrages and regulators managed by it for DRIP Phase II. According to a proposal submitted by the department, Rs. 181 crore will be spent on rehabilitation and management planning for dams and associated appurtenances. A sum of Rs. 42 crore will cover institutional strengthening activities. A sum of Rs. 2 crore will cover project management activities. DRIP II will cover 14 dams on which work had been started under the ongoing DRIP Phase I, besides the Pothundi and Maniyar dams.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe on to unearth bank loan frauds||Interrogation of a man who was arrested by the Attingal police and remanded on the charge of forging documents to secure vehicle loans and hiding the fact has brought out more frauds committed by him. The Attingal police, in a statement, said a special investigation squad led by Attingal Deputy Superintendent of Police S.Y. Suresh and inspector V.V. Dipin had arrested Anil Aloysius. He was the main accused in a case relating to acquisition of nine cars from a finance company through fraud in 2012 and then reselling them. During interrogation, the investigation team found fake seals from his rented accommodation at Kaniyapuram. He was also wanted in connection with cases registered against him at the Pothencode and Kazhakuttam police stations in the district and in Anchal, Kollam, for carrying out loan fraud by submitting fake address and identity papers.  He was yet to be arrested in those cases. Efforts were on to unearth more frauds committed by him, the police said.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GTech helps govt. with coordination||Group of Technology Companies (GTech), a consortium of IT companies in the State, has been working with the district administration to check the spread of COVID-19. It set up a district war room to coordinate the containment efforts in Thiruvananthapuram. The facility, which has been established on the lines of a similar centre launched in Kochi, has been functioning as a command centre to coordinate the district-wide initiatives of various government departments. Operationalised on June 27, the war room has been equipped with IT and communication infrastructure as well as general office infrastructure. It is manned by a team of 35 experts, further split into smaller teams focusing on contact tracing, containment zone monitoring, data analysis and lab surveillance.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two held in POCSO case||The Nemom police have arrested two persons under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in connection with setting up a WhatsApp group for befriending minor girls, and then abusing them. The accused have been identified as Mohhamed Suhail Khan of Poonthura, 19, and Vishnu, 26, of Cheruvakkal. The girls would be abused at Vishnu’s home, their jewellery and other expensive things snatched, and the girls taken around town on motorcycles, the police said.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online sessions on ORS held||An online orientation on diarrhoea management through ORS (oral rehydration salts) solution and zinc was held for Anganwadi workers as part of ORS Week observance here on Saturday.  Doubts of Anganwadi workers on the subject were cleared on the occasion.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Camps for rapid antigen testing||Camps will be organised at Vazhottukonam, Dayanagar, and Anchumukku in the Vattiyurkavu Assembly segment for performing rapid antigen tests as part of COVID-19 prevention measures, it was decided on Saturday. A review meeting convened by V.K. Prasanth, MLA, also decided to strengthen treatment facilities and COVID-19 prevention measures. The meeting also reviewed the activities of COVID first-line treatment centres, community quarantine centres, and coronacare centres.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Marriage notice not to be put on dept. website||The State government has decided not to publish marriage notice on the official website of the Registration Department as per the Special Marriage Act of 1954 and the amended rules of 2018. The marriage notice carrying the address and photos of those wishing to get married submitted to the marriage officer would be displayed on the notice board of the sub-registrar office concerned where the applicants reside.
26 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Change in lottery draw schedule||Draws for the State lottery will be held on alternate days, given the COVID-19 situation and the increase in the number of containment zones. The draws will be held only on Tuesday (Stree Shakti), Thursday (Karunya Plus), and Saturday (Karunya) this week. The draws for Winwin (Monday), Akshaya (Wednesday), and Nirmal (Friday) will be held next week. The change in schedule will be applicable for the months of July and August. There will be no draws for the Pournami lottery on Sundays till December.
26 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU to adopt villages for enhancing farm output||The Kerala Agricultural University will adopt villages and provide the farmers technical support as part of the Subhiksha Keralam Mission, the flagship initiative of the government of Kerala to accomplish food security. Minister for Local Self Governments A C Moideen inaugurated KAU’s initiative to adopt villages, at Thekkumkara panchayat on Saturday as part of a series of extension programmes for providing technical support to local bodies.He also inaugurated paddy cultivation by the Thekkumkara grama panchayat and Department of Agriculture supported by the KAU on a piece of land that was lying fallow for 11 years. Another initiative of the KAU to establish a seed village for producing quality seed materials of tuber crops was inaugurated by Mary Thomas, District Panchayat President. The Minister observed that the Subhiksha Keralam Mission had evoked enthusiasm among the people.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Domino effect||
26 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differently-abled couple try to sell baby to make ends meet||With the COVID-19 pandemic robbing them of their livelihood, a physically challenged couple, Chinna Muthalappa and Sunitha, tried to sell their eight-month-old baby girl to a nomadic group, at Bucherlla village of Roddam mandal in the district. It is said that the couple, who live hand to mouth, are finding the going tough as they are unable to make ends meet for the last four months. The villagers confronted them and restored the baby to the parents, and provided the couple financial help. ICDS promises support They further reported the matter to the government officials on Saturday, following which the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials visited the village, met the couple, and promised them all kind of support under various government programmes. ICDS Project Director Chinmay Devi said they had obtained a written statement from the mother about the incident, and counselled the family against doing so in the future. The officials had also taken a self-affidavit from the couple, holding them criminally responsible if they resorted to such act in the future. The villagers told the officials that except for pension, the couple were not a beneficiary under any government scheme. Upon finding the mother addicted to alcohol, the ICDS officials decided to keep her under watch of the Mahila Samrakshana employee of the Village Secretariat and an ASHA worker till she kicked the habit.
26 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paritala Sunitha’s father Kondanna passes away||Telugu Desam Party leader and former Minister Paritala Sunitha’s father Dharmavarapu Kondanna (74), died of cancer in the early hours of Saturday. He is survived by his wife and four children. A farmer by profession, he hailed from Venkatapuram village in Ramagiri mandal and was suffering from cancer. On Friday night, he complained of breathlessness and was shifted in an ambulance to Anantapur city and some tests were done at a private hospital, but he breathed his last in the ambulance at around 2 a.m. the family members said. The former Minister of SERP, Women Empowerment, Child Welfare, Disabled and Senior Citizens’ Welfare, is the eldest among the siblings. She had married her relative Paritala Ravindra (also a former TDP Minister).
26 July 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain disrupts traffic on Gooty-Bellary highway||Heavy rain in Anantapur and Kurnool districts threw traffic out of gear on Gooty-Bellary NH-63 on Saturday morning with water overflowing on an under-construction culvert at Rajapuram. In Kurnool district, the Hundri river registered a flow of 20,000 cusecs in Kurnool town and a warning was issued that it could go up to 40,000 cusecs with a possible threat of inundation of low-lying areas in the evening as heavy rain was continuing in its catchment areas. Authorities in Kurnool alerted people in low-lying areas and kept a watch on the water level in the Hundri as the district recorded 29.3 mm rainfall till Saturday morning. The Gajuladinne Project recorded a water level of 376.90 m, with a gross storage of 4,300 tmcft, and was getting an inflow of 60,000 cusecs (at Alarudinne bridge gauge). Irrigation officials were releasing 39,868 cusecs, by raising the fourth and fifth gates up to 4 mts, the first gate up to 2.50 mts and the sixth gate up to 1.30 mts. Water was being released from the Left Main Canal (90 cusecs) and RMC (50 cusecs) and another 10 cusecs into the Summer Storage tanks. Kurnool district recorded 243.4 mm rainfall this season against a normal of 117 mm till Saturday registering an excess of 108%. 98 mm in Guntakal While Anantapur district recorded 20 mm average rainfall, Guntakal mandal alone registered 98 mm rain in 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday leading to several rivulets overflowing and communication to several villages in Gooty and Guntakal mandals getting snapped. The traffic on the Bellary-Krishnapatnam Highway also got affected with people unable to commute between Guntakal and Gooty. The district received 253.7 mm rain this season against a normal of 120 mm, registering an excess of 110.5%. Several lorries were stranded on both sides of the culvert at Rajapuram village and the police personnel were regulating/diverting the traffic. Heavy rain was reported from D. Hirehal and Bommanahal mandals in Anantapur district. Boy washed away An 18-year-old boy identified as Chandra, was washed away at Neravada in Kurnool district near Nandyal on Saturday while crossing an overflowing stream in his bid to come to Kurnool town. While he went missing in the morning, a search was launched and the body was found late in the night. In another incident in the district at Pagidirayi, a car got washed away in the Peddavagu in Tuggali mandal when the passengers abandoned it unable to cross the stream due to the force of the water. As soon as they alighted, the car got washed away.
26 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic grips Chittoor dist. as cases race towards the 8,000-mark||With no respite in the spread of COVID-19 cases in the district, the police authorities have announced a one-day total lockdown in Madanapalle, Puttur and Nagari municipalities on Sunday. After seeing close to 700 cases on Friday, the district tally is racing towards the 8,000 mark, with 68 deaths so far. The alarming spike in the new cases reported daily since a week has slowly changed the public mood, with fear and uncertainty replacing the earlier relaxed demeanour, particularly in the areas bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Except for a couple of hours in the morning, crowding of people is largely missing in almost all places. While the Tirupati municipal corporation topped the tally with half the number of the total cases in the district, the other civic bodies – Chittoor, Madanapalle, Palamaner, Puttur, Nagari, Srikalahasti and Kuppam and major panchayats – too continue to witness a surge in cases. Acknowledging the change in the attitude of public, a police officer said now awareness has dawned on them that July and August would be the most crucial for containment of COVID-19. Face masks Compared to the previous weeks, the percentage of public wearing face masks has increased phenomenally. More than 90% of people coming out during the relaxation hours are sporting face masks. With customers preferring to return home well before the 11 a.m. deadline, shop owners are seen packing up early and leaving the market places. The streets are wearing an almost deserted look till the next morning. Emergency meeting Meanwhile, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta held an emergency meeting with police, revenue and medical officials at Madanapalle and took stock of the COVID-19 situation. He said the workforce should focus on identifying cases along with primary and secondary contacts and adhering to the isolation and quarantine guidelines.
26 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||101-yr-old defies COVID-19||A 101-year-old woman, P. Mangamma of Tirupati, became cynosure of the TTD’s Sri Padmavathi COVID Hospital on Saturday evening, when she was discharged in a hale and healthy condition, after successfully completing 14-day isolation period, giving a tough fight to the dreaded virus. According to the SVIMS authorities, the woman was admitted to the isolation ward after she tested positive. Institute director B. Vengamma, observed that at a time when the COVID was creating fear among the public, the 101-year-old woman’s tryst with the virus and her triumph against it was a big inspiration to all with message that shedding of fear against COVID-19 was need of the hour. Senior medical and paramedical staff bid her adieu, providing her with the governmental benefit of Rs. 2,000.
26 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two prisoners escape from COVID hospital||Two convicts, who tested positive for COVID-19 and were shifted to the designated hospital in the city, gave police the slip. The two prisoners-cum-COVID patients, natives of West Godavari district, were under imprisonment in theft and other cases. Recently, Andhra Pradesh Prisons Department officials shifted seven prisoners, who tested positive, to the designated hospital from where they escaped. Senior police officials visited the COVID designated hospital on Saturday. The Eluru Three Town Police registered a case and launched a hunt to nab the escaped prisoners.
26 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical staff on warpath||A tense situation continued to prevail at the Government General Hospital in Tenali on Saturday following boycott by the medical and nursing personnel. The nursing personnel demanded that they should be given proper safety equipment, including PPE kits. The facility, with a bed strength of 500, was included in the list of COVID-19 Hospitals on July 14. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar rushed to Tenali to take stock of the situation. He assured the medical personnel that they would be provided with safety equipment and asked them to join duties.
26 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool man discharged after plasma therapy||A COVID-19 patient, who was the first person in the district to be treated with plasma therapy, made a successful recovery and was discharged from the Kurnool Government General Hospital here on Saturday. Satish Goud (36), hailing from Dhone in Kurnool district, had tested positive for coronavirus and was suffering from co-morbidities. He was discharged from hospital in the presence of Kurnool Medical College Principal K. Chandrasekhar, GGH Superintendent Narendranath Reddy and District Collector G. Veerapandian. “He was injected plasma on July 11 at Kurnool GGH along with four others. He has made a full recovery and has been sent home. This should encourage more people to come forward and donate plasma,” the Collector said. Three others will also be discharged soon after evaluation, he said. In all, 16 COVID-19 patients who recovered were healthy and had donated plasma, which was utilised for these patients under stringent observation from the ICMR and monitoring by the Ethics Committee, he said. With this success, the district administration has decided to counsel all young and healthy COVID-19 patients getting discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centres to donate plasma and take their consent then and there before they return home. Mr. Veerapandian thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the active support of the State government.
26 July 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lay more focus on research: DRDO chief||Defence Research and Development Organisation(DRDO) Chairman and Secretary of Department of Defence G. Sateesh Reddy has underscored the need for academic institutions pursuing basic research. Delivering the first of a series of Vikrama Simhapuri University(VSU)’s distinguished lectures through virtual mode on Saturday, he said academic institutions should encourage its students take up research which would later help in transforming the technology for application of basic programmes. Espousing the idea of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ in aerospace and defence technologies, he said it was commendable that the country is sustaining on indigenous technology. Recalling the success stories of Satellite Launch Vehicle(SLV), Mr. Sateesh Reddy said thirty five successful launches in the outer orbit has helped the country to make rapid strides in space programmes. There is also a sea of change in space technology in the last few decades, including designing and developing indigenous state of art technology to meet the defence requirements. Inaugurating the virtual lecture series, State Education Minister A. Suresh emphasised the need to adopt appropriate technology to overcome problems in teaching and learning caused by the pandemic. He said the State government had put a lot of efforts to bring forth quality, equity, administrative efficiency and governance in the education system. He also stressed the need for skill-based education to increase employability of youth.
26 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits feeling insecure under YSRCP rule, says Congress||APCC president S. Sailajanath has held the ruling YSRCP responsible for the increasing attacks on Dalits in the State. Leading a candlelight procession, along with AICC secretary S. Pasad, here on Saturday evening, Dr. Sailajanath said that Dalits were increasingly feeling insecure under the present dispensation in the wake of a series of attacks reported from Chirala, Rajamahendravaram and Srikakulam. The YSRCP leaders were either overtly or covertly behind the atrocities committed on Dalits, he charged. Addressing a gathering at the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the arterial Trunk Road, he said the Congress party would wage a relentless struggle in support of the Dalits. It was unfortunate that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who heads the committee that oversees the implementation of the SC / ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, remained silent, he said, and demanded justice for the victims.
26 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more death takes toll to 47 in Prakasam||Two more persons succumbed to the virus in Prakasam and Nellore districts in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 47 in Prakasam and 23 in Nellore. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases shot up to 3,460 in Prakasam district on Saturday with 248 patients testing positive for the disease. Ongole’s tally escalated to 693 with the addition of 29 new cases. In a positive development, 62 patients were discharged in the district. With this, the number of active cases came down to 1,618. A 75-year-old man from Kandukur and a 10-year-old boy from Chirala were among those discharged. So far, 1,642 patients have been cured of the disease in the district. 56 cases in Kandukur Of the new cases, Kandukur town accounted for a maximum of 56 followed by Chirala with 31 and Ongole with 29. Addanki town is emerging as the new COVID-19 hotspot with 25 new cases taking the tally to 70. There was no let-up in the incidence of coronavirus even in remote areas like Pedda Dornala village where the tally rose to 40 with four more patients contracting the disease. Podili accounting for 13 new cases followed by Darsi(7), Kumarole(6), V.V.Palem(6), Ballikurava(3), Bestavaripeta(3), Yaddanapudi(2), Tangtur(2), Karamchedu(2), Parchur(2), Santamagalur(1), N.G.Padu, Korisapadu(1), Thallur(1), Marripudi(1), Cumbam(1) and Konakonamitla(1). In Nellore district, which saw 299 new cases getting registered, a stringent lockdown was implemented in Nellore city, Sangam, Gudur and Atmakur. The tally stands at 4,025 as on Saturday.
26 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit man tonsured by police launches relay fast||A 23-year-old Dalit youth, who was allegedly tonsured by the police in the Seethanagaram police station on July 20, accompanied by former Amalapuram MP G.V. Harsha Kumar, on Saturday sat on a one-day relay fast here, demanding the arrest of those involved in the incident. The victim’s mother and a few Dalit youths also joined him in the fast, which was launched at the residence of Mr. Harsha Kumar, on the grounds of existing COVID containment guidelines as well as his security. Speaking to newsmen, Mr. Kumar alleged that State government appeared to be not keen on arresting the accused who actually conspired to tonsure the youth. The State government was also not committed to ordering a fair investigation into the heinous act based on the call data history of the police officials concerned, he alleged. “In Rajamahendravaram city, the past one week witnessed two atrocities against the Dalits — Seethanagaram case and gang rape of a minor under Korukonda police limits. The State government did not come to rescue these victims,” Mr. Kumar said. “The office of President of India will be briefed about the atrocities committed against the Dalits in the State,” he said.
26 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada GGH declared State COVID-19 Hospital||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday said that Government General Hospital (GGH), Kakinada, has been designated a State COVID-19 Hospital, where critically-ill patients can be treated instead of rushing them to Visakhapatnam. “All the designated COVID hospitals are equipped with sufficient facilities. As of Saturday, nearly 6,000 of the 8,595 active patients in the district have been allowed home quarantine,” the Collector told reporters in a video-conference. “Those in need of critical care are being admitted to hospitals and the rest of the patients are advised home quarantine in the district,” said Mr. Muralidhar. “A section of people have started a false campaign, alleging that there is insufficient oxygen and medical equipment at hospitals in the district. Such rumours will create panic in the public. Stringent action will be taken against those spreading such false information on the government’s preparedness to tackle the spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Muralidhar said.
26 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victim of alleged gang rape tests positive||A 16-year-old girl, who was the victim of an alleged gang rape, tested positive for COVID-19 three days ago and has been admitted to the District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram. The health status of the girl came to light on Saturday after former Amalapuram MP G.V. Harsha Kumar revealed it during the relay-hunger strike launched by him against the recent atrocities against Dalits in the State. When contacted, North Zone DSP and Investigation Officer P. Satyanarayana Rao said the girl tested positive to the virus on July 21. However, her health condition is stable, he said. Last week, two among the 13 accused tested positive for the virus and were sent to a designated COVID prison in Kakinada. On July 16, the alleged gang rape came to light after the accused dumped the girl near the Korukonda police station after allegedly sexually assaulting her for three days in the city.
26 July 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials to adopt IT solutions to overcome glitches in testing||The district administrationhas been facing some flak in the recent times for delay in declaring the results of COVID -19 tests. There has been instances when the commitment for declaring the results within 24 hours have gone beyond three or four days. Some are yet to receive their results even after five days. To overcome these glitches, the district administration is now adopting IT solutions to overcome the glitches in the testing sector. Visakhapatnam-based IT solutions company Fluentgrid has developed two portals for the district administration. While one caters to the testing area, the other is for handling the isolation area. The portals have been developed after hours of deliberation with the IT professionals from Fluentgrid and they have already undergone a two-day test run from Friday. “If very thing is okay , the portals will be operational within a day or two,” said district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. And if implemented, the portals will the first of its kind in the State and will be a model for the other districts, he added. It is learnt that the users of the portal, including staff from the testing centres and isolation committee, are also undergoing training in handling the portals. Reasons for delay This testing portal will exclusively cater to the testing area. The moment samples are collected and sent to the laboratories for analysis, an entry will be made in the portal and after 24 hours if the results are not declared, the entry will start flashing and generating an alert. All officials from the District Collector to the COVID officials concerned will have the login and the portal will give live updates, said Dr. Sudhakar. It is learnt that the primary reason for the delay in the results is a huge collection of samples in the last one week. The district administration has intensified its testing drive and on a daily basis over 3,000 samples are being collected. The sudden rush of samples is being hindered by shortage of manpower at the labs at KGH and Government Hospital for Chest Diseases (GHCCD). It is learnt that many of the analysts and technicians at the labs have fallen sick and it may be remembered that the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at KGH was closed for over a week in this month, after a few staff tested positive. The already short-staffed labs are facing a further staff crunch and it is learnt that only high priority samples, such as those with symptoms and from the high-risk groups, are being given preference. But once the portal becomes operational, it will clearly indicate the timeline from the collection of samples and will speed up the process, said a senior technician from the VRDL. He also indicated that people need not worry about the lifespan of the samples collected, as they are being maintained in a cold chain. Doctors say qualified candidates are not available for increasing manpower in labs.
26 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Loss of smell’ now a key area of study for scientists||A loss of smell is now becoming an increasingly reliable tool to detect the onset of coronavirus, and scientists are now turning their focus on how the virus shuts down the brain’s olfactory senses. Also known as anosmia, loss of smell is being reported by almost those testing positive for COVID-19. While loss of smell commonly happens if one is suffering from an allergy, sinus infection or a common cold, its occurrence without any of these conditions can be a warning sign of COVID-19, said neuroscience researchers attending a webinar titled ‘Synapse with Tirupati’, a day-long event organised by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) on Saturday.
26 July 2020||TIRUVURU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||4 held for smuggling liquor||The Tiruvuru mobile party police arrested four persons of Vijayawada for illegally transporting Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from Telangana. The police team seized 489 bottles of liquor worth Rs. 1.15 lakh and arrested V. Pavan, V. Dhamoji Rao, Sk. Rafiq and G. Pavan Kumar, all natives of Machavaram in Vijayawada, said Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 skill institutes to be launched on Oct. 2: Mekapati||Minister for Industries and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that 30 skill development colleges will start functioning from October 2. Stating this during a review meeting on ‘skill development, employment and training’ on Saturday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would inaugurate these colleges. Curriculum standards A project monitoring unit was being set up to ensure that the colleges fulfil their mandate, which was to help the youth in gaining a competitive edge, by imparting them the skill sets the industries and other employers needed. A.P. State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) officials and others, who had been tasked with honing the skills of youngsters, had studied the curriculum and other aspects during their visit to the Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which was implementing various courses in collaboration with the National Skill Development Corporation. The standards being maintained by the university would be followed in the skill development colleges. The cooperation of Indian School Business (ISB) was also sought. Twenty courses were identified as of now, Mr. Goutham Reddy said, and added that funds contributed by the companies under Corporate Social Responsibility were contemplated to be used for setting up the colleges. Special Chief Secretary (skill development and training) G. Anantha Ramu, APSSDC Chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy and CEO A. Srikanth, and Director (employment) Lavanya Veni were present.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM promises all help to SRM University||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has extended his full support for the development of SRM University - Andhra Pradesh (SRMU-AP), according to an official release. During a meeting with SRMU-AP chancellor T.R. Paarivendhar, president P. Sathyanarayanan, vice-chancellor V.S. Rao, pro vice-chancellor D. Narayana Rao and registrar D. Gunasekharan a couple of days ago, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he would provide all cooperation to higher educational institutions. Dr. Paarivendhar told the Chief Minister that SRMU-AP had been striving to become a multidisciplinary research institute of international repute. He asserted that SRMU-AP was known for its state-of-the-art infrastructure and research opportunities. He invited the Chief Minister to visit the university campus to inaugurate the newly built complex, which has various laboratories, and an auditorium of international standards.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restore Ramesh Kumar as SEC’||All India Lawyers’ Union State general secretary and High Court advocate N. Srinivasa Rao sought Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s intervention for restoration of IAS officer N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). In a letter, he said the High Court had ordered the restoration of Mr. Ramesh Kumar as SEC, and as per Article 243 K (2) of the Constitution, the Governor is the appointing authority. The High Court had struck down the ordinance that resulted in the termination of the services of Mr. Ramesh Kumar. It was, therefore, imperative that the Governor should restore Mr. Ramesh Kumar to the Constitutional post with immediate effect, he observed.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple EO suspended||The executive officer of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple, Tirumalagiri, at Jaggaiahpet in Andhra Pradesh, has been suspended on charges of misuse of official powers. Photos and videos had been posted in various social media groups alleging that the official was using the temple staff for his personal work. The Endowments Department initiated the action against Mr. Saibaba on Saturday. A departmental enquiry has been ordered into the allegations.
26 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A step for boosting service delivery in tribal areas||In a move that is aimed at strengthening public service delivery in tribal areas of the State, the government has decided to cancel all informal arrangements of employees posted against sanctioned number of posts, in 24 hours, according to Praveen Prakash, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Praveen Prakash stated in a press release that Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy had issued instructions to that effect. He said it had been brought to the notice of Mr. Jagan that many employees posted against sanctioned posts in tribal areas were working as a lien or as informal attachment in other posts and their salaries had been coming from the ST plan budget. Hence, keeping the employees attached to offices outside the tribal areas was considered unconstitutional and illegal. Mr. Prakash said if staff members were taken out of the sanctioned posts for informal attachment as a lien, those posts could not be filled up, showing them as vacant. The Chief Minister took a serious note of the issue and directed that Special Chief Secretaries Principal Secretaries, Secretaries, heads of departments and District Collectors should review the situation and ensure that the lien/ informal attachments were cancelled immediately.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-Maoist posters surface in Agency||Ahead of the Maoist Martyrs Week, which is observed from July 28, anti-Maoist posters have surfaced in Chintapalli and Paderu areas of Visakha Agency. Posters printed by ‘Alluri Adivasi Abhirudhi Sangam’ were seen pasted across Chintapalli and Paderu. In the posters, the tribal people demanded to know how the Maoists had helped the Girijans in Visakha Agency. They also questioned the Maoists for killing innocent tribal people under the garb of branding them “police informers”. Security beefed up The posters blamed the Maoists for blasting cell towers and destroying equipment meant for laying roads and halting development work in the Agency areas. They demanded that Martyrs week be observed and called other tribal people not to participate in it. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the Agency areas, especially in the sensitive areas. Adequate forces comprising personnel from CRPF, APSP and Greyhounds have been deployed and extensive combing operation and surveillance is on, officials said. According to a senior police officer, all vehicles and roads are being checked with dog squad for explosives, and checkposts have been set-up. Security has been enhanced at all vital installations and for high-value targets. Maoists’ call The Maoists have been observing Martyrs Week, ever since Charu Majumdar, founder of India's Maoist or Naxal movement, died in police custody in West Bengal on July 28 in 1972. Meanwhile, AOB-East Division secretary of the CPI (Maoist) Aruna has released a letter urging tribal people to participate in the Martyrs Week and honour the 16 Maoists who were killed by the security forces in the AOB region in the last one year.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||895 new coronavirus cases take district tally to 6,958||As many as 895 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, here on Saturday. With the new cases, the district tally stands at 6,958. Three more persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 66 on Saturday. As many as 144 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 4,465 and the number of persons discharged is 2,427. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, with the new cases the total number of clusters in the district is 655. Among them, very active clusters are 127. The number of active and dormant clusters is 268 and 260 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.  Emergency meet Following instructions from District Collector V. Vinay Chand, an emergency meeting was conducted at King George Hospital (KGH) on providing 450 beds in the newly-constructed block. The officials discussed over adequate supply of oxygen to bedside points, infrastructure facility for the 450 beds and creation of 100 bed- ICU. They also discussed about additional recruitment for the facility, including an additional general duty medical officer for COVID-19 care, supplying basic requirements to the patients, representation to the government for additional budget for electricity, water charges and others.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated rain likely till July 29||The cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and neighbourhood lies over Chhattisgarh and adjoining interior Odisha between 1.5 km and 4.5 km above mean sea level. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on July 26 and 27. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on July 28. Heavy rainfall is also likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on July 28. Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north and south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on July 29, according to the IMD. The southwest monsoon has been normal over coastal A.P. and vigorous over Rayalaseema. Heavy rainfall occurred at a few places in Kurnool district and at isolated places in Anantapur and Kadapa districts of Rayalaseema. Rain occurred at a few places over coastal A.P. and Yanam and at many places over Rayalaseema.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cut delay in test results, say IMA, PAV||The Visakhapatnam chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Praja Arogya Vedika, Visakhapatnam unit, have made some practical suggestions to the State government to check the spread of COVID-19 and to boost the confidence of the public. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday, IMA Visakhapatnam chapter president P.A. Ramani and PAV State general secretary T. Kameswara Rao while appreciating the efforts of the State government, gave some suggestions for controlling the pandemic. They noted that a core group, consisting of three representatives each from the two organisations, had a brainstorming session on the issue recently. The suggestions which came out of the session include: need to mitigate delay in revealing the test results. There are delays in revealing the test results to the people, ranging from two days to more than a week. This is causing unwarranted panic in the minds of people. The greatest problem with this delay is that the suspected patient can neither be quarantined nor given treatment. On the other hand, this is giving a wide scope for spread of the virus to others. The involvement of private hospitals and doctors has to be increased as the pandemic is growing rapidly. Frontline volunteers should be given pulse oximeters.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to allow home isolation, says apartments association||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartments Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) sent an online representation to District Collector V. Vinay Chand suggesting some steps to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, here on Saturday. The members said that they would allow home isolation of patients if the residents have all the required facilities. Members of the VARWA said that the district administration in consultation with the medical authorities, may decide to allow home isolation to some patients and extend medical supervision. This will reduce the load on the care centres. The members also said that in some apartments, residents are cooperating and extending assistance to the patients. “In many apartments, even sanitisers are not kept in cellars, lifts and at staircases. We, therefore request you to sensitise the apartment residents on these aspects,” VARWA members said in their representation. The members urged the Collector to ensure basic facilities are provided at the testing centres.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webcast by Swami Parthasarathy today||Swami Parthasarathy (93) will conduct a live worldwide webcast on ‘Personal Rehabilitation – From Concern to Composure’, on Sunday from 6.30 p.m. In the one-hour session, he will speak on how by refining our personality, we can gain greater clarity, success and peace in life. The event is being organised by the Vedanta Cultural Foundation. In over 70 years of study and research, Swamiji has authored 12 books including three best sellers.
26 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Andhra Ranji cricketer passes away||Members of Visakhapatnam Cricket Club and former Ranji Trophy cricketers from the city condoled the demise of former Ranji cricketer Nekkanti Bose Babu. He was also the former secretary of Krishna District Cricket Association and younger brother of Nekkanti Venkata Rao also a former Ranji cricketer and secretary of Andhra Cricket Association. Recollecting his association with Bose Babu, former Ranji cricketer P.R. Narayanswami said that Bose Babu was his contemporary and represented Andhra during 1972-74 and will be remembered as a calm and peace loving person.
26 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram reports over 400 cases||Vizianagaram district reported 463 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, alarming residents. With this, the total number of confirmed cases has gone up to 2,912 in the district. The death toll in the district stands at 13. While the rapid transmission of the virus is alarming, the recovery rate is also good, said officials. A total of 961 active cases have been discharged from hospitals after they tested negative.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||52 deaths, 7,813 new COVID cases reported across State||East Godavari has once again reported the highest number of the single-day tally of 1,324 cases. It is followed by West Godavari with 1,012 new cases and Visakhapatnam with 936 cases. They are followed by Kurnool (742), Anantapur (723), Guntur (656), Vizianagaram (523), Krishna (407), Srikakulam (349), Chittoor (300), Nellore (299), Kadapa (294) and Prakasam (248). The district tallies of local cases are as follows: East Godavari (12,391), Kurnool (10,357), Guntur (9,456), Anantapur (8,989), West Godavari (7,553), Chittoor (6,869), Visakhapatnam (5,997), Krishna (5,248), Kadapa (4,361), Srikakulam (4,298), Nellore (4,025), Prakasam (3,307) and Vizianagaram (2,925). Recovery rate The recovery rate of the Krishna district is the highest in the State at 75%. Also, the district’s mortality rate is highest in the State at 2.65%. No other district has a mortality rate of more than 2%. During the past day, 53,681 samples were tested, and so far 15.95 lakh samples were tested.
26 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoists observe one-day bandh||Two minor incidents of violence, including torching of a tractor and digging a portion of a road in the interior tribal pockets of Bhadrachalam Agency, marked the one-day bandh observed by the CPI (Maoist) State committee on Saturday. The bandh was called by the newly reconstituted CPI (Maoist) State committee to press its demands, mainly the release of ailing veteran poet Varavara Rao from Maharashtra’s Taloja jail, withdrawal of the Greyhounds special police forces from the Agency areas of the State. The public transport services were paralysed in the Agency mandals of the district as the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) suspended all its night bus services to the far flung tribal areas in Bhadrachalam Agency and other Agency mandals in neighbouring Mulugu district. As a safety precaution, the public transport entity has decided to suspend its night bus services to the interior Agency areas till August 3 keeping in view the CPI (Maoist)’s call to observe “Martyrs Week” from July 28, sources said. Suspected ultras set on fire the tractor of a local farmer at Paidigudem village in Dummugudem mandal late on Friday night, police sources said. The incident comes barely three days after Maoists torched two machines engaged in road construction work at Battinapalli village in Charla mandal. In an another incident, Maoists reportedly dug up a small portion of a road at a remote tribal habitation at Tippapuram near the district’s border with Chhattisgarh on Friday night, sources added. Meanwhile, the Manuguru police arrested an alleged Maoist sympathiser during a vehicle checking drive at Bugga cross roads near the coal town on Saturday. Police seized wall posters of the banned outfit from the possession of the arrested a 45-year tribal man, identified as Paddam Somaiah. Police said Somaiah originally hails from Chhattisgarh’s Konta block and was residing in a Gutti Koya temporary settlement at Budugula in Manuguru mandal. The Edullabayyaram police arrested another alleged Maoist symathiser from Pittathogu village in Pinapaka mandal on Saturday. In a statement, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt slammed the ultras accusing them of trying to extort money from contractors, businessmen and farmers in the Agency areas. In the name of bandhs, the rebels are attempting to obstruct development by targeting roads and construction equipment, he charged.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clamour for new OGH building grows louder||The clamour for a new building for Osmania General Hospital (OGH) has become louder with three associations comprising doctors requesting the Telangana government to take steps immediately for the construction. Representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Telangana State, Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (THNHA), and Osmania Medical College Old Boys Association submitted their representation to Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday. In the representation addressed to CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao, they stated that OGH is one of the premier hospitals catering not only to the needs of Telangana, but other states. Expressing concern about the dilapidated condition they urged for construction of a new building. Doctors working at the hospital opined that the IP block has to be brought down to construct a new one. Plans to demolish the century-old block was opposed in 2015. This time also, even though people thought that it would be demolished after orders, and things were shifted from IP block to Quli Qutb Shah block, some have demanded for preservation of the heritage structure. An online petition with the demand was floated on Saturday. It was stated that a new hospital could be set up in the vacant land on OGH campus.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Large industrial park likely on capital outskirts||Shabad mandal on the outskirts of Hyderabad may play host to the largest industrial park of Telangana, a 3,600-acre facility, if the farmers and locals extend support, Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao said on Saturday. Hayathabad, Chandanvelly and Sitarampur are the three villages, in the mandal in Rangareddy district, across which the industrial park will be spread. It will be an extension of the 1,600-acre industrial park that is taking shape in Chandanvelly, he said, assuring that the government would work towards generating employment opportunities for local youth in the facility. Regional empowerment and local employment were key to growth, he added. Mr. Rao, speaking at the inauguration of a flooring plant of the $2.7 billion Welspun Group, said when the industrial park was proposed in the area about two and a half years ago there were no industries. Elected representatives impressed farmers on the need to give up their lands for larger good. The setting up of Welspun plant, on which over Rs. 1,100-crore investment was made and an additional Rs. 500 crore was on the cards, was just the beginning of industrial development of the area, which is about 28 km from the airport. As a step to ensure that the sacrifice of farmers did not go waste, the government had decided to set up a large skill development centre in the area to train youth and enable them to get jobs in the industrial units. The Minister also laid the foundation for Welspun’s Advanced Textiles facility that would entail Rs. 400-crore investment, in the presence of the group’s chairman B. K. Goenka and several elected representatives, including Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, MLC Patnam Mahender Reddy and MLA Yadaiah Kale. Besides Welspun, which was the anchor client in Chandanvelly Park and would invest a total of Rs. 2,000 crore by 2021, four entities were setting up projects there. The list included Kundan Group and Kataria Group. Discussions were in an advanced stage with a few more. A company had also sought space to establish an electric vehicle manufacturing plant there. Mr. Rao said infrastructure in the area would be bolstered with development of a four-lane road from Chandanvelly to Shamshabad via Hayathabad at a cost of Rs. 220 crore, augmentation of piped water supply and setting up of a substation. Welspun coming to Hyderabad was no small achievement as the group had made Gujarat its home, the IT Minister said, adding that its decision was bound to enthuse many companies in India and abroad to look at Telangana. Mr. Goenka said “we have moved [the] investment from Gujarat to Telangana. Whatever was promised [by Telangana government] was delivered.” Noting that 600 acres were to be developed by Welspun, he said the flooring plant was a state-of-the-art facility. Over time, the group would employ 2,500 people directly and create jobs for 5,000 indirectly. Welspun Flooring’s manufacturing facility is spread across 200 acres and employs close to 1,600 members. It is equipped to manufacture a range of innovative products from Carpet Tiles, Greens (artificial grass) and Broadloom Carpets (wall to wall carpet) to the patented and technologically advanced product – the Click-N-Lock tiles. Post completion of all phases, it will have a production capacity of 40 million square metres annually. President and CEO- International Business of Welspun Flooring Mukesh Savlani said the facility would cater to domestic and export markets.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rlys. to have digitised HR info||Indian Railways is all set have a completely digitised Human Resource Information System (HRIS) before the financial year end where details of each employee will be available on the dashboard. An e-office platform making it a paperless platform and another digitised software system to have an online clearance of engineering drawings are also to be in place in the coming months. “We have never had an exclusive software for HR management. It is 90% ready and will be operational by March 2021 nationwide. It will also help in reskilling and retraining our staff,” said Railway Board chairman, Vinod Kumar Yadav. Pilot successful The e-office concept, which started in South Central Railway (SCR) when Mr Yadav was the general manager of the zone, will now be implemented across all divisions soon. Similarly, the e-drawing approval systems pilot project has been successful, so this too will be taken nationwide, he revealed. Even as the focus will be on capacity augmentation for the next five years, the employees, too, will be re-trained to handle the technological upgrade of the infrastructure with ‘multi-skilling’ and ‘redeployment’ from redundant areas to the critical ones. “A lot of technology change has taken place in railways and we need to retrain our personnel to bring more efficiency into the systems,” he said, in an exclusive interaction. The chairman said Indian Railways being an “old and huge” organisation, there was bound to be resistance to the changes being attempted. “We have been talking, motivating and listening to them. They are also understanding the need for reforms. More than the work force, it is the officers who need to lead the change. I have been telling them that unless there is growth in railways there cannot be career growth,” he explained. In fact, the planned major upheaval of cadre with unified Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) got a break because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Union Cabinet has cleared the cadre restructuring. We will start from where we left and it is going to be big reform. Recruitment to all the eight railway services like IRTS, IRAS, etc., have been stopped for the year and we will be finalising the recruitment process soon,” said Mr. Yadav. Shah at the helm Home Minister Amit Shah is heading the Cabinet Ministers’ group looking into the cadre restructuring while Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gaube is heading the committee of secretaries. It has also been decided to introduce more courses in the National Institute of Railway Technology in association with the universities in the US and the UK, besides tying up with Indian School of Business, IITs and IIMs to train the manager level officers. “We are also training our trainers of various railway training institutes and making use of the Original Equipment Suppliers for reskilling and multi-skilling of our technical staff at the lower levels in a coordinated manner,” added the chairman.  A lot of technology change has taken place in railways and we need to re-train our personnel to bring more efficiency into the systems. Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 claims activist U. Sambasiva Rao||Well-known poet, writer, activist and intellectual from the Leftist-Ambedkarite school of thought U. Sambasiva Rao, popular by his pen name Usa, expired on Saturday in the early hours, while under treatment for COVID-19. He was 70, and is survived by daughter. Sources informed that Usa had been suffering from diarrhoea for one week before he got tested for COVID-19. When situation worsened, he got admitted in a private hospital, where he stayed for two days before he passed away. Usa was born in Brahmanakodur village of Guntur district, and while in college, got attracted to rationalism and revolutionary politics. He was a member of Democratic Students Organisation, and later became a full time member of Unity Centre of Communist Revolutionaries of India (Marxist-Leninist) of which Communist stalwart Tarimela Nagi Reddy was an important functionary. He was arrested and jailed during Emergency imposed by the then Congress government, and after release, was sent by the party to organise farmers in East Godavari district. Later he also worked with farmers in the drought-hit areas of Nalgonda districts such as Motkur, from where he eventually contested for the MLA seat, but lost. His exit from the party, along with Kancha Ilaiah, came when they together penned a statement on behalf of the party’s frontal organisation OPDR, naming the castes of the victims and perpetrators in Karamchedu massacre, Prof. Ilaiah recalled. When another Marxist stalwart K.G. Satyamurthy came out of the People’s War Group, Usa joined him to start a magazine Edureetha , through which he propagated Ambedkarite thought. Through his writings, he always strove for Marxist-Ambedkarite alliance in people’s and progressive movements. Himself married out of the caste, Usa is also known for his ground work against honour killings pertaining to inter-caste marriages. Together with other like-minded persons, he launched Desi-Disa web channel to spread the Marx-Phule-Ambedkar ideology, and worked as State coordinator for Bahujana Pratighatana Vedika.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporate hospitals to pay more for COVID duties||In a recent development, corporate hospitals are ready to pay up to 200% more salaries to doctors and nurses to attend COVID patients. Earlier, doctors who completed their post graduation (PG) were paid a maximum of Rs. 5,000 per 12-hours night shift. “Now, we are offering up to Rs. 12,000 for the same number of hours in COVID wards. Some private hospitals managements are ready to pay around Rs. 15,000 per night shift. The pay increases if one chooses to work in day shifts. Newly-absorbed senior resident doctors at government hospitals are offered Rs. 77,000 per month, including 10% incentives,” said a doctor who recently completed his PG. The doctors at corporate hospitals are offered to work on full-time basis too. Only PGs with specialisation in General Medicine, Anaesthesia, Pulmonology and Paediatrics are offered high salaries. Faculty at government hospitals were boggled to know the pay structure. Nurses were paid a maximum of Rs. 20,000-Rs. 25,000 per month by the managements. Now, the private establishments are ready to shell out up to Rs. 60,000-Rs. 70,000 per month for COVID duties. A few hospitals are ready to pay Rs. 3,000 for a 12-hours night shift. However, finding skilled work force has become a challenge. President of Telangana Nursing Samithi Govardhan Kurumeti said that while corporate hospitals are ready to shell out high salaries, a few small hospital managements are trying to cut down salaries by half as the number of patient admissions has dropped. Nurses receiving cut salaries are joining COVID duties to earn more.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lab technician succumbs||A 57-year-old Lab Technician (Grade-1) at the Government General and Chest Hospital who suffered from COVID-19 died on Saturday. The victim, Goverdhan, was involved in collection of samples from COVID-19 suspects admitted at the hospital. Only suspects with respiratory illnesses are admitted at the hospital. After admission, swab samples are collected to test for presence of coronavirus. Upon testing positive, they are shifted to Osmania General Hospital. Mr. Govardhan tested positive on July 13 and was initially isolated at home. Chest Hospital Dr Mahaboob Superintendent Khan said that when the lab technician complained of breathlessness, he was admitted to the government hospital. Around three days later, he was shifted to NIMS. However, he died on Saturday. Telangana State Government Medical Laboratory Technicians Association expressed condolences (TSGMLTA). Risk allowance Meanwhile, members of TSGMLTA have requested the State government to grant them Rs. 3,000 risk allowance per month. Currently, they are paid only Rs. 100. The lab technicians are involved in collecting swab samples from suspects who visit the testing centres. A few lab technicians have already contracted and have recovered. The association’s president Ravinder Manchala requested that they be allowed one week quarantine followed by one week of work.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS neglected OGH: Congress||A delegation of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) led by its president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy visited the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) buildings, which are in a bad shape, on Saturday and blamed neglect of the hospital by the TRS government during the last six years for its present condition. Accompanied by City Congress president M. Anjan Kumar Yadav, Youth Congress president M. Anil Kumar Yadav, party leaders Feroz Khan and others, he visited the old block of OGH constructed by the Nizam-VII. They also went round the open land behind the hospital complex. Speaking during the visit, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said it was unfortunate that the State government had not focused on the upkeep of the hospital buildings and its development during the last six years as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was little interested in public health. The government had not spent funds either on restoring or repairing the old block, which is now in a dilapidated condition. He suggested that the old building should be retained by restoring it appropriately since it was one of the heritage buildings in the city constructed during the Nizam era. He, however, demanded that the government take up construction of new buildings for the OGH in the six acres of vacant land available in the complex. Alleging that the government apathy towards the OGH was ample indication of the KCR government’s (lack of ) commitment to the health of poor, Mr. Reddy said the TRS government had not failed just in the health sector but on all fronts including tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and the remarks being made by the High Court in the issue was ample proof of its gross neglect of public health in the wake of spread of the pandemic. The TPCC president noted that the State government officials themselves had declared that COVID-19 was in the community spread stage in the State but the Cabinet colleagues of the Chief Minister were still saying that there was no community spread. It indicated total confusion within the government on handling the crisis.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Site report warned of OGH flooding||“Create a master plan for the entire hospital compound and ensure water does not drain towards the historic building. Landscaping of the courtyard, including rainwater harvesting, needs to be planned.” These are the words from a joint site-inspection report on Osmania General Hospital (OGH) by the Department of Archaeology and Museums and Aga Khan Trust for Culture, accessed by this reporter. The report, less than a year old, certifies the building’s condition as “structure was stable and in a good state of preservation with no apparent threat of structural failure or collapse.” The report was done in the immediate aftermath of earlier evacuation of the hospital on November 6, 2019. “Only the terrace needs attention and the landscape will take care of flooding problem,” says an engineer associated with the report dated November 27, 2019. The forecourt of the hospital, which has the tamarind tree that was a saviour during the 1908 flood, has been turned into a site for parks. A number of foundation stones and unseemly concrete structures including water cascades and granite flooring have been built around the park. Archival images of the old entrance of the OGH show a few trees and a park that blended with the Musi riverfront garden. Ignoring the landscape proved to be a bane for the government hospital as the newly-laid road blocked the flow of water. “We had warned about the level of the road and possibility of water getting accumulated,” says the engineer. The flooding of the hospital ward by this accumulated water fuelled fresh calls to abandon the building. An earlier report by Indian National Trust for Art and Culture reached the conclusion: “The OGH heritage building is structurally safe and can be made safe for another century, barring any natural and human interventions, if properly maintained after repairs, restoration and retrofitting.” GO Ms. 102 of March 23, 1998, lists the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) as a Grade IIB building and is a notified protected heritage structure. Incidentally, a clutch of online petitions and letters to legislators are being circulated by the citizens of Hyderabad to put pressure on officials concerned to halt the demolition of the heritage structure.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTPP Stage-II to get coal supply through conveyor belt||The 600 MW unit of Stage-II of Kakatiya Thermal Power Project (KTPP) at Chelpur in Jayashankar Bhupalapally district would have hassle-free supply of coal as Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) intends to erect belt conveyor corridor for transportation of fuel (coal) from the Tadicharla Block-I as part of its coal linkage. At present the power generation unit gets its coal supplies by road as the coal handling plant of the Tadicharla Block-I falls nearby. Initially, it was identified that about 40 acres of land would be needed for setting up the belt conveyor through the land belonging to Kapuram and Ansanpally villages of Malharrao mandal and Jangedu and Kompally villages of Bupalapally mandal. Land survey However, land survey and verification of records found that severance of the area for the purpose was little over 51 acres and not about 40 acres as identified earlier. Following the increased requirement of land for erecting the belt conveyor from the Tadicharla block to the thermal power unit, TSGenco has requested the State government to exempt social impact assessment study and food security under the Land Acquisition Act, 2013 for the 51.16 acres land required for the belt conveyor corridor. Accordingly, Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Ajay Misra issued orders on Saturday exempting the extent of land required for belt conveyor from the provisions of Land Acquisition Act.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 6,000 crore released to clear debts of discoms||In partial payment of Rs. 12,000 crore loan assured to the two power distribution companies (Discoms) of Telangana to clear off their outstanding dues to various power generators, the State-owned Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation have released Rs. 6,000 crore and deposited the amount to the accounts of the generators. The loan was sanctioned as part of the Centre’s decision to infuse one-time relief of Rs. 90,000 crore through PFC and REC to revive the financial health of ailing Discoms in the country. The relief to discoms was one of fifteen measures announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman to combat the economic effect of coronavirus-infused lockdown with a relief package of Rs. 20 lakh crore. The PFC and REC will infuse the liquidity by raising Rs. 90,000 crore from market against the receivables of discoms. The State governments will give guarantee. The amount will be used to pay Central public sector power generation companies, transmission companies, independent power producers and renewable energy generators. The Telangana government gave a guarantee of Rs. 12,000 crore for the Rs. 12,609 crore receivables of its two discoms from various government departments. As soon as the guarantees were issued by the government, the PFC and REC sanctioned Rs. 12,000 crore and completed the loan deed. The two loaning agencies pooled Rs. 3,000 crore each to deposit the amount to the accounts of generators which had supplied power to discoms but failed to recover the money. The discoms also furnished to the agencies outstanding dues of Rs. 14,333 crore to various generating companies till March 31 last. In the process, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) got Rs. 1,500 crore, Singareni Collieries Rs. 2,400 crore, solar developers Rs. 900 crore, Power Grid Corporation of India Rs. 250 crore, Neyveli Lignite Corporation Rs. 300 crore and others Rs. 650 crore in the first instalment earlier this month, sources said. They added the second instalment of Rs. 6,000 crore will depend on fulfilment of various conditions laid down by lenders like reduction in transmission and distribution losses of discoms and a commitment by them to reduce the gap in their projected revenue and requirement.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Keeping an unbroken cold chain for airport cargo||GMR Hyderabad International Airport has ramped up its cargo capabilities by inducting a unique Multi ULD (Unit Load Device) Cool Dolly to maintain unbroken cold chain for Time and Temperature Sensitive (TSS) shipments such as pharmaceuticals and perishables. The device can carry seven-ton capacity of AC unit along with in-built power backup keeping the products safe and sacrosanct. The facility was virtually launched earlier last week by senior economic adviser, Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), Vandana Aggarwal during the third webinar on ‘Air Cargo-Changing Dimensions’ organised by GMR Group as part of its ongoing webinar series on ‘Reposing the faith in flying’. Other speakers on the panel were GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker; Managing Director, Blue Dart Aviation CEO, GHIAL Tulsi Mirchandaney; CEO, AAI Cargo Logistics and Allied Services, Keku Gazder; and CCO-Agility Logistics, Satish Lakkaraju. Cool Dolly comprises a steel trailer and an aluminium-insulated container and acts as a mobile storage unit from air cargo terminal to the aircraft. They provide an unbroken cold chain to all the perishable shipments of temperatures of 2⁰C to 8⁰C and 15⁰C to 25⁰C and can handle around 7-tons of cargo in a single trip, informed an official spokesman. “Cool Dolly is a crucial value addition to the unbroken cold chain for life saving and temperature sensitive cargo. With more than 70% of cargo being pharma, it has enhanced the airport’s capabilities multi-fold in our efforts to provide customers safe handling of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, fruits, vegetables and other perishables,” said Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker. The facility has dual-side opening for effortless loading and unloading, flexible locking system to safeguard the cargo pallets positioned during the movement, non-slip flooring and excellent heat insulation. It is also equipped with data logger for efficient temperature management, enhanced cargo protection and to monitor the temperature reading during live operation, he added.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Bigger role awaits SHGs in e-commerce, food processing’||Women self-help groups (SHGs) in the State would have a major role to play in the area of food processing since the government is planning to establish food processing units in every Assembly constituency to complement the regulated farming being advocated, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) Sandeep Kumar Sultania has said. Speaking during a visit to exhibition of SHGs’ products with “Maha” brand at the Technology and Training Development Centre at Bandameedipalli near Mahabubnagar on Thursday, Mr. Sultania said though he was associated with women SHGs for past two decades it was the first time he was witness to sale of their products with a brand name. He complimented the SHG women of Mahabubnagar district for having entered into marketing tie-ups with e-commerce companies such as Amazon and Flipkart for sale of their products. He suggested the SHGs to take up bigger projects and the government was ready to extend financial assistance through Stree Nidhi Bank. Collector S. Venkata Rao said the SHG groups which were in dormant stage during the lockdown were activated with different tasks and challenges including stitching of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. The SHGs were given Rs. 45 crore linkage loans during the last one month. SHGs in the district had made over 5.5 lakh face masks and had the capacity to produce 1 lakh masks in 48 hours. They were selling about 50 quality products with the help of Amazon and Flipkart, Mr. Venkata Rao said. More products would be added soon, he averred.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High-time govt. trained co-op tribunal members: High Court||Stating that there were errors and failure in adhering to procedures in an order issued by a member of Cooperative Tribunal-Hyderabad, Justice K. Lakshman of the Telangana High Court observed that it was high time government imparted training to the tribunal members. Government was appointing officers of the Co-operative department (not below the rank of Additional Registrar) as members of the Co-operative Tribunals. These members are assigned the responsibilities on a par with judicial officers. They hear cases, maintain dockets, pass orders in interlocutory applications and hear appeals. However, “no formal training is imparted to them,” the judge said while delivering a verdict in a writ petition filed by Vardhaman Mahila Co-operative Urban Bank challenging an order passed by Co-operative Tribunal. Noting that there were irregularities in maintaining the docket by the tribunal member, the judge said that it seemed the tribunal members lacked appropriate training and sensitisation. Justice K. Lakshman mentioned that the HC imparts training to newly-selected junior civil judges and district judges even to learn adjudication skills. Quasi-judicial functions are assigned to officials of Revenue, Labour and Tribal departments. They take final call on matters relating to important rights of citizens. Therefore, the government should urgently take note of the issue and initiate pro-active steps for the training of officers of different departments concerned, the judge said in the verdict. This would help in proper dispensation of justice and resolving disputes in accordance with law. Referring to the order passed by the tribunal member on April 19, 2018, Justice K. Lakshman observed that procedures established by the law were not followed in delivering the order. The docket was not maintained properly and even no reasons were mentioned justifying the order. The judge also noted that serious allegations of correction of date of the order on the docket and not giving opportunity to the other party were made in the case. One of the parties even complained to the HC referring to correction of date on the docket. The tribunal member was also accused of not being on the Bench on the date of issuing the order.
26 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two killed in separate hit-and-run cases||A 60-year-old vegetable vendor was killed when an unidentified vehicle hit his bike at LB Nagar on Saturday. Kankala Srisailam from Nagole, who hailed from Chandupatla village of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, went to the vegetable market at NTR Nagar and was returning home at 5.30 a.m. “At Metro Pillar No. A1649, a four-wheeler going towards LB Nagar from Dilsukhnagar hit Srisailam’s bike and fled. As a result, the victim suffered severe head injury and died on the spot,” LB Nagar Inspector V. Ashok Reddy said. In a similar hit-and-run case at Shamshabad, a 26-year-old youth died when an unidentified vehicle rammed his two-wheeler. The victim, Boinpally Venugopal Goud, was a resident of Ayyavaripalli village in Shadnagar mandal of RR district. Shamshabad police said that the accident took place on NH-44 on the outskirts of Palmakul village at 2.50 p.m. on Saturday.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSGenco hydel played a key role in grid frequency upkeep: CMD||Chairman and Managing Director of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) D. Prabhakar Rao visited the 6×150 MW Srisailam Left Bank underground hydro-electric generation at facility Srisailam on Saturday and reviewed the performance of the hydel station. He complimented the engineers of the power station as TS-Genco has generated over 4,509 million units (MU) of energy last year (2019-20) with the SLB power station contributing over 44.2% (1,993 MU) of it. Besides, the power station had also played a key role in helping maintain the grid frequency during the hours of need such as lighting switch-off event held this year with its reversible pumping mode generation. According to TS-Genco officials, Mr. Prabhakar Rao went round Mechanical, Electrical, Civil, Air-Conditioning wings and Master Control Room and enquired with the engineers manning them about problems, if any. Works inspected He walked around the power house from zero level to service bay and inspected some maintenance works going on there. Mr. Prabhakar Rao hoped that they would better the last year’s hydel generation given the good beginning of flood season this year. Last year, the hydel contribution to the total generation of TS-Genco from all of its generating stations was nearly 18%. The officials stated that SLB power house has generated over 105 MU of energy this flood season starting from July 19. The power station has generated nearly 134 MU of energy till July 24 this year since April 1. Flood to Jurala, located in the upstream of Krishna river, has also helped generation of about 82 MU energy at Jurala (6×39 MW) and Lower Jurala (6×40 MW) power stations since July 14. In 2019-20, the two hydel stations have generated over 640 MU energy during the flood season. One of the units in Jurala power house is under outage since October 16 last year following some mechanical problems generated in the unit due to reverse power.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CAT advises DSPs to approach Centre for IPS promotion consideration||Central Administrative Tribunal-Hyderabad had suggested to nine Deputy Superintendents of Police seeking promotion from State Police Service to Indian Police Service (IPS) to approach the Centre. The CAT-Hyderabad bench comprising its chairman L.Narasimha Reddy and member B.V. Sudhakar said the applicants can represent to the Centre to consider their case under Rule 3 of All India Services (Conditions of Service-Residuary Matters) Rules-1960. Disposing of the applications filed by nine DSPs, the bench said the Centre should pass appropriate orders within two months of receiving representation. The applicants appeared for Group-I exams conducted by Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission in the undivided State of Andhra Pradesh after a notification was issued in 1998 for 19 DSP posts. However, the government issued appointment orders to only 10 of them in 2001 on completion of selection process. The remaining nine candidates moved the Tribunal, the High Court and the Supreme Court. After a prolonged legal battle, the government of undivided AP State issued appointment orders to these nine DSPs in 2011. For promotion from State Police Service to IPS, the DSPs should complete eight years of continuous service. With the Central and State government considering their year of appointment as 2011, the applicants were not being considered for promotion to IPS. The applicants contended that they in fact got selected in 2001. They maintained that it was the State’s fault and not theirs which resulted in the delayed issuance of their appointment orders. Power to relax rules The bench said in its order that the Central government contemplated possibilities of extraordinary circumstances in All India Services. The Central government has the power to relax the rules and regulations in certain cases under Rule 3 of All India Service Rules. The bench observed that case of the applicants can be considered extraordinary since their appointment was delayed by a decade due to the fault of the State government. Even the Supreme Court observed that it was the mistake of the State which resulted in injustice to the applicants. The DSPs can make a representation to the Centre under Rule 3 to consider their case for promotion to IPS, the bench said.  The Centre should pass appropriate orders within two months of receiving their representation. A bench of Central Administrative Tribunal-Hyderabad
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jamia Nizamia: no sheep skin donation for Bakrid||For the first time in its history, city-based Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia will not accept the thousands of sheep skin donations that come its way during Eid-al-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid. The move is a part of the Nizamia’s COVID-19 precautionary measures. The Islamic seminary on Saturday issued a note to its donors and, those who collect sheep skin and send it to the Nizamia, asking them to halt the activity. “The circumstances created due to coronavirus are clear for everybody to see. In light of this, it has been decided to stop the annual collection of skin of the sacrificial animal,” an excerpt from the note said. A senior faculty member of the Nizamia confirmed the development and stated that the Jamia Nizamia’s Council has taken the decision. “Annually, people would donate between 25,000 and 30,000 skins, at times more. The donations to the Jamia Nizamia, as compared to any other organisation, were the highest. This is the first time in history that we have halted donation acceptance,” said Maulana Anwar Ahmed. Every Bakrid, Muslims would donate the skin of the sacrificed animal to the Jamia Nizamia at neighbourhood mosques, or give them to personnel appointed by it. The skins would then be used for fund raising.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No Bakrid prayers at Mecca Masjid||Eid-al-Adha prayers will be off-limits for the public at Mecca Masjid, District Minority Welfare Officer Mohammed Khasim said on Saturday. “All prayers are taking place in the masjid with staff as congregants. Bakrid prayers will not be open to the public, and will be performed with Khateeb Rizwan Qureshi leading the prayers,” he said.
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Move virus-hit RTC staff to pvt. hospitals in emergency’||Trade unions of the TSRTC have demanded that COVID-19 workers be immediately moved to private hospitals for treatment in case of an emergency. The move comes after union leaders said that many workers tested positive. According to K. Raji Reddy of the RTC Employees’ Union, around 70 workers and their family members tested positive, in addition to the confirmed six COVID deaths. “There are some who have not been tested, but have displayed COVID symptoms. This is worrying us,” he said. Apart from reiterating its demand for a COVID-19 wing at RTC Hospital in Tarnaka, RTC EU sought a Rs. 50-lakh insurance for those who died of coronavirus, and a reimbursement of money spent by worker in private hospitals.
26 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Finalise rates of Rajiv Swagruha Corp. houses’||Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy has asked officials concerned to finalise modalities for the sale of flats constructed by the Rajiv Swagruha Corporation. The Minister wanted the officials to ensure revision of estimates in a manner that the houses are priced in line with the existing market values. The corporation has constructed 3,716 flats - 2,246 in Bandalguda township and another 1,470 in Pocharam township. The Minister was participating in a meeting of Housing Department officials and representatives of Knight Frank here on Friday. He wanted the officials to prepare estimates of the revenue that the government could secure from the sale of these two properties of the corporation. The officials were directed to revise the estimates so that the sale of these flats is made at meaningful rates. Housing Department Principal Secretary Sunil Sharma, Rajiv Swagruha Director Ravinder Reddy and others participated in the meeting.
26 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man died after roller shutter fell on him||A man was killed when a roller shutter fell on him while he was trying to fix it at a car showroom in Hydernagar of KPHB Colony on Friday evening. Mohd Quthbuddin (34) of Jagatgirigutta was fixing the shutter of Nexa showroom with contractor Mohammed Javeed, around 5.05 p.m., when it accidentally rolled and fell on his head. He suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot, KPHB Colony police said.
26 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||PD Act invoked against gutka trader||The Nalgonda police on Saturday invoked B. Lingaiah alias Satish, a resident of Marriguda here, under provisions of the Preventive Detention Act for alleged transport and sale of gutka. The accused was a habitual offender, so far involved in 11 cases involving smuggling of the banned product, Nalgonda DSP G. Venkateswar Reddy said. Informing that the accused was sent to Central Jail, Warangal, he said the department would act similarly in cases of illegal sale and transport of rice got from the public distribution system, and other tobacco-related products.
26 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Corona relief kits distributed||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao suggested hotel organisers to supply hot water to customers in order to protect them from the spread of coronavirus. Addressing a limited gathering after inaugurating free decoction and hot water distribution centre at Mustabad Chowrastha on Saturday, Mr. Rao said that by consuming medicated decoction and hot water, people can protect themselves from corona pandemic. On the occasion, he distributed corona relief kits at municipal office.
26 July 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Rise in groundwater level brings cheer to Yadadri||Blessed with good rains in the past year, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district is all recharged. A year-over-year scenario, according to official reports, shows an average rise in groundwater level by 4.06 metres. The figures were compared between June 2019 and May 2020, with variations noted from 38 piezometer or observation wells located in the 17 mandals. Though Yadagirigutta mandal received just normal rainfall, it recorded the highest rise of 14.13 metres, and Rajapet mandal with excess rainfall and the maximum five piezometer locations, was second at 6.8 metres. Of all the mandals, Sansthan Narayanpur remained the only one where water level went low by half a metre (0.51 m). And geographically, it was also estimated that 20% of the district, an area of 986.19 sq. km in five mandals, where water level was more than 20 metre-deep, has now reduced to 5%, or an area of 164.59 sq.km and one mandal. According to Telangana State Development Planning Society, for the ground water testing period, the district received normal rainfall in 13 mandals, excess in Pochampally (26%), Ramannapet (33%), Rajapet (37%), and large excess rainfall in Turkapalle mandal (67%). State schemes For officials, in addition to the rains, man-made interventions such as schemes like Mission Kakatiya, the State’s minor irrigation tank rehabilitation, and Mission Bhagiratha, the scheme providing tapped drinking water to every household, were crucial too. “The district has more than 1,000 minor tanks. With tapped drinking water, even if 30% evaporation of surface water is considered at the source or at consumption point, there is lesser wastage,” district ground water officer Jyothi Kumar said. Also, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri witnessed change of cropping pattern from paddy, which consumes more water, to others, and hence less ground water was extracted. “The rise is a new record, at least since 2014,” he added. But, unlike other mandals, why did the ground water level of S. Narayanpur, which also received normal rain and has one piezometer location like four others, go further down? The officer pointed out that the mandal’s topographic conditions, in hills, slopes and rocks, were factors for surface run-off. According to data from the Irrigation Department, of the total 1, 207 minor irrigation tanks in the district, S. Narayanpur has 71, close to Yadagirigutta, the topper with 75 tanks. And although Mothkur and Valigonda have the maximum 125 and 123 tanks respectively, and received rainfall like Yadagirigutta, they did not record more than 3.60 metre rise. Similarly, Pochampally mandal with just 39 tanks and having received excess rainfall also did not record more than 0.84 metre rise.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Homeless take refuge in night shelters set ablaze months ago||The three night shelters that were set ablaze at Kashmere Gate in April and are yet to be renovated have again become roof for several homeless who have nowhere else to go. Mukesh (50), a differently abled man, said that after he lost his leg in 2011, his family members threw him out of the house in Sonipat after which he lived in a shelter in Dwarka where he was also undergoing treatment. However, at the beginning of the lockdown, he was asked to leave after which he came to the Kashmere Gate shelter. “When it was set on fire, we were all shifted to a school but a month later, we were asked to leave from there too. Because we had nowhere else to go, we came back here,” he said. Talking about the condition of the shelter, a caretaker, who didn’t wish to be identified, said that it’s not yet been reconstructed, the mattresses which were burnt are still there and water drips through the roof which has holes because of the blaze. Full capacity “About 450-500 people are sleeping in these burnt shelter without any facilities. There are eight shelters here but homeless people come here because the other five are full. It’s either raining these days or there’s scorching heat. They have nowhere else to go,” he said. “ Paani barasta hai lekin utna nahin jitna bahar barasta hai, Idhar udhar hokar so jaate hain [Water drips but not as much as it pours outside. We manage to sleep],” said Rahul, another homeless. No action so far At the three shelters run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), no record is maintained because “officially” they’re not functional. When asked if officials have come to take note of the situation, he said that they come occasionally but nothing has been done so far. “They have been coming to take stock of the situation but reconstruction or renovation hasn’t started. Two officials came as latest as 10 days ago, but no action has been taken,” he said.  DUSIB director When contacted, DUSIB director (night shelter) N.H. Sharma said that he’ll comment only after ascertaining the facts of the matter. Three shelter homes on Yamuna Pushta at Kashmere Gate were set ablaze on April 11 after occupants and civil defence volunteers got into a heated argument during food distribution. Stone throwing was reported between residents of the shelter homes and the police.An FIR was registered and seven persons were arrested.  When it was set on fire, we were all shifted to a school but a month later, we were asked to leave from there too. Because we had nowhere else to go, we came back here      Mukesh
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrests becoming a ‘punishment’ for officers||Outside the Tihar Jail’s court complex, police officers stand in groups — holding the hands of the accused — waiting for their turn to appear before the magistrate and seek police or judicial custody of the alleged offender. Their restlessness becomes evident as the crowd swells and an otherwise simple procedure stretches to hours. Owing to the nationwide lockdown and minimal court proceedings in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, investigating officers and other police personnel are facing a hard time after making fresh arrests. They have been told to produce the accused arrested in the Capital at Tihar and Mandoli jail court complexes, where only one duty metropolitan magistrate each works through the day conducting the proceedings. Earlier, before the COVID-19 restrictions were enforced, the investigating officers could produce the accused in the court of the area concerned and the procedure did not take a lot of time. Now, the officers have to wait long hours for their turn, amid fear of contracting the virus in that crowded space. 10-hour-long ordeal A sub-inspector-rank officer from South East district, who had arrested a man for allegedly raping a woman last month, shared her ordeal of waiting outside the court complex with the victim from 2 p.m. till midnight. The officer said she had applied for Test Identification Parade (TIP) of the accused, in which the victim has to identify the accused in the presence of the duty MM, and she went to the Tihar court on the date given to her. “We reached there at 2 p.m. Two persons sitting outside the court wrote my name and told me that I will be informed when my turn comes. There were about 80 investigating officers already waiting at that time, including those who had made fresh arrests and had to produce the accused before the duty MM,” she said. The SI said she lost her patience when her turn did not come till about 10 p.m, as hers was a TIP application along with two other such cases from different police stations and fresh arrestees were being produced first. “Finally, I told the persons sitting outside that I was waiting here [Tihar court complex] with the victim since afternoon. That’s when the duty MM went with us for the TIP proceedings,” she said. Explaining the proceeding, she said that during the TIP these days, the duty MM has to come along to the jail where the accused is lodged. In the normal course, after the arrest is made, the court orders TIP in the next hearing. If the accused agrees to the proceedings, he/she is produced before the court with others for identification by the victim. The officer further said that it was “a complete mess” outside the court complex. “There was no place to sit and wait, no washroom facility for those visiting the premises. On a daily basis, about 80-100 accused are produced before Tihar’s duty MM by police personnel. About 200-300 people are present in that area. It’s impossible to maintain social distancing in such a situation,” she said. The officer had to take the rape victim outside to use a public washroom, she said, adding that she reached home at 1 a.m. after the TIP. Another SI-rank officer from North district complained of lack of clarity on instructions regarding the production of accused before the magistrate. “Two days before the arrest was made in my case [murder case], a colleague told me that he first went to the Tis Hazari court [designated for North district] from where he was told to go to Tihar and then because it was late, he was again told to visit the house of the duty MM from Tis Hazari. So I wasn’t sure what to do,” he said. After the arrest was made, the officer said, he went to the Tis Hazari court around 2.30 p.m. but the duty MM there told him to produce the accused before the Tihar court. “Thankfully, I knew a court official who requested the duty MM to proceed in the case. Even then the MM made me wait till 5 p.m. While waiting for our turn, the accused tried to flee also but we managed to nab him,” the officer said. Lack of management The woman sub-inspector also complained of problems arising due to lack of management. “The duty MMs in courts concerned have the same power as the ones in Tihar. It’s hard to understand the new rule. Even if we have to travel a long way and visit Tihar, it would be better if there is one duty MM each for different districts,” she said. A head constable, who had come to produce a theft accused at Tihar court complex, said he just happened to be lucky because he had come on a day when there were fewer arrests till 2 p.m. “My turn came in just 90 minutes,” he said.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||City police file chargesheet against Sharjeel Imam||The Delhi police on Saturday filed a chargesheet against former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam at Patiala House Courts. The chargesheet has been filed under Section 124A (sedition), 153(A) (promoting enmity), 153 (B)(assertion prejudicial to national integration) (promoting enmity, hatred between different communities, 505 (spreading rumours) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The police claimed that he delivered seditious speeches and incited “a particular section of society to indulge in unlawful activities”. The police also claimed that “in the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019,” he incited people to block the road leading to “chakka jam” which further led to disruption. The police claimed that Mr. Imam called the Constitution a “fascist document”. Delhi Police registered a case against him, after Assam and Uttar Pradesh Police, in January for his speeches in Shaheen Bagh and at Jamia Millia Islamia University. Sedition case He was arrested in January and a case of sedition was also lodged against him for a speech he delivered on the Aligarh Muslim University campus on January 16. The Assam police also filed an FIR under the anti-terror law against him for his speech. His name has been mentioned in several chargesheets filed by Delhi Police in connection with the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||CM inaugurates 450-bed Burari Hospital||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the 450-bed Burari Hospital in Delhi via videoconferencing. The newly set-up hospital will eventually have a total of 700 beds, out of which 450 have been installed. Around 125 beds will have oxygen supply and the capacity will be enhanced in the coming days, the Delhi government said in a statement. “I am very happy to be inaugurating the Burari Hospital today. I could not be there due to COVID-19 and various other arrangements. I visited the hospital a few days ago to inspect all arrangements that were being made in the hospital. The opening of this hospital will add 450 more beds in the health infrastructure in Delhi,” he said. Recovery rate He also said the number of cases, positivity ratio and death ratio had gone down while the recovery rate had increased over the last month. “This is the result of the hard work of all people. The Burari Hospital will serve the people of the area in the coming days and this hospital has started at the right time when we are battling COVID-19,” he also said. Mr. Kejriwal also met the family of Arun Kumar, a civil defence volunteer, who died after contracting COVID-19 in the line of duty, and offered them a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. Kumar was a resident of Rajpuri in Uttam Nagar. He was on duty in Dwarka and contracted the virus in the course of his duty before succumbing to it a few days ago while undergoing treatment. “Without caring for his own life, he did not lag in serving his duty and kept helping people. I met his family, his father, his wife and his children. His daughter is in Class 12 and his son is in Class 9. Their education should not stop at any cost. The Delhi government will do whatever it can to support their education,” he also said.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT raps govt. over end-of-life vehicles||Granting an extension of two months due to the ongoing pandemic, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to issue relevant notifications pertaining to authorised recycling centres meant to deal with end-of-life vehicles. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel pulled up the Ministry and observed that responses provided by it were “unsatisfactory and lacking in sensitivity”. Referring to a previous report furnished by the Ministry, the Bench observed, “The stand of the MoRTH was that draft guidelines for setting up, authorisation and operation of Vehicles Scrapping Centres have been uploaded on the website for public comments. Formal notification is to be issued under [relevant Acts] after approval of the Cabinet.” Unsatisfactory response “We find the response of the MoRTH to be very unsatisfactory and lacking in sensitivity. There is no tangible explanation for long delay in issuing the necessary notification. If no notification is issued before the next date, the Joint Secretary concerned, MoRTH may remain present before the tribunal and explain why action be not taken for unnecessary delay,” the Bench said. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea over unauthorised polluting industrial activities in Mayapuri area which was causing air pollution and was a hazard to environment and public health. Taking note of submissions made by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, the Bench observed, “The stand of the DPCC shows that clandestine activities are still found for which vigilance may be strengthened.” Earlier, the NGT had observed that “a proper mechanism to set up authorised recycling centres compliant with environmental norms, was an urgent need in view of large number of End of Life Vehicles (ELV) in the light of guidelines issued by the CPCB.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chief Secy. told to look into encroachments||Stating that a report, furnished by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over allegations of encroachment on government land, was an “inaction” report, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to look into the matter and take necessary steps. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A.K. Goel said, “A further action taken report dated July 24 has been filed. In view of the long delay in compliance, we request Chief Secretary, Delhi to look into the matter and get the issue resolved by necessary coordination.” The Bench further added, “A meeting be held by Chief Secretary within two months and furnished to this tribunal.” The directions came when the panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Satish Kumar alleging encroachment on government land at Haiderpur area. Earlier, the tribunal had directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to take necessary steps for a joint inspection and demarcation along with the North Corporation. A report earlier filed by the government had stated that despite a joint inspection “no fruitful purpose was served as they could not verify and demarcate the green belt in the area.”
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against JNU scholar over tweet||Delhi Police has registered a first information report against Jawaharlal Nehru University scholar Sajid Bin Sayed allegedly over a tweet against the Army and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. A senior police officer said that the FIR was registered on July 8 under Section 153 (provocation with an intent to cause a riot) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code and is being investigated. ‘Anti-national’ The complainant identified as Tajinder Yadav, a BJP worker, stated in his complaint that he has come across some information which is “anti-national” and goes against the interest of the nation. The complainant said that he found that the tweet was against the Indian Army soldiers and the RSS and strict action must be taken against the “JNU student”. He also attached the screenshot of the tweet which was found deleted on Saturday.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jaya Jaitly, two others convicted in graft case||Former Samata Party president Jaya Jaitly and two others have been convicted by a court here in a nearly 20-year-old graft case related to a purported defence deal that stemmed from a sensational sting operation by Tehelka news portal. Special CBI judge Virender Bhat held Jaitly, her former party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and Major General (retired) S.P. Murgai guilty of corruption and criminal conspiracy. “Operation Westend” was aired by Tehelka in January 2001 in which the accused had purportedly accepted bribe from a fictitious company for supply orders for hand held thermal imagers for the Army. The meetings took place in the official residence of then Defence Minister George Fernandes. The court is scheduled to hear arguments on the quantum of sentence on July 29.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CRPF officer kills senior before taking own life||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officer allegedly shot his senior dead and then ended his life at their accommodation in Tughlaq Road on Friday night, the police said on Saturday. A senior police officer said that they received a call regarding a firing incident. It was revealed that a sub-inspector-rank officer shot an inspector-rank officer, following which he shot himself with his service gun. It is suspected that the two had an argument, the police said. The police said that the two officers of 122 Battalion of CRPF shared the accommodation. The police also said that the bodies were sent for post-mortem, which will be conducted after a COVID-19 test. “A case under IPC Section 302 [punishment for murder] has been registered and further investigation is under way” the officer said. CRPF spokesperson M. Dhinakaran said, “The incident is an aberration which seems to have been committed on the spur of the moment. An inquiry has been ordered to establish the facts of the matter.” Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav not in favour of lifting lockdown in State completely||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said he was not in favour of complete lifting of the lockdown in Maharashtra only to address the economic concerns. There was a need to strike a balance between issues related to health and economy considering the challenge posed by COVID-19, he added. “I will never say that the lockdown will be lifted completely. But I have started reopening a few things gradually. Once reopened, it shouldn’t be shut again. Hence, I prefer taking steps in phases. You can’t just think about economy or health. There needs to be a balance between the two,” he said, in an interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday. The lockdown in the State will continue till July 31. From June onwards, the government had started lifting the restrictions in phase-wise manner under its Mission Begin Again initiative. “This pandemic is a global war. It has affected the entire world. Those countries which had lifted the lockdown in haste thinking that it was over, were again forced to impose it to curb the spread. In Australia, they had to rope in Army,” Mr. Thackeray said. “Many people are opposing lockdown. They say that lockdown is affecting the economy. To such people, I would say that I am ready to lift the lockdown, but if people die due to it, would you take the responsibility?...Even we are concerned about the economy,” he said. On the restarting of the suburban railway network in Mumbai, he said, “What if families fall ill and their houses are sealed? Therefore, everything would be done step-by-step.” Speaking about his government which has completed six months in office, Mr. Thackeray said he was leading a three- party alliance government supported by some independents. “This is not just Thackeray sarkar , but everybody’s sarkar , especially that of the citizens of the State, who have accepted this experiment,” the CM said. Mr. Thackeray said the six-month period has been full of challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic and Cyclone Nisarga, which hit the coastal parts of the State on June 3. “I am not bothered about the political challenges. People have faith in me,” he asserted. Talking about the COVID-19 situation in Mumbai, he said, “There was never a need to call the Army in Mumbai. I am proud of the administration which rose to the challenge and set up jumbo field hospitals for treatment of coronavirus patients in the city.” Responding to criticism that he has not been going to the Mantralaya during the pandemic, the Chief Minister said technology helps people to do all the work and there was no need to travel. On starting the academic year during the pandemic, Mr. Thackeray said e-learning was the only option.
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘DGIPR hired agency for posting online poll ads’||Amid allegations that an agency owned by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was hired for putting up election-related online ads during the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, the State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) said the firm was selected by the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR). The State CEO said it is “misleading and incorrect” to suggest that it had engaged any agency on political considerations. Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Friday alleged that an advertising and social media company owned by a BJP office-bearer was hired by the CEO, Maharashtra, to issue election-related online ads during the polls. On Thursday, social activist Saket Gokhale made the same allegation in a tweet. The State CEO said, “As per the standard practice, an electoral awareness campaign is launched through an agency engaged by the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations of the State government.” The State CEO said the DGIPR then follow the rules in force and a “laid-down procedure for selecting an appropriate agency for public awareness and it is not (done) by the CEO Office”. The State CEO added, “As for the specific imputation made in the tweet of Saket Gokhale, an interim reply of facts has been sent to the Election Commission of India. Meanwhile, some other representations on the matter have been received from some public representatives, which are also being addressed and a detailed response shall be sent to the commission soon.”
26 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Raigad farmers to get relief on per tree basis||The farmers of Raigad, who had lost trees spread out over acres of land during Cyclone Nisarga, can finally heave a sigh of relief as the State government has agreed to pay them relief as per the damaged crop instead of per hectare. The cyclone, which hit the district on June 3, had damaged 16.87 lakh coconut and supari trees spread across 1,576.49 hectares of land. The per hectare relief offered to farmers was opposed by villagers and local leaders, following which the government has approved per tree relief. “While mangoes and cashews are grown on land extending to many hectares, supari and coconut are grown on smaller patches of land. The per hectare relief, which was Rs. 18,500 was increased to Rs. 50,000, which is valid for mango and cashew farmers. But when it comes to the farmers who lost coconut and supari trees, the relief would be less due to the size of their land. Hence, we had been insisting on per tree relief for coconut and supari trees,” Raigad Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare said. The initial approved amount was Rs. 11 per supari tree and Rs. 127 for a coconut tree, which was raised to Rs. 50 and Rs. 250 respectively. Apart from the per tree damage, coconut and supari farmers will also receive some amount from the per hectare relief, which will amount to Rs. 7.88 crore. Around 15.11 lakh supari trees and 1.74 lakh coconut trees have been damaged in the cyclone, for which farmers will be compensated Rs. 7.55 crore and Rs. 4.37 crore respectively, bringing the total to Rs. 11.93 crore. Alibaug, which saw the most damage to 6.53 lakh supari and 38,504 coconut trees over 744 hectares, will receive relief of Rs. 4,22 crore. Shrivardhan, where 5.92 lakh supari and 81,730 coconut trees over were destroyed will receive Rs. 5 crore. Murud, with 2.23 lakh supari and 20,399 coconut trees, will receive Rs. 1.62 crore. Mangaon, where 594 supari and 17,219 coconut trees were damaged, will receive Rs. 43 lakh.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The confluence of four powers and two seas||Parallel exercises in the Indo-Pacific this week, including a trilateral exercise between the U.S., Australia and Japan in the Philippines Sea, and an Indo-U.S. naval exercise in the Indian Ocean have fuelled speculation that Quadrilateral (Quad) exercises will be launched soon between all four navies. All eyes are on a decision by New Delhi, to accept Australia’s request that has been pending for four years now, to join the annual Malabar exercises with India, the U.S. and Japan. The decision has not been an easy one, given China’s fierce opposition to the militarisation of a coalition seen as a counter to its claims in the Pacific and inroads in the Indian Ocean. India has also been wary of joining any exercise that could be construed as an alliance, something External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said this week India will “never be” a part of. In 2018, at the Shangri-La Dialogue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that India sees the Indo-Pacific as a “geographical concept”, not a “strategy or a club of limited members”. Also, India is the only country in the Quad that shares a land boundary with China, and the militarisation of the Quad will not help India deal with that threat. Fourthly, unlike the U.S., Japan and Australia, which are tied by military alliances, India is a member of other strategic forums, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation with China, Russia and Central Asia, BRICS and RIC, which appear to be at cross purposes with a Quad alliance. The China factor Even so, many contend that China’s recent moves, including its aggression in the South China Sea and transgressions and deadly clashes across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), may in fact prove to be the tipping point that makes India take the plunge, pushing the countries of the Quadrilateral Security Group, called the Quad for short, into a military embrace that will have far-reaching implications for regional and global security. Ironically, the Quad, which today involves such laboured and slow-paced discussions, was originally born in an instant: from the crisis that followed the tsunami in December 2004. Within days of the disaster, India had mobilised an impressive fleet, and demonstrated to the world that it would not just manage its own rescue effort in Tamil Nadu and the Andaman and Nicobar islands but could also provide assistance to its maritime neighbours: Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia. In all, about 32 Indian ships and 5,500 troops were pressed into India’s international efforts. The humanitarian and disaster relief effort was coordinated in the next few weeks with three other naval powers engaged in the rescue effort: the U.S., Australia and Japan. The then Foreign Secretary, Shyam Saran, spoke every day to his counterparts about what was needed next. Eventually, the “Quad” effort was handed over to the UN, but the idea of the Indo-Pacific as a larger maritime strategic community, and the Quad as an effective instrument in it, had been planted in the minds of all four members. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who had been promoting the idea of an “arc of prosperity and freedom” that brought the Quad countries closer together, was happy to develop the concept, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh discussed it with him during a summit in December 2006. In 2007, when the annual India-U.S. ‘Malabar’ exercises were held in the Indian and Pacific oceans, first off Okinawa and a few months later, off Visakhapatnam, they included Japan, Australia and Singapore. The exercises and the strategic coordination in what Mr. Abe had called “the confluence of two seas” rattled Beijing and Moscow, who termed it an attempt to build “an Asian NATO”. China’s Navy had not at the time undergone its massive modernisation drive towards a blue water navy (it only commissioned its first aircraft carrier, Liaoning , in 2012), and the effort by the Quad countries was clearly an impetus to hasten the process. But at the time, China’s demarches to the Quad countries paid off. Contrary to the currently popular lore, it was not India that cancelled the “Quad” exercises in 2008: the U.S., which was trying to gain China’s support in the six-party talks on North Korea, dampened enthusiasm for a Quad Foreign Ministers’ meeting, and the Kevin Rudd government in Australia then pulled out of the exercises. The Quad was shelved for the next decade. In 2017, the Quad returned, now named Quad 2.0, coinciding with the revision in Washington’s assessment of the challenge from China, and similar reassessments in New Delhi, Tokyo and Canberra. In November 2017, just months after the Doklam stand-off between the Indian Army and the PLA, officials from all four countries met in Manila for the ‘India-Australia-Japan-U.S.’ dialogue. The name of the new Quad was innocuous, in an effort to dispel the notion this was a “gang-up”, and they did not even issue a common joint statement. In fact, differences within the group went deeper, and while India defined the “Indo-Pacific” region from Africa and the U.S. west coast, the U.S. limited it to the Indian coast (in 2020, the U.S. aligned its definition with India’s). Alternatives to BRI Subsequent meetings have closed many of the gaps they have, and the Quad grouping has met biannually since then, discussing “connectivity, sustainable development, counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and maritime and cyber security, with a view to promoting peace, stability and prosperity in an increasingly inter-connected Indo-Pacific region”. The emphasis on connectivity has seen the Quad challenge China in another sphere: a coordinated effort to provide financing and sustainable alternatives to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which has led many nations to take loans and accept infrastructure bids from Beijing. The counter has not yet made much headway, but each of of the Quad countries is coordinating their responses on infrastructure projects in their spheres of influence, including India and Australian efforts in the Pacific islands, India-U.S. coordination in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region, and India-Japan joint efforts to develop projects in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Myanmar. The military aspect of the Quad has also grown: India has strengthened its naval ties with each of the other Quad countries, and there have been more interactions, formal and informal at the official, political and military levels. Eventually, the question over the next step in the Quad — whether India invites Australia to the next Malabar exercises or not — will be secondary to how India develops its own strategic vision, especially given the stand-off with China. Will India revert to traditional positions of non-alignment, enlisting China’s ally Russia in its attempt to manage the threat from Beijing? Or will India pursue “multi-alignment”, inviting middle powers such as the EU, the U.K., France, Russia, and partners such as Brazil, the UAE and South Africa into its Indo-Pacific strategy? Or does India’s course lie in a closer coalition with China’s adversaries, and being drawn into choosing its corner in the new Cold War that is developing between the U.S. and China? India’s moves with the Quad will be closely watched, as they bear more meaning than ever before on the path it will take to realise its strategic future.  In focus  The Quad was originally born out of the crisis that followed the Tsunami in December 2004 India’s rescue mission in the Indian Ocean was coordinated with the three other naval powers engaged in similar efforts — U.S., Australia and Japan The Quad effort was later handed over to the UN, but the idea of the Indo-Pacific as a larger maritime strategic community had been planted in the minds of all four   For India, a decision to invite Australia to join the Malabar exercises will not be an easy one, given China’s fierce opposition to the militarisation of the coalition
26 July 2020||Sydney,||Australia rejects China’s sea claims||Australia has rejected Beijing’s territorial and maritime claims in the South China Sea in a formal declaration to the UN, aligning itself more closely with Washington in the escalating row. In a statement filed on Thursday, Australia said there was “no legal basis” to several disputed Chinese claims in the sea, including those related to the construction of artificial islands on small shoals and reefs. “Australia rejects China’s claim to ‘historic rights’ or ‘maritime rights and interests’ as established in the ‘long course of historical practice’ in the South China Sea,” the declaration read. “There is no legal basis for China to draw straight baselines connecting the outermost points of maritime features or ‘island groups’ in the South China Sea, including around the ‘Four Sha’ or ‘continental’ or ‘outlying’ archipelagos.” Pompeo’s declaration The declaration comes after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared Beijing’s pursuit of territory and resources in the South China Sea as illegal, explicitly backing the territorial claims of Southeast Asian countries against China’s. Beijing claims almost all of the South China Sea based on a so-called nine-dash line, a vague delineation from maps dating back to the 1940s. The latest escalation comes ahead of annual talks between Australia and the U.S., with Ministers travelling to Washington for the first time since Australian borders were closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The meetings come at a “critical time” and it is essential they are held face-to-face, Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Defence Minister Linda Reynolds said in a statement on Saturday. U.S. relations with China have markedly deteriorated in recent months, especially over trade disputes, the COVID-19 pandemic and Beijing’s crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong. Criticism on Hong Kong Ms. Payne and Ms. Reynolds also penned an article in The Australian newspaper on Saturday, labelling national security legislation imposed on Hong Kong last month as “sweeping and vague”. “We face a public health crisis, economic upheaval and resurgent authoritarian regimes using coercion in a bid to gain power and influence at the expense of our freedoms and sovereignty,” they wrote.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The General in his labyrinth||From being one of the members of the officers’ group that toppled King Idris in 1969 bringing Muammar Gaddafi to power in Libya to a renegade General commanding a self-styled army that is fighting to topple the government in Tripoli, Khalifa Haftar has always been at war. His life is a long story of everything that shaped the political life of Libya over the past half a century — coup attempts, rebellions, Cold War spycraft, changing loyalty and civil strife. As the post-Gaddafi Libya plunged into chaos and anarchy, Mr. Haftar mobilised his troops and amassed power and influence in the east. Then he wanted to take over the whole of Libya, with support from powerful friends in Moscow, Abu Dhabi and Cairo. But his attempts to capture Tripoli, which hosts the country’s UN-recognised government, were thwarted, after Turkey sent mercenaries and weapons to back up the government. Born in the northeastern Libyan town Ajdabiya in 1943, Mr. Haftar moved to the port city of Derna in the early 1960s for education. After graduating from the Benghazi Royal Military College, he joined the military. After the ‘al-Fateh Revolution’ brought an end to Libya’s monarchy in 1969, Mr. Haftar rose through the ranks of the new regime quickly. He commanded the Libyan forces that took part in Egypt’s attack on Israeli troops in the occupied Sinai Peninsula in 1973. In the late 1970s, Mr. Haftar travelled to the Soviet Union for military training. War in Chad His life would take a U-turn after Gaddafi escalated Libya’s intervention in the neighbouring Chad in 1980. Mr. Haftar was the leader of the Libyan forces that were fighting Chad’s French-backed regime. In 1986, the Libyan troops were defeated and Mr. Haftar and hundreds of his men were captured as prisoners. Gaddafi disowned them. Probably this was the time the Americans discovered the worth of Mr. Haftar. He would be moved from incarceration in Chad to the battlefields of Zaire (now, Democratic Republic of Congo), where he joined the anti-Gaddafi group, National Front for the Salvation of Libya. When ties with Zaire turned cold, he moved to Kenya. By 1990, the CIA took him and his troops to the U.S. under a refugee programme. In the U.S., he took up residence near Langley, Virginia, which houses the CIA headquarters. Ever since, he cooperated with the CIA in its various attempts to incapacitate Gaddafi. He stayed in the U.S. till mass protests broke out in eastern Libya in 2011, inspired by similar ones elsewhere in the Arab world. Back in Benghazi, Mr. Haftar took the command of the rebel Libyan soldiers who were fighting Gaddafi. When NATO interfered in Libya, Mr. Haftar became the local face of the rebellion. After Gaddafi was toppled and killed, the country fell into chaos with jihadist groups capturing pockets. In 2014, Mr. Haftar appeared on TV, declaring war on the Islamists in Benghazi. His Libyan National Army launched Operation Dignity, which ousted jihadists from Benghazi and its outskirts. Mr. Haftar aligned with the Tobruk-based government, which appointed him “field marshal”. But he wasn’t done fighting yet. He accused the Tripoli government, which is backed by different militia groups and political outfits, including the Libyan wing of the Muslim Brotherhood, of harbouring radicals. In April 2019, he launched a military operation against Tripoli. The plan was to topple the government and bring the whole Libya under his command. The UAE, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, which consider the Brotherhood a terrorist group, supported Mr. Haftar’s move. Russia, which enjoyed deep ties with Libya during the Cold War, also threw its weight behind him. And he made substantial progress by the year-end having captured territories in the sparsely populated south and west. But Mr. Haftar’s plans were thwarted after Turkey, which sees the Tripoli government as an ally, stepped in. Early this year, Turkey sent weapons and mercenaries to Tripoli, in its most audacious foreign intervention since the fall of the Ottoman Empire, to fight Haftar’s men. They stopped Mr. Haftar’s advances and then launched a counter-offensive, forcing him to call for a ceasefire last month. The war has now entered into a stalemate. But it’s not over yet, as Mr. Haftar, still backed by Moscow and others, is ready to fight another day.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The fall of a red capitalist empire||On July 17, Chinese regulators announced the takeover of nine financial institutions, with combined assets worth $140 billion. All of them are thought to have links to the Tomorrow Group, a Chinese conglomerate with interests spanning financial services, insurance and real estate. The takeover is only the latest step in a three-year battle by the Chinese government, aimed at cutting down to size one of China’s most powerful conglomerates whose tentacles, often concealed in a dizzying network of shell companies, extended into every corner of China’s financial sector. “A banker for the ruling class” was how one newspaper profile in 2014 described Xiao Jianhua, the bespectacled billionaire founder of the Tomorrow Group. After graduating from the elite Peking University, Mr. Xiao began his career selling computers in the technology district that abuts the campus. His career took off just as China’s stock market boomed. Part of his success was due to his smart cultivating of political networks, coupled with an appetite for risk-taking as he helped manage the wealth amassed by China’s elite. By 2016, his net worth was estimated at $6 billion, placing him at the 32nd spot on the Hurun Chinese rich list, which was, that year, topped by Wang Jianlin, the billionaire founder of another conglomerate, the Wanda Group. Mr. Xiao became a victim of his own success. In early 2017, the empire that he oversaw from his luxury service apartment at the Four Seasons in Hong Kong, reportedly in the company of a retinue of female bodyguards, came crashing down. Five men, thought to be state security agents, forced their way into his flat on the 28th floor and left with the billionaire, who was reportedly rolled out in a wheelchair and taken across the border into the mainland. He has not been seen in public since, and is reportedly awaiting trial. ‘In public interest’ The break-up of Mr. Xiao’s empire, Chinese regulators have said, was “to protect the rights” of customers “and serve the public’s interest.” Since 2017, regulators have grown alarmed at the debt-fuelled expansion of many of China’s biggest conglomerates. The following year, they seized Mr. Xiao’s Baoshang Bank, accusing it of a poor track record in lending. With the latest move, the jewel in Mr. Xiao’s crown, Huaxia Life Insurance, which, according to the South China Morning Post , reported $26 billion of insurance premium last year, has now been seized, along with eight other insurance and securities firms. Huaxia Life Insurance, Tian’an Property Insurance, Tian’an Life, Yi’an Property Insurance, New Times Trust and New China Trust were placed “under state ward” while New Times Securities, Guosheng Securities and Guosheng Futures would be under government management for a year, presumably until buyers are found. Gordon Tsui, chairman of the Hong Kong Securities Association, told the Post the seizures “signify a very big clean-up operation” and “taking them over with a restructuring plan is the only way forward to maintain the stability of the market”. Other tycoons have also been facing the heat. In 2018, regulators took over another conglomerate, the Anbang Group, which had embarked on a massive global buying binge, including for the famous Waldorf Astoria hotel in New York. Its chairman, Wu Xiaohui, was sentenced to 18 years in prison in 2018 for fraud and embezzlement. The HNA Group, saddled by debt burdens, has been forced to divest many of its assets, while Mr. Wang’s Wanda Group, this year, is faced with refinancing $5.7 billion of its bonds, according to Bloomberg. ‘Clean-up’ move Chinese authorities have cited financial risks as being behind their moves to “clean up” the Tomorrow Group, which had, with its sprawling assets, become too big to fail. Left unsaid were the political drivers, with the moves coinciding with President Xi Jinping’s crackdown on corruption. The step-by-step dismantling of the Tomorrow Group is, ultimately, not just about the “cleaning up” of one Chinese company. It could well mark the end of a three-decade era of billionaire-led Chinese capitalism, during which a generation of tycoons built their empires operating adeptly in the murky nexus between China’s political and business elites.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Revisiting Jackson’s legacy under President Trump||Andrew Jackson has been no stranger to rough-and-tumble conflict. In his own time, he upended the established political order and helped spearhead the violent expansion of America’s borders. In ours, he has become a toxic figure for many, as even the Democratic Party he helped found has distanced itself from his legacy of slaveholding, Indian removal and populist demagoguery. Last week, Jackson cut a posthumously destructive path through another institution once centred on his legacy, when the Society for Historians of the early American Republic was thrown into turmoil after a contentious scholarly panel about the man. The panel, which was held via Zoom on July 17, featured discussion of a paper by Daniel Feller, the editor of the “Andrew Jackson Papers”. Titled “Andrew Jackson in the Age of Trump,” it set off a firestorm that led, within 72 hours, to the ouster of the group’s president, as well as the publication of open letters denouncing the talk and counterletters protesting the ouster. Discussion on Jackson With Jackson and President Donald Trump, Mr. Feller was taking on two characters with few admirers in the often left-leaning historical profession. He began by recalling the day in 2017 when Mr. Trump visited the Hermitage, Jackson’s home in Nashville, Tennessee, before picking apart what he called the President’s distorted and self-serving efforts to wrap himself in the former President’s mantle. He also assailed journalists for what he said were misrepresentations of Jackson. But his most stinging words were reserved for his fellow historians, whom he accused of misreading the historical record, exaggerating his destructive policies toward Native Americans and generally painting a politically driven picture of Jackson as a “homicidal maniac” that was “untethered from reality.” Mr. Feller’s talk drew sharp challenges from some of the other panellists. But reaction exploded in the Zoom comments section and on social media, as viewers blasted his criticisms of women scholars, what some saw as corner-cutting in his reading of the historical record, and the all-white composition of the panel. But things reached a boiling point in the last three minutes, when Mr. Feller, apparently repeating a misheard phrase uttered earlier by another panellist, referred to Jackson’s reputation for slaughter of “redcoats and redskins.” And tensions kept boiling as word of the talk spread. Resignation of chief Twenty-four hours later, the society’s president, Douglas Egerton, issued a statement apologising for the panel’s lack of diversity and calling the use of racial slurs unacceptable. But he also wrote that he didn’t want to “silence people he disagreed with.” But his statement itself, and that phrase in particular, drew strong condemnation from some members of the group, known as SHEAR. The next day, the 17 voting members of the group’s advisory council posted a letter calling for Mr. Egerton’s resignation, which he offered. It was a tempest in a teapot, as multiple society members put it in interviews. But it also echoed a broader upheaval happening at institutions across the U.S. in the wake of the protests inspired by the death of George Floyd. To some historians, the fracas represented an embarrassing abandonment of scholarly prudence amid a social media stampede. But to others, it represented part of a long-overdue racial reckoning within the white-dominated historical profession, with broader implications for how history gets written, and by whom.NY Times
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘China is not a responsible stakeholder’||The COVID-19 situation seems to be the time when China feels it can strike out and hit out at other countries while they are dealing with the pandemic, said Gautam Bambawale, former Indian Ambassador to China and Pakistan. In a global summit organised by the WION channel, he spoke about the India-China border situation at a time when the country has been trying to control the pandemic outbreak, according to a press release. “China has lost India strategically. It will not be a peaceful rise for China. I think the answer is very clear to many of us around the world that China is not a responsible stakeholder in the global system and I think I believe that the China dream is becoming a nightmare for many people,” he said. ‘Intimidating India’ Several experts deliberated on the reasons for China attempting to assert military power in the middle of a raging pandemic. Bruno Maçães, former Europe Minister for Portugal, said, “I think China is interested to some extent in intimidating India. It sees India as an obstacle and a problem. India, of course, has led the reaction against the Belt and Road and it now looks like India is going to lead the world’s reaction against Chinese technological dominance. The app ban is very significant, my friends in Beijing were much more concerned about that than they are about the border skirmishes.” S.L. Narasimhan, member of the National Security Advisory Board of India, said, the Indian side was poised to handle anything even if something goes wrong. Simon Lacey, former vice-president at Huawei Technologies, said, “I don’t think they really anticipated that they would have to defend themselves on things like geopolitical risk.” WION’s CEO and editor-in-chief, Sudhir Chaudhary, said, “The Chinese political ecosystem is so closed and controlled that people around the world don’t quite know what to expect. Through this summit we’ve tried to explain China and its ways.”
26 July 2020||Chengdu,||U.S. consulate in Chengdu readies for closure||Workers removed the U.S. insignia from the consulate in the Chinese city of Chengdu on Saturday, a day after Beijing ordered its closure as relations deteriorated in a Cold War-style stand-off. The Chengdu mission was told to shut in retaliation for the forced closure of Beijing’s consulate in Houston, Texas, with both sides alleging the other had endangered national security. The deadline for the Americans to exit Chengdu remains unclear, but AFP reporters saw a worker on a small crane removed a circular U.S. insignia from the front of the consulate, leaving just an American flag flying. Three moving company trucks entered the U.S. consulate building Saturday afternoon. Cleaners were seen carting big black bags of rubbish from the consulate in the early hours of the morning. One of them had split and appeared to contain shredded paper. At least ten bags were removed. Other staff were seen moving trolleys around inside, one carrying a large empty metal bin, while some wheeled suitcases. Beijing says closing the Chengdu consulate was a “legitimate and necessary response to the unreasonable measures by the United States”, and has alleged that staff at the mission endangered China’s security. Washington officials, meanwhile, said there had been unacceptable efforts by the Chinese consulate in Houston to steal U.S. corporate secrets and proprietary medical and scientific research. The last Chinese diplomats left the Houston consulate on Friday as a 72-hour deadline to close the mission passed. Officials there were seen loading large sacks of documents and other items onto trucks, and throwing some in bins.
26 July 2020||Khabarovsk,||Anti-Kremlin rallies grip Russia’s Far East||Huge anti-government demonstrations erupted in Russia’s Far East on Saturday over the arrest of a popular Governor who was replaced this week by a Kremlin appointee who never lived in the fraught region. Residents of Khabarovsk near the border with China took to the streets en masse for the third Saturday in a row after Governor Sergei Furgal was arrested by federal law enforcement and flown to Moscow on murder charges this month.  The running demonstrations have been some of the largest anti-government protests in Russia in years, which the Kremlin said this week were being fuelled by Opposition activists outside Khabarovsk. Tens of thousands of residents marched through Khabarovsk waving the region’s flag, carrying banners and chanting slogans against President Vladimir Putin as passing cars honked their horns in support. “We want our Governor to be released because we believe he was very likely detained illegally,” said protester Alina Slepova. Mr. Furgal was removed by federal officials “for their own purposes, not for the good of our region,” she said. Demonstrators converged in front of the regional administrative building on Lenin square shouting “Freedom” and “Putin resign”.  “The centre is sucking resources from the Far East,” said demonstrator Alexander Gogolev who voiced anger that the region receives “nothing in return”. Estimates of turnout Estimates of the turnout varied greatly, with Khabarovsk officials saying that 6,500 people attended. Pro-Opposition social media channels placed the number much higher at around 90,000. Authorities say at least 10,000 people took part in previous demonstrations on July 11 and July 18, though some local media and Opposition figures put the figure at 35,000 to 50,000 people or more.
26 July 2020||Washington,||No new foreign students for online-only study, says U.S.||The United States announced on Friday that it will not take in any new foreign students seeking online-only study, after rescinding a hotly contested order to expel those already here and preparing for that because of the pandemic. The policy change was announced in a statement by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. President Donald Trump has made a tough line on immigration a cornerstone of his message and has suspended several kinds of visas for foreigners during the COVID-19 crisis. Reversing course The original policy change of revoking the visas of foreign students whose classes will move online in the autumn was taken to court by top universities including Harvard and MIT, teachers unions and at least 18 States. And, on July 14 the administration reversed course and rescinded the decision. That measure had been seen as a move by Mr. Trump to put pressure on educational institutions that are adopting a cautious approach to reopening amid the global COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Trump is eager for schools at all levels to reopen with in-person classes as a sign of a return to normality. There were more than one million international students in the U.S. for the 2018-19 academic year, according to the Institute of International Education. Many schools depend heavily on the tuition paid by those students. Most U.S. colleges and universities have not yet announced their plans for the fall semester but Harvard has said all its classes for the 2020-21 academic year will be conducted online, “with rare exceptions.”
26 July 2020||Paris,||Over 5,60,000 infections reported in two days||The world has set a new record for the highest daily increase in COVID-19 infections, as a survey released on Saturday showed that governments are fast losing support for their handling of the pandemic. There were more than 2,80,000 new cases recorded globally on both Thursday and Friday, the highest daily rises since the virus emerged in China late last year. Friday’s tally of 2,82,042 was marginally down on Thursday’s single-day record 2,84,661, according to an AFP count based on official sources, but still marks an alarming uptick in the spread of the virus. Nearly a third of the world’s 15.8 million infections have been registered since July 1, while the total death toll nears 6,40,000. The U.S. remains the hardest-hit nation, on Friday reporting its second straight day of more than 70,000 new cases and over 1,000 deaths as the virus takes hold in the country’s south and west. Trust in governments Governments worldwide have struggled to contain the virus, and a survey released on Saturday showed that faith in authorities is dwindling in six rich nations. Populations in France, Germany, Britain, Japan, Sweden and the U.S. widely believed death and infection figures to be higher than recorded, according to the study, which polled 1,000 people in each nation. New outbreaks continue to wreak havoc elsewhere around the world. South Korea on Saturday reported its highest infections figure in nearly four months, and in Vietnam the first locally-transmitted case in nearly 100 days was detected.
26 July 2020||Male,||‘Maldives should drop charges against migrants’||Human Rights Watch (HRW) on Saturday urged the Maldives to drop charges against 80 migrant workers arrested for demanding their unpaid wages in a country otherwise known for its upmarket tourism. The New York-based group said authorities detained the foreign workers during separate demonstrations against inhumane living conditions and work without pay. “The authorities should drop charges and release all those held for engaging in peaceful protest, and address allegations of human trafficking and other abuses...,” HRW said in a statement. Workers in the construction sector had not been paid even before the country went into COVID-19 lockdown in March, according to officials. Sporadic clashes erupted since May. Police confirmed they arrested 41 migrant workers at Hulhumale, just outside the capital on July 13. There had been other arrests elsewhere bringing the total number detained to just over 80. HRW said Male was invoking national security to deflect from its failure to curb abuses against migrant workers. Responding to concerns earlier this month, the Maldivian Foreign Ministry said it acknowledged the “unjust treatment” of foreign workers.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Russia, China, Iran trying to influence election: U.S.||United States intelligence officials issued a public warning on Friday that China was “expanding its influence efforts” in the U.S. before the presidential election, along with Russia and Iran, but Democrats briefed on the matter said the threat was far more urgent than what the administration described. The intelligence warning on Friday did not accuse the Chinese of trying to hack the vote; instead it said they were using their influence “to shape the policy environment in the United States.” Russia, the warning said, was continuing to “spread disinformation in the U.S. that is designed to undermine confidence in our democratic process,” and it described Iran as an emerging actor in election interference, seeking to spread disinformation. In a statement issued later, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was joined by the Senate Democratic leader, Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, and two key Democrats, in saying that the descriptions of malign activity were “so generic as to be almost meaningless.” The statement “does not go nearly far enough in arming the American people with the knowledge they need about how foreign powers are seeking to influence our political process.”NY Times
26 July 2020||Khartoum,||Khartoum, July 25, 2020 (AFP) -||Gunmen killed at least 20 people, including children, who were visiting their farms in Sudan’s war-torn Darfur region for the first time in years, a tribal chief said on Saturday. The killings took place in Aboudos, some 90 km south of Nyala, the capital of South Darfur province, the tribal chief said.AFP
26 July 2020||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank net jumps 36% to Rs. 2,599 cr.||ICICI Bank Ltd. on Saturday reported first-quarter standalone profit after tax rose 36% to Rs. 2,599 crore, from Rs. 1,908 crore a year earlier. Core operating profit increased by 15% to Rs. 7,014 crore, while net interest income (NII) grew by 20% to Rs. 9,280 crore. The net interest margin inched up to 3.69%, from 3.61% a year earlier, reflecting the higher liquidity with the bank due to strong deposit inflows and limited credit demand due to the lockdown, the bank said in a regulatory filing. Fee income slid to Rs. 2,104 crore, from Rs. 3,039 crore, reflecting lower business volumes and customer activity in view of the lockdown. The bank reported treasury income of Rs. 3,763 crore, including Rs. 3,036 crore realised from the sale of stakes in ICICI Lombard and ICICI Prudential. The bank also made an additional COVID-19 related provision of Rs. 5,550 crore. “Theadditional provisions have been made to completely cushion the balance sheet of the bank from the impact of COVID-19,” Sandeep Batra, president, said in a conference call. Mr. Batra said the bank held COVID-19 related provisions amounting to Rs. 8,275 crore as of June 30, and that the additional provision ensured that the bank had set aside more than was required as per the RBI’s guideline of April 17. Stake sale boost “The bank prudently utilised large gains on partial stake sale in insurance subsidiaries for significantly augmenting COVID-19 related provisioning pool [now at 1.3% of loan book],” said Rajiv Mehta, lead analyst, Institutional Equities at Yes Securities. “The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the bank is highly uncertain and will depend on the ongoing spread of COVID-19,” the lender said in the filing. “The bank’s capital and liquidity position is strong and would continue to be the focus area for the bank during this period,” it added. “The slowdown in the economy is expected to result in higher additions to non-performing loans, increase in provisions, lower loan growth and fee income,” the bank said. Total advances of the bank increased by 7% to Rs. 6,31,215 crore. Total deposits increased by 21% to Rs. 8,01,622 crore. Average savings account deposits increased by 14% year-on-year. Gross additions to NPAs were Rs. 1,160 crore. Recoveries and upgrades, excluding write-offs, from non- performing loans were Rs. 757 crore. The net NPA ratio declined to 1.23% as of June 30, from 1.41% as on March 31. Total capital adequacy, including first-quarter profit, was 16.3% and Tier-1 capital adequacy was 14.9%. Consolidated net profit rose to Rs. 3,118 crore, from Rs. 2,514 crore a year earlier.
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||NCLAT upholds Adani’s takeover plan for Dighi Port||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), New Delhi, has rejected a plea by Vishal Vijay Kalantri, a former director and shareholder of Dighi Port Ltd., challenging the approval granted to the resolution plan submitted by Adani Ports Special Economic Zone Ltd. (APSEZ) after rejecting the promoter’s settlement offer. Citing the Supreme Court verdict on Essar Steel, the appellate body noted that it was manifestly clear that judicial review of the resolution plan approved by lenders based on commercial wisdom could not be assailed, unless it was demonstrated as being contrary to the provisions of the law. Greenfield port The Mumbai Bench of the NCLT had approved APSEZ’s bid for Dighi Port, which is developing a greenfield port in Maharastra and owed lenders over Rs. 3,000 crore. While Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) was initially chosen over APSEZ by the committee of creditors (CoC), JNPT subsequently withdrew from the fray. Revised bid wins In a revised bid, the Adani group company offered Rs. 650 crore upfront, payment of insolvency process costs and dues payable to the ‘Maharashtra Maritime Board’ on a priority basis. The promoter offered Rs. 680 crore to lenders, besides Rs. 50 crore against process costs, which the CoC rejected. The “case is yet another instance of the promoters not letting the goose escape from their dragnet, though it no more lays golden eggs,” the appellate tribunal observed in its ruling.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Rise in ventilator manufacturing led to new segment demand: JAL||Overall, when the first quarter was a washout for most companies, Jindal Aluminium Ltd. (JAL), a leading aluminium extrusion company, witnessed rising demand from ventilator manufacturers as the spread of COVID-19 necessitated the use of this vital equipment at hospitals to save the lives of critical patients. However, the overall demand scenario remained muted, said Pragun Jindal Khaitan, vice chairman and managing director of the Rs. 3,000 crore manufacturer of aluminium extrusions and aluminium flat-rolled products. Edited excerpts:  What is the impact of COVID-19 on the company and what is the outlook? COVID-19 has impacted almost all sectors. Due to the falling market demand, and restrictions, our production was limited and there was a reduction in the overall output in April and May 2020. Whereas, June has turned out to be positive in terms of revival as we witnessed a 65-70% rise in demand, on an average. During this period, our exports have neither increased nor decreased significantly...it has been between 15-20% of the total output. The upsurge in the manufacturing of ventilators triggered by COVID-19 cases led to a new segment demand of aluminium extrusions. These aluminium extruded products support functions of a ventilator in one way or the other. Approximately, we [have] supplied more than 100 MT of these products till now. From here, as the economy opens, we only see an increase in demand. How have global supply chain disruptions affected Indian firms and importers? The disruption in the global supply chain has impacted the manufacturing of downstream aluminium products, but it has not stopped production completely. Downstream aluminium products are mainly manufactured in line with demand. Due to the current pandemic, the global primary aluminium market has witnessed a significant amount of inventory build-up, while the demand for the metal has dropped. China, the world’s largest primary and downstream aluminium producer, has an export duty on primary aluminium and a subsidy on downstream aluminium exports. This has led to Chinese downstream manufacturers supplying inexpensive products to the international market and at the same time supporting their domestic primary aluminium uptake. Measures like cutting down the duties on primary aluminium and an increase in the import duties on downstream aluminium will help boost the Indian downstream aluminium sector . How is poor demand from the auto and real estate sectors reflecting on the downstream industry? Before the pandemic, the Indian extrusion segment was growing at a CAGR of 7-7.5% as compared to the global aluminium market growth of 5.5% CAGR. An approximate growth of about 52-55% was also anticipated in the auto sector. This is because the average aluminium usage in passenger cars in India is less (about 2-3%) compared to other countries like the Europe and USA (which are at about 12 kg per car). As far as real estate is concerned, it also accounted for a significant part of the total demand in the downstream aluminium segment. The prevailing pandemic situation has drastically impacted the demand as major sectors and other allied industries like building and construction, automobile and electrical have not been able to operate to their capacity. Building and construction and automobile sectors have been the largest consumers of aluminium. Any thrust to these sectors will have a direct bearing on aluminium consumption and support employment. Likewise, is the slump in the construction industry squeezing the downstream segment? Building and construction constitute a significant part of the overall demand in the downstream segment. The main use of the metal in this sector is to offer materials for roofing and cladding, production of windows and door frames, as well as small applications like shutters, door handles, and ceiling partitions to name a few. It is needless to say that due to the current lockdown situation, the construction sphere was unable to operate to its fullest capacity.  Aluminium extruded products support functions of a ventilator... we have supplied over 100 MT of these
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||India, U.K. affirm committment to an FTA||India and the U.K. have affirmed their commitment to negotiate a free trade agreement (FTA) with a view to further strengthening economic ties, the Commerce Ministry said on Saturday. The issue was discussed in the 14th Joint Economic and Trade Committee (JETCO) meeting between the two countries on Friday. It was co-chaired by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and U.K. Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss. They were assisted by Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri and his U.K. counterpart Ranil Jayawardena. Mr. Goyal and Ms. Truss “affirmed their shared commitment to an FTA and towards that, Early Harvest deals in a staged manner,” the ministry said in a statement. It added that Mr. Puri and Mr. Jayawardena will have monthly meetings to intensify the dialogue. It was also decided that a meeting led by Mr. Goyal and Ms. Truss will be held in Autumn 2020 here to carry forward the dialogue. “Both sides resolved to cooperate in the health sector especially in view of the present pandemic of COVID-19,” the statement said.
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||Don’t privatise PSBs, cut govt. stake: Marathe||Public sector banks should not be privatised given the country’s developmental needs but the government can look at reducing its shareholding to 26% by selling a larger portion of its stake to common Indians, RBI’s board member Satish Marathe said on Saturday. Mr. Marathe, who started out working in a state-run bank before getting associated with the cooperative banks sector, however, said that public sector banks need an overhaul of their systems, processes and staff attitudes to be relevant and effective in the future.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ambuja Cements net declines 28.8%||Ambuja Cements’ consolidated net profit declined by 28.8% to Rs. 592.51 crore for the quarter ended on June 30 on account of COVID-19 related disruptions. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had clocked a net profit of Rs. 831.75 crore a year earlier, Ambuja Cements said in a BSE filing. Revenue from operations was down 34.3% at Rs. 4,644.17 crore during April-June quarter, from Rs. 7,074.08 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Total expenses declined 34.9% to Rs. 3,845.41 crore, from Rs. 5,909.22 crore a year earlier.
26 July 2020||Mumbai,||Indian Bank’s gold loan at 7% for farmers||Indian Bank has slashed its interest rate on gold loans offered to farmers to 7%. The state-owned lender has cut interest rate on its short-term gold loan scheme — Bumper Agri Jewel — from 7.5%. The reduction has been done considering the pandemic situation and also to provide easy credit to needy farmers at a cheaper cost, it said. With effect from July 22, agricultural jewel loans are sanctioned at 7% fixed, which means it is only Rs. 583 per lakh per month. The bank lends up to 85% of the ornament value, repayable in six months.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Tata education trust gets relief in Rs. 220-cr. case||The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has ruled in favour of Tata Education and Development Trust in a case wherein the tax department had raised a demand of more than Rs. 220 crore, an official statement said on Saturday. The case pertains to assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13 on money spent by the Trust for creating an endowment fund at Cornell University, U.S., to provide scholarships to Indian students and granting financial assistance to the Harvard Business School for constructing an executive building to be named Tata Hall. It donated Rs. 197.79 crore in 2011-12 and Rs. 25.37 crore in 2012-13. The controversy erupted after the Public Account Committee (PAC) of the Lok Sabha in 2018 sought an inquiry in the matter as it believed that exemption granted by the direct tax body was in violation of the I-T Act. The ITAT said in its order on July 24 that all other grounds of appeals will be “rendered, academic and infructuous”.
26 July 2020||Manchester,||England takes control after Broad blitz||Stuart Broad starred with both bat and ball before Jofra Archer marked his return to international duty with a wicket on the second day of the deciding third Test against the West Indies at Old Trafford on Saturday. England had slumped to 280-8 after losing four wickets for 18 runs before No. 10 Broad’s swashbuckling 62 took the home team to a first innings total of 369. Strikes in his first over He then took a wicket with his fourth ball to have West Indies dangerman Kraigg Brathwaite caught at slip by England captain Joe Root and, at tea, the visitors were 59-3. John Campbell, dropped on 10 by Ben Stokes, was starting to look good while making 32. But fast bowler Archer produced a rib-high delivery that the left-hander Campbell could only fend to Rory Burns in the gully.  And there was time before tea for James Anderson to strike on his Lancashire home ground when a superb delivery from England’s all-time leading Test wicket-taker had Shai Hope caught behind. At the interval, the West Indies trailed by 310 runs. England resumed on 258 for four, with Ollie Pope 91 not out and Jos Buttler unbeaten on 56, his first Test fifty in 14 innings. But Pope failed to add to his score as Gabriel knocked his stumps to end a fifth-wicket stand of 140. Buttler was well caught at second slip for 67. Left-handed Broad counter-attacked, pulling Roach for six and cut Holder for four. . He completed a 33-ball fifty with his eighth four.  West Indies 137/6 West Indies was 137/6 after 47.1 overs in its first innings when bad light stopped play. Jason Holder (24) and Shane Dowrich (10) were at the crease.
26 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Devarajan bullish on Indian boxers||Former World Cup bronze medal winning boxer and national selector V. Devarajan feels that the current bunch of Indian boxers has the ability to record the country’s best-ever performance in the Tokyo Olympics. “We have got some fine boxers such as Amit Panghal, Manish Kaushik, Vikas Krishan, Mary Kom and Simranjit Kaur, who have proven themselves at the highest level by beating boxers from strong countries. We have some excellent coaches, led by Santiago Nieva. Our boxers have the capability to win more than one medal, a few of them should be in the finals in Tokyo,” Devarajan told The Hindu . “Before that, we can add a few more quota places to our existing nine slots when our boxers compete in the World qualifier in May next year.”  According to Devarajan, India’s growing stature in the sport should help the boxers. “In our times, nobody knew about India. Now, India has a reputation as a boxing nation. Boxers from Australia have done a camp here. Boxers from Singapore and Mongolia are interested to train with the Indians. We should cash in on the favourable atmosphere.” On resumption of the National camp after the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Devarajan said, “We have to have a positive mindset. It will take some time (for a boxer) to get back his/her rhythm. “The boxers should guard against being over-confident as you cannot take your opponent for granted in boxing. The bout can change in a moment, even the biggest stars like Mohammed Ali and Mike Tyson have been knocked down. “Normally, a boxer goes into isolation after achieving success as people don’t try to bother him. Here the coaching staff should step in and keep talking to the boxers to keep them on the right track.” Devarajan had another important advice. “At least six months prior to the Olympics, videos of these boxers should not be exposed to the outside world. A clever boxer can pick up finer points and use them against you,” said Devarajan.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aiming for top-10 in ’28 Games, says Rijiju||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said on Saturday that India will be competing for a top-10 finish by the time 2028 Los Angeles Olympics take place, riding the government’s ambitious Target Olympic Podium Junior Scheme. “We will leave no stone unturned,” Rijiju said. He added that the Target Olympic Podium Junior Scheme is scouting talent as young as 10-year-old and 12-year-old with an aim to prepare them for the Los Angeles Games. “The objectives are very clear. We have created the Target Olympic Podium Junior Scheme that means those who are 10-13 years of age will be ready to become world champions by the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.” He reiterated that there is a need to create a sports culture to help India become a sporting powerhouse.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand lucky to put it past Leko||Finally, Viswanathan Anand tasted victory after Peter Leko walked into a checkmating net in the first game of the fourth round in the chess24 Legends of Chess on Saturday. A day after running out of time in a superior position in the tie-breaking Armageddon game to Anish Giri, Anand was lucky to win after both players committed a series of mistakes in the closing moments of the game. In this up-and-down game, on the 55th move, Leko was a couple of moves away from forcing a checkmate. But he blundered, allowed Anand a checkmate-in-three and resigned on the 57th move. At the same time, Magnus Carlsen’s one-move blunder leading to an inevitable checkmate left the chess world stunned after he came very close to beating Vassily Ivanchuk, despite being dominated throughout this opening game. Victories of Anand and Ivanchuk pushed Ding Liren’s conquest of Vladimir Kramnik into the background in what turned out to be the most sensational first-game action so far.  Fifth-round results: Game One: Viswanathan Anand bt Peter Leko (Hun); Magnus Carlsen (Nor) lost to Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) drew with Peter Svidler (Rus); Vladimir Kramnik (Rus) lost to Ding Liren (Chn); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Boris Gelfand (Isr).   Fourth round: Giri bt Anand 3-2; Carlsen bt Gelfand 3-0; Kramnik bt Leko 2.5-1.5; Nepomniachtchi bt Ivanchuk 2.5-1.5; Liren bt Svidler 2.5-1.5 .
26 July 2020||Milan,||Atalanta keeps slim title hopes alive||Atalanta kept alive its slim Serie A title hopes by drawing at AC Milan 1-1 in a matchup of the two best squads of the restart. Hakan Calhanoglu gave Milan an early lead with a powerful free kick, and Duvan Zapata equalized from close range after Milan goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma blocked a penalty kick from Ruslan Malinovskyi. With only two games still to play, Atalanta moved within five points of Juventus. Also, Crotone secured promotion from Serie B by beating Livorno 5-1.   The result: AC Milan 1 (Calhanoglu 14) drew with Atalanta 1 (Zapata 34).
26 July 2020||CHENNAI,||SDAT opens all centres for practice||In a major relief to sportspersons, the State Government has given permission for all sports complex and stadia to be opened for practice with the caveat that they follow Government guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures for each discipline. The Government Order (GO) issued late on Friday, said sports complexes and stadia run by SDAT and “non-SDAT centres” may be opened for practice. Strictures However, those above 50 and below 15 years of age may not use the facilities. Also, gyms/fitness centres and swimming pools will not be opened until further orders. Among water sports, canoeing, sailing and rowing centres have been allowed to function. While the earlier GOs suggested the SDAT-run (open-air) complexes could be used only for fitness purposes, this time all centres — indoor and outdoor — for almost all sporting disciplines across the State have been opened. "Depending on the seriousness of the pandemic in a particular district, the District Collector, as was the case earlier, will have the final say in allowing sports centres to open," an official said. Chennai Hockey Association president Olympian V. Baskaran said it would be great to see hockey back after a gap of more than four months. "Somewhere, we have to start. It will be a slow and gradual process till August. CHA will think of starting a league and approach SDAT once the pandemic subsides,” he said. “It will be great to get back to the table and play with a human instead of a robot. I want to get back into shape and be at peak fitness when the Polish league begins in September," international table tennis player G. Sathiyan said. Sharath Kamal, India's top paddler, said he would wait for a week, get a hang of the procedures and then think about going to the Nehru Stadium to train. Hopeful Tamil Nadu State Aquatic Association secretary T. Chandrasekaran said he was still hopeful the State Government would consider the association's demands and open pools in the near future. India's top fencer Bhavani Devi said: "it will be really helpful if I can train at the indoor facility (Nehru Indoor Stadium). I can train harder on a proper court and if a piste (playing area) is available that will really help."  (With inputs from S. Dipak Ragav)
26 July 2020||London,||Dogfight at both ends of table||The Premier League will finally reach the end of its longest season on Sunday with plenty still on the line at both ends of the table. Manchester United and Leicester face each other in a shootout for a place in the Champions League next season with Chelsea also hoping to secure its place in the top four. Wolves and Tottenham are vying for one place in the Europa League. And at the bottom it could not be closer with one goal separating Aston Villa just outside the relegation zone from Watford in the bottom three, while Bournemouth also has a chance of beating the drop. Leicester fell out of the top four for the first time since September in midweek after a run of three wins in 13 games either side of the coronavirus shutdown. However, United’s and Chelsea’s failures to win on Wednesday means the door is still open for Brendan Rodgers’s men to salvage all the good work they did early in the season with victory on home soil on Sunday. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men have looked jaded in the past week in losing 3-1 to Chelsea in the FA Cup semi-finals and being held 1-1 at home by West Ham. Chelsea just needs a point at home to Wolves to seal Champions League football next season, but should Frank Lampard’s men lose, then a draw between Leicester and United would see the latter two finish in the top four. Whoever misses out on the Champions League between United, Chelsea and Leicester will be guaranteed fifth and a place in the Europa League next season. Jose Mourinho’s side has won its last three and will be confident ahead of a trip to Crystal Palace, which has lost its last seven games. Seventh could still be good enough for European football next season, but that depends on Chelsea beating Arsenal in the FA Cup final on August 1.  At the bottom, two of Bournemouth, Watford and Villa will join already relegated Norwich in the Championship next season.   Chelsea just needs a point at home against Wolves to seal the deal Should Frank Lampard’s men lose, then a draw between Leicester and United would see the latter two finish in the top four At the bottom, two of Bournemouth, Watford and Villa will join already relegated Norwich
26 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||No salaries for Sports School staff||The 60-odd staff, including coaches and teachers, of the Telangana Sports School (Hakimpet) have not been paid their monthly salary since March, it is learnt. Interestingly, the Sports School was recently selected as one of the Khelo India Centres for coaching young talent. “All we get are repeated assurances that we will be paid soon,” say some staffers on condition of anonymity. “There is talk of a new Sports Policy document being drafted to usher in a new chapter in sports promotion. But no one cares about us. Even during lockdown some of us are going to the school to ensure maintenance of the equipment,” they told The Hindu . A senior official of SATS, when contacted, said efforts were being made to see that the school staff’s interests were taken care of.  For the record, the TSS has a strength of about 450 students (boys and girls) from fourth standard to Intermediate. It has produced 22 international medallists in weightlifting, including R.V. Rahul, N. Krishnaveni, E. Deexita and K.V.L. Pavani Kumari, three in sepak takraw and two in gymnastics in the recent past. And some of the big names from the school include former international athletes Olympian Sathi Geetha and P. Shankar. The school had a separate, annual budget allocation of Rs. 4.5 crore till 2014. Over the years the allocation decreased and eventually the school was merged with the Sports Authority of Telangana State. “Now, we are told that SATS is awaiting a response from the State Government regarding payment of salaries since the school has been closed due to the COVID-19 lockdowns,” the staffers said. SATS staff was being paid their salaries regularly, they pointed out.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mairaj wants to maximise his training||Olympian Mairaj Ahmad Khan is on a mission. He wants to add an Olympic medal to his collection. Having finished ninth in Rio in 2016, when he missed the final in the shoot off, after scoring 121 out of 125 in skeet, Mairaj is determined to prepare better. “I rented a home near the Karni Singh Shooting Range in February, so that I can prepare better for the Games,” said Mairaj, who hails from Khurja, near Aligarh. He is now a seven-minute drive from the range. With the COVID-19 pandemic forcing a lockdown, Mairaj was compelled “to do body weight training and dry training”. Understandably, Mairaj was happy to train at the range once it was thrown open for the elite shooters earlier this month. “I train for about four days a week, and shoot 250 cartridges a day. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has installed target throwing machines that would be used in Tokyo for skeet. I train alone and use that range,” said Mairaj, who has been joined by other skeet shooters Sheeraz Sheikh and Gurjoat Singh. “I am very impressed with the arrangements. Security, sanitisation and social distancing norms are followed strictly,” said Mairaj. Pistol ace Manu Bhaker also stayed with her parents, close by in Faridabad for about 10 days, to capitalise on the training time at the Tughlakabad range. “She wanted to do 25-metre training,” said Manu’s dad Ram Kishan Bhaker, who has installed an electronic target system for the 10-metre air pistol at home. Deepak Kumar, Divyansh Singh Panwar, Sanjeev Rajput, Anish Bhanwala and Parul Kumar were some of the other shooters who opted to train at the Dr. Karni Singh Range.
26 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nishu spells out his goals for Blasters||Kerala Blasters’ latest acquisition Nishu Kumar said he wanted to replicate the success he enjoyed at Bengaluru FC (BFC) with his new club. In an Instagram chat with FC Kochin’s assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed, the 22-year-old said his goal this season was to play in the AFC Cup competitions for Blasters. “I have to always fight for my place in the first team. My goals this season are to command a regular place in the starting XI and help Kerala Blasters finish at the top. My dream is to play in the AFC competitions regularly for Kerala Blasters,” he said. New challenge Nishu added it was not an easy decision for him to leave BFC, but the prospects of a new challenge and playing in front of passionate fans prompted him to accept the four-year offer from Blasters. “It was a difficult decision to leave Bengaluru FC as I had enjoyed my stay there. Bengaluru FC also had a passionate fan following. When I got this offer from Kerala Blasters I was super-excited. I had a chat with the club officials and they told me that that they were building a new team for the future. “A new team and a different city was the fresh challenge I needed. I wanted to see how I could survive in a new team. Kerala Blasters’ fan base is huge. I am excited to play in front of them. I give my 200% when I play in front of a boisterous crowd. I have already received so many messages from them and can’t wait to get started,” Nishu said. The versatile defender, who is equally at ease as a left-back or right back, added he was confident that he would fit into coach Kibu Vicuna’s scheme of things. “I had seen some games of Mohun Bagan and liked their style. I had an interaction with the coach after I joined the club and spoke about tactics. I have played in similar style and formation and it will be easy for me to adapt to that kind of football.” Chelsea fan A Chelsea fan, Nishu named John Terry and Cesar Azpilicueta as his favourite players. He is also a great admirer of India captain Sunil Chhetri. Nishu said the greatest moment of his career was his goal against Jordan on his international debut. During the lockdown, he is enjoying food cooked by his mother and added he was also doing fitness drills.  A new team and a different city was the fresh challenge I needed... Kerala Blasters’ fan base is huge
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Haryana to host 2021 Khelo Games||Haryana will host the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games after the 2021 Tokyo Olympics, the State’s Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju announced on Saturday. The Games will be held in Panchkula. The announcement was made via video conference. “Usually the Khelo India Youth Games take place in January of every year. However, this time owing to the pandemic, we have to postpone it,” Rijiju said. “However, I am sure by the time we host the Games the pandemic will abate and we will be able to host the Games at the same scale, with participation of all states and over 10,000 participants.” Haryana has done well in all three editions of KIYG. While it came second in 2019 and 2020 (200 medals in 2020 and 159 in 2019), Haryana won it in 2018 with 102 podium finishes (38 gold, 26 silver, 38 bronze). Rijiju said, “Haryana already has a very strong sporting culture and has given the country some of its best athletes.”
26 July 2020||Manchester,||England releases five players from bio-secure bubble||England has released five players from the bio-secure bubble after they were not selected for the ongoing third Test against the West Indies. Out of the five, batsman Joe Denly will join the white-ball training group ahead of the upcoming Ireland series. The other four — Dan Lawrence, Craig Overton, Ollie Robinson and Olly Stone — have returned to their counties, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said.PTI
26 July 2020||Kolkata,||The man who re-wrote his future with a fountain pen||L. Subramaniam — who was born in Kolkata and spent much of his life in the city before relocating to Chennai — says that at the age of 41, he quit his corporate career of nearly two decades to start his own venture. Nothing unusual about that, you may think, until he tells you the nature of his business: in an age when one can do without a pen, he began manufacturing fountain pens. India has its share of people still making fountain pens, their names more familiar to connoisseurs abroad than at home, but most of them have inherited their businesses, whereas Mr. Subramaniam, now 48, had to start from scratch. Today he has sold his own brand of handmade ebonite fountain pens — named ASA — in 70-plus countries. It all began with a scratchy Parker 45 that he bought as a 13-year-old from a scrap vendor in Kolkata. “My maternal grandfather moved to Calcutta in the early 1950s and my father relocated to the city a decade later. The Parker 45 I bought from the scrap vendor had a broken barrel. I was looking for a replacement when a pen seller gave me an idea. He said a replica can be made in ebonite. This excited me and I accompanied him to the place where these pens were turned in lathe. This episode kindled my interest,” Mr. Subramaniam told The Hindu . Mr. Subramaniam, when he grew up to enter the corporate world, joined an industry that was largely responsible for the death of the usage of pens. In 1995, he joined telecom service provider Modi Telstra (later acquired by Airtel). “I was part of the team which launched India’s first cellular services — and it was in Calcutta. I later moved to Hutch and then had a short stint with Amway India,” he recalled. “In 2000, I got married. My wife was born and raised in Chennai. In 2004, when I got an opportunity to rejoin Hutch in Chennai at a senior level, I decided to move as it was a great career opportunity. It was in 2012 that I had attended a workshop held by my mentor, Udayakumar Gopalakrishnan, and that gave me a whole new perspective. It helped me recalibrate my career, to link my passion with my work,” he said. One reason why ASA pens — the name derives from the first letters of Anand (his nickname), Shruti (his daughter) and Aparnaa (his wife) — are popular among connoisseurs is that they are affordable and sturdy. Ebonite is hard rubber, and it can not only be easily shaped and hand-turned but is also resistant to even highly alkaline and acidic inks. “The designs are conceived at my facility in Chennai, while the basic shells are made at my workshop in Tiruchirapalli. The pens are then assembled, finished and tested by me in Chennai. We are a six-member team, with a pen-maker and two associates in my workshop and two more people in Chennai. My wife helps me with the business aspect,” Mr. Subramaniam said. He claimed two firsts to his credit: that he was the first pen-maker to move online — that’s how he sells his pens — and that his were the first made-in-India handmade pens to have the option of being fitted with a piston or a cartridge. “I always tell my customers one thing — that my pen will outlive them,” Mr. Subramaniam said with a touch of pride.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 07:48 IST,||Sudoku - July 26, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||They all get up again||Months before the Black Lives Matter protests shook the world, the India-based American photographer, artist and poet, Waswo X Waswo, had held an exhibition of miniatures — a parodic version of traditional Rajasthani miniatures — titled Like a Leaf in Autumn, in October last year, at Gallery Espace in New Delhi. The works on display, created in collaboration with R.Vijaya, had started a debate on the toppling of statues way before it came to pass. It would not be wrong to describe Waswo as prescient in appropriating the role of an iconoclast, dislodging certain prevailing notions of whiteness. But iconoclasm is Waswo’s forte. He emerged on the Indian art scene back in 2002 when he first exhibited his black-and-white studio portraits of ordinary people, which cocked a snook at Rajasthan as it discarded its history of royal machismo and valour to emerge into 21st century rough and tumble. In his latest works Waswo gives Rajasthani miniatures all sorts of twist — post-postmodernist, postcolonial, anticolonial — with self-deprecating humour. The title of the October exhibition came from Orhan Pamuk’s line: “I was supposed to be part of a story, but I fell from there like a leaf in autumn.” That explains the disjuncture in these works. Alarm bells Waswo, who had set up his karkhana in Udaipur in 1999, is willing to stick his neck out to voice his opinion on how postmodernism has equated ‘whiteness’ (as in the Caucasian skin tone) with the Christian notion of original sin, which is without redemption. The miniatures challenge the notion that everything white — white privilege, white fragility, white colonialism — is “original sin”. “If you are born with it you can’t get rid of it,” he says. He squarely blames postmodernism for this reductionist view: “All white people are racists — it is part of postmodern dogma. If you question that you become a greater sinner.” His works make fun of the easy, indiscriminate labelling. He says of the recent statue-toppling spree: “Removing the Confederate monuments was understandable, even by the rage of an angry mob. It was long past due. However, the protesters did not stop at that. Angry mobs are consumed by passion and short on reason. By the time they moved on to topple statues of George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, my alarm bells were going off. Soon statues of even abolitionists like John Greenleaf Whittier and Hans Christian Heg (who gave his life fighting to end slavery), were pulled down or damaged. The movement has become hysterical and ridiculous.” Alpha male, who? His own works, with their air of gentle sarcasm, is the opposite of hysterical. The figure representing Western civilisation in his miniatures is a bumbling white man, an intruder, who is frequently caught in awkward situations. Often seen dressed in a linen suit and sporting a fedora, this guy is Waswo’s alter ego. In ‘Dreams of the Orientalist 15’, Michelangelo’s David, the very ideal of male beauty, seems to look behind his shoulder in jealousy at the white fedora man lolling next to a naked Indian man. In ‘In the Garden of Archetypes 5’, Cellini’s sculpture of Perseus holding Medusa’s head is relegated to a river bed while elephants (Indian art is unthinkable without them) frolic in the water. The fedora man inspects a giant moon with a telescope as cultures collide. In ‘In the Garden of Archetypes 3’,  Krishna is no toxic male. Instead of hiding the gopis’ clothes, he offers Botticelli’s Venus, standing in a tiny pond, a towel, probably to dry herself with. As a sign of propriety, perhaps, the fedora man shuts his eyes to nudity. In ‘In the Garden of Archetypes 4’, the fedora man sits backwards on an equestrian statue (Waswo doesn’t leave the horse’s maleness to our imagination) holding the American flag in one hand and wilted lotuses like limp wrists in another. So much for the white, alpha male. Pulled down In ‘Dreams of the Orientalist 17’, an Indian man in dhoti is about to strike with an open sword the marble bust of a Roman leader on a pedestal as the insouciant fedora man flies two kites. Waswo says, “In its early days, postmodern theory was a good thing. With its scepticism of ‘grand narratives’ in history and art, its demand that historical views be recentered from the Eurocentric, its deconstruction of common assumptions and deep analysis of language as a base of power, early postmodernism shook academia out of a stagnation and complacency that had become entrenched.” But that iconoclasm did not last. “Intersectionality, which is an outgrowth of postmodernism, has put us back into cages, and human beings are judged according to skin colour, gender, and sexual orientation,” says Waswo, who has come out as gay. In ‘Push’, a sculpture which Waswo says was central to last October’s show, he metaphorically pulls down certain notions of whiteness validated by postmodernism. Here the dhoti-clad indigene has shoved the white man off the pedestal. The work begs the question: “Who is on top of the pyramid now?” Hierarchies will always exist, Waswo seems to be emphasising. Is anybody listening? The writer focuses on Kolkata’s vanishing heritage and culture.  The figure representing Western civilisation in the miniatures is a bumbling white man, an intruder. Often seen dressed in a linen suit and sporting a fedora, this guy is Waswo’s alter ego
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Infuriated, in plain text||Over the last 20 years, I’ve learnt to live with emojis, but only just. I hated them at first sight itself — what were these children’s cartoon blobs doing on my phone? Then, oh horror, they were even on my computer and in every other digital environment. As phones got smarter and more complicated, their emoji packets became increasingly elaborate. Try as I did, I could not get rid of the array of emojis from my keyboard, the fifteen kinds of smiles, the seven kinds of manic laughter, the three kinds of fury, the two kinds of sheepish faces, the three gears of smugness — they would all pop up each time I tried to type a message. Watered down No matter how hard I tried to stick to the classic means of conveying emotions and opinion through text, other friends, especially those younger than me, kept inserting this emo-junk in the middle or at the end of perfectly good sentences. Upon receiving one of these mini-monstrosities, I would find my temper rising and people would see me snarling quietly at my phone — ‘Yes, god, I know you are joking, how could you not be, given the tone and content of the words you’ve typed? I’m not an idiot!’ or ‘Yes, I get it that you’re sad, you don’t need to stress this further with a cartoon face with tears! Can’t you see, it cheapens and waters down your emotion?’ Time, tide and technology wait for no man. Neither do global trends. At first, I began to use the emojis ironically, just as people sometimes deliberately use ‘bad’ English to make fun of some incorrect but prevalent use. I found myself typing the ‘smiley face’ or ‘laughing out loud face’ with the keyboard; then these began to get automatically converted to full-blown emojis. Against my will, despite my best efforts, I had been pushed into joining the herd. As Emojese developed as a language, the icons expanded from their role as emphasisers — I began to get messages with words, and the thoughts and feelings they indicated, entirely replaced by these infantile icons. Brand logo By now, people my age, that is, above 40, had also begun to make gratuitous-promiscuous use of the damn things, a bit like someone dyeing their peppery hair jet black or wearing trendy clothes that are too tight. Whatever opinion I carried in my obsolete sailing-ship of a mind, I had to respond, I had to be in dialogue with these fools, my friends and associates. With all the enthusiasm of an entrenched monolinguist forced to learn a new language, I too began to sow my hitherto pristine prose messages with contorted smileys, funny objects, cute piles of excrement, and crude pictograms of human actions. I did it with resentment, with no little shame at my capitulation, and mostly without flair or elan. But even a weak and over-tolerant person has their limits. Of late, I’ve found one particular emoji driving me further up the wall than any emoji has previously done. Maybe it’s COVID-19, maybe it’s the lockdown coming on and off like a loose bulb, maybe things get mentally distilled during a crisis that has no end in sight. Or, maybe it’s that people are currently using this ghastly squigule far more than before. The namaste is one of our most typical gestures. The joining of palms/ folding of hands, deployed in prayer, supplication, greeting or gratitude might have come to us from the Urals or Uluru several millennia ago, but we’ve made it our own, taken it to levels of sophistication that are uniquely sub-continental, given it back to the world with added grace, beauty and subtlety.  But now, every time one of us desis uses the ghastly folded-hands emoji, it’s a two-handed blow against all this. Seeing it infecting every second message on social media grates on the sensibility for it’s often the messaging equivalent of mindlessly hitting your car horn or, worse, obliviously scratching your armpits or some other bodily conjunction. The emoji itself, no matter what the skin colour of the hands, is horrible, as though two police batons are having an arranged marriage; worse, people are using the thing in all sorts of ways, as the laziest of thank yous, as a passive-aggressive emphasiser, as a marker of false humility, often coupled with the extremely arrogant use of the word ‘humble’, as superficial and fake proof of piety, and so on. This folded hands symbol is the perfect brand logo for our morally bankrupt ‘middle’ and ‘upper’ classes. It proudly flaunts our hypocrisy — we don’t give a single airborne bodily emission for anybody else, we are the most selfish, pompous, self-adoring privileged class on the planet, but our timorous notions of propriety don’t allow us to use the other, far more candid emoji involving the hand, and so we resort to this one.  The emoji itself, no matter what the skin colour of the hands, is horrible, as though two police batons are having an arranged marriage
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Though a high-skill job, nursing remains low-paid and stigmatised’||Frontline healthcare workers today are handling a disproportionate share of the pandemic’s burden while remaining poorly paid and outside the radar of attention. A new book titled Politics of Precarity , which studies nursing from the lens of labour politics and gendering, adds to our understanding of why a feminine workforce struggles on the margins of ‘respectability’ despite being indispensable to healthcare. Discussing the issue, author Panchali Ray, an independent researcher based in New Delhi, wonders if nursing can evolve into a mixed profession that respects both sexes equally. The nursing profession has colonial roots. How did the Raj incorporate the figure of the ‘dai’ into the ‘Nightingale’ idea of nursing? The demand for trained nurses arose with the emergence of Western medicine in colonial India. While middle-class, upper-caste men and some women were willing to train in Western medicine to become doctors, nursing had no takers. Historically, most women in Indian medicine were hereditary dais from lower-caste families who offered skilled services on female-related illness, including reproductive diseases, abortion, infertility, childbirth and postpartum care. Trained nurses, whether Indian or European, refused to offer bedside care that would identify them with the dai . Thus, even as the dai ’s knowledge practices were labelled as ‘primitive’ and ‘barbaric’, she had to be incorporated into colonial hospitals as the “inferior” helper to the trained nurse, who offered the bedside care the latter refused. Can you tell us how the gendered cure-care binary plays out in the medical profession? A WHO report (2019) records the adverse occupational gendering in healthcare: across countries, most physicians, dentists and pharmacists are men, while women are overrepresented in the ranks of nurses and midwives. The same report records that women health workers earn on an average 28% less than men. I argue that gendering of the healthcare sector reflects wider binaries of masculine/ feminine, cure/ care, science/ affect that lead to such occupational segregation. This hierarchical opposition reinforces a nurse’s secondary role within the medical field as subordinate to that of a doctor. The task of nursing is usually seen as more caring than curing, an extension of stereotypical feminine qualities. Thus, the relationship between doctor and nurse is not that of collaborators or equals but that of superiors and subordinates, further reflected in the gendered wage gap and adverse working conditions. Despite attempts to project nursing in India as a noble, spiritual profession, it has stayed entrenched as low-end, feminine, domestic labour. Why is that? Traditionally, nursing labour, similar to paid domestic work, was offered by women located on the margins of Hindu Brahminical society, partly because nursing was caste-based corporeal labour that included dealing with blood, fluids, and other bodily detritus, and partly because the existing sexual division of labour pegged nursing as women’s work. Both gender and caste contributed to the devaluation of nursing. Professionalisation of the field has not led to a disassociation of caste stigma but has led instead to creation of newer hierarchies. Trained nurses, to escape the stigma associated with corporeal labour, have taken on more medical-administrative-supervisory roles leaving the hands-on care to ancillary nursing staff such as the attendants ( ayah ). However, the profession as a whole continues to struggle with the stigma associated with corporeal labour. As healthcare became corporatised, nursing too should have become commoditised and therefore less discriminatory and more organised. Why hasn’t that happened? Corporatisation and privatisation of healthcare has led to further exploitation of nurses and nursing ancillary staff. With international immigration, there has been a supply crunch in nursing labour and this scarcity of registered nurses, instead of valorising nursing labour, has led to an increase in the hiring of unregistered nurses, nursing aides and attendants. Whether it is the public or the private sector, there is a growing reliance on a pool of semi- or untrained labour that represents the most informal and casual end of the workforce. The nursing labour market is a pyramidal market with the bottom over-represented by female casual employees struggling with low wages and status, stigma, and no labour rights. What we are seeing is a growing precarity of frontline healthcare workers. Quality medical education in India has focused on doctors to the exclusion of other healthcare categories. Are we seeing the fallout of this short-sighted policy now during the pandemic? The scale has always been tipped against the nurse. Though nursing is a high-skill job that requires intensive education and training, it remains low-paid and stigmatised. The general understanding of the nature of work is of it being menial and unskilled. So, for instance, 3.5 years of GNM (General Nursing and Midwifery) training is not recognised as a degree but as a diploma. This devaluation of nurses and nursing training has led to the large-scale emigration of nurses. Policymakers and bureaucrats, instead of strengthening nursing education, have tried to further deskill the profession by encouraging employment of semi-trained contractual workers, who offer bedside nursing care. Thus, when a pandemic like the current one breaks out, we see a dearth of trained nurses. Can equipment (like gloves and masks) and spatial inclusion (like separate clean toilets and resting rooms) help give dignity to the role? We live in a deeply casteist society where any labour that brings you in touch with the body and its detritus is considered polluting. This reflects in the way we treat the domestic worker, the nursing attendant, or the manual scavenger. Work defines the worker and the caste-based division of labour prevalent in our society dictates that we devalue and stigmatise those who ensure the reproduction and continuity of life. Improving working conditions can go a long way in improving the worker’s status and bestowing dignity on the work. A homogenised workforce could have demanded better working conditions and handled perception management. But hospitals have consciously reinforced hierarchies and differences. How can this be changed? Contrary to common understanding, nursing service is not a homogenous sector but a deeply splintered one based on historically and socially produced structural inequalities. It is rigidly cleaved between ‘prestigious’ and ‘dirty’ work. With intensification of technology and emphasis on documentation, nurses have got more and more involved in administrative-supervisory roles leaving the everyday bedside care to less trained attendants. For hospitals and nursing homes, the lion’s share of nursing work can now be relegated to women hired casually, paid less than minimum wages, and easily laid off when there is no demand. The need of the day is to recognise these women who give actual hands-on care, ensure their visibility in health statistics, and lobby for their rights as frontline workers. The affective or emotional labour of nursing has always been downgraded in a highly masculinised job market. With the entry of men into nursing, do you foresee prestige and pay gradually improving? There is no doubt that the entry of men has also meant increased organisation. Thus, in recent years, we have witnessed nurses striking over low wages and exploitative work practices. However, male nurses also tend to be concentrated in prestigious departments such as psychiatric nursing. Given the internal stratification within the profession, how will this influence the gendering of the occupation? Will nursing be able to resist masculinisation and carry on to become a mixed profession of both sexes? Or will there now be an internal stratification of ‘dirty’ and ‘prestigious’ work, corresponding to a gender-based division of labour? The entry of men in large numbers will possibly trigger changes whereby women will continue to be employed in precarious conditions to perform menial-corporeal-affective labour required for healing, while medical-administrative-supervisory roles will become the responsibility of male nurses. So even if prestige and pay improves, women might be pushed out of the top echelons of nursing services.  We live in a deeply casteist society where any labour that brings you in touch with the body and its detritus is considered polluting. This reflects in the way we treat the nursing attendant
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The insider who didn’t testify||If there is one observation that former senior National Security Adviser John Bolton’s tell-all book makes clear regarding the Donald Trump administration’s bumbling approach to foreign policy, it is that the U.S. President has been preoccupied with relentless efforts to build a domestic political narrative that could catapult him back into the Oval Office for a second innings later this year. However, history will likely judge Mr. Bolton and this book harshly for the role that both have played in undermining transparent democratic processes at work: it is evident that the material for this book would have overlapped considerably with, if not been identical to, Mr. Bolton’s testimony to Congress during Mr. Trump’s impeachment inquiry — but the former NSA refused to testify, preferring to maximise his private gain from the publication of The Room Where It Happened . Critiquing himself Indeed, this 577-page, 15-chapter book does more than provide a disturbing insider glimpse into the staccato ‘policymaking’ process in the Trump White House: it is doubly valuable for the unwitting critique it provides of the author himself — a warmongering foreign policy hawk who consistently appears to be unable to separate his ultra-conservative ideological leanings from advice that would best serve U.S. national security priorities in the longer term. Take for instance Mr. Bolton’s vehement opposition to the U.S. entering into talks with the regimes in Iran and North Korea, respectively. Regarding Iran, Mr. Bolton appeared to have a problem, not so much with technical details of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the Iran nuclear agreement cobbled together under President Barack Obama in 2015, as he did with the very idea of doing any deal with Tehran. His answer to the sensitive strategic conundrum of how to manage Tehran after Trump pulled the U.S. out of what Mr. Bolton calls the ‘wretched’ (page 77) JCPOA was blunt and callous. He argues, on page 396: “Trump may or may not have realized it, but he was making an important point about how to ‘re-establish deterrence,’ a favourite Pentagon phrase. The Joint Chiefs preferred to do so by a ‘proportionate’ response, ‘tit-for-tat,’ that no one could criticize them for. But, in my judgment, it was far likelier that a disproportionate response — such as attacking oil refineries or aspects of Iran’s nuclear-weapons program — was necessary to re-establish deterrence. The point was to convince Iran it would face costs far higher than it was imposing on us or our friends if it used force. As of now, Iran had paid no costs at all. Even Obama at least threatened attacking Iran, although the seriousness of his statements was open to question.” Similarly in the case of North Korea, Mr. Bolton can scarcely hide his disgust at the idea of Mr. Trump engaging Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un, revealing his prejudicial view before the talks began, saying in the chapter titled ‘Singapore Sling’: “Having endured eight years of Obama mistakes, which I constantly feared would include dangerous concessions to North Korea, as his Iran policy had, not to mention the Bush 43 Administration’s failed Six-Party Talks and Clinton’s failed Agreed Framework, I was sick at heart over Trump’s zeal to meet with Kim Jong Un. Pompeo told me that Trump’s fascination with meeting Kim dated to the Administration’s outset; clearly the options were very limited.” Ominous portents Setting aside Mr. Bolton’s lopsided and dogmatic view of foreign policy, and the core tenet of forced Americanisation of the world that it appears to be built upon, the book does act as a portent of things to come should there be a Trump 2.0 administration in place after the November 2020 U.S. presidential election. There is considerable journalistic value contained within this tome to the extent that Mr. Bolton has recounted numerous strategically important conversations based on diligent note-taking — some important enough for the Trump White House to unsuccessfully sue Mr. Bolton for breach of contract and exposing classified materials. It should cause great consternation to American voters and leaders of peaceful democratic nations across the world that these notes reveal that the 45th U.S. President has, according to Mr. Bolton, asked Chinese President Xi Jinping for help with trade issues so Mr. Trump could get re-elected, was willing to look the other way on China’s mass concentration camps for Uighurs, suggested he could aid Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on an investigation by the U.S. Justice Department, expressed deep discomfort with sanctions levied on Russia and wondered aloud why the U.S. could not invade Venezuela. Reading this book, it is hard to shake off the disturbing idea that the only person who might even make Mr. Bolton appear relatively doveish is his former boss.  The Room Where It Happened John Bolton Simon & Schuster  Rs. 899    There is considerable journalistic value contained within this tome to the extent that Mr. Bolton has recounted numerous strategically important conversations based on diligent note-taking
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The delights of Turkish TV||Is it possible to become besotted with a whole country? Or with a way of life that exists only in the warm bubbles of Turkish soaps that flit across my screen? Every evening I levitate on Turkish serials on Netflix and, depending on my mood, land in Istanbul or Cappadocia, the Anatolian region of central Turkey. Turkish soaps are addictive. They are sweet and sticky, dusted with fantasy, like the powdered sugar that coats the pink and white cubes of rose-scented sweetmeats called Turkish delight that are best had between sips of tea served in gold-rimmed glasses shaped like tulips, placed on matching glass saucers. Turkish delights tend to stick in your teeth when you chew them, just like the serials do. And somewhere in the background score of every serial, there’s a wail of Turkish music that curls like smoke from a hashish pipe and enters your soul. I could blame my new obsession on The Janissary Tree , where I first met Yashim the eunuch, the multi-talented hero of Justin Goodwin’s hugely popular Investigator Yashim novels, set in the last glow of the Ottoman Empire in its capital, Istanbul. Of course, everyone’s favourite Turkish delight now is Orhan Pamuk, that is if you like engaging with a Nobel Prize winner’s quietly menacing “watch me do it again” victory lap. My favourite, however, is a woman, Elif Shafak, who mixes the many fragments of the Turkish mosaic into a kaleidoscope of stories that shift and change according to the reader’s perspective. Love and turbulences In The Architect’s Apprentice ,  Shafak brought in a young boy named Jahan from India, who trundled across the seas to offer a white elephant named Chotu to Suleiman the Magnificent at the Topkapi Palace. Like my own Turkish soap heroes, Jahan falls in love, madly, badly, sadly, with the emperor’s daughter Mihirmah. Many complications follow. The Turkish name for one of my serials translates as ‘Love and Turbulences’ — quite apt given that Turkey has been at the crossroads of history between the East and the West from the earliest times. The Turks embrace turbulence with the same grace with which their whirling dervishes spin around. I find that I am not alone in my new-found addiction. BBC News recently reported that during the lockdown, Turkish TV dramas have suddenly found great success, “reaching audiences all over the world”. From mysteries to action to coming-of-age dramas, there seems to be something for everyone. I remember Goodwin’s Yashim Cooks Istanbul presented a superb collection of recipes with anecdotes, perfect given how the Ottomans have always been more preoccupied with their kitchens and granaries than their harems. In the present crop of TV serials too, much of the action revolves around the preparation and presentation of food, which is enjoyed with deep sensual pleasure. Indeed, in one episode, when Yusuf Bey, the richest man in Cappadocia, shops for a particular brand of perfume for Havva, a young woman not his social equal, he is guided entirely by his olfactory senses. His fine, straight nose twitches like one of the horses in his stable. “Jasmine,” he says. One of the charms of watching Turkish soaps — and here I include Intersection , set in Istanbul — is to study the variety of racial stereotypes. The wicked have wonderful teeth and rather squashed noses. All the heroic chaps have wonderful nasal indexes, to use a term that’s not so correct any more. And they have uniformly dark eyes under furrowed brows. Yusuf Bey even has pointed elvish ears and an uncanny resemblance to Spock from Star Trek . His mother greets him with the words, “Ah, my handsome son with the dark brown eyes!” Yusuf Bey does not smile much; he wrinkles his eyes and they look just like the extraordinary Cappadocian mountainscape behind him. Cat’s eyes All the gorgeously endowed young women have light eyes, from clear amber to pale opal and aquamarine, as they sip tea or black coffee in feline fashion under the lime trees. And many of the scenes take place in graveyards with intricately carved headstones and flower beds that the grieving lovers water every now and then from stone jars made of the local lava schist. When I visited Istanbul, I sipped hibiscus tea with my son in a graveyard filled with carved obelisks and a multitude of cats. They sat and stared at us, curling their tails, looking just like the young women in my soaps with their long hair in shades ranging from marmalade to auburn to midnight black. “Transmigration,” I cried, remembering that day. “These young women were all cats in their previous lives!” Somewhere in the shadows, Yusuf Bey crinkled his eyes and purred, “Wait till the next episode.” Media critic and commentator, the writer decodes the baffling variety of human behaviour in our global village.  The Turkish name for one of the serials translates as ‘Love and Turbulences’ — quite apt given that Turkey has been at the crossroads of history between the East and the West from the earliest times
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The invisible warriors||As she steps into Ward 206 of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai, V. Murugeswari stops to utter a silent prayer. It is 7.30 a.m., and she is seconds away from starting her six-hour shift inside the COVID-19 ICU . Covered head to toe in protective wear, the 39-year-old staff nurse sets about attending to the 16 critically ill patients battling the novel coronavirus here. Murugeswari, a mother of two, begins with a basic health check of all patients. She stands by their bedside, wielding the power of words. “I believe that instilling confidence helps them. Through their hospitalisation, they are going to see us as their family. I tell my patients not to be afraid, that they need to be mentally strong to conquer the illness. Ithuvum kadanthu pogum (this too shall pass),” she says. As the shift progresses, the PPE she wears gets stifling. Her neck and back hurt, but Murugeswari, like her colleagues, knows she must carry on. Whether it is the six-hour morning and afternoon shifts or the 12-hour night shift, work never stops in the ICU. “The unit is always busy. Patients are continuously wheeled in, and those who are stable must be shifted to the general wards,” she says. Tamil Nadu, like almost all of India, has been battling COVID-19 since March, and it is the hundreds of staff nurses like Murugeswari who have been the invisible faces behind the one lakh and more recoveries the State has seen. At the forefront of the COVID-19 response team, many of them stay away from homes and families, but remain indomitable in these extraordinarily challenging times. We shall overcome What brings them most joy and relief these days is the journey of a critically ill patient from the ICU to the COVID-19 general ward. When Kishore Kumar, 35, (name changed) came in, he was morbidly obese and had severe breathing difficulty. He was put on a CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) mask. Recording his oxygen saturation levels, Murugeswari used to tell him every day, “Brother, you can overcome this, don’t fear and don’t be depressed.” A fortnight ago, Murugeswari tested positive for the virus. It had been three months of working in the COVID-19 ICU, and when she experienced unbearable body ache at the end of a shift, she decided to get tested. A day later, the result came positive. After treatment, she is back home and in isolation but looks ahead to getting back to work, more energised. Some 25 km away, S. Prabakaran is all set for his day at work. In the next six to seven hours, he will visit the bedsides of 150 to 160 patients, checking temperatures and monitoring vital parameters, most importantly oxygen saturation levels. The task is nothing new for Prabakaran, but the circumstances are. He gulps down a lot of water to keep himself hydrated for the entire shift. He dons a coverall, goggles, masks and gloves before stepping into a hall filled with asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. Pushed to the backseat A staff nurse attached to the Periyar Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre of the Poonamallee Health Unit District, Prabakaran has been on COVID-19 duty at an engineering college that has been converted into a care centre for asymptomatic patients. As he carefully records the parameters of every patient, his goggles fog up and he sweats profusely. “Yes, wearing PPE is extremely difficult. But this is my job and I am adapting to it,” he says. As the ward rounds come to an end, he gets busy entering the details in the patient registry. In the midst of a pandemic, many healthcare providers, especially staff nurses like Prabakaran, have pushed their personal lives to the back seat. Living in a room arranged for by the health department, it has been nearly three months since he went home. “My daughter was born on April 29, and that was the only time I saw her in person. My interaction with her and my wife is limited to video calls every day,” he says. Standing at the COVID-19 OPD of RGGGH, A. Sheela, 53, nursing superintendent grade-2, looks at the anxious faces of the patients waiting in a queue for their turn to be screened. She takes a minute off work to strike up a conversation with a few of them, telling them to put aside their fears. “We get to see all categories of patients at the OPD. Some may have tested positive, while some would have come for investigation. If there is one thing that is common to most of them, it is fear and stress,” she says. After working at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Ophthalmic Hospital for 25 years, she moved to RGGGH in November 2019. The last five of her eight months here have been on COVID-19 duty. At the OPD, along with her colleagues, she screens patients and categorises them, based on symptoms, into those needing hospital care, institutional quarantine or home isolation. Well aware of the risks involved, nurses know that their own personal safety is equally important. But often their instincts as healthcare providers come first. “One day, a person who had tested positive, walked into the OPD. He was waiting for a blood test when he suddenly collapsed. Without thinking, a colleague and I helped carry him to Emergency. At such times, we tend to forget about ourselves and put the patient first,” Sheela recalls. For many nurses like Sheela, work could not have been possible without the support of their families. On March 31, A. Mary Josephine, a nurse for 37 years, was all set to retire as a matron from the state-run Stanley Medical College Hospital. But as the pandemic struck, she, like many others who had recently retired, was put on extension. Now playing an administrative role, she ensures that her army of staff nurses on duty have everything they need. At work, there was nothing Mary would not do: from ward rounds to checking on housekeeping and disinfection, she did it all. Until she was struck by the virus. “When I was admitted for 14 days, my family insisted that I should not return to work. The death of two nurses at RGGGH added to their fears. But I was sure of what I wanted. Being a patient myself now, I understood better what patients needed. Despite my family’s opposition, I joined duty after recovery. And here I am doing what I love most,” she says. With heads held high The Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate is Chennai’s first dedicated COVID-19 facility. D. Revathi, a staff nurse here, has completed three rounds of duty. Every shift begins with taking over patient records. With that done, she must ensure that the wards are clean, then wake up the patients, make their beds, see that breakfast is served on time, medication administered and investigations carried out. Revathi’s schedule was as rigorous even before the pandemic, but now her family life has taken a beating. Three months ago, she packed off her mother and daughter to their hometown, knowing her work would require her to stay away from them. “When we wear the uniform, we walk with our heads held high. More than us, our family and society see us as warriors in the fight against COVID-19,” she says. For Revathi, empathy is the “special quality of nurses.” When a patient gets a sudden fever or headache, “we must put ourselves in their feet,” she says. G. Prema rides a scooter from her home to Melma Nagar in Poonamallee each day. Most of her duty hours between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. are spent in the streets and households of this west Chennai suburb from where some COVID-19 positive cases have been reported. Prema is a village health nurse, attached to the Melma Nagar health sub-centre. She begins her day by picking up the list of positive patients from the medical officer. Then, along with the health inspector, she carries out door-to-door visits to check back on the primary and secondary contacts of patients. “When we visit the homes of COVID-19 patients, we make arrangements to test for anyone who may have symptoms, and we give extra care to pregnant women,” says Prema. In many places, village health nurses such as Prema are the first point of contact for patients. “We give our phone numbers to the residents, and ask them to call us immediately in case of medical need.” After her long and exhausting day, when she reaches home, she has to “bathe and sanitise all my belongings. I need to take care to keep my family safe too,” she says. Being on the field has another aspect too. “When all this started, people used to fear that we may be the source of infection as we visited houses of patients. But now things are looking up as awareness improves,” says Prema. The weariness may be hidden behind their masks, but work for a nurse is ceaseless: be it in hospitals or care centres or on the field. As Revathi says, “This is more than just a job. It’s a way of life for us.”  ‘When I was admitted for 14 days, my family insisted that I should not return to work. But I was sure of what I wanted. Being a patient myself now, I understood better what patients needed. I joined duty soon after recovery,’ says Mary
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on July 26, 1856, this famous Irish playwright was one of the founders of the London School of Economics & Politics and helped form the Independent Labour Party. In 1925 he won a Nobel Prize in literature and then in 1939 he was awarded an Oscar for Pygmalion a screenplay he wrote. This was turned into the film My Fair Lady . Who was this literary giant who became the first person to win a Nobel and an Oscar award? 2This is one of the most popular plays of all time, adapted numerous times for stage and film. The use of effects such as switching between comedy and tragedy to heighten tension and use of sub-plots to embellish the story have been praised as an early sign of the playwright’s dramatic skill. The names of the protagonists are so well known that they feature in the NATO phonetic alphabet. What play is this whose story of star-crossed lovers has been re-told hundreds of times over the years? 3The highlight of the beautiful Palais Garnier, a 1,979-seat opera house in Paris is the seven-tonne bronze and crystal chandelier in the central ceiling. In May 1896, an accident happened killing a concierge. This, as well as the discovery of an underground lake inspired a 1910 novel by Gaston Leroux which became a hit play. What was the accident and the play it helped inspire? 4The tagline for this 1895 play is ‘A Trivial Comedy for Serious People’. It is a comedy where the protagonists maintain fictitious personas to escape social obligations. The play trivialises marriage and satirises Victorian ways. The title of the play is alluded to many times within the play. At one time a character says “one has to be serious about something if one is to have any amusement in life.” What is this immensely popular play and who is the playwright? 5This Pulitzer winning play tells the story of a southern family in crisis, especially the couple, Brick and Margaret (’Maggie the Cat’), and their interaction with Brick’s family over the course of one evening’s gathering. The title of the play comes from a phrase used to describe someone who is in a state of extreme nervous worry and also refers to a central character and her characteristics. What is the title? 6This Rodgers and Hammerstein musical revolves around Liliom, who works in an amusement park and whose romance with a young maid comes at the price of both their jobs. The play was a failure but the 1945 musical adaptation was a huge hit and a particular song from it became an anthem of sorts for a recently successful football club. What is the name of the musical and which football club’s fans sing a song from it? 7This rock musical tells the story of a group of impoverished young artists struggling to survive and create a life in Lower Manhattan’s under the shadow of HIV/AIDS. To make the play accessible to the people he wrote for — artists in their 20s and 30s — the production invented the practice of offering daily ticket lotteries before a performance where the winners get premium seats at a bargain price. The title of the play comes from the main problem which artists had covering every month. Which award winning musical is this? 8 Tughlaq is a play which explores the psyche of Muhammed bin Tughlaq, the sultan of Delhi and his philosophies. The play is known for the multiple perspectives offered which shows how Tughlaq’s genius unfortunately brings about chaos and bitterness in his kingdom. Who is is this late iconic Kannada playwright who was awarded the Jnanpith, Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and multiple Filmfare awards? 9 ____ ka Tender by Ajay Shukla is a hilarious play about how a Mughal emperor built his era defining construction. The brilliant work of satire presents this monumental journey in modern terms with issues such as red tape, bureaucratic issues and corruption. Which emperor and what building is this play about? 10This play by Edward Albee was first staged in 1962. It examines the complexities of the marriage of a middle-aged couple when they receive a younger couple as guests and the true relationship of their marriage quickly unravels before their guests’ eyes. The title is a reference to a song from Walt Disney’s Three Little Pigs but with a popular English author’s name replacing the character’s name in the song. The central characters keep singing this song throughout the play. What is the name of the Tony award winning play? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The stolen lunch||I was sitting at the railway car park in Arakkonam, eating my breakfast, as I had arrived early for a workshop. My car faced a thick growth of bushes and small trees, shading me from the hot, early-morning sun. I noticed a tiny girl dart into the bushes with a little aluminium tiffin box. She hung the box on a low branch and then heaved a long, dry coconut leaf over to hide it. She spent just a few moments smoothing the leaf and making it look as natural as possible. Finally she stopped, looked around, and when sure no one else had seen what she had done, ran away. I held my breath shocked at what I had just seen — a little girl hiding her food hoping that no one would steal it. I wondered what she had in her tiffin box. Seasoned thieves Then the unimaginable happened. Three teenage boys who obviously knew about this hiding place or had seen her, came along, and with long stout sticks poked around all the bushes. There was the sound of gentle metal. The boys found the box and within minutes ate the food laughing all the time. Then they put the box back in its place and covered it up. I couldn’t believe what I had just seen. It all happened so fast. I couldn’t think what the poor girl would do when she returned, hungry and eagerly opening her box only to find it empty. My driver who had seen all this was most upset. Fortunately, his mind worked faster than mine. He got out of the car, went to the railway canteen and came back with three sets of idlis with sambar and chutney, two bars of chocolates, some biscuits and a bottle of soft drink. He put the food inside the tiffin box and tied the bag of goodies to it. Then he sat and watched over it while I went to my workshop. “Why did these boys behave like this,” I wondered. Was it just because she was a little girl? It wasn’t hunger that drove them to eat her food, but just cruel wicked pleasure.  I thought about the problem of evil around us. How helpless we feel when we are silent witnesses to many of the bad things that happen around us every day. But we can’t end this story here. Today, evil does not get to win. The boys did something terrible, but today goodness had the last say. That little girl will not cry or go hungry or be humiliated as perhaps the boys intended. Because a man with a good heart saw the evil that was being done and stepped in to intervene. This is how we fight the evil we see around us every day. By not looking the other way, but by fighting it with little acts of goodness and kindness. ushajesudasan@gmail.com
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The power and the glory||The setting acts like a character in many of Benyamin’s novels. Rather than being a set of coordinates, geographical territories become sensorial place portraits that call out to you and drag you into their elusive souls. In novels like Goat Days or Al Arabian Novel Factory , everything springs from the contextual surface where the collective and personal pasts collide. Body and Blood , Benyamin’s latest, unravels in a string of Indian cities — Delhi, Goa, Kasol, Chennai, Pune, Bhopal, Bilaspur. Surprisingly, instead of adding heft to the narrative, they end up as mere pieces in an unimpressive montage. The novel gives off a feel of wasted potential, as if the author simply didn’t try hard enough in spite of having all the right ingredients at hand. Fellowship of the bling Translated from Malayalam by Swarup B.R., the book dives into one of the most dangerous terrains — faith. Not the organic kind, but the mass-produced variant where illumination is all about material gain. Christ talks about his ‘body and blood’ on the night before crucifixion: they are symbols of his self-sacrifice, sealing God’s communion with the chosen people, and as such have deeply spiritual significance. An evangelical enterprise with a wrong moral compass can be the perfect premise of a novel. Benyamin builds his story around a fellowship in Delhi, people assembling in the name of Christ to sing, pray and listen to gospels. Founded by Korean pastor Ko Hee-sung, it has “explorers”, “beginners” and “those who returned” along with a strong pastoral squad. Benyamin introduces it as “one of the many fellowships in Delhi — small, intense and full of goodness”. The members are entrusted with various tasks that include keeping a track of accident victims and finding new recruits.  Body and Blood opens with an accident that claims the life of Midhun, a member of the fellowship. The narrative progresses through Ritu, Sandhya and Ragesh, his three friends who decide to pursue the incongruous facts associated with his death, opening up a Pandora’s box. Soon they realise that the fellowship with its promises of prosperity is yet another corporate that uses the ruse of religion to trap the faithful. As a character says: “This is the age of tele-evanagelists who travel the world in their private jets, charging crores for a one-hour session on TV. What business does that poor carpenter from Nazareth have here?” Silly and serious Though all three main characters caught in the web of the spiritual mafia have well-defined personalities, Benyamin leaves parts of their lives under-explored. Sandhya, a single-mother who was in a relationship with Midhun, retreats to her house in the hills to cope with grief. Ragesh, a Tamil man, and Ritu, a Malayali brought up in Goa, also take quick breaks to recover. In all this, we get the feeling that the author is using the characters merely to advance his non-linear narrative with multiple story arcs. While the characters’ motivations and back stories remain sketchy, Body and Blood also lacks that classic noir quality that could have lent an edge to the narrative. Benyamin tries hard to blend the silly and the serious, but not very successfully. In a narrative packed with allegories and literary references, there is a man professing his love by wearing a girl’s trinket and a girl planting a kiss on the cheek of a stranger in a dhaba for solving a riddle. As the mystery over Midhun’s death deepens, the novel gets into the thriller mode but the sense of intrigue is not strong enough. The predictable plotline is unable to throw surprises at the reader. Predictability also comes in the way of creating a dialogue on the workings of faith. Body and Blood ultimately lapses into clichéd juxtapositions of present-day chicanery with edifying examples of Christian charity from the past. Ritu comes across the story of Alvares, a pastor excommunicated by the Portuguese in the colonial era. During contagions he tended to the poor, cleaned their wounds and buried the dead. He was a healer, not a fake miracle worker performing to the accompaniment of high-octane hymns. Disillusioned, Ritu travels to Goa, right into a sea of true believers, and the fervent embrace of mainstream Christianity. The book ends on a peaceful note, but the sense of lack lingers on.  Body and Blood  Benyamin, trs Swarup B.R.  Harper Perennial India  Rs. 499    As the mystery over Midhun’s death deepens, the novel gets into the thriller mode but the sense of intrigue is not strong enough
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I am really good at fixing a messed-up cake’||Growing up in Berkeley, California, Phyllis Grant always found inspiration in food, be it fries, mashed potatoes or the crêpes that she ate with her mum’s apricot jam. “In our house, we were always talking about the next meal. Making, eating, and talking about food has always brought me comfort,” she says. Her recently-released first book, Everything is Under Control, is described as a “memoir with recipes”. Telling stories of love, loss and consolation from food, it’s just the kind of book you would like to read during a pandemic. The 50-year-old author from Berkeley is a dancer, cook, wife, mother, blogger, all rolled into one. She speaks about her book in this email interview: What can the reader expect from the book? It’s spare. Lots of white space. Room to breathe and take it in. It’s my life through the lens of appetite, creative drive, and food. Stories of dance, NYC, love, marriage, sex, abortion, death — all pared down to their essence. Some sections are only a few sentences. And 17 recipes. What kind of a cook are you? Strong, obsessed, all over the place, constantly changing gears. I am really good at fixing a messed-up cake! I get so much joy out of seeing what’s in the fridge and just making it work. I love the challenge. Do you think people are likely to enjoy your book now more than ever before? People are having a lot of trouble concentrating, myself included. I have been hearing from many readers that due to the spareness of my book, they are reading it in one sitting. My goal was to have the stories filtered through the lens of appetite and desire while paring it all down enough to find the universal essence in each section, whether it’s marriage, love, childbirth, abortion. Your writing is raw and real. Was it a relief to put these stories out there? It was such a relief to write down these stories. Especially the hard ones. It has been a form of therapy to rewrite them for years. To choose the important details. To shape things. I had time to do only a little bit every day. So the writing process became a bit of an escape, a meditation. It never felt like work. And my hope was to get these stories out to help other women, those dealing with sexual harassment, post-partum depression, and just the general hardship of raising young children. Rawness and honesty come pretty naturally to me as a partner, friend, and mother. And I don’t think I know how to write any other way. You entered a competition (and won it too) that kickstarted your blog. How did blogging change your life? I had a public place to tell my stories. I didn’t realise how much I wanted this! It was so helpful to know that others out there were struggling in same ways. I was cooking for my family already, but the blog community gave me a constant, wonderful external push to keep developing recipes and telling my stories. I am a very private person but a blog is a great way to get yourself out there in a big way while simultaneously being very careful. It’s being public and private at the same time. How does a blogger find his or her own voice? Don’t get too comfortable. Take risks. Don’t try to emulate other bloggers and their platforms. Be raw. Find out what you do differently. Do you have any tips for mothers who might be going through an identity crisis? Try to find creativity in one of those things that you already have to do for your kids. For me it was cooking and listening to my kids talking about everything (the good, the bad, the horrible). I used to write down the hilarious things they said and incorporate the quotes in my stories. I have other friends who sew a lot. Others who take photos or started support groups. See if there is something you do every day that can get a bit bigger, expand beyond your house into your neighbourhood or community. And because everything is online, your reach can be so much bigger (and quicker) now than in the past. The interviewer is a freelance journalist and food blogger.  My goal was to have the stories filtered through the lens of appetite and desire while paring it all down enough to find the universal essence
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The missing art of successful negotiations on ending conflict||In an informative addition to a field with enough convoluted theories to resemble scholasticism, Ajit Bhalla covers selected conflicts and tensions in Asia, a region which has a wide range of diverse histories, populations and traditions. In the process of analysing Myanmar, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, India, and China, Bhalla summarises earlier and recent history, colonisation and decolonisation, constitutional arrangements, and contemporary politics. For example, Myanmar’s 1988 State Peace and Development Council plan included exterminating the Rohingyas; moreover, the 1982 constitution allocates citizenship to specified ethnic groups but not to Rohingyas, who form one group among the country’s Muslims. Western powers lifted sanctions too soon, in 1990 and in 2016 (the regime is a noted arms buyer), and China’s substantial involvement with Yangon ensures India’s quiescence. Diverse problems Other chapters are equally bleak. The author attributes continuing ethno-religious violence in the Philippines to poor national leadership, ineffective governance, and weak institutions. Prolonged suppression, with episodes of terrible state violence against the Mindanao-based 4-6% Muslim minority, has created enduring bitterness and some receptivity to Islamic State overtures. Spoilers often figure; in Thailand — never a Western colony — Bhalla argues that  these are national leaders, the army, Buddhist nationalists and southern Buddhist leaders. The latter make local settlement with ethnic Malay Muslims difficult, the army has sacked a general whom Malay leaders trusted, and Bangkok seems permanently to exclude regional autonomy. Bhalla shows the risks rebels face in considering settlement; internal dissent can also be bitter. In Sri Lanka, Velupillai Prabhakaran eliminated other Sri Lankan Tamil groups in making the LTTE the sole leaders of the Eelam movement; coercive government action only worsened things, but international mediation failed, and southern-based opposition apparently blocks regional devolution. Mutinies in India Some conflicts can look utterly insoluble. Despite India’s undoubtedly democratic structure, for Bhalla the lasting and very serious problems in Kashmir result from failures of political leadership at all levels, namely the state and the respective central governments in Delhi and Islamabad. On the Northeast, the author is clear about the effect of sustained central-government neglect on India’s internal and external security. China, according to Bhalla, can only exacerbate the issues it faces in, respectively, Tibet and Xinjiang, by treating culture and religion as separate matters. Bhalla considers that Beijing sees religion as threatening its authority more than cultural diversity does, but he argues that the long stalemate in Tibet is worsened by international (including Indian) indifference and holds that the Xinjiang leadership is divided and ineffective. Some of the author’s asides will raise eyebrows, and the book seems to neglect leadership as restraint. At the end of a very intense day on which a South Asian head of government had made a highly provocative statement, the then Foreign Secretary of India remarked to this reviewer, “If only the [expletive deleted] had kept quiet...” and added that India had fully intended to abide by a prior agreement. On that occasion, India soon concluded that the neighbour’s comments were empty gestures, and honoured the agreement; war did not occur. The point here is that in all human exchange, what we and others say and do constitutes part of how we take things to stand. The philosophy of the social sciences, nevertheless, apparently remains as remote as ever from mainstream political science. The reviewer teaches at IIT Madras.  Asia’s Trouble Spots: The Leadership Question in Conflict Resolution  Ajit S. Bhalla Rowman and Littlefield International  £27.95
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from Laat Bhairav||Visiting the Laat Bhairav temple in Benaras had long been on my bucket list. Newspaper articles on it had piqued my interest: one of them had an image of Ramleela being performed on one side of the temple grounds and namaz being offered on the other. Reportedly, this was a place where the strains of Ramcharitmanas ’s chaupais and azaan melded in the air. I had to experience this for myself. I read up on Laat Bhairav before making the journey. Diana L. Eck writes in Banaras: City of Light : “[The] image of Bhairava is a pillar, encased in copper, and smeared with vermilion. Thus, it has the name Lat, the ‘staff’ of Bhairava.” She adds, “When Sherring  examined the site in the 1860s, he was convinced that the most ancient remains there were not those of the Hindu temple, but of a much earlier Buddhist complex, and that the Lat itself was really an Ashokan pillar, with just the dimensions of the Ashokan pillar found at Sarnath a few miles to the north.” Today the pillar stands in the middle of a Muslim idgah (prayer ground) and believers of both faiths pray in the same compound. Inviting vibe I landed up there on the day of Muharram. People had gathered in sizeable number in the compound. They chatted amicably, sharing snacks. Then the procession of tajiyas began: I watched fascinated as it sailed by smoothly under police supervision while on the other side of the same road a mela went on undisturbed. Laat Bhairav boasts of other minor wonders too. For one, it is amazingly quiet, the air unsullied by that bane of religious places in India — the cry of loudspeakers. Not being a regular tourist spot, the crowd is less here too. The compound also has a pond, which remains locked for the most part of the day. While ponds adjacent to temples are common in Benaras, clean ponds, like the one here, are not. The tree-lined large courtyard gives off an inviting vibe. The scholar, John Irwin, writes, “The pippal tree worshipped beside the stump is said to be the scion of an earlier tree destroyed in the riot” (‘The Lat Bhairo at Benares (Varanasi): Another pre-Asokan monument?’). What riot? Intrigued, I looked it up. Elizabeth-Chalier Visuvalingam and Sunthar Visuvalingam say, “The pillar was the focus of fanatical violence between Hindus and Muslims during the famous ‘Lat Bhairo riots’ of 1809, which eventually evolved by 1811 into a common political agitation directed against the excesses of colonial rule, without however resolving the question of the Lat” (‘Between Mecca and Benares: The Marriage of Lat Bhairava & Ghazi Miyan’). Strange medley So Hindus and Muslims have fought at this site, which apparently has a Buddhist past. Sitting in the courtyard under the shade of a huge neem tree, I recalled Irwin’s words again: “The modern visitor has an impression that he is witnessing a relatively late stage in the history of a site that had once been sacred to all Indian religions and was probably older than any of them. What a strange medley.” The next time I visited, it was for Ramleela. The celebrations were sad — they seemed like a relic from another age, a tradition being forcefully continued. The few spectators who had gathered were busier with their phones than with the going-ons. I was reminded of the Ramleela in Ramnagar, also in Benaras, that is famous for its pomp and show. There too I had the feeling that I was watching a spectacle belonging to another time. Incidentally, the effigies used in Ramnagar Ramleela are made by the same family which makes the tajiyas for Muharram. The writer is a history buff and avid blogger.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A hundred cuts||In a financial crisis, there are multiple suspects and many victims. A complicated chain of events precede the crime/crisis, often beyond the imagination of most analysts and investigators. And frequently an intelligent observer has to put together the pieces afterwards, like Vivek Kaul has done in Bad Money.  Kaul takes India’s non-performing assets (NPA) problem and deconstructs it methodically over a range of issues related to India’s banking sector. He doesn’t oversimplify the problem; he establishes historical context, using a wide range of public data as evidence, and focuses on problematic promoters and businessmen, imprudent bankers, lethargic and then hyperactive regulators, and ambivalent bureaucrats. A rotting system This is a story of a system which allowed a hundred cuts, until it could take no more, after which businessmen like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi emerged as the most prominent villains, but there were hundreds more who were just as guilty. Kaul narrates the Mallya and Modi cases in some detail to give a flavour of how complicit much of the banking and political system had to be to allow both these men and their businesses to accumulate so much bad debt with public sector banks (PSBs). What is particularly shocking in Kaul’s narrative is how early the NPA problem had been recognised by the broader financial research community (Credit Suisse’s House of Debt series by Ashish Gupta and Prashant Kumar deserves special mention), yet how long regulators, bankers, bureaucrats and politicians sat on this knowledge without addressing it meaningfully. In a capital-starved country like India, it is staggering that the PSB system found it easier to give Rs. 5 crore loans to large corporate clients, but still struggles to give Rs. 5 lakh loans to small businesses. Need for consumer advocacy  Bad Money raises questions regarding the effectiveness of the public sector banking system, and shows why there is a desperate need for stronger consumer advocacy and public accountability to protect depositors and taxpayers. Ultimately, Kaul holds the paternalistic attitude of the Indian state towards banking responsible for this crisis; as long as majority government ownership in PSBs remains, he argues that all of the incentive problems leading to crony capitalism, shoddy accounting, and poor asset quality reporting will stay. The bureaucratic and political psychology that leads to this paternalism in banking is a big open question that readers will be left pondering. Students have a particularly difficult time understanding and internalising the logic of financial crises. As someone who went to college during the global financial crisis in 2008, it was particularly disheartening to see seniors struggling to find jobs, job offers being rescinded, and youthful optimism being crushed by macroeconomic realities. The COVID-19 generation of graduates is facing a similar situation. They all have similar thoughts in the back of their head: how and why did public systems fail so spectacularly? Whose sins are we paying the price for? Bad Mone y may not have clear cut, easy answers to these questions, but it will present more than enough evidence for you to make up your own mind. The reviewer is a Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research.  Bad Money: Inside the NPA Mess and How it Threatens the Indian Banking System Vivek Kaul HarperCollins  Rs. 599
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A Suitable Boy by Vikram Seth||When poet and writer Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy was first published in 1993, with a gorgeous Varanasi silk sari on the cover and gossamer pages, the excitement was palpable. It had been in the works for eight years, and whispers of a phenomenal advance added to the buzz. Seth mentioned the length — it runs into 1,349 pages — and the price tag (Rs. 500 at the time), in his rhyming word of thanks: “Buy me before good sense insists/ You’ll strain your purse and sprain your wrists.” Twenty-seven years later, and as the Mira Nair-helmed BBC production is here, what does it offer to a new generation of readers? The deeply-researched history of a young country drawn into a story is a wonderful starting point. Panoramic view Set in newly-independent India of the 1950s as it prepares for the first general elections, at the centre is a love story, of Lata Mehra. Her mother is searching for a suitable boy for her to marry. The Mehras live in the fictitious town of Brahmpur (in Purva Pradesh state) and the story revolves around three other families — the Kapoors, the Khans and the Chatterjis. But as Seth describes their lives — the Kapoors, Mehras and Chatterjis are related by marriage — it’s a panoramic view of the thousands of strands that make up India: mindsets, culture, religion, caste. What is eerily familiar is that some of the biases are still intact more than 70 years after Independence. Seth’s magnum opus talks about an India which has recently become free from colonial rule, but in the shadow of Partition, tensions simmer. When the irrepressible Mrs. Rupa Mehra comes to know of Lata’s friendship with Kabir Durrani, for instance, she implodes, “What did I do in my past life to bring this upon my beloved daughter?” The story begins with a wedding, of Savita (Lata’s sister) and Pran Kapoor, who teaches English literature and loves James Joyce, and is the son of the Minister of Revenue, Mahesh Kapoor. Father Kapoor is intent on getting the Zamindari Abolition Bill passed, which would inevitably ruffle feathers. He is particularly concerned about his friend, Nawab Sahib of the Khan family, who would lose land if the bill came through. Kapoor is also worried about his younger son, Maan, who falls in love with the beautiful musician/courtesan, Saeeda Bai, who sings thumris for him. In Calcutta, Lata’s older brother, Arun, is married to Justice Chatterji’s daughter, Meenakshi, and thereby hangs another tale. Allegory of nationhood Lata has to choose between three suitors — Kabir, Amit Chatterji (Meenakshi’s brother, England-returned and fluent in verses) and Haresh Khanna, a self-made professional in the shoe trade. By the time she makes up her mind, a lot of water has flown down the Ganga, a key character, and unimaginable violence erupts, announced with these ominous words in the contents: “The flames of Karbala and Lanka blaze/ Igniting madness through the city’s maze”. Some of the madness is because old wounds are reopened, a flare-up over a mosque/ temple, to give one example. Yet there are several people who work hard to bring about harmony, with Gandhi’s words lingering in the background, “ Uth jagh musafir bhor bhayi… — Rise, traveller, the sky is light./ Why do you sleep? It is not night.” In An Illustrated History of Indian Literature in English , Jon Mee, analysing the post-Salman Rushdie/ Midnight’s Children writers, calls Seth’s novel “classic realism,” but says despite that it is difficult not to see it “as an allegory of nationhood…, subscribing to an idea of Indian history as a progress towards the goal of a secular, commercial society in the image of conventional Western models of national development.” Although Lata shows signs of independence, “the novel is ultimately one of conformity and what it represents as the inevitability of bourgeois life,” argues Mee. Critics have compared Seth to the greats, from Tolstoy to George Eliot and Goethe. One called him the “best writer of his generation.” Seth told The Washington Post , “The kinds of books I like reading are books where the authorial voice doesn’t intrude too much — 19th-century novels, and some 20th-century novels as well. They don’t try to pull you up with the brilliance of their sentences as much as pull you into a world.” For some years now, Seth has been working on a sequel, A Suitable Girl , with Lata now a grandmother. India, a land of million mutinies, as another writer said, faces new and old challenges, and Lata and her creator’s work is cut out. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  What is eerily familiar is that some of the biases are still intact more than 70 years after Independence
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Simple solution||South showed good judgment when he opened his hand one spade rather than two clubs. A three-suited hand should almost never be opened with two clubs, regardless of strength, as it will be impossible to show all your suits. Much better to open at the one level and hope someone at the table finds a bid. Today’s deal is from a rubber bridge game, where the methods are normally quite simple. There was no sensible way to explore for a possible grand slam so South made the practical decision to settle for six. Even that contract, it turned out, required some care. South ruffed the opening club lead and drew trumps in three rounds. The contract would be cold if the missing hearts split 3-3, so South cashed his top three hearts. No luck there, so he ruffed his last heart on the board and led a diamond to his jack, winning the trick. At this point, many players would go down counting on a 3-2 split in diamonds. This declarer remembered that neither spades nor hearts had split evenly, so the diamonds might also be foul. He continued with a low diamond, intending to play dummy’s queen if West followed suit. West showed out, however, so South simply played a low diamond from dummy. East won a cheap trick, but he was forced to yield a ruff-sluff or lead away from his king of diamonds. 12 tricks either way and a wellplayed hand!
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The screen stereotypes||The daily soaps have stereotyped the image of a “good Indian girl” — one who always wears Indian clothes, speaks fluent Hindi, cooks scrumptious food, carries a no make-up face and is shy to the core. I don’t remember watching a daily soap where the good girl was portrayed as an outspoken person whose clothes were immaterial to her character. When the world is bent on breaking stereotypes, these shows have done nothing but junk the minds of middle class Indian society by making them believe that their daughters need to be hesitant enough to stand up for their rights and only a male hero or god can come to their rescue. The stereotyping does not end here, but it moves forward characterising an independent girl as one ruining the life of a pitiful, helpless poor girl. All such portrayals are visible in one way or the other in fairy tales; thus it can be safely said that Indian daily soaps are not the initiators but followers of this theme. Daily soaps romanticise the silence, tears and begging for help of a good girl as if that was the only good thing to do when trapped by a villain. The bad Indian girl, wearing a lot of make-up, high heels and short dress, is someone whose character is not only questionable but also incorrigible. humanfirstrashmeet@gmail.com
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||At the museum. Distantly||I’ve been cheating, and it’s likely you have been, too: Six feet apart is a lot farther away than most people seem to hope it is. I know this because at the recent reopening of Magazzino Italian Art, the museum of postwar and contemporary work in Hudson Valley, I wore a piece of social-distancing hardware called an EGOpro Active Tag. It was attached to a lanyard around my neck. The tag is required for all visitors, and it’s programmed to vibrate each time the wearer is closer than six feet to another person. Mine buzzed a lot. I misjudged my spacing quite often, and the incessant buzzing was annoying. But that’s the point, of course. It made me retreat, and quickly. Magazzino, founded in 2017 by collectors Nancy Olnick and Giorgio Spanu, is the first museum in the U.S. to use the technology. That Magazzino takes pandemic safety seriously is clear from the start. Temperature checks are now required for all visitors. Masks are required, too. The museum, which was closed for four months, is admitting 10 people with reservations per half-hour. “We wanted to find a way to have a new normal,” said Vittorio Calabrese, Magazzino’s director. “Art does not stop.” It was roomy and very quiet inside the high-ceilinged white galleries, arranged in a ring. The 20,000-square-foot building, designed by Spanish architect Miguel Quismondo, has an ongoing exhibition called ‘Arte Povera’, dedicated to the Italian movement from the 60s and 70s, when Italian artists voiced dissent about society. There’s a special show, ‘Homemade,’ in the last gallery, featuring work by eight Italian artists quarantined in New York during the pandemic. It began as an online and Instagram invitational and morphed into a real exhibition. Magazzino wanted to support artists making new work during this time. One of the artists, Alessandro Teoldi, was on site when I visited. Teoldi hails from Milan and lives in Brooklyn, New York, and he talked about his piece, an abstract assemblage of stretched airline blankets that looks from afar like a painting. He made it just before the pandemic. “I buy them on eBay, or I steal them when I travel, when I used to travel,” Teoldi said. His phrasing made us both a little wistful. The EGOpro Active Tag that made my museum visit safe is an adaptation of technology that has been around for a while, using ultrawideband radio waves. The technology is currently in use at the Duomo in Florence, Italy, and the Leaning Tower of Pisa.  — NYT    Magazzino, founded in 2017 by collectors Nancy Olnick and Giorgio Spanu, is the first museum in the U.S. to use the technology
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Hurry Home||Roz Nay  Crooked Lane Books $25.99 Two sisters meet after years, with Ruth upending Alex’s ordered and happy life. But they decide to keep their secrets buried and help each other the best way they can. Then, a local child goes missing and old stories are dredged up, testing the sisters’ bond.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Lightness||Emily Temple  The Borough Press $14.75 (Kindle price) Olivia runs away from home and enrolls in a programme for troubled teens. She joins a trio of girls determined to leave behind their bodies and oppressive circumstances to achieve enlightenment. This turns out to be a dangerous practice and not all of them will survive.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Pokhran||Uday Singh  Srishti Publisher Rs. 200 The nuclear tests of 1974 have a lasting impact on the inhabitants of Pokhran, who end up with abnormally high rates of cancer and genetic disorders. Chaitanya is one of the victims. He goes on a mission to uncover the conspiracy that mainstream media never reported.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian Sun: The Life and Music of Ravi Shankar||Oliver Craske  Faber and Faber/PRH Rs. 899 For the biography of sitar maestro Ravi Shankar, the writer carried out over 130 new interviews. He writes a vivid portrait of a musician who influenced among others the violinist Yehudi Menuhin and the Beatle George Harrison.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Citizenship Debate||Amit Malviya, Salman Khurshid  Rupa Rs. 295 The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 was passed amid protests last December. It divided the country into two — one side feels the apprehensions are baseless, the other that it is a non-secular, prejudiced move. Malviya and Khurshid present two sides of the debate.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Pandemic Century||Mark Honigsbaum  Penguin Random House Rs. 499 A medical historian chronicles 100 years of history in 10 outbreaks, right up to COVID-19, by combining science history, medical sociology and front-line reportage. Starting with the Spanish influenza pandemic in 1918, he touches on the recent epidemics like Ebola and Zika.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Deaths of Despair and the Future of Capitalism||Anne Case, Angus Deaton  Princeton University Press Rs. 1,273 (Kindle price) Is capitalism destroying the lives of blue-collar America? The poor are dying and the writers tie the crisis to the power of corporations, and to a health-care sector that redistributes working-class wages into the pockets of the wealthy.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3110||Across  1 Party that might be in a garage (6) 4 Making toast, perhaps for a poet (8) 9 In part, male ego panicked about height (6) 10 Lingerie on hips (partially) in S American city (8) 12 ‘I’ve offended you’; ‘I’ve been offended by you’ (6,2) 13 Bigamy heartless: good to get married one time (6) 15 Regrettably so, I clean huge fixture in sitting room (6-6) 18 Titled peer leaders of High Tories condemned? (4,3,5) 21 Phwoar! Fancied on-and-off Latin lover (6) 22 Inaccurate description of crossword in 1995 film (8) 24 She pummels Everyman with wear and tear around bottom (8) 25 Very agreeable to take in European tourist destination (6) 26 Sensible, at first, to peel off clothing when it’s hot (8) 27 Sign that insect’s invaded shed (4-2)  Down  1 Military commander hoisted during anti-aircraft fire needing piecing together (4-4) 2 Poker face: not starting to turn green (8) 3 Catholics: ‘Easter — with transfiguration, now we are safe’ (3,5,2,5) 5 Mostly red, a little raw in the middle? (4) 6 Yen posted from abroad? (4,3,4,4) 7 Pieces of Inuit Greenland with little rooms? (6) 8 Something worn by men in Indian state: short-sleeved shirt (6) 11 Ape and flightless bird extinct (7) 14 Home with little ones restless all night — not good (3-4) 16 Bond had criminal picked up — sound (8) 17 Shakespeare’s one spelling ‘fare well’ at end of Othello (8) 19 Gland and herb reduction unpleasantly served for starters (6) 20 Begun preparing sarnie (6) 23 Primarily alarming, serpentine poisonous slitherers? (4)
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Green giving||Climate activist Greta Thunberg, who was awarded the Gulbenkian Prize for Humanity, donated the €1 million prize money to charities working to combat climate change. “That is more money than I can begin to imagine,” she said in a video, adding that it will be donated to projects working “to help people on the front line, affected by the climate crisis and ecological crisis.”
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Air Lanka||Sri Lanka’s Civil Aviation Authority will launch a research project to study the “aviation routes” used by the mythical figure Ravana. It has asked for submissions from the public on “King Ravana and the ancient domination of aerial routes now lost”. With legends galore about Ravana’s use of flying machines, the official body wishes to put together an authoritative narrative.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Passages to India||Actor Sonu Sood, who has organised several large-scale initiatives to help stranded migrant labourers return home during the lockdown, followed through with a new mission: chartering flights to bring back 3,000 Indian students stuck in Kyrgyzstan, a popular destination for medical degrees. He announced the first flight from Bishkek to Varanasi on Twitter to much applause.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Rising tensions||Britain suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong amid fears that people accused under the new security law imposed by China could face draconian punishments; Canada and Australia had already taken similar measures. China responded with a threat of ‘forceful counter-attack’. With this and other disputes, including the exclusion of Chinese firm Huawei from the U.K.’s 5G network, the tension is palpably high.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bears on the brink||Climate change and shrinking Arctic ice could push polar bears to extinction by the end of the century, a study warned. The loss of sea ice means longer periods of fasting for the bears that need the frozen surface to hunt seals. “Polar bears are already sitting at the top of the world; if the ice goes, they have no place to go,” said lead author Peter Molnar of the University of Toronto in Ontario, Canada.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine in sight||The University of Oxford’s vaccine appears safe and has induced an immune response in early human trials. The results of the study, which involved trials on more than 1,000 people, were published in The Lancet. “However, we need more research before we can confirm the vaccine effectively protects against SARS-CoV-2 infection, and for how long any protection lasts,” said lead author Andrew Pollard.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Royal murder||After 35 years, a CBI court in Mathura convicted 11 policemen of killing Raja Man Singh, a seven-time Rajasthan MLA and brother of the last Maharaja of Bharatpur, along with two of his associates in a staged encounter in 1985. The incident took place after an angry Singh had crashed his car into then Chief Minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Divine right||The Supreme Court upheld the right of Travancore’s royal family to manage the affairs of Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Thiruvananthapuram, reversing a 2011 ruling of the Kerala High Court. The State has struggled to gain control of the fabulously wealthy temple ever since the death of the last monarch, Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, in 1991.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Red hope||The U.A.E. launched the Arab world’s first mission to Mars, with its probe Al-Amal — ‘hope’ in Arabic — taking off from Japan’s Tanegashima Space Center and successfully establishing contact with ground control in Dubai. It’s expected to reach the Red Planet by February 2021, after which it will remain in orbit for a Martian year (687 days on Earth), collecting data about the atmosphere.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Death in Her Hands||Ottessa Moshfegh  Penguin Press $27 This experiment in narratorial unreliability is a dark comedy, a thriller and a horror story all at once. A note found on a daily walk announces a murder, but there’s no dead body. Disoriented, the narrator constructs a story of murder that starts corresponding to real life.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||How wearing masks cut coronavirus transmission to 139 clients in a salon||The case for wearing masks to cut the risk of coronavirus transmission just got stronger. Vigilant mask-wearing by two hair stylists working at a salon in Springfield, Missouri, in the U.S. in mid-May from the day they developed symptoms helped prevent 139 clients they served from getting infected. Neither the clients nor their contacts, who were traced and followed up for two weeks, developed any symptoms of COVID-19. One month after contact tracing, 104 of 139 clients were interviewed over telephone. Among the 104 who were interviewed, 102 (98.1%) reported wearing a mask throughout the time of appointment while two reported wearing a mask part of the time. But both stylists were wearing masks during the entire duration of each appointment. The stylists were wearing a double-layered cotton mask or a surgical mask. The clients were offered testing five days after exposure, or as soon as possible for those exposed more than five days before contact tracing began. In all, 67 (48.2%) clients volunteered to be tested, and none was found infected by the virus by RT-PCR. The results of the study were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report . Close contact The stylists came in close contact with their clients seeking haircuts, facial hair trimmings and perms for a period ranging from 15 to 45 minutes, yet did not transmit the virus to them. While the duration of close contact may be sufficient for virus spread, the mode of interaction duration the contact did not involve talking, sneezing or coughing. Also, most of the clients who got a haircut were facing away from the stylists, which might have also reduced the risk of transmission. There is a body of evidence to show that virus transmission is “highest during the two-three days before symptom onset”. Though rate of transmission of the virus before symptoms show up is not clear, asymptomatic people are “likely to contribute to virus spread”. Yet, the study did not trace and test those clients who had interacted with the two stylists days before the stylists started exhibiting symptoms. Importance underscored The role of masks in preventing transmission of the virus is underscored by the fact that the first stylist possibly infected the other stylist during those periods between clients when neither wore a mask. Also, one of the stylists infected four others who were living with her. The first stylist who was infected worked for eight days even when symptoms showed up. She stopped working only when results of RT-PCR test returned positive. The second stylist developed respiratory symptoms three days after the first stylist exhibited symptoms. The second stylist worked for five days even while exhibiting symptoms before self-isolating and getting tested. “These results support the use of face coverings in places open to the public, especially when social distancing is not possible, to reduce spread of SARS-CoV-2,” the authors write. Not a substitute As per World Health Organization guidelines for both healthy and infected people, “the use of masks is part of a comprehensive package of the prevention and control measures that can limit the spread of... COVID-19. However, the use of a mask alone is insufficient to provide an adequate level of protection or source control, and other personal and community level measures should also be adopted to suppress transmission of respiratory viruses.” “[Masks are] not a substitute for other public health measures – hand hygiene, physical distancing, testing, contact tracing, etc. – all of this must be done together,” Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Infectious Disease Epidemiologist at WHO tweeted. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) echoes the same message: “The use of face masks in the community should be considered only as a complementary measure and not as a replacement for established preventive measures, for example physical distancing, respiratory etiquette, meticulous hand hygiene and avoiding touching the face, nose, eyes and mouth.”
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet the ‘tiny bug slayer’, ancient relative of dinosaurs and pterosaurs||If Jurassic Park taught you that dinosaurs and gigantism are synonymous, it is time to update your knowledge. A newly described species from Madagascar suggests that dinosaurs and pterosaurs (extinct flying reptiles) had extremely small ancestors — just 10 centimetres tall. It was named Kongonaphon kely which roughly translates from the Malagasy language as ‘tiny bug slayer' — a reference to its insect diet. The fossils were discovered in 1998 as part of an expedition by an American–Malagasy crew. Small bones “The site that produced Kongonaphon had already yielded a number of other fossils, so they were exploring it carefully, and in doing so were able to find even very small bones. It may seem like a long time between discovery and publication (22 years), but this is fairly typical for paleontology,” explains Christian F. Kammerer, Research Curator of Paleontology at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences in an email to The Hindu. He is the corresponding author of the paper recently published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  “In the case of this animal, I had to make detailed comparisons with all of its relatives, so that I could be certain we were dealing with a new species and not just another specimen of a previously-known type,” he says. Dr. Kammerer adds that during the time Kongonaphon was alive (around 237 million years ago), Madagascar was directly attached to India as part of the supercontinent Gondwana. “Triassic vertebrate fossils of similar age have been found in a band of rocks extending across Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, but thus far nothing like Kongonaphon has been found there. I am confident that future work by Indian paleontologists will recover relatives of Kongonaphon .” The paper notes that such tiny ancestral body size may help explain the origins of flight in pterosaurs. Dr. Kammerer details: “All flying animals seem to have evolved from very small ancestors. A smaller, lighter body is more conducive to aerial locomotion such as gliding, which seems to be an important intermediary step in the origin of flight. Extensive studies on the origins of birds have shown there was also a miniaturisation event there, with the gigantic theropod dinosaurs becoming progressively smaller in size and the first birds (such as Archaeopteryx ) being only around the size of a pigeon or a myna.” Body size Analysis of body size throughout the history of dinosaurs and relatives shows that ancestrally medium-sized animals evolved into very small animals, such as Kongonaphon, which would have been around 10 cm tall and about 30 cm long. This then evolved into dinosaurs and pterosaurs which could reach enormous sizes. Dr. Kammerer adds that they are currently analysing many other fossils previously collected at the same site as Kongonaphon was. The team is also studying prehistoric ecosystems and the evolution of Triassic animals.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Of mice and SARS-CoV-2||Science and research have always relied on using animals to understand various human diseases. The primarily reasons have been the genetic similarity between animals and humans (mice share 98% of DNA with us), and that we have developed tools to edit genes in various animals. We can edit a gene out in mice to try to understand its role in progression of human cancer. These “animal models” are supposed represent a window to further study and understand human diseases. An animal model for a particular disease should fulfil two criteria. It should be able to “catch” that infection (in case of infectious diseases) and show the clinical outcomes and altered physiology that accompanies the disease. Many animals do not fulfil the second criteria. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal disease that leads to loss of neurons that control our motor functions, leading to wasting of muscles, paralysis and death. While mice models of this disease also show wasting of muscles, the cause of death is blockage in the gut. Thus, drug targets that would prevent these mice from dying would be irrelevant in humans. Road blocks These systemic issues are coming to the fore with scientists trying to find the elusive vaccine/drug by attempting to cure experimentally infected lab mice, rats, hamsters and rhesus monkeys. However, they are faced two roadblocks. Mice, the most widely used “models” to understand human diseases, cannot be infected with SARS-CoV-2. If you imagine the virus to be a lock, it needs a “key” (usually a protein) on the surface of a cell to enter. The “key” is present in humans, rhesus monkeys, to a lesser extent in hamsters, ferrets and cats, but not in mice. Scientists are now creating genetically altered mice that express this “key”, as larger animals pose additional difficulties of housing, handling and are expensive. This leads us to our second roadblock that an animal model should also reflect the clinical features. Apart from fever, sore throat, cough, pneumonia, COVID-19 infection in humans is also known to affect the heart, kidneys, intestine, and brain. While ferrets, hamsters, cats, rhesus monkeys and genetically modified mice could get infected with SARS-CoV-2, all of these develop only mild lung infection, most do not show fever, and they recover within seven–nine days. Many of them do not show the virus in organs other than the lungs, and exhibit contradictory results. A study in cats showed that the infection was more severe in kittens versus older cats. This is opposite to humans where older infected population has a higher risk for death. Those critical roadblocks bring some questions on how much these models will be able to help the scientists to find a cure, if they are able to self-limit the disease. Thus, there is need for systems and approaches that can “model” human diseases to a greater extent. Mini organs Scientists are now creating miniature 3D organ-like-structures, called “organoids” that aim to replicate a human organ. These mini organs, created using stem cells, are 200 microns (width of two human strands of hair) to a few millimetres in size. They have similar three-dimensional structure and cellular composition as human organs, and thus, are better reflective of human biology compared to animal models. Infection of mini-lungs with SARS-CoV-2 showed that virus triggers a massive immune response, similar to what has been observed clinically in humans. Four compounds were able to reduce viral levels in mini-lungs, and one of them is registered in three clinical trials. Scientists were also unclear on how the virus travels to various organs inside the body, till a study found that SARS-CoV-2 could infect blood vessel organoids. This indicates that the virus could travel via the blood stream to various organs, such as kidney, heart, etc (which also express “key” for the virus to enter). Despite their potential, many of these mini-organs currently do not have blood supply, resident microbes or immune cells. Also, it is difficult to understand the holistic response based on individual organs. Scientists are currently battling these limitations by creating multiple interconnected mini-organs, and growing different types of cell (blood cells, immune cells) together. It is unlikely that we would get all the answers on how the virus affects humans using one system or model. Thus, we also need to invest in computational or AI-based approaches to integrate information from different organ systems or models to create a systems body of information. A study by Tufts Centre estimated that seven out of eight drugs that enter the clinical pipeline fail indicating the low translatability of the current paradigm. With many drugs, like Remdesivir failing to show statistically significant clinical benefits in COVID-19 trials, use of new methodologies that are more relevant to human biology coupled with further innovation to address their limitations could hold the key to find potent therapeutic targets for this healthcare crisis.  (Surat Parvatam is senior research associate, Centre for Predictive Human Model Systems, Atal Incubation Centre–Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (AIC-CCMB), Hyderabad)
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||How young Asian elephants learn to bend their trunks left or right||Most people are either left-handed or right-handed. They are consistent in this laterality. Similarly, adult Asian elephants consistently use their trunks either preferring the left side or the right side. Fascinated by the question of when and how this laterality develops in young elephants, a group of researchers from Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) studied free-ranging, individually identified Asian elephants from the Nagarhole and Bandipur National Parks and Tiger Reserves. The researchers found that calves develop a laterality in the way they use their trunks from three months onwards. They are more or less fixed in this laterality by the time they are a year old. This study, tracing out how this behaviour develops as the calf grows, is a first-of-its-kind study of free-ranging Asian elephants (Elephas maximus). The results have been published in The International Journal of Developmental Biology.  Equally likely Unlike humans, where right-handedness dominates, elephants do not show a bias in this behaviour at the population level: Asian elephants are equally likely to show left-handedness as they are to show right-handedness. In a prior study by Keerthipriya and coworkers led by TNC Vidya in JNCASR, such a lateralisation was seen in a calf of less than two months in captivity. However, due to the small number of young ones studied then, the gradual development of the behaviour could not be observed. As Dr. Vidya says, “During that study, we had sampled a single young calf and saw that even that had some lateralisation. So, in this study, we systematically checked if calves, in general, showed trunk lateralisaton.” Elephant calves show handedness very early. She further explains that this suggests that the elephant calves don’t seem to start out trying out different sides and then settling on one side randomly, later becoming left-handed or right-handed through practice. “Instead, the side preference seems innate.” In this study, T. Revathe, a PhD student, and S. Anvitha, MS-PhD student, at JNCASR, observed 30 calves (less than a year old ) and juveniles (between one and five years old). Among these there were16 females and 14 males from nine different clans. The study throws open several questions. From their previous observations of adult and young elephants, the group deduced that the laterality was not inherited from the mother. Further studies may explore if it is inherited from the father. Developmental inertia The researchers found that trunk motor control develops postnatally over months although limb motor control and trunk side preference is achieved within a few hours of birth. “One possible reason for this could be phylogenetic inertia,” says Dr. Vidya. The term phylogenetic inertia refers to limitations on future evolutionary pathways imposed by previous adaptations. Or, in other words, how elongated noses (trunks) developed over evolutionary time and whether there are any constraints as a result of previous adaptations that affect the development of trunk. In order to study this, one would have to examine sets of related species with elongated noses. “Unfortunately, there are only three living species of elephants,” remarks Dr. Vidya. “However, one could look at elephant shrews, or tapirs, which have elongated noses, and their relatives. One could examine whether these development of strength in these elongated noses occurs gradually after birth,” she explains.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Quicksilver tongue||How far and fast do chameleon tongues move? Previous studies have found that chameleons can ballistically project their tongues up to two body lengths. This is based on work done with large-sized chameleons. But using smaller chameleons, Christopher V. Anderson from the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Brown University, U.S., found that smaller chameleons are able to project their tongues far longer. He reported his findings in 2016 in a paper published in the journal Scientific Reports. Using a chameleon species Rhampholeon spinosus, which is just 47 mm SVL (snout to vent length), he found tongue projection distances are as high as 2.5 body lengths. Tongue projections more than twice the body length was seen in three other species too, all of which are smaller than 90 mm SVL. Dr. Anderson also found that both acceleration and mass-specific power increased as body size decreased. Using large chameleons, researchers had found earlier that chameleons project their tongues with peak accelerations of up to 486 metres per second. But using the R. spinosus species, he found peak accelerations as high as 2,590 metres per second, which is five times faster than that of the largest chameleon, and faster than any reptile, bird or mammal. This incredible acceleration is powered by 14 kW/kg muscle output. Smaller chameleons are able to achieve this feat as they have evolved larger tongues relative to their body size. “Stretching elastic tissues and using their recoil to power movement allows organisms to release energy more rapidly than by muscle contraction directly, thus amplifying power output,” he says.
26 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||A steep mountain to scale||A roughly 40-metre-high mountain of untreated municipal waste on the 30-acre landfill site at Bandhwari off the Gurugram-Faridabad highway has been a threat to the ecologically fragile Aravalis, the wildlife and underground water — as well as a challenge for the authorities — for almost a decade now. Ecogreen Energy Private Limited was hired in August 2017 for collection and treatment of solid municipal waste from Gurugram and Faridabad. Around 2,000 tonnes of mixed garbage reaches the site daily from the two cities, out of which the Millennium City contributes as much as 1,200 tonnes. Till a year ago, the firm could handle just 500 tonnes of garbage daily with two trommel machines (a mechanical screen used to separate materials). Recently, five new machines were installed at the garbage management plant by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and one more by Ecogreen to segregate and treat around 1,800 tonnes per day. Segregating waste Plant head Ravi Kumar said the trommels run 12-18 hours a day to treat the waste to their maximum capacity, but the monsoon is a challenge. “It becomes difficult to segregate the waste as it gets wet due to the rain. Once it rains heavily, we need to wait for 2-3 days for the waste to dry before it can be segregated,” said Mr. Kumar. When segregated, the fresh waste produces around 30% Refuse-derived Fuel (RDF) and 25% organic waste; the rest is “reject”. The RDF is used in cement industries and the organic waste is converted into compost. The reject is used to level low-lying areas. The site has untreated legacy waste of around 30 lakh tonnes, as per conservative estimates. Though Solid Municipal Waste rules make segregation of waste at source mandatory, implementation on the ground is almost nil. The company’s deputy chief executive officer, Sanjay Singh, said only 10-20% of the total municipal waste collected from the two cities comes to them segregated. “A lot of effort, energy and resources are required to segregate it. If we get segregated waste from source, it not only saves energy and resources, but we can also produce good quality compost. Our vehicles have separate cabins to keep segregated waste, but we mostly get mixed waste,” said Mr. Singh. Leachate problem The huge amount of untreated legacy waste at the site also leads to leachate, contaminating groundwater and harming residents in neighbouring villages as well as the wildlife. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has intervened in the matter and passed a few directions on pleas by environmentalists. Mr. Kumar said the situation has “improved a lot” since then. Besides a Leachate Treatment Plant (LTP), two Disc Tube Reverse Osmosis (DTRO) systems were put into operation in January. “The leachate from the site is collected into ponds, with layers of rubber sheets laid on the floor and side walls, and treated,” said Mr. Kumar, adding that the DTRO and the LTP together have a capacity to treat 550 kilo litres of leachate per day. Around 350 kilo litres is generated daily. “The DTRO-treated leachate is as good as drinking water. It is one of the best technologies in the world,” said Mr. Kumar. The system, however, struggles during the monsoon as the rainwater mixes with the leachate, increasing the volume manifold. Power generation Last year, the MCG procured environmental clearance to set up a 15 MW Waste-to-Energy Plant (WTEP) at the site. It has now applied for expansion of its capacity to 25 MW. An online meeting is scheduled with the Expert Appraisal Committee for Thermal Power Projects on July 28 in this regard. The work on the project is set to start by the end of this year. “It would be a flagship project in India. If all goes as planned, the WTEP will be operational by the end of 2022. As part of preparations for setting up the plant, 10-acre plots have been identified in Faridabad’s Sihi and Nuh’s Karoli to dump and treat the waste during this period. Gurugram’s waste will be dumped in Karoli,” said Mr. Singh. The general manager (Engineering) at Ecogreen, Sumit Kumar, told The Hindu that increase in capacity for the WTEP was sought in view of the large amount of waste generated and future expansion. He added that all fears of the plant leading to air pollution were unfounded as gases would be released according to the Central Pollution Control Board rules and Solid Waste Management guidelines. The pollution board can also monitor emissions on a real-time basis.  However, concerns remain. On July 19 this year, citizens from Gurugram, Faridabad, Delhi and other cities tweeted about the ongoing destruction of the Aravalis in a nationwide ‘tweetstorm’ with hashtags such as #AravalliUnderThreat and #AravalliBachao. Some of the tweets pointed out that leachate from the landfill was threatening wildlife too. “Citizens have been writing to the NGT, Haryana Pollution Control Board and the administration for the last one year but no action has been taken to stop illegal discharge of leachate or treatment of legacy waste at Bandhwari according to the Indore model, as directed by the NGT. Citizens have also demanded cancellation of the waste management contract with Ecogreen,” said Gurugram-based environmental campaigner Neelam Ahluwalia, who is also a documentary filmmaker. The decision of the administration to construct a WTEP in an eco-sensitive zone has also come under question with many activists claiming that the technology has been a failure in every other city in India.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Mightier than the pen||Earlier this year, Penguin Random House announced plans for the August release of Sheela Birnstiel’s autobiography By My Own Rules, a toned down title, compared to her previous Don’t Kill Him! The Story of My Life with Bhagwan Rajneesh: A Memoir (2012). From the sound of the title, we can only hope it won’t be a senior version (which Sheela is, at 70) of the woman who once replied to a question from an Australian reporter with the now famous line, “Tough titties”, when asked about concerns on setting up an Osho ashram in the country. It is difficult to tell whether Sheela really has mellowed in the post-Osho years. Then, she was second-in-command at his (‘Bhagwan’ Rajneesh) Oregon outfit in the U.S. in the 1980s. Now she runs two homes – Matrusaden and Bapusaden – for the elderly near Basel, in Switzerland, where she lives with her two sisters, 80 and 77. When we meet, I’m told she cannot sit for long, because of a back problem. “I had a small accident with one of my dementia patients,” she says, speaking of how she tried to support him as he fell on top of her in May last year. She broke a couple of vertebra and has been through an operation and physio since. “It happens in life. If this is the only complaint I have in life, it’s not so bad,” she says. It was about the time she lost her dog, Cora too. The grey hound-Afghan hound mix, whose photo is her WhatsApp display picture “was very pretty. Her understanding and her ability to communicate was so profound,” she says, almost like somebody’s grandmother. India calling Back in India after more than 30 years, Sheela (born Ambalal Patel Sheela, then Silverman and now Birnstiel — she has been married thrice) ‘arrived’ last September. After the success of Wild Wild Country , she did a Karan Johar interview hosted by Sipping Thoughts, a digital media brand, and Humans for Humanity, a not-for-profit; met journalists; attended a few parties, and dinner with a group of Osho followers in Delhi. She says the whole trip and the two subsequent ones have been a bit of a blur, though she “fully enjoyed meeting” Johar, actor Neha Dhupia, entrepreneur Bina Ramani and BW Businessworld editor Anurag Batra. The camera that’s filming a documentary on her, to be released later in the year, hovers above. And there’s a film too. As per a June report in Variety , Priyanka Chopra will produce and star (as Ma Sheela) in the Amazon Prime Video drama, Sheela . It has been following her since she woke up. Is that the real reason she came then? “Coming to India and being Indian, I know you have to be flexible, otherwise you break your head against the wall,” she says vaguely, in a sweet, old-lady way or perhaps a good business woman way. “Right now I am thinking in multiple languages: English, German, Hindi and Gujarati,” she cackles, adding that she’d like to come back to Baroda, a city she grew up in, and begin a waste management project. If there is a stereotypical image of a person who pleaded guilty to attempted murder, wire tapping and immigration fraud, Sheela is not defaulting to it. She talks instead of her upbringing, of her father, who she claims worked closely with Gandhi, assigning her and her five siblings little jobs — hers was to clean his shoes. “Father would teach me how to do it, in which position to put the shoe so that a person can slip right into it.” Sheela talks of values taught, “of having your own integrity, of not compromising your individuality”. And of love and loyalty given. I ask of when the two get mixed up with something more sinister. Flickers of something deep within stir, her eyes widening. “We don’t mix anything in our values. For example, we don’t mix love with sex; we work with pure ingredients,” says the woman, who bluntly told Johar she never had a sexual relationship with ‘Bhagwan’. Who is Ma Sheela then? Is she the person women can look up to? Or is she the one Sam Wollaston, a journalist in The Guardian was nervous of, when she offered him biscuits? “I am not afraid to say my mind,” she says echoing the fierceness of both Gloria Gayner and the Old Testament . “You can’t change me. This is how I was born, this is how I will die.”
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A surreal experience that bridges reality and fiction||Watching Dil Bechara is an inadvertently surreal experience. How often does fiction become so hyperreal? Actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide last month, plays a terminally-ill character in the film, Immanuel Rajkumar Junior or Manny, and we know how this tragedy is going to pan out, in both real life and on-screen, because of the film's source material, The Fault in Our Stars . The film — Singh’s only posthumous release — showcases him as an ebullient young boy, who is aware that the end is near but perseveres to live in the moment. He teaches Kizie Basu (Sanjana Sanghi), his girlfriend, who has thyroid cancer, to do the same. In the end, as the narrative pays a teary-eyed tribute to Manny, it is hard to detach the sequence from Singh’s reality, and the co-relation is affecting and absurd, to say the least. Truthful adaptation As a film, however, Dil Bechara lacks depth and the feeling of fragility that is at the centre of a story like this. A very truthful Indian adaptation of The Fault in Our Stars , starring Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort, Dil Bechara even borrows some dialogues (although translated) from the original, in addition to scenes and character traits. But Mukesh Chhabra’s rendition is hurried and doesn’t allow some very fundamental relationships to build, like that of Kizie and her parents, which makes her character very one-dimensional. Saswata Chatterjee and Swastika Mukherjee, who play their parts with conviction, aren’t given much to do as parents of a terminally-ill child. There’s a certain rush in the narrative, which leaves out crucial moments required to make a film like Dil Bechara pensive, and perhaps, even meditative. For instance, the film seldom addresses the philosophical questions of death, life and destiny, and how to grapple with an inevitable ending that both these characters have been dealing with almost all their lives. Dil Bechara , instead, relies on the age-old tools of sentimental background score to compensate for its inadequacy in characterisation, and the film appears to be a sequence of incidents, rather than a peek into full lives. Beyond its portrayal of mortality, the film is fundamentally a coming-of-age for Kizie, prompted by the presence of Manny. While the character of Hazel Grace in The Fault in Our Stars is irrationally holding onto a novel’s ending for purpose, Kizie is given an album, but the film doesn’t do much with it. Even their trip to Paris is rushed and fairly inconsequential, making the coming-of-age aspect of Dil Bechara its weakest link. While Manny is supposed to be the one who teaches Kizie to find hope and fulfilment, even if her days are numbered, he comes across as a caricature and isn’t given enough backing to be the way he is. But the film is more than Manny. It’s about Singh and the life he lived. Melancholic relevance Even though the film was supposed to release earlier and was delayed due to several reasons including an allegation of sexual harassment against Chhabra, which was later reportedly cleared upon enquiry, there is a melancholic relevance to it. Had it been under different circumstances, the way one would look at this film would have perhaps been much different. But its hard to look at Manny, the character, and not, Sushant, the actor, and be part of this utterly strange experience, where reality is much more moving than fiction. Dil Bechara is currently streaming for free on Disney+ Hotstar
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||DIY your music career||When playback singer Nikhita Gandhi wanted to release her music back in high school, she did not have a record label deal. “As an independent artiste, it is important to understand the business and be self-empowered,” she says. Using TuneCore — which allows musicians to distribute their work on platforms like Spotify, Apple Music and 150 other audio download and streaming sites — she was able to get her work noticed. The independent digital music distribution, publishing and licensing service (founded in 2005) launched operations in India earlier this month. “When an artiste decides to put their music out, it is important for them to think like an entrepreneur. It needs to be marketed and delivered to listeners. Because of the way the industry has evolved, they have support to independently optimise visibility and distribution, and TuneCore is part of that process,” says country manager Heena Kriplani. This is the eighth international expansion for the Brooklyn-based company, which also has operations in the U.K., Australia, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and Canada. “TuneCore has been serving local talent since 2006. When the need for a more localised tool was apparent, we began an in-depth study into the Indian music landscape,” says Kriplani. This included accounting for regional language music and bringing in an industry veteran like Kriplani herself, who has worked with Gibson Industries for over a decade. There are also guides written by music publisher Achille Forler and podcaster Mae Thomas, sharing practical steps and tailored advice. One success story is rapper 100 RBH, from Amravati in Maharashtra. By distributing his music, he was able to get a record deal plus playback singing opportunities. A dashboard allows users to track their digital music sales and sign up for Facebook, Instagram and YouTube monetisation services. For the first year, they offer 50% off the regular distribution costs, with singles available for Rs. 499 and albums for Rs. 1,499. The artiste retains 100% of sales revenue and rights to their work. “We’re constantly evolving. The plan is to productise trends and make them available to artistes as they happen,” concludes Kriplani.  Details: tunecore.in
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Why have COVID-19 cases surged in Kerala?||The story so far: Plaudits won by Kerala for stamping out the COVID-19 pandemic appeared premature when in early July, a superspreader event in the densely-populated coastal villages of Poonthura, Manikyavilakam and Puthenpally (on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram city) led to a spike in infections through local transmission. Very soon, the cluster grew over a fairly large population and similar clusters mushroomed in Chellanam and Aluva in Ernakulam. Daily cases of local transmission exceeded imported infections within a week. An alarming 81% of the cases reported on July 24 were through local spread of the virus. The total number of cases leapt from 6,166 on July 8 to 16,995 on July 24, with 9,371 active infections. There were 453 containment zones, triggering discussions about a potential State-wide shutdown, but the suggestion was put on hold almost unanimously at an all-party meeting chaired by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Was Kerala’s early success a fluke? India’s first COVID-19 case was detected in Kerala on January 30, when a medical student from Wuhan in China tested positive in Thrissur. The State’s health apparatus had stayed alert with customised containment guidelines and protocols and the first wave ended with the recovery of all three imported cases. A middle-aged couple returning from Italy gave the surveillance team at the airport the slip, causing another bout of infections. More instances of quarantine violations came to the fore as the number of cases grew to 499, 33% of which was on account of local spread. However, the State leveraged its epidemic management skills gleaned from two Nipah outbreaks, the ingenious technology-driven use of ‘contact-tracing’ using spatiotemporal data, social capital and decentralised governance to tether the daily figures to zero all over again in the first week of May. On May 4, just 16 patients (3.5% of the total cases) were under treatment in hospitals. Deft planning and execution and enthusiastic people’s participation ensured the success of the ‘break-the-chain’ of the coronavirus campaign, the community kitchen initiative to feed the needy, psycho-social counselling to alleviate stress and rationing of essentials. People lapped up the government’s socio-economic interventions during this period. Spirits were still high and the government began to open up sectors on priority in a phased manner from mid-May with the twin aim of reviving economic activity and to ease the burden on the labour class, farmers and the self-employed. Was the third wave entirely unexpected? When the Centre was contemplating repatriation missions from abroad, the pandemic had straddled the continents. Kerala, which has a large population of overseas Indians, wanted tests to be conducted at the port of origin so that travellers who were suspected to have contracted the infection could be segregated and ferried separately. When that did not happen, passenger handling policy at Kerala’s airports was revised with the aim of multi-layer screening to isolate people with symptoms and shift them to designated COVID-19 hospitals, which were already up and running. The local bodies were tasked with readying institutional quarantine centres for the returnees, a policy which made way, in the wake of an influx of people starting from May 7, and with hiccups in the arrangement, to ‘paid quarantine’ for those who could afford it and home quarantine for all others except those with no home isolation facility. The State has so far received 6,03199 people in the post-lockdown repatriation exercise. It became a vexing political question when the government insisted that everyone desirous of entering the State mandatorily register themselves on the ‘COVID-19 Jagratha’ portal and get passes. A prescient warning had been sounded by the experts’ panel advising the State on corona containment strategy; the planning wing had presented projections and the State braced itself for a surge in cases. In fact, extreme shortage of testing material – swab, medium and kit -- in May-end and early June determined the way the State modulated its strategy. “We chose to test only those likely to have been infected and used the kits sparingly. Meanwhile, sentinel surveillance among the high-risk sections like health workers and the police was kick-started to detect social spread,” said a top official. A bouquet of tests — RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction), antigen, antibody, TrueNat, CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) and the like — was introduced to monitor trends even as a decision was taken to test everyone with influenza-like illness (ILI). What went wrong? As more relaxations kicked in and with the ‘success stories’ inducing a degree of complacency and false sense of safety in people, several chose to throw caution to the winds, violating social distancing and quarantine norms with alacrity. Unannounced entry of people through the porous borders of Thiruvananthapuram, Wayanad and Kannur made tracking difficult. Ceremonies such as marriages, with hundreds in attendance, were held against stipulations leading to spread of the infection. By the end of June, sentinel surveillance indicated a wide cluster of infections in Ponnani taluk in Malappuram following which a lockdown, of the kind earlier successfully experimented with in Kasaragod, was clamped in the taluk. Meanwhile, infections with no known source of origin emerged, prompting the government to admit community transmission in the coastal pockets of Thiruvananthapuram. Misleading campaigns and the fear of another imminent lockdown upsetting their livelihoods turned the people restive in critical containment zones such as Poonthura until they were reassured and the government announced relief measures. That a good number of the new patients were asymptomatic required the health officials to convince them that they were indeed sick and could infect others. How serious is the situation? Kerala’s vulnerability to the pandemic is compounded by its ageing but active population, a high degree of comorbidities in its people, and population density. Despite spiralling cases of community transmission, it has been able to maintain a cumulative test positivity rate of 2.6%. Says Rijo M. John, health economist, “But the cause for concern is the current positivity rate of 4.6%, which although much better than the national average of 11.7%, calls for doubling the rate of testing. It’s also ominous that cases are now doubling in 10 to 11 days whereas nationally it’s 18 to 20 days. That apart, case fatality at 0.32% is among the best.” The State has been able to augment its testing by adding over 80 testing centres, with 25 RT-PCR stations. The rate of testing has steadily increased through July to cross 25,000 in a 24-hour cycle on July 24. The Kerala Medical Services Corporation has stockpiled adequate number of testing material for 30 days, and “the tests will be further ramped up in containment zones”, according to Dr. Mohammed Asheel, part of the State’s COVID-19 taskforce. A doctor spearheading a major component of the battle against COVID-19 said the public health-care staff in Kerala are on the verge of exhaustion, having been on their toes since January. “There’s definitely a shortage of skilled human resources on the medical and non-medical fronts and this issue was flagged a few months ago, with the government making stand-in arrangements.” A COVID Brigade comprising trained medical professionals, skilled citizens and volunteers will be pressed into service at the COVID First-line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs) being set up by the local bodies. “A total of 69,800 beds are getting ready at CFLTCs by the third week of July for treatment of asymptomatic patients,” Dr. Asheel said. The Chief Minister said a pool of 30,000 employees to man the CFLTCs have been selected and assigned to respective districts. “An additional 50,000 have been identified.” Have the tables turned in favour of COVID-19? The Kerala government still believes it has a fighting chance. “The immediate aim is to prevent deaths,” says a senior official, “and to ensure that the health system doesn’t breach its capacity threshold”. While the CFTLCs, which have already begun functioning, will ease the burden on the tertiary COVID hospitals, the State could consider asking asymptomatic patients, about 60% of the total, to stay at home, with some mechanism to monitor them in case the daily infection tally crosses 2,000, which is not unlikely by early-August. Over the past few months, the State has added more ventilators and ICUs in the public sector, but it must be noted that 60% of the State’s major health-care facilities are in the private sector. The government has held talks with some 1,129 of them about pricing and some 200 of them would be making their services available at the CFLTCs, says the Chief Minister.  As more relaxations kicked in and with the ‘success stories’ inducing a degree of complacency and false sense of safety in people, several violated the strictures in place
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Private hospitals flouting price caps for COVID-19 treatment||When 52-year-old Narender Kaur tested positive for COVID-19 on June 24, her daughter immediately called up government helplines numbers but allegedly got no response responded. Left with little choice, she rushed her mother to Shanti Mukand Hospital, a private clinic close to her house. “They asked me to deposit Rs. 4 lakh. Since I could not withdraw more than Rs. 50,000 from my card in a day, I paid Rs. 2.5 lakh in installments. But on July 5, I got a call from the hospital’s billing department that my bill had exceeded Rs. 7.5 lakh. I was shocked. How can it be Rs. 7.5 lakh?” asked Mayanka Sanghotra, Ms. Kaur’s daughter. The Delhi government had capped charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals on June 20, but many clinics are charging much more than the limit. “Later, I came to know about the Delhi government rates and after help from activists and putting a lot of pressure on the hospital for more than 10 days, they agreed to change my rates to Delhi government prices on July 17. I still paid Rs. 4.2 lakh,” Ms. Sanghotra told The Hindu . During a press conference on Saturday, various rights groups said the issue was a direct consequence of the “failure” of the Delhi government to provide transparent information to the public, and lack of effort by authorities to enforce the order on capping rates. A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment. Commenting on Ms. Sanghotra’s case, Dr. Hooda, in-charge of the billing department of Shanti Mukand Hospital, said: “In 60% of the beds, we charge Delhi government rates, and in 40% we charge hospital rates, as per the government order. We charged her hospital rates after getting an undertaking from her. We later changed it to Delhi government rates.” When it was pointed out that according to the official order, the private hospital has to charge government rates on all its beds, Dr. Hooda said: “Now we charge Delhi government rates on all our beds.” Ms. Sanghotra settled her bill around 7 p.m. on July 17. Around 9.30 p.m., her mother passed away. “I had gone to Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital when I came to know that the bill is very high, but there were no ventilator beds and we were forced to stay in a private hospital. The government did not help to even settle the bill. The government is not doing anything,” she said. The group of civil societies also sent a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday. “We, the undersigned civil society organisations and networks, are writing to you regarding flagrant noncompliance of private hospitals with the Delhi government’s order capping treatment rates for COVID19, and to express our concerns regarding the lack of efforts by the Delhi government to enforce the order,” read the letter jointly written by the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), Anveshi Research Centre for Women’s studies, and 18 other groups. More cases Apart from Ms. Sanghotra, three other people said they were “overcharged” by private hospitals. Though a total of four cases were pointed out during the press conference, the groups said there were more such cases. “The behaviour of private hospitals is no accident, but rather a direct consequence of the refusal of the Delhi government to enforce its own order, which has enabled hospitals to violate the rules with impunity. There is complicity of the government in refusing to act or provide support to patients. It is very hard for families to negotiate with hospitals and get the correct rates, especially when the patient is admitted due to power differential,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor of AIDAN. ‘Settle matter’ The groups claimed that even when someone from the Delhi government responded, they usually asked the complainants to settle the issue with the hospital instead of getting directly involved in the matter and solving the problem. On 20 June, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by the L-G, accepted recommendations of a committee under V. K. Paul, member of NITI Aayog, for fixing rates for COVID related treatment in private hospitals in the city. The committee was appointed by the Centre, who also appoints the L-G. Later in the day, based on the DDMA’s approval, the Delhi government issued an order fixing package rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals. A hospital that reserves over 60% of its total beds for COVID-19 treatment can charge government rates for 60% of the beds and hospitals rates for the other 40%. A hospital that reserves less than 60% of its total beds for COVID-19 treatment has to charge government rates for all its beds. Shanti Mukand Hospital had reserved 100 beds out of a total 200 beds for COVID-19 treatment.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Is SARS-CoV-2 a latent virus which can recur?||The story so far: Ever since cases of ‘reinfection’ — people who had tested negative for COVID-19 testing positive again after a while — emerged in early January, the question of latency of the SARS-CoV-2 virus is being hotly debated. The first such cases emerged in the east (China, South Korea) where scientists were puzzled over why or how individuals who had tested negative twice for the virus, had, after a few weeks or months, tested positive, the second time around albeit with milder symptoms. A latent infection is when the virus in the body is dormant and does not replicate within the host. It however possesses the capacity to be reactivated at some point, causing a flare-up of the disease much later. What is a latent viral infection? A latent viral infection is an infection that is inactive or dormant, authors Sergey Sheleg and Alexey Vasilevsky write in an article in the Global Journal of Infectious Diseases and Clinical Research . “As opposed to active infections, where a virus is actively replicating and potentially causing symptoms, latent (or persistent; but not chronic) infections are essentially static which last the life of the host and occur when the primary infection is not cleared by the adaptive immune response,” they explain. Examples are Herpes simplex viruses type 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, HIV, Epstein-Barr virus (human herpesvirus 4), and cytomegalovirus. They are known to cause typical latent infections in humans, Sheleg and Vasilevsky add. They go on to explain that “latent viral infections can be reactivated into a lytic form (the replication of a viral genome). The ability to move back and forth from latent to lytic infections helps the virus spread from infected individuals to uninfected individuals”. Ryan McNamara, a research associate at the Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina, in a long tweet thread sought to explain the difference between the types of viral infections. Tweeting from @Ryan_Mac_Phd, he says: Viruses fall into two broad categories: chronic and acute; while a chronic virus will infect its host for extended periods of time, often through the lifetime of the host. An acute infecting virus, such as influenza and rotavirus, is cleared from the body after a few days or weeks. “A chronic virus can go into latency. This is when a virus is present within a cell, but not actively producing more infectious virus particles. For example, when a herpes virus infects a cell, its genome can remain in that cell as long as that cell is alive,” Dr. McNamara says. The reactivation to the lytic state, when the production of new virus particles occurs, he calls an ‘intentional strategy by the virus to promote its survival’. A perfect example of this would be chickenpox, caused by the human herpesvirus 3 — after infection, “the body responds and the virus goes into latency. Decades later, it can re-activate, resulting in shingles”. What causes reactivation is not very clear in this case. According to him, HIV can also go into latency after infection. It integrates itself into the host chromatin (a substance within the chromosome), and can reactivate upon stimulation such as inflammation induced by co-infecting pathogens. This can lead to uncontrolled HIV replication and clinical AIDS. Does SARS-CoV-2 go into latency? What causes second infections? Sheleg and Vasilevsky have recorded South Korean officials reporting that nearly 100 people thought to be cured of the novel coronavirus have tested positive for COVID-19 again. According to Jeong Eun-Kyeong, director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the COVID-19 virus may have “reactivated” in the patients rather than them becoming re-infected. In Chennai too, last week, the civic body recorded a couple of cases of patients who had recovered from COVID-19 testing positive again after a span of time. Prof. T. Jacob John, an eminent Vellore-based virologist, says: “None of the observations conclusively proves a second infection. In each one of these cases, there is sufficient reason to suspect that it is one infection, with negative results in between. While the RT- PCR [reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction] tests are considered to be the gold standard for testing, all tests are not 100% accurate. False positives and false negative results are expected to occur. Patients are known to test negative, then positive, and negative again, in subsequent tests performed even within days.” Dr. McNamara explains the concept of “limit of detection” of a virus, here. This is the threshold where a virus can be detected. A negative SARS-CoV-2 test does not mean zero infection; it means no detectable infection.” Prof. John clarifies that another issue is that many viruses can survive at the mucosal level in spite of immunity. “A classical example is the polio virus, which, like SARS-CoV-2, is also a positive sense, single strand RNA (ribonucleic acid). While immunity kicks in two weeks after infection, viral shedding can continue for up to 10 weeks, in spite of very high antibody levels. Why this happens has not been explained by anybody, so far. And, in polio, if a stool test came back negative in between and then tested positive, we don’t take it as a second infection, it is a continuous infection.” He further found with lab tests that the host harbours an “antibody-bound virus that is non-infective”. He goes on to add: “If second infections were sufficiently common we would have picked it up by now. But it is possible that some people have specific problems with immunity against this virus. In that case, it must be investigated further.” Dr. McNamara explains: “It’s entirely possible to have detectable, then non-detectable, and then detectable SARS-CoV-2 virus because of the limit of detection of our current testing. Also, a SARS-CoV-2 test doesn’t necessarily mean there is infectious virus. Testing for SARS-CoV-2 RNA on surfaces can yield a positive result, but that simply means that there is some SARS-CoV-2 RNA present, it doesn’t necessarily mean the RNA is intact, or that the RNA is inside an infectious particle. So, fragmented RNA can actually yield a positive result.” Korea Biomedical Review (koreabiomed.com) reported in April that the country’s Central Clinical Committee for Emerging Disease Control had said the reason 263 Koreans tested positive after recovery from the new coronavirus seemed to have been not because they contracted the virus again; rather, remaining virus fragments were detected in them. Does testing criteria make a difference? Globally, it is now accepted that clinical signs are sufficient to commence treatment for COVID-19, even before an RT-PCR test is done. Also, cessation of symptoms is said to signal that a person has recovered. Unless someone has been critically ill, it is no longer necessary for the patient to test negative twice for COVID-19 to be declared cured, or sent home. “We do know that finding cases is now largely determined by testing in India. But the experience of other nations has shown that we could do the same with clinical diagnosis too, they did not suffer the consequences of that,” Prof. John adds. While 100% protection is not possible, he insists that ultimately, the use of masks and physical distance is going to be the only deterrence for transmission.  ‘None of the observations conclusively proves a second infection. In each one of these cases, there is sufficient reason to suspect that it is one infection, with negative results in between.’
26 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Adityanath govt. transfers district police chiefs of Ayodhya, Kanpur||Kanpur district police chief Dinesh Kumar P. was among the 15 IPS officers transferred by the Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday evening. Mr. Dinesh Kumar, who joined as Kanpur SSP as recently as June 15, has been transferred to Jhansi as SSP in the wake of the Vikas Dubey episode and the kidnap and murder case of Sanjeet Yadav in which 11 police personnel, including an IPS officer Aparna Gupta, were suspended on Friday on charges of negligence. Eight policemen were shot dead in Bikru village of Kanpur on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 by history-sheeter Vikas Dubey and his associates. Dubey and his five associates were later shot dead in separate incidents. The government also transferred the district police chief of Ayodhya days before the scheduled bhoomipujan there for the Ram Mandir on August 5. SSP Ashish Tiwari was transferred to Jhansi as SP Railways. This came on a day when Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Ayodhya, where he would be staying the night, to take stock of the preparation for the foundation ceremony of the Ram Mandir, an event that will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. DIG Aligarh Range Preetinder Singh takes over as SSP Kanpur while Deepak Kumar, DIG Chitrakoot, is the new SSP of Ayodhya.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Resident doctor forced to borrow money from parents||Senior resident at Hindu Rao Hospital Sagardeep Bawa was forced to borrow money from his parents as he has not been paid his salary for several months. “At my age, it is embarrassing to ask for money from my parents but I do not really have a choice,” said the 31-year-old, adding that he had been very close to defaulting on his life insurance premium. “It has become very common for residents and juniors in the hospital to borrow money from each other because everyone knows what the situation is like,” said Dr. Bawa. A resident of Mohali, Dr. Bawa said he had come to pursue his post-graduation at the hospital — which comes under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation — as its medical college had a good reputation and would set him up for a government job. He joined the hospital in 2017 and was prepared for his salary to be delayed once in a while but had never thought that the situation would become so dire. Before the COVID-19 outbreak, salaries would sometimes get delayed by two months, but now there are delays of 3-4 months. Many doctors have been forced to petition authorities and protest regularly, he said. When he started at the hospital, there were around 25 senior residents with him. Due to regular salary issues, only five remain. In June alone, 4-5 doctors did not renew their contract with the hospital, which has been declared a COVID-19 facility, he added. The resident doctors’ association of the hospital, in which Dr. Bawa is an office-bearer, had written to authorities last month decrying delay in payment of salaries. Last week, they wrote to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal calling for his intervention. “As doctors we cannot even really go on strike and stop our work. Apart from legal roadblocks such as the Epidemic Diseases Act there is also a moral responsibility. All we are asking for is our salary, which is a basic right, especially in a pandemic... why does it have to go to the court every time?” he said. ‘Hospital not to blame’ “We understand that the hospital administration is not to blame, the responsibility lies with the civic bodies and the government to ensure there are funds,” he added. Dr. Bawa is currently part of the hospital’s rapid response team and has been managing a COVID-19 testing centre in Alipur. “We test around 70 people every day out of which 4-5 test positive” he said. In his final year of residency, Dr. Bawa is on the lookout for alternative opportunities.  As doctors we cannot even really go on strike and stop our work,... there is a moral responsibility... All we are asking for is our salary... why does it have to go to the court every time?
26 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Stringent NSA to be invoked in Meerut double murder case||The Meerut district administration has started proceedings to invoke the National Security Act against Shamshad, from whose house in Bhood Baral village under Partapur police station the bodies of his live-in partner and her daughter were exhumed on July 22. The accused was arrested on July 23 after a brief encounter with Meerut police. ‘Details being checked’ “His bank and property details are being checked. We want to know how he amassed wealth within six years after shifting from Bihar,” Meerut Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahni said. “Shamshad’s brother Dilvar has also been booked under Section 302 of IPC as investigation had revealed his involvement in the murder and causing disappearance of evidence. His wife has also been booked for criminal conspiracy,” the SSP said. After Shamshad’s arrest, his wife had alleged that police had taken money from him to keep the case under wraps. A police team has been sent to Bihar to nab them. It was Priya’s friend Chanchal from Modinagar whose relentless pursuit unravelled the disappearance of the mother and daughter on March 28. Ms. Chanchal said Priya lived in her father’s house in Modinagar after her divorce. “We became friends and she started a beauty parlour. It was during that period that she found Shamshad on Facebook where he introduced himself as Amit Gurjar.” Ms. Chanchal said when Priya realised that she was duped and that he would not marry her, she filed a rape case. “But he promised to marry her. I think Priya made a wrong decision by taking back her complaint.” She added that the IO used to build pressure on Priya to take back her complaint. Based on the audio clips purportedly carrying conversations between policemen and Ms. Chanchal, SSP Sahni has suspended one S-I and sent the IO to police lines. Ms. Chanchal said she first approached the Partapur police station in early April but the local police did not believe her until she approached the SSP with local Bajrang Dal leaders on July 14.
26 July 2020||July 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Sero-survey in Delhi||The story so far: To estimate the extent of infection in the community, scientists at the National Centre for Disease Control (formerly National Institute for Communicable Diseases), a Health Ministry body tasked with monitoring epidemics, conducted a district-wise serological survey across Delhi from June 27 to July 10. Preliminary findings showed that 23.48% of Delhi’s population had been exposed to the virus and that a large number of those infected were asymptomatic. How was the Delhi sero-prevalence survey done? Unlike the real time RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests or antigen tests that scan for the presence of the coronavirus in the body, the sero-prevalence survey was designed to look for the presence of antibodies, produced in response to the coronavirus, in the blood. On an average, antibodies can be detected five days after an infection sets in. The coronavirus, in general, diminishes after 21 days. Antibodies, for a host of other viral infections, are normally expected to linger for many months and confer protection against fresh infections by the same virus. However, it is still too early in the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 to know how long the antibodies will last. According to health experts, because the actual virus withers away quickly, many of those infected show mild symptoms. Antigen and PCR tests are often cumbersome to be widely deployed in the field and are not always the best way to estimate the spread of the virus. After the Indian Council of Medical Research led a multi-institutional study in May to estimate national sero-prevalence using the Kavach-ELISA antibody-detection kit, developed and tested in India, the government decided to do a similar study across Delhi. In June, the city was grappling with a high number of cases and several parts of the city were locked into containment zones. What did the survey find? Nearly 22,000 samples were collected from 11 districts. It emerged that on average, 23.48% of Delhi had been exposed to the virus. A large number of those infected were asymptomatic. Like in all statistical surveys, extrapolating the results from a sliver of a population to an entire city comes with its own caveats. Generally, those who commission such surveys report their findings in a peer-reviewed journal and detail, for instance, how accurate the test was in picking up infections and the error margins in extrapolating the results to a population. No such details were made available, so the announcement that nearly a quarter of Delhi’s 20 million population had been exposed to the virus is at best only suggestive. A lot of the samples were collected from Delhi’s densest pockets so the extent of variation of infection in less populated parts of Delhi is not known. The Delhi government has said it will keep repeating these surveys at periodic intervals to gauge the spread of the infection. The survey found that nearly eight of the 11 districts had a sero-prevalence exceeding 20%. To the Delhi government, the fact that after six months of the global pandemic there was a 23% spread was indicative of the effect of lockdown and containment zone management. But the government also cautioned that the survey showed 77% of the population to be vulnerable to the infection; therefore, measures such as masks, hygiene, social distancing ought to be strictly adhered to. Another way to look at serology surveys is to compare the number of RT-PCR positive cases and the number of those who were infected as per their antibody profiles. Thus assuming that 50 lakh (or 25% as per this survey) were infected and comparing that to only about 100,000 who were confirmed positive, it appears that a PCR test caught only about 1 in 50 who are infected by the virus. This undermines claims by the Delhi government of its ability to contain infection spread. However, missing a sizeable proportion of those infected by the coronavirus is par for the course given that it spreads rapidly and leaves a large proportion of those afflicted with only mild (and frequently unreported) symptoms. How reliable are serology surveys? While it is routine in epidemiology to deploy antibody tests to estimate the prevalence of a disease, the sheer speed of the spread of SARS-CoV-2 and the global nature of the disease have complicated the matter. Generally, they take a while to develop and are tested in the field before being deployed in large numbers. This is done to rule out errors such as the test marking the wrong antibodies, or an inappropriate sample that does not represent a population being chosen. Such problems hindered an early plan by the ICMR to use China-manufactured antibody kits in April and May to gauge infection spread. The ICMR is still to publish details of its May serosurvey that estimated 0.73% of the population in 63 surveyed districts to be infected. For COVID-19, the reliability of such surveys still rests on nascent science.  The Delhi government cautioned that the survey showed 77% of the population is still vulnerable to the infection. It has urged citizens to wear masks and strictly maintain social distancing
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Pay ASHA workers their dues, BJP tells Kejriwal||Thousands of ASHA workers, engaged in the service of pre-natal and post-natal patients, were neither getting minimum wages nor had their salaries disbursed for months, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged here on Saturday. Mr. Bidhuri wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in support of ASHA workers’ demand for higher salaries, terming it a matter of “great regret” that they have not been paid their salaries for the last four months while risking their lives serving patients in home isolation during the COVID-19 crisis. “ASHA workers take care of pregnant women and newborns and their vaccinations and look after the elderly. These workers are being given an incentive of Rs. 3,000 per month and Rs. 1,000 as corona allowance in lieu of their service, which is really very less. It is sad that even this is not being paid to them for the last four months,” he wrote.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||87% people recover from COVID-19 in Delhi||The city reported 1,142 new COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,29,531, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 29 more deaths were reported, taking the total number of deaths to 3,806. Of the total cases, 1,13,068 people have recovered and there are 12,657 active cases, the recovery rate being 87.29%. Since the daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far – on June 23, the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 1,500 for the past nine days. Though the number of cases was less on Saturday, of the total 20,509 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 72.2% were rapid antigen tests that have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of active cases have been decreasing since July 1 and it has decreased from 27,007 on July 1 by 53.13% to reach 12,657 on Saturday. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it has decreased to 3,135 on Saturday. Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% to 5.5%.
26 July 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Policeman’s body left on road for hours||The body of a police officer was lying on a road for hours after relatives and attendants fled the spot when he died of COVID-19 in Odisha’s Ganjam district. The deceased, Rabindranath Behera, an Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police, was working at the Bhanjanagar court. He had returned home four days ago, after he felt unwell. His antigen tests came positive and he was admitted to the Kodala Community Health Centre on Friday. However, he died late in the evening. Family members, too, reportedly abandoned the body in fear of catching the infection. Instead of keeping the body in a mortuary, the hospital staff brought the body wrapped in clothes and left it unattended on a road for hours on Saturday. The Ganjam district police administration swung into action after the news of the body spread. “It is untrue that the body was abandoned. The body was kept for inquest. But some [people] spread false news. We have paid our last respects as per protocol,” said Brijesh Rai, Ganjam SP. He said the police also ensured that the family did not face any opposition from villagers while performing the last rites. Meanwhile, the State government has come up with a guideline on disposing the bodies of COVID-19 victims. “If families do not wish to take part in the last rites, the body may be disposed of in their absence,” said Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena in a letter all District Collectors.
26 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Officer succumbs to virus||A 53-year-old Delhi Police officer posted in East District passed away due to COVID-19 on Friday, the police said, adding that he was undergoing treatment for over 10 days. A senior police officer said that the deceased has been identified as Head Constable Satyanarayan who was posted in Madhu Vihar police station. “He tested positive on July 13 and was sent to Akhshardham Covid Care Centre but his condition worsened and he was shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital,” the officer said. He was also given plasma treatment. However, he tested positive again and breathed his last at Lok Nayak Hospital around 6 a.m. on Friday.
26 July 2020||Agartala,||3-day lockdown in Tripura from Monday||The Tripura government has imposed a three-day complete lockdown from Monday in view of the surge in the coronavirus infections. The Health department will conduct a house-to-house survey and antigen tests of suspected patients during the lockdown. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb in a video message on Saturday evening urged the people to cooperate with the administration and the police who will enforce the lockdown from 5 a.m. on Monday. “Please help us to contain the spread.” Mr. Deb said Tripura is one of the few States where the mortality rate of the infected patients was insignificant and the rate of recoveries was very encouraging. ‘Remain at home’ He requested the people to remain at home during the lockdown days also to respond to the health staff who will be visiting every household. The Chief Minister announced an incentive of Rs. 1,000 for all category health staff who will be taking part in the survey. He added that sufficient number of beds, ventilators, PPEs and emergency equipment to cope with the situation were available. The Chief Secretary said the night curfew will continue as usual. Tripura has recorded 3,787 cases as per the last official tally announced on Friday night. Eleven people have died of the disease.
26 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Drug racket kingpin held from Agra||The Punjab police on Saturday said they have arrested the mastermind of the drug cartel which spread across 11 States. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Jatinder Arora alias Vicky alias Saanp, mastermind of the ‘Agra Prescription Drug Gang’, was arrested from Agra. “Vicky was diverting prescription drugs across 11 States leading to addiction, overdose and deaths,” said Mr. Gupta. The Punjab police had on Thursday said that they had busted the cartel and arrested 20 persons with a huge cache of drugs, proceeds-money and five vehicles, in an operation over eight weeks. According to the police, the cartel was pushing pharmaceutical opioids (drugs) into the markets all across India by diverting drugs in huge quantities from the manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers and retail chemists.
26 July 2020||Kanpur,||CBI probe demanded||The family of 27-year-old lab technician, Sanjeet Yadav, on Saturday demanded a CBI probe into his kidnap and killing. Sanjeet’s sister Ruchi Yadav met ADG-Police Headquarters B.P. Jogdand and demanded a CBI probe into the case, suspecting that there could be more people behind the killing. She told the ADG that the police had failed to recover her brother’s belongings, including a couple of bags, mobile phone, wallet and an ATM card. Ms. Ruchi and her mother urged the ADG to retrieve the victim’s body, a police officer on condition of anonymity said.
26 July 2020||New Delhi,||Exempt ‘corona warriors’ from traffic fines: BJP||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday requested the Police Commissioner to exempt ‘corona warriors’ from traffic fines issued during lockdown and to start ‘Traffic Lok Adalats’. During the lockdown, Mr. Gupta said there were many routes in Delhi which were barricaded and others were open for one-way movement only, leading people to violate traffic rules “unintentionally”. “Doctors, nurses and journalists arecorona warriors and may face financial problems due to heavy challans,” he added.
