26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Farmer unions refute PM’s charge of changing demands||Refuting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s allegation that farmer unions were moving the goalposts every day, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Friday said the only demand of the farmers was an “assured, guaranteed and legalised” income by announcing a minimum support price (MSP) for all crops. Rs. 18,000 cr. for farmers Earlier in the day, speaking at a programme to release an instalment of Rs. 18,000 crore to nine crore beneficiaries of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, Mr. Modi said people with a certain political ideology, instigating the farmers agitation, were moving the goalposts every day to raise new issues not even concerned with the movement and were not allowing discussions for political reasons. Appealing again to the farmers to not get misled, Mr. Modi said the farmers’ movement began with concerns over the MSP but they were now seeking release of those accused of violence, and even opposing toll plazas. “Those firing from the shoulders of the farmers are raising different issues in their name because they don’t have any logic,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister, however, reiterated the government’s offer for talks, saying that his government was ready to talk even with their staunch political opponents, but the talks could be held only within the realm of facts, logic and issues. Responding to Mr. Modi’s address, AIKSCC general-secretary Avik Saha, in a Farmers’ Bulletin, said the Prime Minister should stop confusing the people and not obfuscate the movement. “The farmers have only one demand. Give them assured, guaranteed and legalised income. It can be done through announcing MSP for all crops and ensuring that all farmers across the country get it. It must be a legal guarantee,” said Mr. Saha. He said the Prime Minister’s attempt to confuse people would not work and he should stop working for the big corporates. “If there is any change of goalpost, it is from the side of the government. We just want the right to live with dignity for ourselves and a secure future for our children,” he said.
26 December 2020||Special CorrespondentPune,||Maharashtra records 3,500 new cases||Maharashtra again saw a surge in COVID-19 cases with 3,431 new cases recorded on Friday. The State recorded just 1,427 recoveries. As per State Health Department figures, the active case tally has again risen to 56,823 while the total case tally stands at 19,13,382. With 71 fatalities, the total death toll crossed the 49,000-mark to climb to 49,129. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,06,298. The State’s recovery rate stands at 94.4%. “Of a total 1,24,01,637 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,13,382 (case positivity rate of 15.43%) have returned positive with over 60,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.57%. Pune district reported over 550 new cases for the second consecutive day to take its total case tally to 3,69,631 while eight deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,730. As per district administration figures, the active case tally stands at 7,974 while its recovery rate stands at 95.46%. Mumbai cases Mumbai city reported 596 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,89,800 of whom only 8,218 are active though. With 11 fatalities, the city’s death toll stands at 11,056. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 350 new cases, taking the total case tally to 1,23,266 of whom 4,712 are currently active. Three deaths took the total death toll to 3,169. In western Maharashtra, cases and fatalities continued to remain well in check with Satara reporting three deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,742 while just 26 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 54,137 of whom 860 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 28 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 50,005 of whom only 293 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,763. Kolhapur reported just 13 cases and no deaths for nearly a week as its total case tally reached 49,062, of whom 542 are active. The total death toll stayed constant at 1,657. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 250 cases and five deaths as its total case tally reached 113,804 of whom 2,502 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,871. Jalgaon reported 94 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 55,874 of whom only 632 are active, while its death toll stayed constant at 1,435. Dr. Awate informed that currently, a total 4,77,528 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 3,695 in institutional quarantine facilities.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dry run for vaccine rollout in 4 States next week: govt.||The Centre is gearing up for the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine across the country, with four States to initiate a dry-run next week, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. “Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab have been selected considering the geographical locations. Each State will plan it in two districts and preferably in different (five) session type settings, e.g. district hospital, CHC/PHC, urban site, private health facility, rural outreach, etc.,” a Ministry release said. Testing linkages The Ministry added that this exercise would enable end-to-end mobilisation and testing of the COVID-19 vaccination process (except the vaccine) and check the usage of Co-WIN in the field environment, the linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms and identify challenges and guide the actual implementation, including improvements in the envisaged process. It noted that this would also provide a hands-on experience to programme managers at various levels. This two-day activity is planned on December 28 and 29, and will include activities from the necessary data entries in Co-WIN to vaccine receipt and allocation to deployment of team members, mock drill of session sites with test beneficiaries to reporting and evening meeting. This would also include testing for cold storage and transportation arrangements for the vaccine and management of crowds with proper physical distancing, said the Ministry. “An important focus of the dry run will be on management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI),” said the release. This will be in addition to checking adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission. “The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and review at the block and district levels and preparation of feedback to be shared with the State and Union Health Ministry,” the Ministry said. A detailed checklist has been prepared by the Health Ministry and shared with the four States to guide them in the dry run. Meanwhile the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of COVID-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three prioritised population groups, including healthcare workers (about one crore), frontline workers (about two crore) and prioritised age group (about 27 crore).
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,||DMK unperturbed by M.K. Alagiri’s January 3 meeting in Madurai||After lying low for a long time, M.K. Alagiri, the elder son of former DMK leader M. Karunanidhi, has called for a meeting of his supporters in Madurai on January 3, 2021, to discuss his future political course. At a time when Tamil Nadu politics is crowded with new political parties and waiting for actor Rajinikanth’s proposed party, Mr Alagiri would also be looking at launching his own outfit, but would be aware of his limitations. With DMK president M.K. Stalin not entertaining Mr. Alagiri’s request for a re-entry, party leaders too remain unperturbed. “Much water has flowed since he was expelled from the party in 2014. He cannot point an accusing finger at the present leadership and his brother Stalin since he was expelled by his father and he never bothered to re-induct him into the party,” a senior leader and former minister pointed out. Even if the leadership has plans to accommodate Mr. Alagiri, what weighs against him was his tendency to nurture a coterie which eventually led to factionalism in the party. “He always claims that none can match him when it comes to safeguarding the interests of party functionaries. But the fact remains that he mostly protected his own coterie,” said a senior MP of the party. Party sources are of the opinion that politics is a continuous activity but Mr. Alagiri failed to engage in the activity even when he was a Union Minister. “He would be active only if the DMK is in power. He proved a disappointment as a Union Minister. He remained silent after the AIADMK government took over though he was a Union Minister,” felt another former minister. Another complaint against Mr. Alagiri was that he would never get along with senior leaders who had joined the DMK from other parties. “He never acknowledged K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran even though he had served as a minister in the DMK government. Moreover, he antagonised senior leaders such as P.T.R. Palanivel Rajan and Pon Muthuramalingam in Madurai,” charged a party MP. While most of his loyalists, barring Mannan and former Mayor Thenmozhi Gopinathan, have switched to Mr Stalin’s side, Mr.Alagiri is unlikely to make an impact since he does not belong to any major community. Caste factor “One may like it or hate it, caste is a factor to reckon with in Tamil Nadu. Leaders, who had established themselves in politics can transcend the narrow barriers. But it will be difficult for others to emulate their success,” said the former Minister.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Police Commissioner notifies new no parking zones, one-way roads in city||Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash has notified new areas in the city as no parking zones. Accordingly, the left side of the road starting from AB Shetty Circle up to Pandeshwar Fire Station and the road leading to the residential apartments situated adjacent to Kankanady New Market have been notified as no parking zones. Only two places have been identified as no parking zones along Kudmul Rangarao Road starting from PVS Circle up to Bunts Hostel. As many vehicles operate to other districts along the left side of this road, any parking along the left side will hamper smooth vehicular movement. Hence, the left side of this road, i.e., from Bunts Hostel to PVS Circle is notified as no parking zone and parking of any kind of vehicle along this stretch of the road is prohibited, he said in a release here on Friday. One-way roads The Police Commissioner has issued a new notification declaring one-way roads by modifying the earlier notification issued on one-way roads. Accordingly, Kota Shivaram Karanth Road from Ambedkar Circle to Hampankatta, the road from the bridge adjacent to Hotel Gold Finch up to Collector’s Gate Junction, PMR Road leading from KSR Road up to Hotel Srinivas, the road from Sharavu Ganapathy Temple Cross (earlier Hotel Vimalesh) Junction joining KS Rao Road have been notified as one-way roads. Any vehicular traffic coming from the direction other than that notified on these roads is prohibited, the Police Commissioner said.
26 December 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,||HC comes to the rescue of couples||Coming to the rescue of two couples (in both cases the bridegrooms are Indian and the brides Sri Lankan), the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the authorities concerned to register their marriages, holding that the women were eligible to become Indian citizens. Taking into account the hardship the couples had to go through, Justice S. Vaidyanathan directed the Inspector General of Registration to send a circular to all marriage registering authorities explaining clearly procedures to be taken for registering marriages. The court was hearing the petition filed by U. Kalatheeswaran. He met G. Parimala Devi, an expatriate from Sri Lanka, in Bahrain in 2013 where he was working. They fell in love and with the consent of their families got married in 2018 in India, where Parimala Devi was staying on a tourist visa. They had approached the Registration Department officials in Sivaganga district to register their marriage under the Special Marriage Act. However, the request was turned down. The State’s contention was that a person had to continuously live in India for not less than two years to apply for citizenship under the Citizenship Act. Parimala Devi could not be termed an Indian citizen, and the registration could not be done, it was submitted. The counsel for the petitioner argued that the couple were residing in India for the past two years. The judge observed that as per the Special Marriage Act, there was no condition prescribed that the spouse should be an Indian citizen and there was no prohibition on an Indian citizen to marry a foreigner. It was specified in the Act that the couple should have been residing in the district of the marriage officer for not less than 30 days. The couple had fulfilled the criteria, and hence, the woman was eligible to become an Indian citizen. The court heard a similar petition filed by K. Selvaranjan who married Yaalvini, an expatriate from Sri Lanka, in 2018. They were relatives and their marriage was held in accordance with the Hindu law. The marriage was registered in the village register. An application was filed before the Registration Department in Ramanathapuram to register the marriage. But, the authorities turned down the request on similar grounds as in the first case. The court said the couple fulfilled the required criteria and the woman was eligible for citizenship. Under the Hindu Marriage Act, there should be marriage between two Hindus and though there was no time limit for the registration of the Hindu marriage, it should be applied for registration at any time along with a valid proof of marriage and age. The practice of officials demanding court orders to do their duty should be stopped, the judge said.
26 December 2020||KOMARAGIRI (EAST GODAVARI),||Population equal to four districts being provided houses, says CM||The State government is distributing 68,361 acres of land, the market value of which is Rs. 25,530 crore, among 31.75 lakh poor families under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ (houses for the poor) scheme across the State, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. The Chief Minister was addressing the beneficiaries after unveiling the pylon of the scheme here on Friday, marking the State-wide launch of the programme to distribute house site pattas and construction of houses for the poor. He also inspected the model house here on the occasion. “A whopping 1.24 crore population is being guaranteed housing facility across the State under the scheme. The number of beneficiaries is equal to the total population of four districts – East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa and Srikakulam (2011 census),” the Chief Minister said. ‘Manifesto sacred’ “By 2023, the government will build more than 17,000 villages,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. In an indirect snipe at the TDP, he said, “The mammoth housing mission has turned ‘yellow’ faces red. The government will also spend Rs. 7,000 crore for construction of parks, schools and health clinics in the new habitations.” “I consider the two-page election manifesto as a sacred document. In tune with it, the government is fulfilling the housing promise made to every family that meets the eligibility criteria, irrespective of caste and creed, or political affiliation. For me, it is a boon to be a part of a scheme that helps the needy realise their dream of owning a house,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. He said the government had earmarked Rs. 50,940 crore for the construction of houses under the housing scheme. In the first phase, 15.60 lakh houses would be built in 18 months, he added. “At present, the government is distributing D-Patta to the beneficiaries due to the legal hurdles associated with granting the ‘right to sale’. However, the ‘right to sale’ will be accorded once the hurdles are cleared,” the Chief Minister said. Asserting that the programme would give a boost to the rural economy, he said people engaged in nearly 30 occupations associated with the construction industry would be guaranteed employment.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,||RTOs to get simulators to train those seeking DL||Those who want a driving licence for cars will soon be able to get trained at the RTOs with the help of simulators. In Karnataka, every month, 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh people apply for DL, and a majority of them are from Bengaluru. The Karnataka State Road Safety Authority has floated a tender for installation of Light Motor Vehicle simulators along with trained instructors. In the first phase, the simulators will be provided to 25 RTOs in the State. The tender specification states that the simulator will have road scenarios of Indian environment, a cabin of closed-body type, and the form and function of the most commonly used LMV variant on Indian roads. It will provide training in different aspects such as driving skills, following traffic signals, keeping a safe distance, following speed limits, and on how to drive during rush hours, besides understanding pedestrian safety and instructions given by the traffic police.  Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar said, “Simulators will be provided as part of road safety initiative. We are contemplating giving training before issuing DL. However, no final decision has been taken on whether clearing simulator tests should be made compulsory. We are introducing simulators to ensure that candidates know road safety rules before getting their DL and taking the vehicle on the road.” Earlier, in an effort to instil discipline among two-wheeler riders and minimise road accidents, the city traffic police had introduced virtual training. The police had said the initiative was aimed at reforming repeat offenders. On the other hand, KSRTC and BMRCL have been giving training using simulators at the training centres.
26 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||No large-scale Bangladeshi ingress, say BSF, BGB||The perception of large-scale illegal immigration from Bangladesh into India is not based on fact, the frontier forces of the two countries have said while deciding to ramp up patrolling to check cross-border crimes. The Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) also decided to facilitate the erection of a single-row fence in “priority patches” of the 4,096 km border. “There are no reports of any infiltration to India from Bangladesh and there is no reason really for Bangladeshis to cross the border unless they travel for treatment or other purposes with valid documents,” BGB Director-General Shafeenul Islam said on Friday after the conclusion of the 51st DG-level border coordination conference between the two forces in Guwahati. A factor behind Bangladeshi people not entering India illegally was the GDP growth rate of Bangladesh, he said. Mr. Islam also played down the issue of National Register of Citizens in Assam and the theories that a majority of the 19.06 lakh people excluded from the citizens’ list were Bangladeshis. His BSF counterpart Rakesh Asthana said there was no truth behind allegations of large-scale ingress of people from Bangladesh into India. “We do apprehend people who try to enter illegally and we caught 3,204 such people this year. We sent back those who were established as Bangladeshi nationals,” he said. Illegal movement of people was not a one-way traffic, Mr. Asthana said, adding Rohingya refugees issue has been a major one of late.
26 December 2020||Pune,||U.K. returnee tests positive for coronavirus||A passenger who came to Pune from United Kingdom in the second week of December has tested positive for coronavirus, a health official said on Friday. His swab samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check if he has been infected by the new strain of virus found in the U.K., said Dr Sanjiv Waware, Assistant Chief Health Officer, Pune Municipal Corporation. The man was one of the 544 people — including 300 from Pune city — who returned recently as per a list provided by the Maharashtra government, he said. “This man came on December 13 and tested positive on December 17. We will be sending his swab samples to NIV for genome sequencing to check if the virus is the same as the new strain,” said Dr. Waware. The man is asymptomatic and is currently in home isolation, he said. After a new variant of coronavirus was detected in the U.K., the Union government had asked for tracing of passengers who arrived in India from there between November 25 and December 23. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation too will undertake a survey of passengers who have flown in from the U.K., an official said on Friday. The civic body will also find out details of passengers who have landed here through Delhi on board trains like the Sachkhand Express, Health Officer Neeta Padalkar said. “We have got lists of such air and train passengers. If the person has a travel history related to U.K. within a period of 14 days, then he/she will be quarantined and tested for the infection,” Ms. Padalkar added.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Swirls of mist||
26 December 2020||Chennai,||Exclusive ward opened for cases of new virus strain||The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here has established an exclusive 120-bed ward for treating patients and contacts suspected to have contracted a new strain of the novel coronavirus, first reported in the United Kingdom. Tamil Nadu has no confirmed case of the new strain. The protocol for treatment of these patients would be more stringent. “Only senior doctors and nurses would be allowed to treat them. They would wear PPE [personal protective equipment] at all times,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Until Friday evening, “no one has been confirmed as the U.K. case, and we need to wait for a genomic analysis.” The ward is on the fourth floor of tower 3 of the RGGGH. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the decision to open an exclusive ward was taken following an advisory issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. Meanwhile, four more passengers who had returned from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19. Earlier, one passenger had tested positive. He is at the RGGGH. Among the returnees are two from Tiruvidaimarudhur in Thanjavur, one from Madurai and one from Mogappair, Chennai. All of them were admitted to medical college hospitals in separate wards. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for a genomic analysis on Thursday, and the results were awaited, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. “The patient in Madurai has been asymptomatic. We have also identified 11 contacts of three persons who tested positive. They are asymptomatic, and being treated at medical college hospitals. A high-level team is monitoring them and checking their blood profile and CT scan, and their parameters are under control,” the Health Secretary said. Their vital parameters are checked at least once daily. “We are awaiting the results from Pune. We expect that the result of the sample sent already would be received in the next couple of days,” he said. The person from Madurai had arrived late last month and the Thanjavur passengers had arrived through Delhi on December 16. The fourth person, from Chennai, had arrived on December 17. Until Thursday, there were 2,805 returnees. “Some had registered in two districts. Taking that into account, 415 persons were subtracted to arrive at the figure of 2,390 persons,” he said. The samples of 1,126 persons had already been taken. Samples from the rest were being lifted. Of those identified, 1,034 were from Chennai; 226 from Chengalpattu; 202 from Kancheepuram; 110 from Coimbatore; 107 from Tiruchi; 22 from Madurai; 72 from Thanjavur; 71 from Tiruvallur; 38 from Tiruvarur; 39 from Nagapattinam; 36 from Cuddalore; and 34 from Tirunelveli. Until Thursday, the results in respect of 440 samples had been received. Mr. Radhakrishnan said nine persons who had arrived by a cargo flight on Thursday night had also tested negative. The Directorate of Public Health has appealed to people who returned by flight between November 25 and December 23 to voluntarily come forward for a RT-PCR test. Doubts can be clarified by calling ‘104’.
26 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Boy arrested in U.P. didn’t change name’||Days after the Bijnor police arrested a Muslim boy under the recent Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance for allegedly enticing a Dalit minor girl by changing his name to Sonu, new facts have emerged in the case. Ismaeel Ahmed, the pradhan of Kirakhedi gram panchayat, the village of the accused, said the boy did not change his name to lure the girl and that Hindu and Muslim families share names such as Sonu, Guddu, etc. He claimed the duo was returning from a birthday party on December 14 night when they were stopped by some villagers in Naseerpur on suspicion of being battery thieves. “The boy was beaten up. They then called up the police... the police gave it a new direction,” he alleged. In a video that surfaced on Friday, a mob could be seen beating Sonu. Bijnor SP Dharm Veer Singh said the police have registered a case and arrested two persons but denied such allegations. “The girl’s father gave a written complaint and the girl’s statement was recorded under Section 164 of CrPC,” he said.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Swirls of mist||
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rajinikanth admitted to hospital, stable||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was admitted to a hospital here on Friday after his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation. “He is stable and is resting,” Apollo Hospitals said in a bulletin in the evening. He will remain in the hospital and undergo further investigations on Saturday. The 70-year-old actor has been in Hyderbad for the shooting of the film Annaatthe for the last 10 days. He isolated himself after four members of his unit tested positive for COVID-19. He was brought to the hospital at Jubilee Hills around 11 a.m. The release said though he did not have any COVID-19 symptom, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation and needed further evaluation, for which he was admitted to the hospital.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||And a day breaks||
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||And a day breaks||
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Maritime student killed||A 24-year-old student of a maritime college in Tiruvallur was allegedly murdered by some of his collegemates during a Christmas party that was held inside the institution on Thursday. According to the police, Aditya Sharma and some final-year students of the academy were celebrating Christmas. It is alleged that a fight broke out and one of the students stabbed Aditya Sharma with a broken plastic chair. He was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared dead. The police are investigating. “We have inquired with 30 students and have now filtered out 7. No one is giving clear information about what happened,” a police source said.
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Loan app harassment: one more dies||A 36-year-old man who took loans from unauthorised digital lending mobile apps attempted suicide in Ramagundam, and died five days later, after allegedly facing harassment by the lenders. This is the fourth suicide in Telangana by persons who defaulted in repayments to app organisers.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Police arrest five associates of Karnan||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested five associates of former High Court judge C.S. Karnan in a case booked for forcibly trying to enter the house of retired Supreme Court judge R. Banumathi. Mr. Karnan was arrested by the cyber crime cell of the CCB in a case booked against him for releasing a defamatory and abusive video on YouTube against sitting and retired judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court and their family members. He was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Central Prison. Special team A special team of police personnel from the CCB arrested hiss associates — Manoharan alias Manickavsagam, 66, Prakash, 40, Vijayaraghavan, 49, Ekambaram, 60, of Perungalathur, and Kuppan, 60, of Choolaimedu. According to the police, last October, Mr. Karnan and some of his associates had entered the house of Justice Banumathi and created a ruckus. In connection with this, the Thiruvanmiyur police have already registered a case against them for trespassing into the apartment, criminal intimidation and other charges. The case was later transferred to the Central Crime Branch (CCB).
26 December 2020||KOMARAGIRI (EAST GODAVARI),||Over 68,000 acres being distributed to poor, says CM||The State government is distributing 68,361 acres of land, the market value of which is Rs. 25,530 crore, among 31.75 lakh poor families under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ (houses for the poor) scheme across the State, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. The Chief Minister was addressing the beneficiaries after unveiling the pylon of the scheme here on Friday, marking the State-wide launch of the programme to distribute house site pattas and construction of houses for the poor. Mr. Jagan said he was saddened to know that the court stayed the government’s proposal to sanction house sites to 54,000 poor families in Amaravati.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||More farmers begin march from Punjab||As the stand-off over the Centre’s new agriculture laws continues, another batch of farmers and farm labourers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) from Punjab started its tractor-trolley ‘march’ for Delhi on Friday.Page 11
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. leaders urge Pompeo to raise issue||A group of seven American lawmakers has written to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on the farmers’ protest, expressing “serious concern” over the “ongoing civil unrest” in India. The letter asked Mr. Pompeo to reach out to his counterpart S. Jaishankar.Page 11
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Two AAP MPs protest in Parliament||With the winter session of Parliament cancelled, two Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs raised slogans against the three farm laws, in a failed attempt to draw the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the central hall of Parliament on Friday.Page 11
26 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Seven MLAs switch over to BJP in Arunachal||The Bharatiya Janata Party has gained seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh as six legislators of the Janata Dal(U) and the lone MLA of the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA) switched over in the past two days, taking the party’s count in the 60-member Assembly to 48. The JD(U), which emerged as the second largest party after the BJP in the 2019 Assembly election, now has Techi Kaso as the lone MLA.
26 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata says she supports Amartya Sen||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen expressing “anguish and surprise” over recent developments in which the Visva-Bharati University has allegedly named him in a list of unauthorised occupants of land in Santiniketan. She expressed solidarity with Professor Sen against the “bigotry of the majoritarians in this country”, and assured him her support in the “battle that has made you an enemy of these forces of untruth”.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Special prayers said for ending COVID-19||Christmas was celebrated with religious fervour and the spirit of goodwill for all in the districts of Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Uttara Kannada and Davangere on Friday with special prayers being said seeking heavenly intervention to end COVID-19. However, there was considerable decrease in the number of visitors this time. Solemn rejoicing marked the celebrations in the twin cities.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Minister Joshi upset over execution of projects||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has openly expressed displeasure over the manner in which projects under the Smart City Scheme were being executed and issued a strong warning to officials. Speaking at a progress review meeting of various projects under the Smart City Scheme at the Circuit House in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr Joshi said that it was the duty of the officials to ensure the proper execution of projects and take steps to rectify anomalies in the projects if any, during implementation.
26 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata says she supports Amartya Sen||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen expressing “anguish and surprise” over recent developments in which the Visva-Bharati University has allegedly named him in a list of unauthorised occupants of land in Santiniketan.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Fewest daily infections in Delhi in four months||The Capital reported 758 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest in more than four months — taking the total to 6,21,439, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday.
26 December 2020||Guwahati,||Seven MLAs switch over to BJP in Arunachal||The BJP has gained seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh as six legislators of the Janata Dal (United) and the lone MLA of the People’s Party of Arunachal switched over in the past two days, taking the party’s count in the 60-member Assembly to 48. JD(U) now has Techi Kaso as the lone MLA.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Six clubs sealed for flouting COVID-19 rules||The Delhi government’s Excise Department fully or partly sealed eight nightclubs and bars in the past one month and imposed fines totalling around Rs. 1.15 crore for violating COVID-related guidelines or other rules, said authorities. In most cases there was overcrowding, no social distancing, and people were not wearing masks, according to officials.
26 December 2020||Aurangabad,||Tigress delivers 5 cubs in Maha Zoo on Christmas morning||Christmas brought joy to a civic-run zoo in Aurangabad in Maharashtra after a tigress gave birth to five cubs on early Friday morning, an official said. Tigress Samruddhi and the five cubs, her third litter so far, are doing fine and have been kept under observation for the next 36 hours, an Aurangabad Municipal Corporation official told PTI . “ Samruddhi was born in Siddharth Zoo. She has given birth to 12 cubs so far, with the five born in the morning being the largest litter, and all 12 have survived,” Superintendent S.S. Naikwade said.PTI
26 December 2020||Pune,||First Mumbai nearby||Defending the three new agriculture laws brought by the Centre, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said these “revolutionary” legislations were aimed at providing freedom to farmers to sell their produce wherever they want. Mr. Fadnavis also accused the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of fooling the farmers through false promises. “Farmers, who sell their produce at the market yards, have to pay transport, labour, weighing and other charges. For example, a farmer recently sold his produce worth Rs. 15,000 in Pune’s market yard. Of the Rs. 15,000, he paid Rs. 4,000 towards transport, labour, and weighing charges. This is injustice,” he said.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Yatnal speaks again of leadership change, his aspiration to become CM||Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a known dissenter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, yet again not only hinted at leadership change in the State by Sankranti, but also expressed his aspirations to become Chief Minister.
26 December 2020||Mangaluru,||‘Laws will free farmers from middlemen’||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel reiterated here on Friday that the new farm laws of the Union government are aimed at freeing farmers from the clutches of middlemen. Speaking at the Kisan Samman Day and birth anniversary celebrations of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Kateel said that the farm laws allowed farmers to sell their produces at competitive rates as per their will.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army seeks to expedite helicopter deal||With the deal for Ka-226T utility helicopters with Russia not concluded five years after it was announced and its fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters at the end of their service life, the Army is set to approach the Defence Ministry for a waiver to take the deal forward. “About 75% of the Army’s fleet of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters is over 30 years old. Some of them are about 50 years old. We need urgent replacements. The Ka-226T deal with Russia has been stuck over indigenisation. So the Army is approaching the Ministry of Defence [MoD] for a waiver to conclude the deal,” a defence official said on condition of anonymity. Operational capability Stating that the operational capability has already been impacted due to deficiencies and non-availability of replacement, the official stated, “The total technical life of these helicopters will start finishing from 2023 onwards. So the existing deficiencies will keep increasing.” In 2015, India and Russia had concluded an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for at least 200 Ka-226T twin engine utility helicopters estimated to cost over $1 billion with 60 helicopters to be directly imported and remaining 140 manufactured locally. They are to replace the ageing and obsolete Cheetah and Chetak fleet of the Army and the Air Force. A joint venture India Russia Helicopters Ltd. (IRHL) has been set up between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) and Russian Helicopters (RH) which will assemble the helicopters in India. The Request For Proposal (RFP) issued by the MoD to IRHL for 200 helicopters stated 70% localisation over which the final deal has been held up as the JV quoted localisation of 62.4% in its response. Efforts to resolve this impasse in the last few months by adopting a revised methodology has not made any progress, it has been learnt. As the RFP states 70% indigenous content, it cannot be modified. Withdrawing it and issuing a new one would mean another 2-3 years lost. “The Army is now in a desperate situation for replacements and is preparing to take the case to the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) for a waiver to proceed with 62.4%,” the official stated. Import content “Even indigenous platforms like Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) and Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) have significant import content. How can an imported and assembled platform meet 70% requirement,” the official questioned. According to a March 2020 report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, the ALH has 46% import content by value, LCA – 40% and SU-30MKI assembled by HAL with technology transfer also has 40%. The issue has been taken up by Army Chief General Manoj Naravane with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, another official said. The Army has around 185 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters with around 20 helicopters with HAL for overhaul for around a year at any point of time.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala govt. not for tussle with Governor||On Friday, the Kerala government appeared keen on steering clear of a legal confrontation with Governor Arif Muhammad Khan over his assent to convoke a special session of the Assembly on December 31 to discuss the national-level farmers’ agitation and its implications for the State’s food security. Law Minister A. K. Balan and Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar called in at the Raj Bhavan with a Christmas cake. They spent over an hour closeted with Mr. Khan. The government’s proposal to club the issue of food security with a discussion on the contentious agriculture reforms laws that have pushed the farmers on the warpath against the Central government had emerged as a subject of disagreement between the Raj Bhavan and the administration. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Mr. Khan had expressed starkly different views on the subject. Stepping out of the meeting, the Ministers expressed confidence that Mr. Khan would give his assent. They avoided any mention of the suggestion to introduce a resolution in the Assembly against the farm laws. They said they would convey Mr. Khan’s views to Mr Vijayan. ‘No objections’ A Raj Bhavan official pointed out that Mr. Khan had not objected to the summoning of the Assembly. He had merely sought further clarification of the purported exigency that compelled an impromptu session of the Assembly on December 31 without the minimum 15-period notice. Mr. Khan had turned down a similar request on December 21 because he felt the Assembly lacked the “jurisdiction to offer a solution” to the farmers’ strike. He had also expressed scepticism on whether the Assembly could discuss the constitutional validity of laws enacted by Parliament. Mr. Khan had aired a similar sentiment when the Assembly passed a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December, 2019. Mr. Vijayan, in turn, felt the Governor had no power to arbitrate in subjects considered by the Assembly. Mr. Khan was constitutionally bound to summon the Assembly on the advice of the Cabinet. The Governor had no choice in the matter.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,||MLA speaks of leadership change||Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a known dissenter to Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, yet again not only hinted at leadership change in the State by Sankranthi, but also expressed his aspirations to become Chief Minister. His statement at Vijayapura on Friday has gained significance in the light of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s proposed visit to the State, including to Vijayapura around Sankranthi, when Mr. Yediyurappa hopes to get a green signal for the much-delayed Cabinet expansion. Shah’s visit Stating that there will be a “big change” probably before Mr. Shah’s visits to the State, Mr. Yatnal also hinted at his aspirations. “Every year, the sun changes his path and shines on the northern hemisphere on Sankranthi. In Karnataka, the sun will shine on north Karnataka and the era of wholesome development of this region will begin,” he said. Answering a question as to whether he hoped he would be appointed the Chief Minister, he said, “Who said I cannot be the Chief Minister? I could be if it is my destiny.” Openly expressing the aspiration to be the Chief Minister is rare in today’s BJP, when the central leadership prefers low profile leaders, a senior BJP leader observed. While Mr. Yatnal’s previous utterances on leadership change had gone without any censure, on Friday, a host of senior BJP leaders reacted sharply. Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, speaking in Bengaluru, said, “Mr. Yatnal is only an MLA, not the party president to talk on leadership issues. He better stop making such statements for his own good.” However, Mr. Yatnal hit back at Mr. Gowda, pointing out that he was a Union Minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Cabinet, much before Mr. Gowda became one. “This shows who is senior to whom,” he said. N. Ravikumar, general secretary, BJP Karnataka, said Mr. Yatnal seems to be upset that he has not been made a Minister and was speaking out of that frustration. “General secretary in-charge of party affairs Arun Singh and party president Nalin Kumar Kateel have clearly said there will be no change in leadership in the State. Despite that Mr. Yatnal has been creating confusion time and again. His indiscipline is being observed by the party leadership,” he said. However, there is as yet no response from Mr. Kateel. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, speaking to mediapersons in the city, also hinted at change during Sankranthi. “A new time will come after Sankranthi. Let us see what all happens,” he said.  Basanagouda Patil is only an MLA, not the party president, to talk on leadership issues. He better stop making such statements for his own good. D.V. Sadananda Gowda Union Minister   I was a Union Minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Cabinet, much before Mr. Gowda became one. This shows who is senior to whom. Basanagouda Patil Yatnal BJP MLA
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP MPs protest in Parliament||With the winter session of Parliament cancelled, two Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs raised slogans against the three farm laws, in a failed attempt to draw attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had come to pay tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the occasion of his 96th birth anniversary, in the central hall of Parliament on Friday. AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh tweeted a video of himself and his Lok Sabha colleague Bhagwant Mann holding placards and raising slogans while PM Modi walked out, without acknowledging the two. In the video, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and the Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader are also seen. Mr. Singh and Mr. Mann held posters demanding legal provision for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and shouted slogans demanding repeal of the farm laws. “The Parliament session is not being called. The winter session is cancelled. How do we raise our voice? How do we flag the farmers’ concerns? Thirty-two farmers so far have lost their lives in this agitation but the government is completely immune to their travails,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . When pointed out that the protest failed to draw PM Modi’s attention, Mr. Singh added, “He doesn’t bother sparing a moment to look at the concerns of the nation, why would he bother about us,” he said.  Mr. Mann, the MP from Sangrur, tweeted in Hindi, “Pro-farmer slogans echoed in the Central Hall to open the closed eyes and ears of the Modi government.”
26 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Another batch of Punjab farmers sets off for Delhi||As the stand-off over the new farm laws continues, another batch of farmers and farm labourers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) from Punjab started its tractor-trolley ‘march’ for Delhi on Friday. “A fresh batch of thousands of farmers and farm labourers left today for Delhi from Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. Two similar batches have already reached Singhu-Kundli in the past few days. The farmers who started on Friday are moving on tractor-trolleys, two-wheelers, cars and vans,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Punjab unit of the KMSC, told The Hindu . “According to our estimate, 600-700 tractor-trolleys have started their journey. Thousands of farmers associated with us are coming and will reach the Delhi border by December 27,” he said. The KMSC is the one outfit that is still continuing with the ‘rail roko’ agitation it started on September 24. Most other unions lifted the blockade on November 24. Farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest farm outfits in Punjab, are slated to start marching for Delhi on December 26. “We are mobilising people from nearly 1,100 villages from the Malwa, Doaba and Majha regions of the State. At least one batch of at least 15,000 protesters will march from the Khanauri border on December 26, and another 15,000 farmers will start their march from Dabwali on December 27,” said Sukhdev Singh, general secretary of the BKU(U).
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Yet another man ends life after online loan default||A 36-year-old man who took loans from unauthorised digital lending mobile apps attempted suicide in Ramagundam, and died five days later, after allegedly facing harassment by the lenders. This is the fourth suicide in Telangana by persons who defaulted in repayments to app organisers. While the tragic event occurred on December 18, the issue came to light after the victim’s friend lodged a complaint with police on December 24. According to NTPC Police, the victim is D M N Santhosh Kumar, an unmarried, private employee and resident of Ramagundam. He was living alone in an accommodation in Malkapur. Police said that he hailed from Visakhapatnam and was working in a fertilizer factory, drawing a salary of around Rs. 50,000 per month. According to a complaint, he had taken small loans amounting to Rs. 51,196 from at least five micro-financing apps – Udhaar Loan App, Rufilo App, Reepay, A A A Loan App and Loan Gram app. The loans he took from apps ranged between Rs. 9,000 and Rs. 16,000. He had managed to clear a loan, however, the others were pending. On December 18, the victim recorded a video of himself stating that he was being harassed by these companies as he could not repay the loans. He then consumed poison. His friend, identified as B N S Subrahmanyam, who is the complainant in the case stated in a complaint to the police that Kumar felt humiliated and depressed on account of the alleged harassment. Mr Subrahmanyam saw the victim’s state and rushed him to a private hospital in Ramagundam. He also informed the victim’s brother of what had happened. On December 21, the victim was taken to Visakhapatnam and admitted in the King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam where he succumbed five days later. Peddapalli Deputy Commissioner of Police Sudershan Goud said that the a case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code was booked and an investigation was under way. So far, no arrests have been made.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,||First data from Chandrayaan-2 out||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Thursday said it had released the first set of data from the country’s second mission to the Moon, Chandrayaan-2, for the general public. Chandrayaan-2 was launched on July 22, 2019 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. The orbiter which was injected into a lunar orbit on September 2, 2019, carries eight experiments to address many open questions on lunar science. “All experiments have been performing well and the data received suggest excellent capability to deliver on the pre-launch promises,” the ISRO said. In the period since the launch, payload teams tuned on-board systems for optimal instrument configurations, derived essential in-flight calibration data, revised / updated data processing steps / software and have started to publish early results, it said. On Thursday, the first set of data were released for all users, the ISRO said. Has to be peer reviewed The public release data archived at the Indian Space Science Data Centre in Bylalu, near Bengaluru, are prepared in the standard, globally followed Planetary Data System 4 (PDS4) format for public release, it added. The Indian Space Science Data Centre (ISSDC) is the nodal centre of planetary data archive for the planetary missions of the ISRO. The Chandrayaan-2 data are required to be in the Planetary Data System-4 (PDS4) standard, and required to be peer reviewed scientifically and technically before acceptance as PDS archives and declared ready for sharing with the global scientific community and the general public, the ISRO said. This activity has been completed and hence the first set of data from the Chandrayaan-2 mission is now being released for the wider public use through the PRADAN portal hosted by the ISSDC. The ISRO Science Data Archive (ISDA) currently holds data sets acquired by Chandrayaan-2 payloads from September-2019 to February-2020 from seven instruments. Data sets from the Imaging Infra-Red Spectrometer (IIRS) payload will be added to this shortly, it said, adding that this release has Level-0 and Level-1 basic data sets prepared using Planetary Data System (PDS) version 4 standards. The Chandrayaan-2 mission was India’s first attempt to land on the lunar surface.  Third mission under way The ISRO had planned the landing on the South Pole of the lunar surface. However, the lander Vikram hard-landed in September last year. Its orbiter, which is still in the lunar orbit, has a mission life of seven years. ISRO Chairman K. Sivan had recently said the work on the Chandrayaan-3 mission, comprising a lander and a rover, was in progress. “We have not yet fixed the schedule [for the Chandrayaan-3 launch],” the Chairman said.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Congress plans ‘Save cow’ march, Tiranga yatras||With a gai bachao, kisan bachao (save cow, save farmers) padyatra (foot march) in the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, Tiranga yatras and an online campaign of a selfie with the national tricolour, the Congress seems eager to engage with issues perceived to be core to the politics of the BJP. Instructing State units to organise different functions on the occasion of its 136th foundation on December 28, party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal wrote to State units that “Tiranga Yatras and other such innovative campaigns may also be organised following the necessary social distancing protocols. The PCCs [Pradesh Congress Committees] are also requested to pay solidarity to our fighting farmers who are sitting in an indefinite protest against the anti-farmers fam laws.” On the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war next year, the party plans to showcase former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's “iron leadership”. On December 16, celebrated as Vijay Diwas to commemorate the 1971 victory, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi by tweeting that India’s neighbours respected territorial sovereignty then and the might of the Prime Minister’s Office. On Friday, Mr. Gandhi again targeted the Modi government over its proposed “Tour of Duty” programme that seeks to attract civilians for a three-year service plan. Tagging a critical opinion piece by former Indian Air Force chief B.S. Dhanoa, he tweeted, “Remember ‘someone’ who explained radar to the Indian Air Force. This idea bears the imprint of the same mind. The Indian Army is a fighting force, not a tourist destination.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, too, has been raising issues like the pitiable condition of cows in U.P. under the Yogi Adityanath government. After writing to him to take inspiration from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh on how to look after cattle, on December 26 the party plans to take out a padayatra in the Bundelkhand region to highlight the plight of cattle in U.P. government-supervised gaushalas (cow shelter).
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Urdu author S.R. Faruqi passes away||In the 1950s, Shamsur Rahman Faruqi appeared for the Civil Services interview, a few days before Republic Day. It was the young man’s first visit to Delhi. One of the distinguished persons on the interview panel asked him whether he would stay back to watch the parade. “No… I don’t like such tamasha ,” he replied. He got zero in the interview. Faruqi, who died on Friday, was among the finest literary brains in Urdu, who redefined Urdu criticism. His greatest feat, perhaps, was his mammoth novel Kai Chaand The Sare Asmaan (The Mirror of Beauty), a work that he began writing at the age of 70. There aren’t many instances in world literature of a novelist publishing a thick masterpiece in his or her twilight years. He was born in 1935, in what was perhaps the golden age of Urdu translations. Between 1910 and 1940, several classics were translated into Urdu, including Madame Bovary , The Red and the Black , and even many versions of the Gita . Faruqi’s favourite was rendered by Khwaja Dil Mohammad as Dil Ki Gita . In such an atmosphere, the young boy took early to literature and brought out his first journal, Gulistan, on sheets pulled out of notebooks when just in Class VIII, that had some of his fiction, translations and his sister’s writings. He had three major influences in his formative years — the 1942 movement, Thomas Hardy and Shakespeare. In the early 1950s, Faruqi oscillated between various progressive writers’ associations and Jamait-e-Islami, the two broad ideological positions available to an emerging Muslim writer then. However, he soon found that “there was not much difference” between the two because one believed that art existed for the revolution, the other believed it was for Allah. “I began running away from the both,” Faruqi said in an interview to Udayan Vajpeyi. It was this commitment to the word that prompted him to chart his own path. I first met Faruqi as a co-participant at a seminar at the India International Centre, Delhi, in February 2017. The seminar drew its title, Ishq Bhari Patthar , from a couplet of his favourite poet Mir. Among the speakers who spoke on the various forms of love, he was the eldest, and yet most playful and profound. I told him that some of us friends believe that Kai Chaand The Sare Asmaan was the greatest Indian novel of the last decade. He smiled, and a friendship soon bloomed. What is his contribution to contemporary life? I had been writing a novel on Bastar, and even got some extracts published. His novel, which I read while writing my own, was among the prime factors that convinced me that I must not attempt the genre without adding something remarkable to the existing works. A filmmaker friend, inspired by Kai Chaand , began working on an ambitious novel that he believed would take at least 10 years to complete. In this world marked by fleeting fame and books written for the instant, only a master could have persuaded you for posterity.  (Ashutosh Bhardwaj’s latest book, The Death Script , traces the Naxal insurgency)
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Govt. allotments being rationalised’||Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri on Friday said the allotment of government accommodation was being rationalised and that the government had moved away from an approach of patronage. Mr. Puri was speaking at the launch of a portal for booking and applying for government homes and offices, e-Sampada. In response to a question, Mr. Puri said, “We have moved slowly from an overall approach in government of extending patronage, giving to people. There was never a scheme.” In October, eminent artists who had been allotted government houses in Delhi over the years were asked by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry to vacate by December 31, as reported by The Hindu in November. This week, some artists moved the Delhi High Court and were granted a stay against the notice until the next hearing in January 2021. Mr. Puri said some categories of people had been occupying the houses for very long. “One such category is hitting the news recently, where you look at it, the original allotment was made 30 years ago, 40 years ago. Also there was a stipulation that their earnings would be below a certain threshold.” The Minister tweeted, “In a significant step to boost transparency & accountability in providing various estate services & adopt digital technologies, I was delighted to launch e-Sampada, a single online platform for management of all GoI Estate services on occasion of Good Governance Day.”
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Teams formed to trace missing tortoise||The police have formed special teams to investigate the case of a missing Aldabra giant tortoise that is suspected to have been stolen in the month of November from the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust. The Mamallapuram police have registered a case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (theft). The Aldabra giant tortoise is one of the largest tortoises in the world, and is one of the longest living ones. The police said there were four at the Madras Crocodile Bank. “The staff of the organisation say that each tortoise costs around Rs. 15 lakh and weighs around 60 kg̣,” a police source said. The police said the accused had stolen the tortoise from a location where there were no CCTV cameras. “The tortoises were kept in an enclosure that has a hip-level compound wall. Hence, we are checking the cameras on the road to check for the miscreants. We have formed special teams,” a police source said. Mamallapuram inspector Vadivel Murugan said the police had collected details of the staff and would be checking their call records to check if anyone had connived with the robbers. ‘Breakthrough soon’ “The staff of the Madras Crocodile Bank lodged a complaint a day after the tortoise went missing,” said Mr. Murugan, who is investigating the case. “We expect a breakthrough soon,” he added. A staff member of the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust said there were now three tortoises. “Such an incident has never happened before. We will be increasing the height of the wall, increasing security personnel and also repositioning CCTV cameras on the premises,” the employee said.
26 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Centre’s strategy is to tire out farmers’||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday accused the Central government of working on a strategy to exhaust the farmers who are agitating against new farm laws, and thus eventually driving them away. Reacting to the ‘PM Kisan’ event to release funds for farmers, Mr. Surjewala said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi who attacked farmers with water cannons and lathi is today indulging in the drama of Samman Nidhi.” At a press conference, Mr. Surjewala said that as per the 2015-16 agriculture census, a total number of 14.64 crore farmers in the country undertake cultivation on 15.78 crore hectares of land. “The Modi government launched ‘Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana’ in December 2018 in which it was stated that Rs. 6,000 would be deposited in the accounts of all farmers of the country in three instalments. Under this scheme, in the year 2018-19, instead of Rs. 88,000 crore, only Rs. 6,005 crore was deposited. In the election year 2019-20 only Rs. 49,196 crore was deposited and in the year 2020-21, only Rs. 38,872 crore has been deposited till date, whereas this amount should have been Rs. 88,000 crore. If we multiply 14.64 crore (farmers) with Rs. 6,000, the amount comes to Rs. 87,913 crore [per year],” he said. “Now today, the Prime Minister, by transferring Rs. 18,000 crore, is unsuccessfully trying to clean the stains of these three black laws,” he added. Mr. Surjewala said that instead of indulging in “event management”, the BJP-led government should apologise to the farmers and withdraw the three laws.
26 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||21-year-old student set to become Mayor||If the party’s seniors approve the nomination, a 21-year-old woman college student who is a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will become the youngest Mayor of Thiruvananthapuram. The district committee of the CPI(M) on Friday proposed Arya Rajendran for the Mayor’s post in the city Corporation. The party’s State Committee must endorse the choice, which would make her the youngest in the job. Party leaders remained tight-lipped, but CPI(M) sources confirmed that the nomination had been made, with an announcement expected on Monday. Ms. Rajendran, who won the election from the Mudavanmugal ward in the State capital, is a B.Sc student at the All Saints College in the city. She is the State president of Balasangham, a children’s organisation, and a member of the State Committee of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and the CPI(M)’s Kesavadev Road branch committee. Her father is an electrician and her mother an LIC agent. “I have not got any official communication from the party. The decision will be taken by the party,” Ms. Rajendran told The Hindu . The two top contenders from the LDF for the Mayor’s post were defeated in the election, leaving 65-year-old Jameela Sreedharan, daughter of veteran Communist leader N. Sreedharan and a former member of the Public Service Commission, in the race. Party circles were abuzz with reports that the CPI(M), which leads the coalition, would want a young face, following the success of its experiment in 2015, when it chose 34-year old V.K. Prasanth. He quickly became popular with administrative initiatives and in 2019, wrested the Vattiyoorkavu Assembly seat for the LDF. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, viewed by many as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s target in its quest for political gains in Kerala, has remained elusive for the party. The LDF won big in the local body elections, bagging 52 seats in the 100-member council. The BJP won 34 seats and the UDF 10. Four independents, too, won this time.
26 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||64-year-old Odisha man set to join MBBS||After 40 years of a gruelling job and raising children, a sexagenarian is probably more inclined to take it easy. However, a 64-year-old retired banker from Odisha has a different idea. Jay Kishore Pradhan, born in 1956, has set out to become a doctor. He will formally start pursuing the four-year MBBS programme at the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, one of Odisha’s premier government-run health institutes, after taking admission on Monday. All set Hailing from Atabira in Bargarh district, Mr. Pradhan has completed all formalities required for a new entrant to the MBBS programme. The senior citizen has been cleared of cardiology, pulmonary function and nephrology tests and allowed to study medicine. He retired as a Deputy Manager in the State Bank of India in 2016. The strange decision surprised many, but Mr. Pradhan would actually be fulfilling the ambition he has been nurturing for decades. “I had once appeared for the MBBS entrance examination just after my intermediate class in the 1970s. I could not succeed then. I did not want to lose another year in preparation, so I joined B.Sc. physics honours. Since then a sense of non-fulfilment keeps haunting me,” he said. “Besides, I am indebted to medical science. My father was admitted to the college, where I would be studying, in 1982 for urinal ulcer. In 1987, he had undergone a second surgery and was taken to Vellore for further treatment. As a result of the successful treatment, my father survived till January 2010,” he narrated. Strong desire “The desire to study medicine was so strong that I was toying with the idea of taking voluntary retirement after 15 years of banking service. However, it was too risky to quit job keeping the family obligation in mind,” said Mr. Pradhan. After staying away from active studies for four decades, how did the man find rhythm in preparation for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET? “I have twin daughters, who were preparing for the medical entrance examinations. I had been assisting them in their preparations,” he said. “In 2019, the Supreme Court lifted the upper age limit for studying till further judgment. It helped me firm up my resolve to pursue my dream,” said Mr. Pradhan. He had secured rank 5,94,380 by scoring 175 marks. Mr. Pradhan became eligible to take admission in VIMSAR in the physically challenged quota. As one of his daughters died last month, the family could not rejoice the achievement the way it should have been celebrated. “I am determined to continue study medicine in memory of my daughter,” he said. At VIMSAR, Brajamohan Mishra, Dean and Principal, who is a year senior to Mr. Pradhan in age, is at a loss of words after coming across the unheard-of feat.
26 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata says she supports Amartya Sen||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen expressing “anguish and surprise” over recent developments in which the Visva-Bharati University has allegedly named him in a list of unauthorised occupants of land in Santiniketan. Ms. Banerjee said she expressed solidarity with Professor Sen against the “bigotry of the majoritarians in this country”, and assured her support to him in the “battle that have made you an enemy of these forces of untruth”. Sister and friend “Kindly count me as your sister and friend in your just war against intolerance and totalitarianism. Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusation, and unfair attacks. We shall overcome,” Ms. Banerjee’s letter said. Referring to Mr. Sen’s maternal grandfather Khitimohan Sen, who was one of the early leading settlers in Santiniketan and Ashutosh Sen, a noted educationalist who had his famed house Pratichi built up in Santiniketan about eight decades ago, she said Professor Sen’s family had been woven in the culture of Santiniketan, inalienably. Ms. Banerjee said everyone is well aware of “your family’s deep and organic linkages with Santiniketan”. So far there has been no response from Visva Bharati administration on these developments.  Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusation, and unfair attacks. We shall overcome Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal CM
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||21-year-old student set to become Mayor||Her father is an electrician and her mother an LIC agent. “I have not got any official communication from the party. The decision will be taken by the party,” Ms. Rajendran told The Hindu . The two top contenders from the LDF for the Mayor’s post were defeated in the election, leaving 65-year-old Jameela Sreedharan, daughter of veteran Communist leader N. Sreedharan and a former member of the Public Service Commission, in the race. Party circles were abuzz with reports that the CPI(M), which leads the coalition, would want a young face, following the success of its experiment in 2015, when it chose 34-year old V.K. Prasanth. He quickly became popular with administrative initiatives and in 2019, wrested the Vattiyoorkavu Assembly seat for the LDF. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, viewed by many as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s target in its quest for political gains in Kerala, has remained elusive for the party. Big win The LDF won big in the local body elections, bagging 52 seats in the 100-member council. The BJP won 34 seats and the UDF 10. Four independents, too, won this time.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Dry run next week for vaccine rollout in 4 States||The Ministry added that as vaccines are temperature sensitive and need to be stored in specific temperature, the present cold chain system consisting of 85,634 equipments for storage of vaccine at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country will be used for the cold chain administration. The current cold chain is capable of storing additional quantity of COVID-19 vaccine required for the first three crore prioritised population i.e health care workers and front line workers. To strengthen the capacity of human resource for COVID-19 vaccine introduction and roll-out, detailed training modules have been developed for different categories of vaccine handlers and administrators including medical officers, vaccinators, alternate vaccinators, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers, ASHA coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels. The training includes all operational aspects of training like organization of vaccination sessions, use of Co-WIN IT platform for management of the entire vaccination process, deployment of HR Cold chain preparedness, management of adverse events, communications and inter-sectoral coordination, biomedical waste management, infection prevention protocols etc. The Ministry said 2,360 participants were trained during national level Training of Trainers comprising of State immunisation officers, cold chain officers, IEC officials, development partners etc. “As on date, the State level trainings had been completed in all States/UTs with participation of more than 7,000 district level trainees, except Lakshadweep which will conduct it soon (Dec. 29). Cascading down, 681 districts (49,604 trainees) have completed the training of Medical Officers on operational guidelines. Vaccination team trainings have been completed in 1399 out of 17831 blocks/ planning units. It is on going in the other blocks,” said the release. Also to facilitate redressal of queries on COVID-19 vaccination and Co-WIN portal related queries, national 1075 and State 104 Helpline capacity has been strengthened to address queries beyond their routine support.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rajinikanth admitted to hospital, condition stable||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was admitted to a hospital here on Friday after his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation. “He is stable and is resting,” Apollo Hospitals said in a bulletin in the evening. He will remain in the hospital and undergo further investigations on Saturday. The 70-year-old actor has been in Hyderbad for the shooting of the film Annaatthe for the last 10 days. He isolated himself after four members of his unit tested positive for COVID-19. He was brought to the hospital at Jubilee Hills around 11 a.m. In an afternoon bulletin, the hospital said, “Mr. Rajinikanth has been admitted to the hospital today in the morning. He was shooting for a movie in Hyderabad for the last 10 days. Couple of people on the sets had tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Rajinikanth was tested on December 22 and he was negative. Since then, he had isolated himself and was monitored closely.” The release said that though he did not have any COVID-19 symptom, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation and needed further evaluation, for which he was admitted to the hospital. He will be investigated and monitored closely till his blood pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion, he does not have any other symptom and is hemodynamically stable, the release said. Sources at the hospital told The Hindu that Mr. Rajinikanth was accompanied by his daughter Aishwarya Dhanush. Soon after admission, a team of specialists conducted a series of tests on him. He will be investigated and monitored closely till his blood pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion, he does not have any other symptom and is hemodynamically stable, the release said. Sources at the hospital told The Hindu that Mr. Rajinikanth was accompanied by his daughter Aishwarya Dhanush. Soon after admission, a team of specialists conducted a series of tests on him. Mr. Rajinikanth is put up in a special room and is under round-the-clock monitoring, sources said. In the evening, the hospital said he was being monitored closely and “medications to control his blood pressure are being carefully titrated.” His family and treating doctors requested all well-wishers to avoid visiting the hospital as he was not being allowed to meet visitors. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan spoke to the doctors and wished the actor a speedy recovery. The shooting of Annaatthe , being produced by Kalanithi Maran under his Sun Pictures banner, has been postponed after four crew members tested positive for COVID-19. “Superstar Rajinikanth and other crew members have tested negative,” Sun Pictures said in a message posted on its official Twitter handle. According to the tweet put out two days ago, during routine testing at the shoot, four crew members have tested positive. To ensure safety, the shooting was postponed, it said. Last week, Rajinikanth took a chartered flight from Chennai to Hyderabad. He was accompanied by his daughter Aishwarya Dhanush. Major portions of the film, which is directed by Siruthai Siva, are being shot at the Ramoji Rao Film City. Almost 80% of the shooting was completed before the lockdown, and the rest is being shot here in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ unions refute PM Modi’s charge||The Prime Minister, however, reiterated the government’s offer for talks, saying that his government was ready to talk even with their staunch political opponents, but the talks could be held only within the realm of facts, logic and issues. Responding to Mr. Modi’s address, AIKSCC general-secretary Avik Saha, in a Farmers’ Bulletin, said the Prime Minister should stop confusing the people and not obfuscate the movement. “The farmers have only one demand. Give them assured, guaranteed and legalised income. It can be done through announcing MSP for all crops and ensuring that all farmers across the country get it. It must be a legal guarantee,” said Mr. Saha. He said the Prime Minister’s attempt to confuse people would not work and he should stop working for the big corporates. Opposition inaction In a scathing attack on his political opponents, Mr. Modi, in his 50-minute address, said opposition parties shedding tears for the farmers today had done little for them when they were in power. “Those leading the agitation today, sat on the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission report when they were in power,” said Mr. Modi. He added that despite the agitation, farmers rejected those behind the movement in Panchayat elections in Rajasthan, Assam and Jammu and Kashmir. “Through ballot they have supported the new laws,” he remarked. Accusing the West Bengal government of blocking the benefits of the Samman Nidhi Yojana to the farmers of the State for political reasons, Mr. Modi, turned his guns on the Left without naming any specific party. He said those who ruled in West Bengal for three decades and ruined it, never launched an agitation over the denial of Samman Nidhi to the farmers in the State, but they reached Punjab and are raising questions over the farm laws. Mr. Modi said a lot of lies were being spread about the new laws. Some people were spreading rumours that mandis would close and Minimum Support Price would stop. “But not a single mandi has been shut,” claimed Mr. Modi. . He added that these people were talking about APMC, but they were in power in Kerala where there were no mandis . “They have time to mislead the Punjab farmers. But if it is a good system. Why it is not in Kerala?,” asked Mr. Modi. Responding to the allegations, Mr. Saha said the Prime Minister had deliberately twisted facts on the issue of APMC in Kerala, because the Kerala government was the highest procurer of farm produce despite the absence of mandis . “The farmers in Kerala are getting more price than the rest of India because of the intervention of the government,” he claimed.
26 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata counters PM on Kisan Nidhi scheme||Countering the charge by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that farmers in West Bengal are being denied benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi for “political reasons”, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that Mr. Modi was trying to “mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts”. “I personally have written two letters and have even spoken to the concerned Minister two days ago but they are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains. When we are implementing so many schemes with Central government, the question of not cooperating on a scheme that is benefitting farmers seems absurd,” she said in a statement. Ms. Banerjee said the “Modi Government has done nothing to help West Bengal”. “They are yet to release even a portion of the Rs. 85,000 crore of outstanding dues that includes unpaid GST dues of Rs. 8,000 crore. If he genuinely wants to help the State, he must release at least a part of these funds...” said the Chief Minister. Referring to the protests at Delhi by farmers against the recent farm laws, Ms. Banerjee said the Prime Minister showed his “apparent concern for the farmers through a televised address, instead of proactively working to resolve their issues”. Earlier in the day, the TMC Congress leadership said the Centre’s insistence on directly transferring money was the reason behind denial of benefits to the farmers.
26 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Seven MLAs switch over to BJP in Arunachal||The BJP has gained seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh as six legislators of the Janata Dal(U) and the lone MLA of the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA) switched over in the past two days, taking the party’s count in the 60-member Assembly to 48. The JD(U), which emerged as the second largest party after the BJP in the 2019 Assembly election, now has Techi Kaso as the lone MLA. “We have accepted their applications to join the party. This is yet another example of the faith of the people in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in the governance of Chief Minister Pema Khandu, who has taken the State on the path of development,” BJP State president Biyuram Wahge told The Hindu from Itanagar. The JD(U) MLAs who switched over are Talem Taboh from Rumgong constituency, Hayeng Mangfi from Chayang Tajo, Jikke Tako from Tali, Dorjee Wangdi Kharma from Kalaktang, Dongru Siongju from Bomdila and Kanggong Taku from Mariyang-Geku constituency. The PPA legislator who shifted allegiance is Kardo Nyigyor from Likabali constituency.
26 December 2020||Srinagar,||2 NC leaders, including MP’s son, are arrested||Two National Conference (NC) leaders, including the son of Member Parliament (MP) Akbar Lone, were arrested in Kashmir on Friday for their “likely bid to commit a breach of the peace or disturb the public tranquillity”, just days after three close aides of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti were held on similar charges. “Two NC leaders and three PDP leaders have been detained under Section 107 and Section 151 of the CrPC. Two were arrested on Friday,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The Sections under which the leaders were arrested is based on the information that “a person is likely to commit a breach of the peace or disturb the public tranquillity” and is a preventive detention “to prevent the commission of cognisable offence”. The arrested leaders are NC leader Hilal Lone, the Baramulla MP’s son, and Shabir Ahmed Kullay.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP aims to make India a homogeneous monolith’||The ‘RSS-BJP’ government is trying to reshape India and Indian society as a “homogeneous monolith,” D. Raja, general secretary of Communist Party of India, said in an article in the CPI mouthpiece on the occasion of 95th foundation day of the party. The CPI was formed on December 26, 1925 in Nagpur. The RSS was formed just three months before the CPI. Calling the BJP the political arm of the RSS, Mr. Raja said: “They are trying to create India and Indian society as a homogeneous monolith.” He further added that it started with the cry for “one country, one civil code” and during their six-year tenure, they have tried to propagate “one country, one language”, “one country, one election” and so on. “Soon, they will start working for “one country, one religion”, evident from the Islamophobia they are spreading on the pretext of ‘Love Jihad’, etc, and the way their propaganda machinery tried to malign the protesting farmers as Khalistani, because of them being Sikhs,” Mr. Raja said. Such an approach would be spell the end of democracy, he said.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||CBI books case against Haryana firm||The CBI has registered a case against R.P. Basmati Rice and others for allegedly cheating a consortium of the State Bank of India and the Oriental Bank of Commerce, causing a loss of Rs. 220.98 crore. The agency has also named Anuj Singhal, Raj Pal Singhal, Sumitra, Bharat, Naveen Kumar, Ishwar Chand Singla and Gangaram Mukhiya in the FIR, based on a complaint from the SBI. The accused company, based in Haryana’s Karnal, exported goods to the West Asian countries and Europe under various brands and also had about 50 domestic dealers. It took credit facilities under a consortium arrangement. From May 2016 onwards, the company did not submit any stock statement. The loan account was declared non-performing asset in September 2016. The fraud came to light during a forensic audit of the check period, based on which a report was submitted to the bank in October 2018. It was reported to the Reserve Bank of India in April this year by the SBI. The audit revealed alleged diversion of funds to the tune of Rs. 106.16 crore to related parties. The company had shown a related party, Paras Foods, as debtor of Rs. 65.23 crore. It also claimed Rs. 40.93 crore outstanding against Sheeba International, Rajpal Bharat Kumar and others.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Malla Reddy College of Engineering blacklisted||The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) has blacklisted the Malla Reddy College of Engineering located at Dhulapally from the process of accreditation for a period of five years following discrepancies in the self-study report submitted by the college for reassessment. ‘Fabricated’ The NAAC said in a release that the discrepancies were with regard to certificates purported to have been given by BHEL, Yash Technologies and Airtel, which appeared to be fabricated in layer, especially with the seal, signature and letter head aspects. The digital expertise opinion obtained by NAAC also confirmed the possibility of digital fabrications. Council meeting The issue was discussed at the NAAC’s 88th executive council meeting last month when it was resolved to take action against the college by cancelling the self-study report in the present form.
26 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Dhanbad to Alappuzha train from Jan.||The Railways have decided to run special train services between Dhanbad-Alappuzha-Dhanbad via Visakhapatnam from January 1. Train no. 03351 Dhanbad–Alappuzha special express train will leave Dhanbad at 11.40 a.m. and arrive in Visakhapatnam the next day at 8.15 a.m. It will depart from there at 8.35 a.m. and reach Alappuzha at 3.25 p.m. on the third day. Train no. 03352 Alappuzha-Dhanbad special express train will leave Alappuzha daily at 6 a.m. to arrive in Visakhapatnam the next day at 1.10 p.m. It will depart from there at 1.30 p.m. and reach Dhanbad at 10.20 a.m. on the third day of its journey.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Smart Santa||
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Varsity for disability studies soon||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Thursday invited comments from the public on a draft Bill for setting up a university for disability studies and rehabilitation sciences. The Ministry sought comments on the draft University of Disabilities Studies and Rehabilitation Sciences Bill, 2021 till January 3. In the public notice inviting comments, the Ministry said the proposed university to be located in Kamrup district, Assam, would be “the first of its kind.” The university would be a multi-disciplinary institution for research and courses from Bachelor’s level onward. The Ministry’s proposal stated that there was a shortage of rehabilitation professionals in the country.
26 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K Internet ban extended||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday extended the ban on 4G mobile Internet up to January 8, saying “the restrictions on the high-speed connectivity acted as an impediment to attempts” of the militants to disturb the District Development Council (DDC) polls. An order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir Home Department noted that there were credible inputs about the presence of a large number of militants trying to infiltrate from across the border.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A month on, unflagging resolve on show||
26 December 2020||Sabarimala,||''Thanka Anki'' reaches Sabarimala Temple||The ceremonial procession carrying Thanka Anki , the golden attire that will adorn Lord Ayyappa during the Mandala puja, reached Sabarimala temple on Friday. In view of the COVID-19 protocols, only a few people could accompany the annual procession. It set off four days ago from Aranmula Sree Parthasarthy temple, where the sacred attire is kept. The anki , weighing 420 sovereigns, was donated by erstwhile Travancore king, late Sree Chithira Tirunal Balarama Varma,in 1973.PTI
26 December 2020||Hassan,||Now, Shobha calls those protesting farm laws ‘urban naxals’||Bharatiya Janata Party Lok Sabha member Shobha Karandlaje has branded people protesting against the Union government as “urban naxals.” “The people who raised anti-India slogans are protesting in the name of farmers,” she said in a programme organised by the Hassan district unit of the BJP to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee here on Friday. The farm Bills introduced by the Union government would benefit farmers. There were no issues that would affect the farming community. The Congress too had promised similar amendments in its election manifesto. “Now Opposition parties are supporting the protest for political reasons,” she said. Ms. Karandlaje criticised Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, D.K. Shivakumar and Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar for their comments against the farm Bills. She said they all should read the farm Bills to understand facts. Recalling the days of Atal Bihari Vajpayee as Prime Minister, she said he had many challenges as he was heading a coalition of 22 parties. He brought in many people-friendly programmes and improved road facilities across the nation.
26 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Malayalam actor drowns in Malankara dam||Actor Anil Nedumangad, 48, known for character roles in recent Malayalam films, drowned in the Malankara dam in Idukki district on Friday. The actor was in Thodupuzha for a shoot and had gone for a swim. Starting his career as a television anchor, he came into cinematic limelight with the 2014 film Njan Steve Lopez. One of his most noted roles was in Ayyappanum Koshiyum , in which he played a circle inspector.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||CBI books case against Haryana firm, others for cheating banks||The CBI has registered a case against R.P. Basmati Rice and others for allegedly cheating a consortium of the State Bank of India and the Oriental Bank of Commerce, causing a loss of Rs. 220.98 crore. The agency has also named Anuj Singhal, Raj Pal Singhal, Sumitra, Bharat, Naveen Kumar, Ishwar Chand Singla and Gangaram Mukhiya in the FIR, based on a complaint from the SBI. The accused company, based in Haryana’s Karnal, exported goods to the West Asian countries and Europe under various brands and also had about 50 domestic dealers. It took credit facilities under a consortium arrangement. From May 2016 onwards, the company did not submit any stock statement. The loan account was declared non-performing asset in September 2016. The fraud came to light during a forensic audit of the check period, based on which a report was submitted to the bank in October 2018. It was reported to the Reserve Bank of India in April this year by the SBI. The audit revealed alleged diversion of funds to the tune of Rs. 106.16 crore to related parties. The company had shown a related party, Paras Foods, as debtor of Rs. 65.23 crore. It also claimed Rs. 40.93 crore outstanding against Sheeba International, Rajpal Bharat Kumar and others.
26 December 2020||Guwahati,||Congress expels Assam MLA ahead of Shah’s visit||The Congress expelled one of its most influential MLAs in Assam for alleged anti-party activities, hours before Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Guwahati on Friday night. Assam’s Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the Bharatiya Janata Party would welcome her if she decided to join its fold.
26 December 2020||Guwahati,||Reports of large-scale Bangladeshi ingress into India denied||The perception of large-scale immigration of Bangladeshi nationals into India is not based on facts, the frontier forces of the two countries have said, while deciding to ramp up patrolling to check cross-border crimes. The Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) also decided to facilitate the erection of a single-row fence in “priority patches” of the 4,096 km border. “There are no reports of any infiltration to India from Bangladesh and there is no reason really for Bangladeshis to cross the border, unless it is for treatment or other purposes, with valid documents,” BGB Director-General Shafeenul Islam said on Friday at the conclusion of the 51st DG-level border coordination conference between the two forces in Guwahati. The conference had started on December 22. A factor behind Bangladeshi people not entering India illegally was the GDP growth rate in Bangladesh. Mr. Islam downplayed the issue of National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam and the theories that a majority of the 19.06 lakh people excluded from the citizens’ list were Bangladeshis.  ‘An Indian issue’ “The NRC does not concern us. It is an Indian issue,” he said. His BSF counterpart, Rakesh Asthana, said there was no truth in allegations of large-scale ingress of people from Bangladesh into India. “We do apprehend people who try to enter illegally and we caught 3,204 such people this year. We sent back those who were established as Bangladeshi nationals, while legal actions are being taken against criminals,” he said. Illegal movement of people was not a one-way traffic, Mr Asthana said. “Both BSF and BGB have been making efforts to check exfiltration from their respective countries,” he said. The infiltration of Rohingya refugees had been a major issue of late. Among the decisions taken by the two forces was intensification of joint night vigil at vulnerable stretches to prevent criminal activities such as smuggling of cattle and narcotic substances, besides human-trafficking. Other decisions included the construction of a single-row fence in priority patches and coordinated actions to curb fence-breach cases. The next DG-level conference will be held in Bangladesh capital Dhaka in April 2021.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At Elliot’s Beach, Corpn. staff turn Santa Claus, gift masks||When workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation, dressed like Santa Claus, met people at Elliot’s Beach on Thursday, they were expected to hand out gifts. However, the broad smiles of the public soon turned into grins of embarrassment as they were given masks to wear. Over 40 sector workers of the Corporation from zone 13 have spread out across division 176, where Elliot’s Beach is located. They will be conducting an Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign about safety measures to be followed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The workers held placards with messages about the standard operating procedures laid down by the government to curtail the spread of COVID-19. “After the beaches were opened for the public, many have started thronging Elliot’s and the Marina. We find that nearly half of the visitors don’t wear masks. Hence, the Corporation started this campaign. The sector workers were asked to wear the Santa Claus costume as we have started this campaign on Christmas Eve, and as this will draw the attention of the people. This will go on for a week,” said N. Gomathy, zonal health officer, zone 13, Adyar. C. Malairaja, one of the workers, said people initially thought they would be given gifts. “That is what Santa is known for. We provided them a gift to protect themselves from the COVID-19 infection,” he said. Screening booths Besides this, screening booths were set up near the police booth and the skating rink on Elliot’s Beach Road. “We were equipped with thermal scanners, pulse oximeters and masks. Many youngsters and a few elders were seen without masks. We gave them pamphlets. Three flying squads also went around to ensure personal distancing,” Dr. Gomathy said. The teams also created awareness of safety procedures among vendors. An IEC campaign is also going on at Marina beach, said GCC officials. “Now people have to be responsible,” an official said.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,027 persons contract infection in State||As many as 1,103 patients were discharged after treatment for COVID-19 on Friday, even as 1,027 more tested positive for the infection. The State recorded 12 deaths, taking its toll to 12,408. Among those who tested positive were three returnees from Andhra Pradesh. As of Friday, the State has 9,129 active cases. The State’s case tally touched 8,12,142. So far, 7,90,965 persons have been discharged after treatment, according to a daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. In Chennai, 292 more persons tested positive for the infection. As on date, 2,932 persons are under treatment in the district. While 332 persons were discharged after treatment, five more deaths were seen. The district’s tally stood at 2,23,799 and so far, 2,16,883 persons have been discharged. The district’s toll touched 3,984. Twenty-four districts saw under 20 fresh cases each, with two districts — Perambalur and Kallakurichi — recording no new case. Among the deceased, one person did not have co-morbidities. A 58-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive for COVID-19 on December 6, was admitted to a private hospital on December 17 with difficulty in breathing for 12 days. He died on Wednesday night due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Seven of the 11 deaths were recorded in private facilities. Three of the deceased were octogenarians. The oldest person whose death was recorded on Friday was an 85-year-old woman from Cuddalore, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on December 19. She tested positive the next day. She was diabetic and had severe hypertension. She died on Thursday night due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 65,142 persons were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,34,94,586.  The State’s case tally touched 8,12,142. So far, 7,90,965 persons have been discharged after treatment.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM founding general secretary joins BJP||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founding general secretary A. Arunachalam joined the BJP on Friday in the presence of Union Minister Prakash Javadekar. He contended that the MNM leadership had not paid heed to his view that the three farm laws brought in by the Central government would benefit farmers. Mr. Arunachalam said he came from a family of farmers and still had links to farming. The three laws, against which farmers are protesting in Delhi, were brought in by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah with a long-term vision. He said he had asked the MNM leadership not to rally with the Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu against the laws, as the Opposition was only keen on knocking off the benefits of the legislation from the hands of the farmers. “I come from a farmers’ family. So I can say that farmers know what benefits these laws will give them. I took these up with Kamal Haasan and the MNM leadership. But they did not pay heed to my views,” he said, after joining the BJP, at the party headquarters in Chennai. He added that he had asked the MNM leadership not to look at the laws as having brought in by the BJP, but by the Centre to benefit farmers in the long-term. But this was to no avail, leaving him with no option but to quit the party, he added.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK ignores Alagiri’s move||After lying low for a long time, M.K. Alagiri, elder son of former DMK leader M. Karunanidhi, has called for a meeting of his supporters in Madurai on January 3, to discuss his future political course of action. At a time when Tamil Nadu politics is abuzz with the entry of new players, including actor Rajinikanth’s proposed party, Mr. Alagiri would be exploring the option of launching his own outfit. He is aware of his limitations. With DMK president M.K. Stalin not entertaining Mr. Alagiri’s request for a re-entry, party leaders remain unperturbed. “Much water has flowed since he was expelled from the party in 2014. He cannot point an accusing finger at the present leadership and his brother Stalin since he was expelled by his father who never bothered to re-induct him into the party,” pointed out a senior leader and former Minister. Even if the leadership plans to accommodate Mr. Alagiri, what weighs against him was his tendency to nurture a coterie which eventually led to factionalism in the party. “He always claims that none can match him when it comes to safeguarding the interests of party functionaries. But the fact remains that he mostly protected his own coterie,” argued a senior MP of the party. Party sources are of the opinion that politics was a continuous activity but Mr. Alagiri failed to engage in the activity even when he was a Union Minister. “He would be active only if the DMK is in power. He proved a disappointment as a Union Minister. He remained silent after the AIADMK government took over though he was a Union Minister,” said another former Minister. Another complaint against Mr. Alagiri was that he would never get along with senior leaders who had joined the DMK from other parties. “He never acknowledged K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran even though he had served as a Minister in the DMK government. Moreover, he antagonised senior leaders such as P.T.R. Palanivel Rajan and Pon Muthuramalingam in Madurai,” charged a party MP. While most of his loyalists, barring Mannan and former Mayor Thenmozhi Gopinathan, have switched to Mr. Stalin’s side, Mr. Alagiri is unlikely to make an impact since he did not belong to any major community. “One may like it or hate it, caste is a factor to reckon with in Tamil Nadu. Leaders, who had established themselves in politics can transcend the narrow barriers. But it will be difficult for others to emulate their success,” said the former Minister.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC holds special sitting to hear Chidambaram temple case||The Madras High Court held a special sitting on Friday to hear a writ petition filed against Cuddalore district administration’s decision to prevent non-residents of Chidambaram town from participating in the Natarajar Temple’s ongoing Margazhi Arudhara Darshan festival. A Bench of Justices R. Mahadevan and Anita Sumanth presided over a virtual hearing of the case considering the urgency involved in the issue and directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to get necessary instructions from the Collector by Sunday. The petition was filed by G. Vishnudass, 24, a devotee of Lord Shiva from Kancheepuram district. The petitioner had challenged a press release issued by the District Administration on December 21 stating that only locals would be allowed to participate in the festival. The release stated that the annual festival would be conducted this year between December 21 and 31. It further said that only 100 devotees would be allowed to participate in the golden car procession to be taken out on December 28. Only 1,000 devotees would be allowed for the main Nataraja Murthy procession on December 29. Similarly, only 200 to 400 devotees would be allowed for a host of other processions to be taken out as part of the festival, the communique read. It also made it clear that devotees from other places would not be permitted to enter the Chidambaram town and instructed the marriage halls, convention centres, lodges and hotels to avoid accommodating outsiders who come to witness the festival. After perusing the press release, the judges wanted to know how such restrictions could be imposed and on what basis the District Administration would identify the devotees who would be allowed to participate in various events associated with the festival.  Only 1,000 devotees would be allowed for the main Nataraja Murthy procession on December 29, according to the communique
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vairamuthu to launch project to ‘restore the pride’ of Tamil film songs||Lyricist Vairamuthu has said he would soon launch a project to “raise the standard” of Tamil film songs. “I am belling the cat. I intend to open diligently a new royal road for Tamil. A generation can travel on this,” he claimed in a statement. He said while he would not say that there were no good songs, he only regretted that their number had dwindled. “The film songs that served the Tamil society for generations now in the time of technology have crashed against a rock as a glass ball and broken to smithereens,” he said. He would not hold the creators alone responsible for the pathetic state of film songs since music directors did not lack creative strength; directors had not lost the inventive quest and lyricists also had proliferated. “The violence of noise in the name of music, the molestation of language with discordant music, the artistes that are ignorant of what is happening in a song, and the meaningless lip-sync of the actresses have left lyricists like me in bewilderment wondering if some songs need any language at all,” he said. Stating that one could only pretend not to see the grave condition, Mr. Vairamuthu contended a sharp intention to take forward the progressiveness of the Tamils and other concerns had urged him to do something. “When Tamil cinema resurrects, everyone should join hands to raise the standards of Tamil. Or fulfil the need for Tamil art beyond the boundaries of film songs,” he said.  When Tamil cinema resurrects, everyone should join hands to raise the standards of Tamil. Or fulfil the need for Tamil art beyond the boundaries of film songs
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 6 clear preliminary exam for district judge recruitment||The Madras High Court’s decision to tighten the selection process for recruitment of district judges and introduce negative marking has made it difficult for candidates to clear even the preliminary examinations. While not even a single candidate could get past the prelims held last in 2019, only six have cleared the exams conducted this year. According to sources, the High Court had issued a notification on December 12, 2019, inviting applications for direct recruitment of 32 district judges in the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service. Lawyers with a minimum seven years of experience, Assistant Public Prosecutors and others were allowed to participate in the selection process. Scheme of recruitment The scheme of selection began with an objective type preliminary written examination in two papers (one on civil and the other on criminal law), followed by a main examination and then viva-voce. Though the pr elims were scheduled to be held in March 2020, the exams got postponed due to COVID-19 and were held only on November 1. Though around 2,500 candidates had taken the examinations, the results declared on Friday came as a shocker with just six clearing the prelims. These six candidates would now have to undertake the main examinations, scheduled to be held on January 30 and 31, 2021, and then appear for viva-voce before the declaration of final results. A similar exercise undertaken by the High Court in 2019, too, turned out to be a dampener with not even a single person out of 3,562 candidates managing to clear the preliminary examinations.  The six candidates would now have to undertake the main examinations scheduled to be held on January 30 and 31, 2021 and then appear for viva-voce
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police take to streets to spread information on OTP frauds||Recently a 63-year-old retired employee and resident of T. Nagar shared 14 one-time passwords (OTP) with a fraudster who promised that all his reward points for using his credit card would be converted into cash. The caller claimed to be a customer care executive of a private bank. Eventually, the senior citizen lost Rs. 1.8 lakh. Several identical complaints were received by the cyber crime wings of the police from senior citizens. Following this, the T. Nagar police have launched an initiative to create awareness on OTP frauds with inspectors hitting the streets to spread the message. “Mostly senior citizens become victims of online frauds by sharing OTPs. We conducted awareness meeting with senior citizens in residential areas,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, T. Nagar, D. Hari Kiran Prasad. Inspectors addressed senior citizens in residential areas. They explained about the different modus operandi of online fraudsters and urged them not to share any OTPs or CVV. They asked them to check with their bankers on any new offer or any call from unknown strangers who claim to be bank representatives.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of polls, misunderstandings aplenty||As the AIADMK and the BJP sharpen their swords to face the 2021 Assembly election together, remarks by certain leaders of the national party are causing discomfort within the alliance. BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai, particularly, has been making remarks that have not gone down well among a section of AIADMK leaders. While the AIADMK felt such comments could be avoided, Mr. Annamalai sought to defend them as “general political remarks”. ‘Stolen money’ Mr. Annamalai recently said that the Tamil Nadu government was giving money, “stolen” from the people, back to them as Rs. 2,000. The remarks were made against the backdrop of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announcing a cash gift of Rs. 2,500 for rice ration cardholders for Pongal. This invited a sharp reaction from Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam, who questioned the Rs. 6,000 aid offered by the Centre to the farmers. “If he [Annamalai] is being so immature, not knowing what to speak in public, what do I have to say? If he is a novice, what can we do?” said AIADMK deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy. He wondered how the BJP leader did not even know the difference between personal and government funds. Mr. Annamalai had also said that some politicians were greeting “looking at the tyres”, in an ostensible reference to AIADMK leaders bowing before former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s vehicle. To this, Mr. Munusamy said, “What was he earlier? A police officer. Would he not salute his superiors? What we did was out of respect and devotion to our leader.” He, however, felt such comments by second-line leaders would not affect the relationship between the two parties. Mr. Annamalai told The Hindu that the general public would understand his comments. “Basically, the AIADMK and the BJP are different parties. Since many principles of both parties are similar to each other, we are in an alliance,” he said. He said he was a responsible leader of a national party, with duties of his own. “I said politics had become very corrupt in Tamil Nadu. What is wrong in it? My comments have been taken out of context. I have been continuously saying that there is something wrong in politics, and that youngsters should come.” On the Pongal gift, the former IPS officer said: “My clarification is that of course we all welcome the Rs. 2,500 cash gift for Pongal. In times of COVID-19, money should be put in the people’s hands. But I have always been against spending Rs. 2,000 for a vote. My party has also been against it.” CM candidate Union Minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Friday sidestepped a question on whether Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would be the AIADMK-led alliance’s chief ministerial candidate for 2021. To a pointed question on the Chief Minister candidate, at a press conference in Chennai, the Minister said, “Good question, good answer.” When the question was asked again, he said journalists were free to interpret his comments. State BJP president L. Murugan and a few other leaders have, in the past, said that the BJP high command would decide on the chief ministerial candidate. However, recently, Mr. Murugan, following a controversy, said that Mr. Palaniswami would be the candidate for the top job.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vairamuthu to launch project to ‘restore the pride’ of Tamil songs||Lyricist Vairamuthu said he would soon launch a project to “raise the standard” of Tamil film songs. “I am belling the cat. I intend to open diligently a new royal road for Tamil. A generation can travel on this,” he claimed in a statement. He said while he would not say that there were no good songs, he only regretted that their number had dwindled. “The film songs that served the Tamil society for generations now in the time of technology have crashed against a rock as a glass ball and broken to smithereens,” he felt. He would not hold the creators alone responsible for the pathetic state of film songs since music directors did not lack creative strength; directors had not lost the inventive quest and lyricists also had proliferated. “The violence of noise in the name of music, the molestation of language with discordant music, the artistes that are ignorant of what is happening in a song, and the meaningless lip-sync of the actresses have left lyricists like me are in bewilderment wondering if some songs need any language at all,” he said. Stating that one could one pretend not to see the grave condition, Mr Vairamuthu contended a sharp intention to take forward the progressiveness of Tamils and other concerns had urged him to do something. “When Tamil cinema resurrects, everyone should join hands to raise the standards of Tamil. Or fulfil the need for Tamil art beyond the boundaries of film songs,” he said.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t commit cases to sessions court based on story of witnesses, HC tells magistrates||Judicial magistrates should not commit a criminal case to a court of sessions just because some witnesses weave a story during the course of trial. Instead, they must analyse the totality of the facts and circumstances from the standpoint of a prudent man before acting upon the deposition of a witness to commit a case, the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice P.N. Prakash held so while quashing a committal order passed by a judicial magistrate at Kangeyam in Tiruppur district on May 6, 2014. The magistrate had committed the trial of a motor accident case to a sessions court because the children of the victim had accused their father of having caused the accident to kill their mother. The judge said the deceased was the daughter of a doctor in Kangeyam. She had married a person residing in Sathyamangalam and had two children. On the day of the accident, the family of four was travelling from Kangeyam to Sathyamangalam. The victim’s husband was driving the car and she was sitting next to him. The two children, aged 11 and 8, were in the back seat. When the car passed through a narrow bridge near Sivagiripudur, a mini lorry was parked on the bridge. The vehicle swerved to the right. The left side of the car hit the lorry resulting in the woman’s death though her husband and children escaped with injuries. The victim’s husband informed his father-in-law and the latter, in turn, rushed to the spot and admitted all the three in a nearby hospital and lodged a police complaint. The police booked a case of causing death by negligence against the victim’s husband. Since then, the children were brought up by their grandfather. The trial got protracted due to repeated petitions filed by the grandfather suspecting foul play. By the time, the children could adduce evidence before the trial court in 2013, the daughter was aged 18 and her brother was 16. Both of them accused their father of having rammed the car deliberately due to domestic strife. Refusing to believe their version, Justice Prakash said: “In the opinion of this court, this is a rank lie in as much as it was her father who had informed her grandfather about the incident on coming to know of which, her grandfather rushed to the place and admitted all three of them in the Kangeyam Government Hospital.” It only appeared to be a genuine case of road accident, he added.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID registers case over 103.8 kg of missing gold||The Crime Branch-CID of the State police have registered a case in connection with the mysterious disappearance of 103.8 kg of gold, worth about Rs. 30 crore, in the Surana case. Acting on the directions of the Madras High Court, the CB-CID Metro team has booked a case against unknown persons under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR, which did not name any accused, was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by Ramasubramaniam, insolvency professional and liquidator, Chennai, regarding the gold that went missing from the sealed vaults of Surana Corporation Limited, Sowcarpet. The theft is alleged to have taken place between June 20, 2012, and February 27, 2020. The case relates to the searches conducted by the CBI on the premises of Surana Corporation Ltd in 2012 in connection with a case. The search list mentioned that 400.47 kg gold had been inventoried and kept in safe vaults of the company after sealing it in the presence of independent witnesses and the managing director of the firm and its officials. Going by the directions of the Madras High Court, the vaults were opened in the presence of an official liquidator, officials belonging to six banks and independent witnesses, and inspected from February 27 to 29, 2020, for the gold to be handed over to lender banks of the firm. “The seals affixed on the vaults were found intact. However, the gold weighed only 296.66 kg. As the discrepancy came to its notice, the CBI promptly ordered an internal inquiry by a senior officer to look into the role of its officials, if any,” a CBI spokesperson said in a note. The CBI’s enquiry continues.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Strip IAS officers of their posts for disobeying judicial orders: HC||IAS officers must be stripped of their posts and “sent out” if they do not comply with judicial orders to dispose of, within a time frame, applications preferred by owners of unauthorised constructions against locking and sealing of the buildings by the planning authorities concerned, the Madras High Court has said. In a judgment, Justice S. Vaidyanathan wrote: “It is pertinent to mention here that there are several IAS officers who while dealing with applications under Section 80A of Town and Country Planning Act of 1971 are not complying with the orders of this court fixing outer time limit for disposal of the matters.” Coming down heavily on officials for sitting over the applications, the judge said: “Such officers must be sent out and their IAS posts stripped since ignoring orders of this court would definitely amount to being dishonest in their duty.” The observations were made while allowing a writ petition filed by a retired Commissioner of Tambaram Municipality here. The petitioner, T.V. Pallanee, had challenged a G.O. issued on June 24, 2005, imposing a punishment of cut in pension of Rs. 200 a month for 12 months. He was charged with having spent Rs. 83,290 from municipality funds without calling for tenders. Though the charge was not proved in the domestic inquiry, the government differed with the inquiry report, he claimed. Not finding any justification for the punishment imposed, Justice Vaidyanathan said the petitioner could not be faulted for having carried out public works.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Fraudulent loan apps a threat to user privacy’||The police have issued an advisory on online loan frauds through mobile apps and appealed to the public to be more vigilant. There are around 60 online applications on Google Play Store which are not registered or recognised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as non-banking financial companies (NBFC). Their operations are unauthorised, the advisory said. The apps have privacy policies to gather every bit of data available on a user’s phone. Thus, they were violating the user’s privacy, the advisory said. “Do not give details to such unregistered and unregulated apps as contacts, photos, camera and memory will be compromised by these online money lenders,” the police said. “If you or people close to you receive any abusive, threatening and harassment calls, prefer a police complaint immediately. The names of the grievance redressal officer and contact details provided by these apps are fictitious. People should verify the genuineness of an NBFC using the RBI website,” the advisory said. A senior police officer said, “We have written to CERT-In (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) to block such apps and also formed a special team to trace all those who run such illegal apps.”
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Part of Chennai airport’s new terminal to be ready in 6 months||International flyers will have a better experience at the Chennai airport when a part of the new integrated terminal will be thrown open by June 2021. It is constructed as part of phase II modernisation project at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,500 crore. The work started last year. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the roofing was being done now; thereafter, the interior work would begin. “This will be finished in another six months. Once this section is completed, the existing domestic (T1) and international terminals (T4) will function as domestic terminals on two sides. A portion of the new integrated terminal that gets ready will handle international departure and arrival operations,” an official said. Then the old international terminal (T3), where passengers arrive now, will be demolished, and the remaining work will resume. “Once this portion, too, is completed, all buildings will be connected, and will operate as an integrated terminal,” another official said. It is crucial that this terminal not have the issues that plague the existing terminals. Complaints of leak Passengers have complained about toilets and water leakage in the present terminals for a few years now. Early this year, the work came to a halt with the outbreak of COVID-19 and the consequent lockdown. The construction resumed after a few months, but it took a while to get sufficient manpower, and for the work to continue in full swing. The construction of a multi-level car parking lot, with a capacity to hold nearly 2,000 cars, has been progressing well. It is likely to be opened in about four months. There will be a walkway to link the car parking lot to the domestic or international terminal.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Corpn. told to stop drain construction work’||“The Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority has directed the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to stop the ongoing construction of storm-water drains in areas along the East Coast Road,” said V. Suresh, advocate, Madras High Court, on Friday. However, senior officials of the Corporation said they had not received any such order.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM mourns Paramasivan||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday condoled the death of Tamil scholar and historian Tho. Paramasivan terming it a huge loss to his family, other Tamil scholars and to Tamil Nadu. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami recalled that the scholar had taught in Dr. Zakir Husain College at Ilayankudi, Thiagarajar College in Madurai and also served as head of the Department of Tamil in Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli. Paramasivan was a multidimensional personality, who was a professor, writer and a public speaker, Mr. Palaniswami pointed out that his book Alagar Koil has been immensely helping in studies on temples. Tirunelveli Meanwhile, a large number of people paid their last respects on Friday to the Tamil scholar and anthropologist Tho Paramasivam, known as Tho Pa., who died on Thursday. Minister V M Rajalakshmi placed a wreath on the body, kept for public homage at South Bazaar Street here. Collector Vishnu and others from literary and kollywood fields offered their tributes to the departed soul. The body was cremated in Vellakoil in the evening.
26 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police intensify vigil on roads to prevent speeding revellers||The city police booked over 20 cases against youth who indulged in racing and revelry during Christmas eve. Senior police officers, along with law and order and traffic police personnel, tightened vigil on Thursday night and Friday. The police have warned of stringent action against those racing on roads or causing nuisance to the public on the excuse of celebrating Christmas and New Year. Police personnel have been deployed in and around churches. Iron barricades were put up on Kamarajar Road, Dr. Radhakrishnan Road, Sardar Patel Road, Rajiv Gandhi Salai and East Coast Road to prevent speeding. At more than 90 points, police personnel conducted vehicle inspections. A senior police officer said, “From Thursday night, we have tightened our vigil on roads to prevent illegal bike racers or revellers who venture out on New Year’s eve. Any revelry or gathering on roads and beaches have been banned. Now we nab those who indulge in racing or speeding and book them, besides seizing their vehicles.”
26 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. unlikely to resume levying of user charges for waste collection||Coimbatore Corporation is unlikely to resume the levying of user charges for waste collection, at least for now, say sources. A week ago, a senior official in the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department wrote to the Coimbatore Corporation asking it to resume collection of the charges as the Chennai Corporation was initiating a similar move. Now, in the wake of the Chennai Corporation dropping the move following objections from Opposition parties, it is unlikely that the Coimbatore Corporation would resume collection of the charges. The Corporation was all set for collecting user charges and a few officials had even informally told a few residents’ welfare associations to get ready to pay user charges for handing over waste to conservancy workers. As per the commitment it gave to the Central Government at the time of receiving Rs. 100 crore under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission during 2008-09 for improving solid waste management in the city, the Corporation was to start collecting user charges on a monthly basis from residents for the waste they handed over to conservancy workers. But the then Corporation Council deferred the collection, while agreeing in principle that it ought to be collected. Meanwhile, the Corporation passed the by-laws for levying user charges and had it published in the Coimbatore District Gazette. At the time of passing the by-laws, the Corporation had said that it was in keeping with the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 that the Central Government had framed. Sometime thereafter in 2017 the Corporation began collecting the user charges to only suspend it following objection from Opposition parties. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian was not available for comment. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon says the State Government should not collect the charges because waste collection is one of the services for which the city’s residents pay property tax. If people have to pay a separate waste collection charge, the Corporation could later demand a separate charge for street light maintenance. Therefore, the Corporation should clearly state which are the services covered under the property tax.  The government also should have a uniform policy. It cannot scrap waste collection charge in one city or town owing to objection from Opposition parties, and allow it to be collected in other areas, such as Tiruppur.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunta Ekadasi festival celebrated||The Vaikunta Ekadasi festival was celebrated at the Aranganathaswamy Temple in Karamadai here on Friday. Sources said that 80 police personnel were deployed outside the temple at 3.30 a.m. to prevent the entry of devotees. COVID-19 precautionary measure The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department had earlier announced that devotees will not be allowed inside the temple to witness the opening of ‘Sorgavaasal’ and the procession of the deity to prevent overcrowding as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah, Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K. S. Narenthiran Nair and Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu monitored the security arrangements inside and outside the temple in the early hours of Friday, the sources said. Around 300 devotees, who had gathered outside the temple, were allowed entry only from 7.30 a.m. as per the standard operating procedures issued by the State government, according to the sources.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gang steals car, Rs. 27 lakh cash from Kerala native||Unidentified men attacked a native of Kerala at Navakkarai in Coimbatore district in the early hours of Friday and escaped in his car that had Rs. 27.5 lakh cash. The victim was identified as Abdul Salam (50), a real estate businessman from Malappuram in Kerala. Mr. Salam was on his way from Bengaluru to Malapuram in his car driven by A. Samsuddin (42). When the car reached Navakkarai on the Coimbatore-Palakkad road around 4 a.m., it was intercepted by a pick-up truck. At the same time, a four-wheeler hit the rear of the car. As Mr. Salam and the driver got down from the car to check, a gang of seven men attacked them and drove off in their car with the cash. The other two vehicles also fled the spot, leaving the two men on the road, the sources said. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah, Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K. S. Narenthiran Nair and Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu visited the spot for inquiry. Coimbatore District Police have formed special teams to nab the accused. K.G. Chavadi police are investigating.
26 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions seek reopening of all NTC mills||With the National Textile Corporation (NTC) deciding to reopen three of its textile mills in Tamil Nadu, trade unions here have demanded the reopening of all the mills. NTC has seven mills in Tamil Nadu and one in Puducherry. These employ nearly 7,000 workers, including temporary workers. The NTC management said it would start operation at its mills in phases. In the first phase, six mills, including three in Tamil Nadu and one in Kerala, would start operations. The mills remained shut since the lockdown was announced in March. M. Arumugam, State secretary of AITUC, said the NTC management here had not held talks with the unions so far on how they planned to go ahead and operate the mills. If the government had decided to operate the mills, it was not difficult to operate all the mills. If there were financial constraints, the Central Government should bring in the funds required and resume operations at all the mills. The workers would be unhappy and concerned if only a few mills were operated. This would create uncertainty among the workers, he said. Hence, the demand of the unions was to take steps and operate all the mills.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Self-immolation bid foiled||Police personnel and journalists foiled a self-immolation attempt by an auto rickshaw driver outside the Coimbatore Collectorate on Friday. Police said Jeevanandam (50) visited the Collectorate with his wife and two children and suddenly poured kerosene on himself. Seeing this, the Coimbatore City Police personnel and a group of journalists snatched the kerosene bottle from him and foiled the bid. The driver alleged that one Manikandan was attempting to remove his shop in Singanallur as it was allegedly encroaching a pavement.  He and his family members were taken to the Race Course police station for counselling and the issue was referred to the Singanallur police for further action, the police said. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 .)
26 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment manufacturers seek uninterrupted yarn supply||Garment exporters have appealed to textile mills to continue supply of yarn without disruption and to maintain the prices of yarn for two months. The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) sought a meeting with stakeholders and the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) organised a virtual meeting on Friday. Representatives of eight associations took part and the Chairman and Managing Director of Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) also participated. The garment manufacturers and exporters said the units should get yarn supply without any disruption. The mills had been requested to maintain the prices of yarn for two months and the CCI to hold the prices of cotton for 15 days. The CITI would hold discussions with the regional associations and with the CCI to ensure continue supply of yarn and to keep prices stable, said a release from A. Sakthivel, chairman of AEPC.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Concessions to continue at Kaniyur toll plaza||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has not made any changes in the toll collection for local residents near Kaniyur toll plaza, said an official of the NHAI. The residents had staged a protest at the plaza as they were asked to pay toll. According to the official, the residents living in the vicinity were taking monthly passes and the system continues. There is no withdrawal or change in the system.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bhavani water supply suspended for four days||Coimbatore Corporation has said in a release issued here on Friday that there would be no supply of River Bhavani water from December 27 to 30 to areas in Wards 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, 18 and 19 in Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli, as the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board would be taking up work to provide house service connection.
26 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man found murdered||A sixty-year-old man was found murdered at Rangan Street near Ram Nagar on Friday. The deceased was identified as Selvam. Police investigation revealed that he was attacked by another man during a drunken brawl. Kattoor police have registered a case. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Concrete-lining of LBP canal will affect farming’||Since concrete-lining of Lower Bhavan Project (LBP) canal will prevent recharging of groundwater which, in turn, will affect the farming activities, Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, secretary of Environmental Wing of DMK, has urged the government to drop the project. In a release, he said that the 201-km canal helped in irrigating 2.70 lakh acres in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. In 2013, the then AIADMK government proposed concrete-lining of the canal and due to stiff opposition by the ayacut farmers, the project was dropped. But, after seven years, the government had floated tenders for executing the work. “Instead of naming it as concrete-lining works, the government had floated tenders for renovation and restoration of the canal at Rs. 178 crore”, the release said and added that if the project is executed, over 80,000 trees along the canal will be cut. The release said that concrete-lining will prevent seepage affecting the recharge of groundwater which affects wells and borewells. Also, farming activities cannot be carried out in over one lakh acres of land and drinking water shortage will emerge, he added. Concrete canals established under the Parambikulam – Aliyar and Mullaperiyar schemes had failed and hence, the government should consult stakeholders and decide on executing the project, he added.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Religious fervour marks Christmas celebrations in Erode district||Religious fervour and gaiety marked Christmas celebrations as people attended special prayers in churches adhering to COVID-19 norms here on Friday. To mark the birth of Jesus Christ, special masses were conducted at CSI Brough Memorial Church at Panneerselvam Junction on Thursday midnight in which hundreds of people participated with family members. Due to the pandemic situation, the crowd was less than usual, as special prayers and the mass were conducted from 11.30 p.m. on Thursday till the early hours of Friday. On Friday, mass were conducted from 5 a.m. to 6.30 a.m. and from 8 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. after which the participants exchanged greetings. People wearing masks were allowed to enter the premises and hand sanitisers were given to them. They were asked to ensure personal distancing while on the church premises and adhere to the safety norms. Likewise, special prayers were held across churches in the district on Friday. Many commercial establishments, bakeries and restaurants were seen decorated with lights as workers exchanged Christmas greetings with the customers.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman beaten to death||A 50-year-old woman was beaten to death by her partner with a log on the Bargur Ghat Road here on Thursday night. Viswanathan (55) of Papathikadu Pudur in Anthiyur lost his wife a few years ago and is living with Raji, wife of Marappan, of the same area. Both were workers and staying in Ramapuram village in Karnataka and were involved in plucking coconuts. On Thursday, they were returning home in a two-wheeler on the ghat road. Suffers head injuries While nearing the Varattupallam reservoir, a dispute broke out between them and Viswanathan stopped the vehicle and took a log lying on the road and hit her. She suffered serious head injuries and died on the spot. Onlookers found Viswanathan and the body and alerted the Bargur police, who sent the body to the government hospital in Anthiyur. A case was registered and Viswanathan was arrested.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||14 U.K. returnees test negative||Fourteen persons, who returned from the United Kingdom to the district tested negative for COVID-19 while the test results of eight others were awaited on Friday. After the emergence of a mutated variant of COVID-19 in the U.K., the Health Department identified 22 persons, who returned from that country and asked them to be in home isolation. Swab samples were lifted from them and tested at the laboratory at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal said that those who tested negative were asked to remain in home isolation for another 12 days.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng temples for Vaikunta Ekadasi||Devotees in large numbers thronged the Kottai Kasturi Ranganatha Perumal Temple on Vaikunta Ekadasi and offered prayers here on Friday. The main event, opening of ‘Sorgavasal’ was held at 4.30 a.m. in which devotees were not allowed to participate due to COVID-19 pandemic. Only priests, temple staff, and officials of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Trust (HR and CE) were present during the opening. At 6 a.m., devotees who had registered through online were allowed to visit the temple and offer prayers. Devotees were given hand sanitizers and were allowed to enter the temple premises only with mask. Also, thermal scanning was done for all the devotees and they were not allowed to carry puja items. Barricades were erected and devotees were asked to maintain personal distancing while in the queue to enter the temple. Temple officials said that persons aged over 65 and children less than 10 years were also not allowed inside due to the pandemic. Devotees continued visiting the temple throughout the day as police personnel regulated the crowd. In Salem, thousands of devotees offered prayers at the Kottai Arulmigu Alagirinathar Temple and were allowed to pass through the ‘Sorgavasal’. Earlier in the day, devotees were not allowed to participate in the opening of Sorgavasal that was held in the presence of priests, officials and temple staff.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM will decide on board examinations: Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will decide on conducting State board examinations before the State Assembly elections in 2021, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Friday. To a question, the Minister told presspersons at Gobichettipalayam that he would discuss the issue with the Chief Minister after which a right decision would be taken on whether to conduct or cancel the board examinations. The Minister clarified that private schools were allowed to conduct half-yearly exams through online only if they were willing and added that, conduct of exams was not mandatory. “We had cancelled the half-yearly exams for government schools and private schools can conduct, only if they are willing,” he said. When reporters pointed out that students were declared promoted based on their quarterly and half-yearly exam marks in the last academic year, while both the exams were cancelled this year, the Minister said that the situation was different. “Due to COVID-19 pandemic, there was a complete lockdown and people could not come out earlier. But now the situation is different,” he added.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four held for murdering labourer||Four persons were arrested by the Perundurai police on the charges of murdering a labourer here recently. S. Muthupandi (28), native of Usilampatti in Madurai district lost his wife and was living with his two daughters at a rented house at Slaterpuram, near Sanitorium. He was involved in installing cement roof tiles and earning his livelihood. On December 21, his body was found along the Salem – Kochi National Highway at Thudupathi Junction with injuries. Perundurai police registered a case of murder and were investigating. Inquiries revealed that the victim’s old friends, with whom he had an enmity, murdered him. The accused, U. Habiyur Rahman (27) of Perundurai, S. Prabhu (23) of Kollampalayam, J. Jeyaprakash (33) of Pallipalayam and J. Jeyachandran (31) of Perundurai, consumed alcohol with the victim on December 20 and murdered him. They confessed to the crime and were produced in the court and lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison.
26 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Industrial sludge on Sipcot premises to be removed||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Perundurai said steps were taken to remove the industrial sludge from industries functioning on Sipcot premises. Perundurai Tahsildar G. Muthukrishnan along with officials held a meeting with the members of Perundurai SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association on December 18 during which members placed 30 demands. In a written reply to S. Chinnasamy, coordinator of the association, the District Environmental Engineer, said zero liquid discharge (ZLD) system was implemented and the solid waste generated during effluent treatment was stored on the premises. Steps were taken to remove the waste, the letter said and added sledge dumped in the non-functioning industries would also be removed.
26 December 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in pond in Ulundurpet||Two siblings, aged 9 and 8, drowned in a pond at Pali village near Ulundurpet on Friday. The victims were identified as Sameera and Yogesh, children of Devendran and Deepa of Pali. According to the police, the children stepped into the pond to bathe when they were trapped under the swamp and died. When they failed to return after sometime, the villagers launched a search and found their bodies floating in the pond. The bodies were retrieved and sent for post-mortem to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) at Mundiyambakkam. A case has been registered.
26 December 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunda Ekadasi||A large number of devotees thronged the Ariyakudi Thiruvengadamudayan Temple here on Friday as a part of the Vaikunda Ekadasi celebrations. According to the temple trustees, idols of Perumal, Sridevi and Boodevi were brought in a procession via the Desikar Sannathi and Sri Ramar Sannathi, where special pujas and aradhanas were performed.
26 December 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Karur Collector inspects rope car work at Ayyarmalai||Work on the erection of a rope car to transport devotees to the Rathinagireeswarar Temple atop Ayyarmalai will be completed soon, Collector S.Malarvizhi has said. The work, which began in February 2017, has been making slow progress due to various reasons. It was originally scheduled to be completed by June 2018. The rope way was expected to be commissioned at least this year, but the lockdown enforced in view of the pandemic resulted in further delay. “Work on establishing lower and upper stations is nearing completion. All necessary equipment to erect the rope way between the two stations have arrived. The works will be completed soon and brought to public use, after trial runs,” Ms.Malarvizhi said after inspecting the progress of works on Thursday. Situated at a height of 1,178 feet, the temple attracts a large number of devotees, who have to climb 1,017 steps to reach the top. Devotees have long been demanding erection of a rope car. Meeting the demand, the government had sanctioned Rs. 6.17 crore for erecting the rope car for easy access to the Saivaite temple, situated about 10 km from Kulithalai in Karur district. The upper station will be located near Amman Shrine atop the hill, while the base will be near 100 Pillar Mandapam. The rope way will have four cabins each moving up and down simultaneously. Each car will have a seating capacity of two. Once commissioned, about 120 devotees can use the rope car to go up and return in an hour.
26 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||UK returnee tests positive for COVID-19||A 38-year-old man, who was one of the returnees to Madurai from the United Kingdom being monitored by Health Department officials, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is currently under treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said the State government had given a list of 88 persons who had returned from the U.K. to Madurai from November 25 till date. Following the rapid spread of a new variant of novel coronavirus in the U.K., Health Department officials across the State are strictly monitoring all those who had returned from foreign countries, especially the U.K. Dr. Arjun Kumar said RT-PCR tests were conducted for 48 U.K. returnees and one person, a city resident, had tested positive. The patient had travelled to Madurai on November 26. All his primary contacts had tested negative and were home quarantined. “Samples and test result of the patient have been sent to the State government to check if the person has been infected by the new variant of the novel coronavirus,” Dr. Kumar said. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said the patient’s condition was stable. The patient’s CT scan showed that there was no lung involvement, he added. Health department officials said it was unlikely that the patient was infected by the new variant of novel coronavirus. “He had reached Madurai nearly one month back and it was unlikely that the incubation period of the new strain of coronavirus could be this long. It is more likely that he would have been infected after he reached Madurai,” said an official. Nevertheless, it was important that people followed safety measures like wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing and frequent hand washing, said Dr. Sangumani. Airport monitoring Monitoring of passengers from foreign countries had been stepped up at Madurai airport, said Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan. Two teams of health staff had been deployed to monitor domestic and international passengers. “While there are no direct flights to Madurai from Europe, passengers take a direct flight from other countries like Dubai and Singapore,” he said. Dr. Arjun Kumar said samples were being lifted from all passengers travelling from the U.K. “It is ensured that they are under home quarantine,” he said. Samples were also lifted from passengers from other countries if they did not have a COVID-19 negative test report conducted within 96 hours prior to the flight departure, he added. He also said hotel quarantine facility was ready to accommodate passengers.
26 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||27 passengers injured as truck hits bus||At least 27 passengers, including 10 women, sustained minor injuries as a private bus tipped over after a speeding truck hit it on Tiruchi-Madurai Highway at Othakadai junction near here on Friday. The police said the injured were admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital here. The bus, coming from Ponnamaravathi was trying to enter Othakadai near Agricultural College and Research Institute from Melur-Madurai Four-way Highway. Barricades had been placed on both lanes at the junction to slow down vehicles as a safety measure.  Barricades removed However, a couple of days back, the barricades were removed, a police officer said. “With no barricades, the vehicles had not stopped at the junction and were proceeding at a high speed. The bus driver, who realised that the container truck coming from Thoothukudi had not slowed down, tried his best to avoid a direct collision. However, the truck hit the rear end of the bus,” the police officer said. In the impact of the collision, the bus fell on its side. Onlookers broke the windshield of the bus to rescue the injured passengers. Othakadai police have picked up the truck driver, Kanagaraj of Thoothukudi.
26 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special prayers mark Christmas celebrations||Special mass, prayers and carols marked Christmas celebrations in Madurai on Thursday and Friday. Hundreds of Christians visited the colourfully decorated churches on Thursday night to attend special prayers. In Catholic churches, including St. Mary’s Cathedral on East Veli Street, St. Joseph’s Church at Gnanaolivupuram and the Holy Rosary Church on Town Hall Road, the special mass was conducted between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Thursday. The usual midnight mass was not held this year owing to the time restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The people were asked to wear face masks and hand sanitisers were also provided to them. Shops, bakeries and commercial outlets were decorated with colourful lights.
26 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Vajpayee birth anniversary||The BJP functionaries in the district celebrated the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee on Friday. R.S. Bose, former national executive committee member from Usilampatti, said that he had been celebrating the late leader’s birth anniversary for the last 43 years. The party men distributed sweets and fruits to the public. Party functionaries, including A.R. Mahalakshmi and R. Srinivasan, gave away welfare measures to the needy at government hospitals and at old age homes.
26 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC gives quietus to issue of compensation||To give a quietus to an issue pertaining to compensation to be paid to the family of a deceased employee of private company, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the employer to pay it directly to the family. It was hearing two connected matters pertaining to the issue. In 2014, B. Thangamurugan of Dindigul, a site engineer in a hydro power station, died due to an electric shock. The employer, Team Lease Services, was liable to pay compensation. An initial amount of Rs. 3 lakh was paid and a sum of Rs. 8.73 lakh was arrived at as a compensation amount. The interest for the unpaid amount worked out to Rs. 4.74 lakh. However, the father of the deceased, A. Balan, filed a petition seeking adequate relief and did not agree with the compensation. When the firm wanted to deposit the compensation with the Labour Commissioner to settle the issue, it was refused on the ground that the petition filed by the father of the deceased was pending before the court. Meanwhile, Kirloskar Brothers, another firm party to the case, agreed to pay Rs. 4 lakh to the family. With the compensation adding up to more than Rs. 20 lakh, Justice S. Vaidyanathan directed the amount be paid directly to the family. He observed that whenever an employer deposits an amount with the authority , it was the bounden duty of the authority to receive it. The Act contemplated that an employer had to deposit the amount. Unless there was an interim order, mere quoting of the pendency of the petition was not the right procedure, the judge said.
26 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC stays G.O. reducing engineers’ pay||Coming to the relief of engineers of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday stayed a government order (G.O.) reducing their existing salaries. The court directed the State government to prepare their pay bills, based on the last drawn salary and pay them without any reduction. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by engineers who challenged the G.O. They also sought a direction to the State to grant time-bound revision of pay scales. Justice Krishnan Ramasamy granted an interim stay on the G.O. and observed that it was the duty of the State to prepare pay bills on the basis of the last drawn pay of the petitioners prior to the G.O. and pay salaries to the petitioners without any reduction. The court posted the case for further hearing on January 11, 2021.
26 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Teacher spends her savings to help pandemic-hit persons||The pandemic has taught the value of the piggy bank to many a family in distress. But a primary school teacher in Nagapattinam has been draining the savings of her family to help the needy. Vasantha Chitravelu, 51, who teaches at a primary school at Andarkadu, Vedaranyam, is no stranger to altruism. She has always encouraged her students to seek help and has given their families financial assistance. She also bought over 1,500 umbrellas for students of several schools in Nagapattinam to reduce absenteeism during the monsoon of 2019. Once COVID-19 struck, she decided to reach out to the wider community. On a typical day since the pandemic began, she wakes up at 4 a.m, after sleeping barely four hours, prepares food for nearly 200 people, distributes it along with dry rations, answers distress calls and visits and teaches her students. “Since March, we have distributed Rs. 35 lakh in financial assistance and dry rations to those affected by the pandemic and the loss of jobs which came with it,” she said. It all began in March when her students were about to complete the academic year but were forced to stay home to avoid the spread of COVID-19. Students then began to approach Ms. Vasantha, seeking her help to buy groceries and food. Noticing that many of her students slept hungry, she decided to provide cooked meals to 200 people a day. “These are pregnant women in need of a nutritious meal, students, widows, patients and family members of those suffering from mental illnesses and senior citizens,” she said. Ms. Vasantha was earlier preparing the food herself, but has employed a cook now. Most beneficiaries are families of Ms. Vasantha’s students and their relatives and neighbours; through them, many strangers have also sought help now. Ms. Vasantha’s phone number was announced on a local radio show in November. Since then, her phone has been ringing constantly. “I receive calls from across Tamil Nadu from patients of various ailments, unable to afford treatment, people who have lost jobs and people with nobody to care for. For them, I transfer money to their bank accounts,” she said. Of the Rs. 35 lakh, a sizeable amount came from the couple’s savings, she said. While Rs. 12 lakh came from the salary of Ms. Vasantha’s husband, a government school headmaster, who is on an extension of service for a year, the remaining amount came from the money saved for the wedding of the couple’s younger daughter. Even with such a packed schedule, Ms. Vasantha has not forgotten her students. “I go to the houses of at least three students a day to teach them,” she said. Ms. Vasantha hopes to open a charitable trust to continue her work.
26 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Minister hands over G.O. on fund sanction||Textiles Minister O.S. Manian on Friday handed over an order of the Government sanctioning Rs. 5.32 crore for re-constructing the damaged walls of the pond in Nagore Dargah to the administrators of the shrine. The walls of the pond had collapsed recently during the heavy rain brought in by Cyclone Burevi. Muslims in the locality had requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for funds to carry out repair works during his recent visit. The Chief Minister announced that all four walls surrounding the pond in the dargah would be reconstructed with the sanctioned amount.
26 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Keezhvenmani massacre anniversary||The 52nd anniversary of Keezhvenmani massacre was observed by CPI(M) at the village on Friday. State Secretary of CPI (M) K. Balakrishnan, senior leader G. Ramakrishnan, Nagapattinam MP M. Selvaraj and others paid homage to the 44 Dalit farm labourers who were locked in a hut and set afire by their landlords for demanding a raise in wages, at a memorial in the village. The memorial with 44 pillars was inaugurated in 2014, with contributions of Rs. 3 crore from members of the CITU.
26 December 2020||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Rope car service from Monday||Devotees visiting the Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple here can use the rope car from Monday, said Executive Officer and Fit Person Kranti Kumar Pati here on Friday. In a press release, he said the government has proposed to restart the rope car facility. While devotees possessing online tickets for darshan (paid or general) obtained through thehttp://tnhrce.gov.inwebsite may produce them at the counters and collect two-way tickets for rope car on payment of Rs. 100. The tickets for the rope car would be issued to 1500 devotees on a first-come first-served basis. It would be available from 7 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. and from 2.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. On the opening day, the service shall commence from 9.30 a.m. The temple has made arrangements for differently abled persons and senior citizens to use the rope car facility. They should inform one day in advance with the administration over the phone 04545-242683 between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. following which they can travel to the shrine by the rope car.
26 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 29 new COVID-19 cases; fatality rate decreases||The Union Territory has recorded 29 new COVID-19 cases from tests conducted for the virus on 2,973 persons on Friday. As per the statistics released by the Health Department, 15 new cases were diagnosed in Puducherry region, while 7 new cases each were recorded in Karaikal and Mahe region. The new cases were detected from among 2,973 persons tested for the novel coronavirus in the Union Territory. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Department had tested 4,67,228 persons for COVID-19 in the Union Territory. With the latest admissions, the active cases stood at 349, including 191 under home isolation. Of the 158 cases under hospitalisation, 54 are in JIPMER and 50 in Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute. The case fatality has come down to 1.66% and the recovery rate stood at 97.42%. The overall tally in the region is 629 deaths, 37,914 total cases and 36,936 treated and discharged patients, the statistics said. Meanwhile, the Health Department on Friday started screening of around 1,000 police personnel deputed for duty to conduct Sani Peyarchi festival at Thirunallar Saneeswara Temple in Karaikal. A senior official in the Health Department said that all the police personnel and other staff deployed for duty would be tested for the virus. Wide publicity would be given on the temple premises about the need to maintain personal distancing norms and hygiene to prevent the spread of the virus, he said. 13 cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported 13 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 24,583. While 24,205 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 59. The official death toll stood at 282. In Villupuram district, 11 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 14,928. No fresh case was reported in Kallakurichi district.
26 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Christmas celebrated with gaiety and fervour||Christmas was celebrated with gaiety and religious fervour in Puducherry. The faithful attended special services held on Thursday night and Friday morning at various churches. Archbishop Antony Anandarayar of Archdiocese of Pondicherry and Cuddalore led the midnight mass at the Immaculate Conception Cathedral on Mission Street on Thursday. Hundreds of believers thronged the mid-night mass held at Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Opposite Railway Station, Our Lady of Assumption Church in Nellithope and Our Lady of Lourdes in Villianur. Mass in Tamil, French Priests in Eglise de Notre Dame des Anges on Dumas Street offered Christmas mass in Tamil, French and English. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy attended the mid-night mass at Immaculate Conception Cathedral and Our Lady of Assumption Church in Nellithope.
26 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng temples on Vaikunta Ekadasi||Devotees thronged Perumal temples in Puducherry to offer prayers on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi festival on Friday. Temples witnessed heavy rush from the wee hours. Hundreds of people waited in serpentine queues at the famous Sri Varadaraja Perumal Temple on Mahatma Gandhi Road to have a glimpse of the presiding deity being taken out of the ‘Sorgavasal.’ Temple authorities had a tough time in maintaining personal distancing norms to prevent the sp read of COVID-19. Rituals held Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan and legislator K. Venketasan were at the temple when the deity was carried out. Rituals were also held at Perumal temples at Muthialpet, Lawspet, Villianur, Thirubhuvanai, Kirumampakkam and Kannikoil.
26 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Teenager goes missing in sea||A 17-year-old teenager went missing while swimming in the beach near Pudukuppam on Thursday. According to the police, a group of students went to bathe in the beach at Pudukuppam after attending a friend’s birthday party. When Puviyarasan and Balaji were swimming, they were swept into the sea by a huge wave. Hearing the screams of their friends on the shore, a group of fishermen jumped into the sea and rescued Balaji. A search was on to locate Puviyarasan, police said.
26 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G accords sanction||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi has accorded financial sanction of Rs. 11. 57 crore for providing cash assistance through Direct Benefit Transfer in lieu of distribution of cloth materials to Below Poverty Line cardholders. An amount of Rs. 900 would be remitted into the account of BPL families by DBT mode. The gesture would benefit around 1. 35 lakh families, the release added.
26 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to lay stone for dental college soon||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would soon lay the foundation for the Government Dental College in Pudukottai. The Directorate of Medical Education was carrying out preliminary works for starting the dental college that was announced by the Chief Minister, Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters here after inaugurating the special burns ward and CT scan facility at Government Medical College Hospital here. Although the COVID-19 positivity rate was on the decline in the State, the Health Department was continuously carrying out RT-PCR tests on 70,000 to 75,000 persons per day and the State was moving in the right direction, he said. The number of COVID-19 positive patients were only in single digit in Pudukottai district on Thursday and the spread of the viral infection had been controlled. He appealed to the public to extend their cooperation during New Year and Pongal as they did during Deepavali by adhering to the government’s guidelines by wearing masks and ensuring personal distancing as that would yield fruitful results for the steps taken by the State government and help in further bringing down the positivity rate. The CT scan facility had been established at Government Medical College Hospital here at a cost of Rs. 1.94 crore and Rs. 78 lakh for the special burns ward. The Minister released Tamil Nadu Medico Legal Manual 2020 on the occasion. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and Health Department officials participated.
26 December 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||G. Ganapathi, 36, and his daughter Susika, 7, were killed while his son Kamalesh, 9, was injured when a bus knocked down their motorbike here on Friday.
26 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors asked to submit applications for loan||Street vendors in the corporation limits were asked to submit applications for obtaining loan under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that there are 2,883 registered street vendors and they are eligible to receive Rs. 10,000 as loan for improving their business. Vendors can submit applications at the respective zonal offices.
26 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||550 kg banned plastic items seized||Continuing their drive against storing and usage of single-use plastics, Corporation officials raided 38 shops at Shevapet area and seized 550 kg of banned items and fined shopkeepers to the tune of Rs. 63,000 here on Thursday. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that raids in shops against sale of single-use plastics will continue.
26 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Measures to retrieve temple land begin||Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department initiated measures to recover temple land and issued notices to encroachers. According to officials, Sri Venugopal Swami temple here was donated over 3 acres of land by a devotee near AVR Roundabout on Salem-Bengaluru National Highway. Based on recent directions from the court, the HR and CE officials began recovery measures.
26 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers irked by government’s silence over incentive for paddy||The government’s silence over the plea for a substantial increase in the incentive for paddy procured at the direct purchase centres has annoyed delta farmers. Cultivation of paddy was taken up on a fairly larger area during August-September as samba and in September-October as late samba/thaladi in the delta districts by the farmers with the confidence infused by the opening the Mettur Stanley Reservoir on the scheduled date of June 12. Their expectations for a better price for their produce increased with the Central government hiking the Minimum Support Price for common and fine varieties by Rs. 53 per quintal for the procurement season 2020-21 commencing from October 1, 2020. The Centre announced that a sum of Rs. 1868 per quintal would be offered to common variety and Rs. 1888 per quintal for fine variety paddy procured during the current procurement season. Farmers point out that the State government used to declare incentives over and above the MSP fixed by the Union government to encourage farmers to sell their produce at the DPCs. For the last procurement season (October 1, 2019, to September 30, 2020) the State government declared an incentive of Rs. 50 per quintal for the common variety and Rs. 70 per quintal for the fine variety of paddy. During the last procurement season, farmers who sold their produce at the DPCs in the Delta districts received a sum of Rs. 1865 per quintal for common variety and Rs. 1905 per quintal for the fine variety of paddy. From October 1, 2020, the purchase price for common variety paddy at the DPCs operated by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has been fixed at Rs. 1918 per quintal and for fine variety paddy at Rs. 1958 per quintal. Farmers who cultivated paddy with confidence amidst COVID-19 pandemic anticipated that the State government would increase the incentive amount substantially so that they could offset the increase in input costs effected by the pandemic situation in the agriculture sector, said Sundara Vimalanathan, general secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. “But much to our dismay, the government has not heard our views,” he added.
26 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||SHGs allege swindling of money||A Non-Government Organisation here in Periakulam has been charged with swindling around Rs. 2 crore from some banks in the name of about 700 women who were members in 70 self-help groups. The women were shocked following receipt of legal notices from banks to ‘borrowers’ for default in repayment of loans.According to the SHG representatives, they were guided by Rajkumar of the NGO since 2017-18. After collecting Adhaar and ration cards from the women, he prepared project reports and submitted them to banks seeking loans. As the pandemic led to shutdown of activities since March, the NGO had gone underground, they said and urged the police to register a case against Rajkumar and his accomplice. The women squatted before the office of the Revenue Divisional Officer here at Periakulam and demanded justice. The DSP Muthukumar explained to them about the inquiry being made into the complaint and promised action. They dispersed later. A senior officer said that though the exact quantum of fraud was not known, it may be around Rs. 2 crore.
26 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Special prayers mark Christmas celebrations||Christmas was celebrated in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts in a grand manner as people thronged various churches since Thursday. Dressed in colourful attire, people went to churches with families and friends in large numbers. The churches were decked up with illuminated lights to mark the celebrations. Prayers were conducted for world peace also, organisers said. The Christmas cribs at the Our Lady of Snows Basilica was the cynosure of all eyes. Traffic snarls were reported in many streets where people had come to purchase Christmas cakes and savouries. The police made elaborate arrangements and distributed masks to those people who did not wear them. People thronged churches at Toovipuram, Sawyerpuram, SBI Colony (Annai Velankanni church) and those in Kovilpatti, Arumuganeri and Sattankulam for midnight mass. Fishermen decorated their boats with lights and flags. Many bakeries in the city were doing a brisk business. In Tirunelveli, cathedrals of various congregations were decked up for the Christmas. Braving the cold condition, people thronged churches in Palayamkottai and joined in the Christmas carols. Special feast was organised in many places. The Infant Jesus Church at Kalvettankuzhi, St. Antony’s Church, St. Adaikalamatha Church conducted midnight mass. Many houses were illuminated with ornamental lamps.  Madurai In Catholic churches including St. Mary’s Cathedral on East Veli Street, St. Joseph’s Church at Gnanaolivupuram and the Holy Rosary Church on Town Hall Road, the special mass was conducted on Thursday night between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. The usual midnight mass was not held this year owing to the time restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
26 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents seek repair of damaged roads||With many of the interior roads in the residential colonies off the Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway being badly damaged due to the on going phase-II of the underground drainage scheme works in the city, members of the Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Association have decided to lay siege to the Corporation office on Monday. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the federation held recently to discuss the situation. The phase-II of the underground sewer works in the city have been progressing since 2018 in places residential areas in places such as Tiruverumbur, Ellakudi, Kattur, Ariyamangalam, Golden Rock, Kalkandarkottai and other places spread over 19 wards in the city. “However, interior roads which were dug up for laying sewer lines have not been properly covered or repaired. The roads are full of potholes and have been rendered slushy following the monsoon rains. Residents were facing tremendous hardship in negotiating the roads by vehicles. Even walking along the roads have become difficult,” S.Sakthivel, S.Subramanian and P.Lenin, organisers of the federation, said in a joint statement. Since there have been no maintenance of the roads over the past five years, they have been reduced to a pathetic condition. Some of the black-topped roads have now become muddy and residents are suffering heavily over the past two years, they said. Unless the government sanctioned special funds to repair and black-top the damaged roads, the situation is not going improve, they contended. The federation also condemned the delay in completing the new drinking water supply scheme meant for wards 61-65. Most of the households in the wards are not getting water supply even though they were paying water charges under the revised rates. Although the work on new water scheme began in 2016, it is yet to be completed, they pointed out. “We want to draw the attention of the government to major civic issues plaguing our localities and hence have decided to launch the stir on Monday,” they said.
26 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||110 more test positive for COVID-19 in central region||The Central districts recorded a marginal increase in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases with 110 persons testing positive for the virus on Friday, 10 more than Thursday. Two COVID-related deaths, one each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur, were recorded in the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts reported an increase over Thursday’s numbers. Tiruchi recorded 33 fresh cases and Thanjavur 32. Both the districts had reported less than 30 cases each on Thursday. The two other core delta districts of Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur reported 18 and 13 cases, respectively, on Friday. While Karur had 10 positive cases, Pudukottai continued to show an appreciable drop in numbers with only three persons testing positive on Friday. Ariyalur reported just a single case and Perambalur brought good tidings with no fresh case being reported in the district for the third consecutive day on Friday. A 64-year-old man with chronic kidney disease died of cardiogenic shock,metabolic acidosis and COVID pneumonia on Wednesday at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. At the Pudukottai Government Medical College, a 79-year-old woman with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and systemic hypertension, died of acute respiratory failure, diabetic ketoacidosis, urosepsis and COVID pneumonia on Thursday. As on Friday, 214 COVID 19 positive persons were under were under treatment, including home treatment, in Tiruchi district, 188 in Thanjavur district, 118 in Tiruvarur, 108 in Nagapattinam, 87 in Karur, 58 in Pudukottai,nine in Ariyalur and two in Perambalur, according to the bulletin.
26 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special mass marks Christmas||Special mass in churches at midnight and Friday morning marked Christmas celebrations across the central region. Though the celebrations were low-key with restricted admissions at churches in view of the pandemic, men, women and children in colourful attire participated in the special Christmas masses at the St. Mary’s Cathedral, Melapudur, Lady of Lourdes Church, Main Guard Gate, Holy Redeemers Basilica, Palakkarai, St. John’s Church, St. Christopher Church, All Saints Church and other churches in the city. Churches had set up cribs depicting the birth of Christ. Carols were sung as part of the celebrations. Faithfuls converged in large numbers for the Christmas Eve Mass at the Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health at Velankanni. As a precaution against spread of COVID 19, the shrine administration conducted the mass at an open auditorium. The special prayer service led by the Rector of Shrine Basilica Very Rev.Fr.A.M.A.Prabakar had the participation of faithfuls in large numbers from all over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and other parts of the country.
26 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Paramapada Vasal opens at Srirangam temple sans devotees||The most important event of Vaikunda Ekadasi festival at Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, the opening of Paramapada Vasal, was held in the early hours of Friday without public darshan due to restrictions imposed in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The processional deity, Lord Namperumal, attired in Ratnangi (gem-studded armour) was taken in a procession, after rituals at the sanctum sanctorum, through Raja Mahendran Thiruchutru and Kulasekaran Chutru before reaching Vraja Nadhi Mandapam, a few metres ahead of Paramapada Vaasal. Vedic hymns were rendered by pandits at Vraja Nadhi Mandapam where the processional deity halted for some time. Later, Lord Namperumal passed through Paramapada Vasal at 4.45 a.m. and was taken to Thirumamani Asthana Mandapam inside Thousand Pillar Mandapam, where devotees were allowed to have darshan. The event normally attracts milling crowds, and chants of ‘Ranga Ranga’ would rent the air when the Lord exits through Paramapada Vasal. The entire temple complex wore a different look in the absence of devotees who were not allowed when the holy procession of the deity took place. No passes were issued. Only the temple priests, trustees, staff, police personnel and media persons were allowed to enter the shrine during the opening of Paramapada Vasal. The temple had been closed for devotees from 6 p.m. on Thursday, and devotees were allowed only after the deity reached Thousand Pillar Mandapam on Friday morning. The temple administration had introduced a system of online booking for devotees to have darshan. Paramapada Vasal at the Andal Temple in Srivilliputtur was opened on on Friday with fewer devotees witnessing the annual event. After special pujas and deeparathana, Paramapada Vasal was opened at 5.31 a.m. and the deities, Periya Perumal, Goddess Andal and Lord Rengamannar, passed through the huge entrance. After Azhwars performed ‘ethir sevai’, the deities were taken to Rapathu Mandapam at Vadapathirasainar Sannathi. Only devotees with masks were allowed into the temple.  In Madurai A large number of devotees thronged the Vaishnavite temples across Madurai on Friday, on the occasion of 'Vaikunta Ekadasi'. In most of the temples, the devotees were not allowed to witness the opening of 'Paramapadha Vasal', owing to COVID-19 pandemic. The devotees were later allowed for a darshan of the deities. At Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple at Tallakulam, the 'paramapadha vasal' was opened at 4.50 a.m. While 'paramapadha vasal' was opened at Sundararaja Perumal temple at Alagarkoil at 5.15 a.m, the 'paramapadha vasal' was opened at Koodal Azhagar Perumal temple at 4 p.m. All devotees were instructed to wear facemasks and sanitisers were provided to them.
26 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 more BG stretches to be electrified in early 2021||Three more broad-gauge stretches, including two in the Tiruchi Railway Division, will be electrified early next year. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) is executing the projects in the Nidamangalam-Mannargudi, Tiruchi-Pudukottai and Cuddalore-Vriddhachalam sections. Despite the lockdown, the project work is apace in the three sections, with the work entering the crucial phase on the Nidamangalam-Mannargudi stretch (about 13 km). The erection of masts has been completed on this stretch, and wiring is under progress. This project is expected to be completed next month, according to a senior railway official. An inspection by a power car will be carried out once the wiring is completed. CORE is not facing labour shortage, the official said, adding that the project was being executed at a cost of around Rs. 7 crore. The Nidamangalam-Mannargudi line will become another stretch to get electrified in the delta region once the work gets over. The stretch from Thanjavur to Karaikal through Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Nagore and the stretch from Mayiladuthurai to Tiruvarur through Peralam and Nannilam, besides the mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur through Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam have already been electrified. The Nagapattinam-Velankanni project has also been completed. The official said CORE planned to complete the work on the Cuddalore-Vriddhachalam stretch by February, with wiring nearing completion. As for the Tiruchi-Pudukottai stretch, which comes under the Madurai Railway Division, the project was proposed to be completed by March, he said. It is part of the Tiruchi-Pudukottai-Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudhunagar electrification project.
26 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Paramasivan cremated||A large number of people on Friday paid their last respects to Tamil scholar and anthropologist Tho. Paramasivan. Minister V.M. Rajalakshmi placed a wreath on the body. The body was cremated in Vellakoil in the evening.
26 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Gram sabhas not held during DMK regime’||Gram sabhas were prevented from being held in village panchayats during the DMK regime, former MP and BJP’s Kerala in-charge C.P. Radhakrishnan alleged here on Friday. Speaking to presspersons after inaugurating a blood donation camp organised by the BJP to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Radhakrishnan condemned the DMK for organising meetings in the name of ‘gram sabhas’ ahead of the Assembly election. “The DMK will do things that were not done when it was in power,” he said.
26 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||42 minors rescued from child labour||In a two-week special drive from December 10, the Anti Child Trafficking Unit of the Tiruppur City Police have rescued 42 minors who were forced into child labour and alms seeking. The drive, ordered by City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan, ended on Thursday, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes against Women and Children unit) S. Mohan.  Alms seeking The rescued children comprised those who were forced into child labour at garment units or into alms seeking on the streets, he said. All the rescued children were produced before the Child Welfare Committee. While four of them were sent to rehabilitation homes, the rest were sent to their parents, Mr. Mohan said. The Anti Child Trafficking Unit also rescued 58 missing children between July and December, and reunited them with their parents through the Child Welfare Committee, Mr. Mohan said. A special team of the unit, led by Inspector Badrunnisa Begum, coordinated with the local police to rescue the minors.
26 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Girl found abandoned||A seven-year-old girl was found abandoned near Avinashi in Tiruppur on Friday. She was found unconscious by the residents at Thandukkaranpalayam bus stop near Cheyur, police said. She was admitted to Avinashi Government Hospital and later referred to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. The girl’s health was stable. Cheyur police are investigating.
26 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Moisture content norm relaxed||The Centre has relaxed the ceiling on moisture content in paddy procured through the direct purchase centres this season, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this to reporters at Sorakudi in Nannilam taluk on Friday, the Minister said that paddy with a moisture content of up to 20% would be procured by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation during this procurement season. Previously, only paddy with up to 17% moisture content was procured. The relaxation comes after the State government wrote to the Centre based on the requests from farmers who had harvested the paddy amidst the inclement weather recently.
26 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Trekking sheds to help monitor elephant movement in Gudalur, Pandalur||Trekking sheds have been set up in strategic locations across the Gudalur forest division to monitor the movement of elephants in the region and reduce problematic human-elephant interactions. The five trekking sheds, built at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh each with funds from the Special Area Development Programme (SADP), have been constructed in Pattavayal, Cherambadi, Gudalur and Pandalur. Built at a considerable height from the ground using stilts, the trekking sheds will allow forest staff a panoramic view of the surrounding area, which will help in monitoring the movement of animals as well as people after sunset. When contacted, Sumesh Soman, District Forest Officer (Gudalur forest division), said that the trekking sheds will serve to not only monitor wildlife movement, but will also serve as a rest house for forest staff. “It will also serve as a rest house for staff engaged in night patrols, and also for monitoring forest areas and ensure that there is no poaching or illegal logging in these areas,” he said. One of the trekking sheds, in Pattavayal, is located along the interstate border between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Overlooking a major junction with roads leading to Cherambadi, Wayanad and Gudalur, the area is used by elephants traveling between Muthanga Wildlife Sanctuary in Wayanad and Gudalur. “There have been a number of problematic interactions in the area, and we hope that this trekking shed will allow staff to monitor elephant movement and issue early warnings to residents to stay indoors,” said Mr. Soman. “All the sheds are built in strategic locations that we hope will help mitigate human-animal interactions and bring down the number of injuries and fatalities caused to humans due to such incidents,” he added.
26 December 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Flag mast erected at Ooty Railway Station||A monumental national flag mast has been erected at the Udhagamandalam Railway Station, a press release from the Salem division of the Southern Railway said. “The mast is 30 metres high and the Tricolour measures 20 feet in breadth and 30 feet in length. Similar monumental national flag masts have been erected in Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Namakkal and Karur Railway stations,” the release added.
26 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||14 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,109 with 14 new cases reported on December 25. While 19,569 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 200. The district's death toll is 340. In Ranipet district, 7 patients were reported positive. In Tirupathur district, the tally stood at 7,395 with three new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 10 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 19,083.
26 December 2020||VILLUPURAM/CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Even Modi cannot prevent gram sabhas, CM jittery: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said even if Prime Minister Narendra Modi tried to prevent his party from holding gram sabhas (now rechristened ‘makkal gram sabhas’ or MGS), as part of the ‘We reject AIADMK’ campaign, it would be futile. He said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had become jittery over the DMK holding the meetings. Addressing an MGS at Marakkanam in Villupuram, he said, “If we had gone ahead and held the meetings, defying the directions, it would have resulted in chaos, and the police would have resorted to arrests. But we have now rechristened the forum. It is really amusing how the government banned the holding of the meetings, at the last minute, and this only shows how much the government is afraid of the DMK.” The DMK will defy any ban and hold meetings. He said the meetings have had a tremendous response, and on the second day, 58 lakh people took part across the State. “The AIADMK government is not able to stomach its success,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the BJP government at the Centre had deprived the State governments of their rights and the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu was conniving with it. “We have come here to safeguard democracy, the way our late leader Kalaignar [Karunanidhi] safeguarded democracy during the Emergency,” he said. Recalling the 97-page petition submitted to the Governor, demanding action against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and some of his Ministers, Mr. Stalin said the Governor had promised action since he also sensed the DMK would come to power soon. With regard to the allegation of the Chief Minister that the DMK was indulging in family politics, Mr. Stalin said he had climbed the ladder, in a phased manner, through party work.
26 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||3,000 saplings planted||A Miyawaki sapling planting drive was taken up on VNPR park along College Road here on Friday. Municipal Commissioner S. Parthasarathy said that this was the second initiative of the urban local body. He said that already one lakh saplings were planted in the compost yard. The municipality which has got seven parks would take up miyawaki sapling planting in the third park soon. The increase in greenery would improve the environmental atmosphere. Besides cutting down on carbon footprint, the trees would bring in more rain for the town. On Friday, 3,000 saplings were planted on 3,000 square feet of the 10-acre VNPR Park. The saplings worth Rs. 2.50 lakh were sponsored by C .Shanmuga Priyan. The event was organised by Virudhunagar Nala Amaippu. Industrialist V.R. Muthu, founder president of Nagar Nala Amaippu S.M. Rathnavelu, secretary K. Ravindran, municipal engineer Gurusamy were present.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cane procurement for second crushing season commences||Cane procurement for the second crushing season was formally flagged off here at the Subramanya Siva Sugarcane Cooperative Society in Paapireddypatty on Friday. A total of 1,28,000 metric tonnes of sugarcane is targeted to be crushed for 2020-21 in the district. This includes the society’s own cane of 98,000 mts (from 3283.85 acreage) and 30,000 mts from Dharmapuri Sugarcane Cooperative society. Further, the 1,565 members of the Subramanya Siva Cooperative Society, who had supplied cane for 2019-20 will also receive an additional support of Rs. 137.50 per tonne as announced by the government. Accordingly, a total of Rs. 98.3 lakh will be credited to the bank accounts of the society members. According to the district administration, 113 lorries, 86 tractors and 14 bullock carts have been engaged for the transport of cut sugarcane from the fields to the crushing unit of the society here. The district administration has urged the farmers to cut the cane that belongs to the society and transport it in time for the cane crushing. Further, farmers are urged to help increase the productivity to the targeted 4,30,000 mts in over 14,000 acres registered with the cooperative society. Earlier, the cane crushing season was formally flagged off by District Revenue Officer K. Ramamoorthy.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore’s daily case load stays below 100 for second day||The COVID-19 daily caseload in Coimbatore district stayed below the 100-mark for the second consecutive day, with the district reporting 95 new cases on Friday. The tally so far in the district is 51,791, of which 50,234 have recovered and 914 are active cases, the Health Department said. A 67-year-old man died of the infection, raising the toll to 643. A total of 128 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. District Collector K. Rajamani inaugurated on Friday a post-COVID-19 outpatient treatment section at ESI Hospital for people who had recovered from the infection but experienced fatigue, breathlessness, anxiety and insomnia, a press release said. Tiruppur district reported 28 new cases, its lowest daily tally since July. The death of a 57-year-old man from the district at a private hospital in Coimbatore raised the toll to 215. Out of the total 16,818 cases reported so far, 16,229 have recovered and 374 are active cases. A total of 72 patients were discharged from treatment centres in Tiruppur on Friday. Salem district reported 63 cases, taking the district’s tally to 31,350. While 26 persons were discharged, 374 persons continue to be under treatment. Erode saw 37 new cases that took the district’s tally to 13,479. While 46 persons were discharged, 292 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal reported 26 cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,075. Twenty-three persons were discharged and 186 persons continue to be under treatment. The Nilgiris had 13 new cases on Friday, which raised the number of persons who tested positive so far in the district to 7,863. The number of deaths so far is 44, and 133 persons are still under treatment. While Krishnagiri recorded 23 new cases, 13 persons were discharged on Friday. Totally, 95 persons are under treatment, and the number of positive cases so far in the district is 7804. Dharmapuri recorded five new cases, taking the district’s tally so far to 6,342. Eighteen persons were discharged on Friday.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Exclusive ward opened for cases of new virus strain||Earlier, one passenger had tested positive. He is at the RGGGH. Among the returnees are two from Tiruvidaimarudhur in Thanjavur, one from Madurai and one from Mogappair, Chennai. All of them were admitted to medical college hospitals in separate wards. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for a genomic analysis on Thursday, and results are awaited, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. “The patient in Madurai has been asymptomatic. We have also identified 11 contacts of three persons who tested positive. They are asymptomatic and are being treated at medical college hospitals. A high-level team is monitoring them and checking their blood profile and CT scan, and their parameters are under control,” the Health Secretary said. Their vital parameters are checked at least once daily. “We are awaiting the results from Pune. We expect that the result of the sample sent already would be received in the next couple of days,” he said. The person from Madurai had arrived late last month and the Thanjavur passengers had arrived through Delhi on December 16. The fourth person, from Chennai, arrived on December 17. Until Thursday, there were 2,805 returnees. “Some had registered in two districts. Taking that into account, 415 persons were subtracted to arrive at 2,390,” he said. The samples of 1,126 persons had already been taken. Samples from the rest were being lifted. Of those identified, 1,034 were from Chennai, 226 from Chengalpattu, 202 from Kancheepuram, 110 from Coimbatore, 107 from Tiruchi, 22 from Madurai, 72 from Thanjavur, 71 from Tiruvallur, 38 from Tiruvarur, 39 from Nagapattinam, 36 from Cuddalore, and 34 from Tirunelveli. Until Thursday, the results in respect of 440 samples had been received. Mr. Radhakrishnan said nine persons who arrived by a cargo flight on Thursday had also tested negative. The DPH has appealed to people who returned by flight between November 25 and December 23 to voluntarily come for a test. To clarifiy doubts, call ‘104’.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth admitted to hospital, condition stable||“He was shooting for a movie in Hyderabad for the last 10 days. Couple of people on the sets had tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Rajinikanth was tested on December 22 and he was negative. Since then, he had isolated himself and was monitored closely,” the bulletin added. The release said though he did not have COVID-19 symptoms, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuation and needed further evaluation, for which he was admitted to the hospital. He will be investigated and monitored closely till his blood pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion, he does not have any other symptom and hemodynamically stable, the release said. Sources at the hospital told The Hindu that Mr. Rajinikanth was accompanied by his daughter Aishwarya Dhanush. Soon after admission, a team of specialists conducted a series of tests on him. Mr. Rajinikanth is put up in a special room and is under round-the-clock monitoring, sources said. In the evening, the hospital said he was being monitored closely and “medications to control his blood pressure are being carefully titrated.” His family and doctors requested all well-wishers to avoid visiting the hospital as he was not being allowed to meet visitors. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan spoke to the doctors and wished the actor speedy recovery.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||26-12-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY – 9884190454 Today at R.R.Sabha Hall-2 Mylapore, Bharathanatyam 4.30pm 'Andal Thirukalyanam' by Students of Guru Kalaiselvi Ramesh, 6pm Lekha Guru Kalaimamani Priya Murle, 7.15pm Aishwarya Ananth Karthik Guru Prof. Sudharani Raghupathy. All are Welcome.
26 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||New farm laws will help attract investment: Eeranna Kadadi||If any political party can ensure the welfare of farmers, it is the BJP, Eeranna Kadadi, Rajya Sabha member and BJP Raitha Morcha president, said in Gokak on Friday. He was speaking at a programme to felicitate successful farmers and beneficiaries of the PM Kisan Samman Scheme organised as part of the former Prime Minister late Atal Behari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. “The new laws have been passed to attract private investment in agriculture. That will introduce new farming techniques and storage methods. They will also give multiple options to farmers to sell their produce at the highest price,” he said. Shraddha Shettar, daughter of Suresh Angadi, former Union Minister and daughter in-law of Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, attended a similar programme in the APMC Yard in Belagavi. She said that she had come to express solidarity with farmers but refused to speak about the Belagavi bypolls. Other BJP leaders spoke at such programmes organised in the taluk headquarters of the district.
26 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pramod Mutalik gives call for unity among pro-Hindu organisations||Pramod Mutalik, founder of the Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, called for the unity of all pro-Hindu organisations such as SRSH, Hindu Jagaran Vedike, Bajrang Dal, Shiv Sena and Hindu Mahasabha as “no political party can be trusted to save the Hindus”. He spoke at a meeting of activists organised at the house of Dadasaheb Patil, Shiv Sena leader, in Ugar Khurd village near Chikkodi. He said that that members of SRSH and other organisations had gone to jail and suffered police atrocities for protecting cows, but not a single BJP leader could claim to have done so. “Let the BJP show how many cows its leaders have saved,” he said. He asked activists to be prepared for the protection of Hindus in every village and town and not to depend on anyone else for the purpose. “You should give a fitting reply to anyone who tries to attack our fellow men or insult Hindu girls,” he said. He said that every BJP leader was corrupt except Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah.
26 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Britain returnee tests negative||A woman came to Belagavi from Great Britain on December 13 has tested negative for COVID-19. Since the same test applies to the new virus strain B.1.1.7, it is clear that the woman has not been infected with the variant, officials said. Tests are being conducted on all the 14 passengers who have returned from Great Britain. All of them and their contacts have been advised seven days home quarantine. There is no need to panic, but all of us should stay stay safe following COVID-19 protocol, said a release from Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Managements worried about effectiveness of online classes||In a year that saw online learning take precedence, several school managements and teachers are a worried lot after evaluating the first term examination answer scripts as they feel that students’ performance is not up to the mark. Teachers say though they used several tools and tried to make online classes during the pandemic more interactive, they feel that students have not grasped the concepts. While some teachers and school managements feel that students cannot be promoted to the next grade if they do not conduct a few offline classes, some others feel that they will have to tweak the nature of assignments and online classes to ensure that students pick up the core concepts so that they can be promoted even without conducting offline classes. In several schools, many students have not even been able to access online classes as they do not have the necessary gadgets or stable internet connectivity. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said that on an average, students have not been able to secure 18% to 20% during the mid-term assessment. Around 30% of students were absent for the mid-term examinations that were conducted online. “Online education has not reached all the students. In addition, students encounter a lot of distractions when they are at home,” he said. What was making matters worse is that the government was yet to announce the trimmed syllabus for this academic year for the State syllabus, and urged the government to extend the academic year till June for class ten students. Dakshayini Kanna, principal, Harvest International School, said they want to make sure that students grasp the most important concepts. “We want to focus more on teaching than the evaluation for all students except those in classes ten and twelve. Students of many classes did not have formal assessment and had multiple choice questions,” she said. She added that for students in classes ten and twelve, the school plans to conduct written test so that they are able to get the practice of writing for three hours. Susheela R., whose children study in a school affiliated to the CBSE, said, “Our children have been told that another round of assessment will be conducted in January, which will be considered as the mid-term assessment as students have fared poorly in the assessments conducted in October and November. Instead of conducting another assessment, schools should focus on tweaking their teaching strategy so that it will help improve students’ learning levels.”
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All eyes on genome sequencing of COVID-19 positive samples||With the government deciding to do genome sequencing of samples of U.K. returnees who test positive for COVID-19, all eyes are now set on this process aimed at hunting the mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to virologists from NIMHANS where the genetic sequencing is being done, it will take a maximum of four days for the sequencing and subsequent analysis of the samples. In this context, the results of the 10 positive cases are likely to be known by Monday. Explaining the process of the sequencing, V. Ravi, former professor and head of the department of neurovirology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said that it is a technique used to break down genetic code of any DNA. “Genomic sequencing involves extracting and isolating the RNA from the sample, converting it into a DNA sequence and amplifying to a large enough size to start analysis,” he said. “After extracting the RNA of the SARS-CoV-2 virus , it is converted into cDNA (complementary DNA synthesised from a single-stranded RNA template). Then multiple Polymerase Chain Reactions (PCR) are done on the cDNA. PCR is a method used to rapidly make millions to billions of copies of a specific DNA sample, allowing scientists to take a very small sample of DNA and amplify it to a large enough amount to study in detail. This is unlike a diagnostic PCR,” he explained. Following this procedure, the product is cleaned up and put into a chip that will do the sequencing. This will take anywhere between 12 hours to 48 hours depending on how much material was there in the original specimen. Also, the cycle threshold (CT) value, which indicates the number of cycles needed in the RT-PCR test to amplify viral RNA, of the sample should be less than 30 for successful sequencing. Otherwise, the process may take a longer time or sequencing may not be successful, Dr. Ravi said. “After the sequencing, we need to analyse the data and subject it to comparison with the global SARS-CoV-2 database. This may take another 48 hours. Sometimes, we can get data in a short span of time when a specimen has lots of RNA and no other genetic material,” he said. The approximate cost of a genome sequencing test can vary between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000. This if the sample is processed using Nanopore sequencing, where a total of 12 samples are loaded. “However, if the Illumina sequencing process is used, we can test 50 samples at a time, and the cost will also be less,” said Dr. Ravi.  Genomic sequencing involves extracting and isolating the RNA from the sample, converting it into a DNA sequence and amplifying to a large enough size to start analysis V. Ravi, former professor and HoD of neurovirology at NIMHANS
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP proposes to cover more business establishments under ambit of trade licence||The city, over the past many years, has been witness to rampant commercialisation and mushrooming of illegal commercial establishments. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been making attempts to not just issue more trade licences to the 70 different trades currently under its ambit, but also to cover more trades. To increase number to 85 A proposal to increase the number of trades to 85 had been sent to the State government earlier this year, confirmed senior officials. From simplifying the process to apply for and renew trade licences, in line with the regulatory procedures under Ease of Doing Business, to completely taking the whole process online by removing all human touch points, the civic body hoped more people would apply for trade licences. However, even civic officials admit that they have barely scratched the surface, what with just around 55,000 trade licences being issued year after year. The BBMP collects between Rs. 45 crore and Rs. 50 crore after issuing these trade licences. It was to increase revenue and plug leakage, apart from monitor commercialisation, that the BBMP has proposed to bring more trades under its ambit. Senior officials said after the proposal was sent, the government sought a justification for the same. Health officials said a report on the same, which was approved by the Standing Committee for Health and later by the council, was sent to the government. “However, with the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the proposal is still pending and no decision has been taken. If approved by the government, more trades will be covered, which will bring in more revenue to the cash strapped BBMP,” an official said. Data collected BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Public Health) Dr. Vijayendra told The Hindu that the civic body had already collected data on commercial connections from Bescom, which has around 5.30 lakh such connections in BBMP area. After applying a filter (same name and address), around 3.63 lakh connections were remaining. He said commercial establishments in industrial areas, Special Economic Zones and tech parks do not require BBMP’s trade licence, while small-scale industries under the Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association are also exempt. “Among the remaining connections were lawyers’ offices, tax consultants etc. The BBMP will have to further filter data and issue licences to trades that a direct bearing on public health,” he added.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister’s camp edgy||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s camp appears nervous over the political fallout of the recent Karnataka High Court’s order that has set into motion a court-monitored probe into corruption allegation against him. Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statement, hinting at a leadership change, has added to this. Though there were several corruption cases against Mr. Yediyurappa, presently none of them is open and that was his claim to legitimacy in the BJP that now harps on ‘zero tolerance for corruption’ as an electoral plank. “Though there have been allegations of corruption by the Opposition and a section of the party during this term too, there has been nothing concrete. The recent High Court order has compromised that. Coming amidst continuous effort by a faction within the party to depose him, this has made the Chief Minister nervous,” said a party strategist. The Chief Minister is also reportedly tense about the upcoming report of the apex court-appointed judicial panel, led by retired judge K.N. Keshavanarayana, probing into alleged irregularities in denotification of land notified for Dr. K. Shivarama Karanth Layout. Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra’s recent Delhi trip was aimed at making a case for Mr. Yediyurappa, pointing to a “conspiracy” behind the revival of the case. “He tried hard to meet Mr. Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda, but neither gave him an audience. He eventually only met the party’s in charge for State affairs Arun Singh,” a senior BJP leader said. With a long delay in the party central leadership giving the green signal for Cabinet expansion or reshuffle, senior party leaders now feel the exercise has been “intrinsically linked to the leadership question” and a call would be taken either way soon. Mr. Shah’s scheduled visit to the State during Sankranti is now expected to turn a crucial platform for both factions in the party to make their case.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IPS officer under scanner for attempt to access document||The State government has instituted an inquiry by Bengaluru City Police (BCP) Commissioner Kamal Pant over a complaint that an IPS officer tried, and failed, to procure classified information on a Rs. 619-crore Safe City Project tender much before it was published. The project involves the installation of CCTV cameras, among a host of other measures, for women’s safety in the city under the Nirbhaya Fund.The project is monitored by a State-Level Apex Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary, and the officer in question is in no way related to the project or part of thecommittee, sources said. The officer allegedly called up an official at the project consultant Ernst and Young (E&Y) on November 7, claiming to be HomeSecretary, and sought details and a copy of the Request for Proposal (RFP) that was then still in the process of being finalised. With E&Y flagging the conversation, Hemant Nimbalkar, Additional Commissioner (Administration), BCP, also member-secretary of the apex committee, wrote to theChief Secretary seeking a probe against said officer on December 7. Mr. Nimbalkar’s letter also alleged that the officer had impersonated the Home Secretary. The RFP is a classified document till it is published, and its leakage before publication might hamper the level playing field among potential bidders, a senior official said, arguing that an unauthorised attempt to access the RFP before publication amounted to “serious impropriety” and also raised questions about the motive behind it. Mr. Pant, also a member of the apex committee, said he would conduct the inquiry and submit the report soon. However, he was quick to add that the ongoing tender had, in no way, been compromised. “The financial bids are yet to come in. January 8 is the last day for submission of bids. An officer tried to access the RFP before it was published, but [the attempt] was not successful. The tender process remains untouched by this and will carry on as scheduled,” he said.  An officer tried to access the RFP before it was published, but [the attempt] was not successful. The tender process remains untouched and will carry on as scheduled Kamal Pant, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP schools, PU colleges gear up to reopen||As many as 2,250 students will be appearing for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and 1,928 for second Pre-University Course (PUC) examinations from schools and colleges run by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) this academic year. With the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in the city, BBMP-run schools and colleges have remained closed. The State government recently announced its decision to allow reopening of schools and colleges for SSLC and PUC students, and BBMP institutions will be reopening from January 1. BBMP Special Commissioner (Education) J. Manjunath told The Hindu that beginning Monday, the premises of all 138 schools and 19 colleges will be sanitised while a workshop will be held for headmasters and principals of these institutions. “We are prepared to reopen the schools and colleges for our students. To ensure that all the guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of the government and health department are adhered to, physical education teachers have been made mentors in each school. In the absence of these teachers, trainers from Scouts and Guides will be vested with that responsibility,” he said. For the conduct of bypoll in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency, the civic body had procured thermal scanners. “We had provided thermal scanners to poll officials in all 700 booths in the constituency. These have, in turn, been distributed to our schools and colleges to record the temperature of children and teachers,” he said. While students will be asked to bring their own sanitisers and wear masks mandatorily, the official said that extra masks and sanitisers would be stocked in schools and colleges. Teachers, who were deputed for COVID-19 duty, have also been relieved. Many had been deputed in the various control rooms, and were assisting with contact tracing and monitoring those under home quarantine. Mr. Manjunath admitted that it had been difficult for BBMP students, especially some SSLC students, to access study material online. He said that several organisations had donated e-tablets to students. However, the students were instructed to follow the lessons being screened on DD-Chandana. Last year, the BBMP had provided e-tablets to first and second PUC students. “These students were able to access the study materials online. That apart, WhatsApp groups had been created, and students of both SSLC and PUC could get in touch with their teachers to get their doubts cleared,” he said. The official added that teachers had taken several measures to ensure students, especially those appearing for public examinations, do not suffer on account of schools and colleges remaining closed. “We hope to improve upon last academic year’s pass percentage this time,” he added. Last year, the pass percentage of SSLC was 70 and the figure was 83 for II PUC.  To ensure that all the guidelines and SOPs are adhered to, physical education teachers have been made mentors in each school J. Manjunath, Special Commissioner (Education), BBMP
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. ready to give autonomous status to more colleges: Dy.CM||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister of Higher Education, on Friday said the State government is ready to provide autonomous status to higher educational institutions and engineering colleges if they fulfilled the eligibility criteria. Speaking after inaugurating ‘Good Governance Day’ observed to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, Mr. Ashwath Narayan said, “The government is ready to give autonomy and freedom in every sector, including higher education. The government does not believe in rigid controlling. More and more degree, polytechnic, engineering colleges should try to get autonomous status.” Higher educational institutions should consolidate local cooperation, enhance skill, leverage technology, ensure the judicious execution of responsibility in their way to become autonomous, he suggested. All the developed countries all over the world have achieved excellence because of decentralisation. “This should happen in our system also, at a rapid pace,” he said. The National Education Policy has paved the way for eliminating limitations and rigidity which existed earlier, he said. He further emphasised that the LMS (Learning Management System) which was being implemented in the State would make a lot of changes in higher education in the coming years. It was not true that changes could be made only by spending a large amount of money. It was also possible to make big changes with minimum spending, the Minister said. Officials of the Department of Collegiate Education, Department of Skill Development, and Karnataka Innovation & Technological Society (KITS) made PPT presentations with regard to progressive steps being taken by respective departments.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Artists to hold event supporting farmers||Like-minded artists and writers plan to hold a series of cultural events from 11 a.m. till 5 p.m. in Bengaluru on Monday to express support to the farmers agitating in Delhi and elsewhere in the country against the changes to farm laws ushered in by the Centre. The event, which will be organised by Samudaya, Bengaluru, will be at Mourya Junction on Race Course Road. There will be singing, poetry reading, painting, and staging of street plays, said a release. Meanwhile, the same venue on Thursday saw a protestby members of the Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association. The organisation’s president, Kurubur Shanthakumar, accused the Union government of resorting to “unethical tactics” to deceive farmers who arefighting for the repeal of three farm laws. “Organisations associated with the BJP, such as Bharatiya Kisan Sangh and Swadeshi Jagaran Manch, have openly opposed the laws. Despite that, the government is projecting the laws are beneficial for farmers. The Centre has brought in laws at the behest of corporate companies,” he said. Mr. Shanthakumar added that the Union government was ignoring farmers even after 30 of them have lost their lives in the agitation.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police to issue guidelines for New Year celebrations||Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, on Friday, said the city police commissioner Kamal Pant will issue an additional set of guidelines for New Year celebrations in the city, in the next two days. The government had issued guidelines for Christmas and New Year celebrations across Karnataka on December 17, that bans public gatherings, special events at bars, pubs and restaurants among other restrictions. The guidelines, the home minister said, the police commissioner would issue would be over and above this, sources said. A new set of guidelines had also become necessary in the light of night curfew being withdrawn, sources said.
26 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Centre for preventive cardiology inaugurated||Ramaiah Centre for Cardiac Rehabilitation for preventive cardiology was inaugurated on Wednesday. According to a Ramaiah Memorial Hospital (RMH) release, renowned cardiologist and founder of Narayana Health Dr. Devi Shetty, who was the chief guest, said that heart disease is like an epidemic. For patients who have been diagnosed with heart ailments or even hypertension, it becomes necessary to undergo cardiac rehabilitation. He said, “Ramaiah Memorial Hospital has developed a futuristic cardiac rehab centre, which is on par with any global cardiac rehab centre.” The cardiac rehabilitation programme helps reduce the chances of suffering of a cardiac patient. It aims to limit the risk of psychological and physiological stresses of heart diseases, which thereby reduces the risk of mortality. M.R. Jayaram, chairman, Gokula Education Foundation, which runs Ramaiah Group of Hospitals, said, “This super speciality addition will give impetus to cardiac procedures. Ramaiah Cardiac Rehabilitation Centre will go a long way as a futuristic and well-thought process in high-class treatment of cardiac problems.”
26 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAT vacation||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Bangalore Bench, will observe the sixth spell of vacations for four days from December 28. According to a release, the filing counter of the Registry will remain open from 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. during the vacation period.
26 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat||Office of the Controller of Communication Accounts (CCA), Karnataka Telecom Circle, will hold All India Pension Adalat for telecom and BSNL pensioners on January 7, 2021 through virtual mode in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi/Yadgir,KARNATAKA||With unopposed elections galore, DCs told to verify process||With nearly 9%, that is more than 8,000 candidates, being elected unopposed in the two-phase elections to gram panchayats (GPs) in the State, the Karnataka State Election Commission has asked Deputy Commissioners of all districts to verify the process through which candidates are elected unopposed. Following reports of alleged auctioning of seats in GPs in different districts, the SEC has issued a circular to all Deputy Commissioners to look into the process of election of candidates, sources in the government said. A total of 4,377 candidates were elected unopposed in GPs that went to polls in the first phase and 3,697 were elected unopposed in GPs that are going to polls on Sunday. Countermanded The GP elections to four constituencies at Byluru village of Sindigeri Gram Panchayat in Ballari district, where members were elected through “auction”, was countermanded in the first phase. This brought focus on other such unanimous elections. Some districts recorded a high number of unanimous election of candidates. The highest of 437 GP candidates were elected unopposed in Belagavi, 364 in Mandya, 331 in Ballari, 250 in Vijayapura, 220 in Yadgir, 211 in Davangere, 203 in Raichur, 197 in Hassan, 158 in Chitradurga, and 156 candidates in Tumakuru, according to the SEC.  Following the instruction from SEC, some districts have begun the process of verification. The district administration of Yadgir has formed a fact-finding committee headed by the tahsildars of all seven taluks to conduct a detailed inquiry on the process of electing members unopposed. There had been complaints of candidates being asked to deposit a sum of money to develop the local temple in return for unopposed election. In Belagavi, Deputy commissioner M.G. Hiremath said the process was being verified even though poll officials had found no foul play or irregularities in the unanimous election of candidates so far. “They don’t seem to be erroneous or in violation of any law. Anyway, we are verifying them following oral instructions from the Election Commission. We will send a report to the commission soon,” he said. “In the backdrop of the Ballari incident, we were asked to verify the issue of unopposed elections. Accordingly, we conducted inquiries and found no such cases of poll malpractices in our district,” said Sanjay Shettennavar, Deputy Commissioner of Haveri.  In the backdrop of the Ballari incident, we were asked to verify the issue. Accordingly, we conducted inquiries and found no cases of poll malpractices in our district.Sanjay ShettennavarDC, Haveri
26 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||New laws will benefit farmers: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Friday, said the Central government brought in amendments to the farm laws for the benefit of the farming community and it would help double the farmers’ income by 2022. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for construction of a medical college and other development works at a programme in Chikkamagaluru. The amendments would bring in revolutionary changes in the farm sector. “Farmers should not listen to those who spread false information about the amendments. The Prime Minister is committed to increase the farm income by 2022. The minimum support price for the agriculture produces and the APMC system would continue, even after the new laws come into effect”, he said. Regarding the development works initiated in Chikkamagaluru, the Chief Minister said the State government had laid foundation stones for works worth Rs. 1,063 crore. A medical college for the district had been a long-pending demand. Along with a medical college, the district would also get a super-speciality hospital. The district hospital would also be upgraded.  “The elected representatives of the district have demanded funds for various works. In the next budget I will consider their demands”, he added. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Public Works Govind Karjol, Ministers B.A.Basavaraj, D.Sudhakar, and V. Somanna, Lok Sabha member Shobha Karandlaje and legislators of the district attended the programme. C.T. Ravi, MLC, presided over the function.
26 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Datta upset over JD(S) extending support to land reforms Bill||Former MLA and JD(S) leader Y.S.V. Datta has expressed disappointment over the party supporting BJP in passing the Bill amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. Speaking at a press conference in Shivamogga on Friday, he said he was opposed to the three Bills on land reforms, APMC Act and cow slaughter. “I’m disappointed with the party’s support to the BJP in the passage of the Bill related to land reforms Act,” he said. The JD(S) has been identified as a farmers’ party in rural areas. It has to strengthen its base and become stronger ideologically, he argued. “After extending its support to the farmers’ protest in Delhi, the party should not have supported the controversial Bill in the Legislative Council. The party would lose the confidence of the people by doing so,” he said. Reacting to a question, he ruled out the possibility of the JD(S)’ merger with the BJP. “Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has clarified that there was no question of merger with the BJP. The ideology of the JD(S) does not match with that of the BJP. Mr. Kumaraswamy will not go against the wish of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda,” he asserted and also added that he would oppose if his party ever decided to align with the BJP. On Kannada varsity Mr. Datta also criticised the BJP for not providing funds to Kannada University, Hampi. “The government has released grants for Sanskrit University. But, in the case of Kannada University, it has cut funds, affecting research activities. The government should wake up before the issue gives birth to another Gokak movement in the State,” he said.
26 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two test positive for COVID-19||Two people, who had returned to Chikkamagaluru from Britain recently, tested positive for COVID-19 infection. They have been isolated at the district hospital. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam, on Friday, informed media that the two were among 18 people who had returned to Chikkamagaluru from Britain in December. The remaining tested negative. The district administration would take samples of the infected persons for laboratory tests to check if they contracted the infection.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Minister Joshi upset over execution of Smart City projects||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has openly expressed displeasure over the manner in which projects under the Smart City Scheme were being executed and issued a strong warning to officials. Speaking at a progress review meeting of various projects under the Smart City Scheme at the Circuit House in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr Joshi said that it was the duty of the officials to ensure the proper execution of projects and take steps to rectify anomalies in the projects if any, during implementation. “The officials should point out anomalies in the projects if any and take steps in coordination with various government agencies for the effective implementation of development works,” he said. “We make efforts to get funds released for projects but ultimately the officials should execute the projects. Because of improper execution, negative reports are being published in media and elected representatives are being blamed. There is no clarity among officials about the Smart City projects. Consequently, the projects are not being considered as useful by the public and even the maintenance is poor,” he said, taking the officials to task. The Union Minister sought to know why e-toilets built spending Rs. 1.10 crore in the twin cities were not functional. He also took exception to the lethargy of officials in taking remedial measures even after the issue of sewage water entering Tolana Kere, which is being developed under Smart City scheme, was brought to their notice by elected representatives. “If you don’t resolve the issue within 15 days, those concerned will be held accountable for the lapse and disciplinary action will be taken,” he warned. Mr. Joshi also sought to know what development work had been taken up at the Indira Glass House at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. “No development or improvement can been on the ground. What happened to the musical fountain constructed earlier? Who will bear the responsibility for the failure,” he asked. He directed Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil to get the implementation of the Smart City projects evaluated by a third party and take action against officials concerned if unnecessary expenditure had been made under the scheme. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar too expressed displeasure over the lack of maintenance of public spaces in the twin cities and advised setting up of park maintenance committees under the chairmanship of the municipal commissioner. He also asked the officials to immediately remove the encroachments on public spaces and roads around Vani Vilas Circle, Bhairidevarakoppa and Kamaripet and construct pavements. During the meeting, the issue of getting additional funds for the flyover from Kittur Chennamma Circle to Gabbur Cross was discussed and the officials were asked to send a detailed project report for the development of the Jubilee Circle in Dharwad. Mr. Nitesh Patil, MLA Arvind Bellad, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Managing Director of NWKRTC Krishna Bajpai, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited Shakeel Ahmed and others were present.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Public Works Dept. suffers Rs. 3,500 cr. loss in Bombay Karnataka region||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Public Works Govind Karjol has said that due to the heavy downpour and floods in the Bombay Karnataka region from July to October, the Public Works Department had incurred losses to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore. Speaking to presspersons after a review meeting in Dharwad recently, Mr. Karjol said that while similar natural calamity had caused losses to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore last year, this year again many roads and bridges had been washed away amounting to the loss. The State government had already sanctioned Rs. 1,350 crore, including Rs. 750 crore sanctioned last year, as temporary relief. Already, works on pothole-filling had been completed on a total road stretch of 7,348 km and officials had been asked to expedite the work and complete it by December 31, he said. In the North zone covering districts in Bombay Karnataka region, 1,939 km of Major District Roads had been upgraded to State Highways, while 4,303 km rural roads have been upgraded to Major District Roads, Mr. Karjol said. In Dharwad district, during 2019-20, 835 works worth Rs. 202 crore had been taken up, of which 831 works worth Rs. 162 crore had been completed “This year, 2,333 km of road and 456 bridges have been extensively damaged in Dharwad district. A sum of Rs. 254 crore was sanctioned as first instalment and 77 % of the works has been completed. An additional Rs. 300 crore will be sanctioned shortly,” he said. To a query, Mr. Karjol said that 990 junior engineers and assistant engineer posts had fallen vacant and the government would hire young engineering graduates and diploma holders. In the North zone, 350 graduates would be hired, he added. Mr. Karjol further said that the department had decided to hand over the maintenance of Inspection Bungalows in tourist destinations to the KSTDC, but circuit houses which had been newly constructed or renovated would remain under the Public Works Department. He also said that the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the construction of Vijayapura Airport would be held in the first week of January.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Special prayers said for ending COVID-19||Christmas was celebrated with religious fervour and the spirit of goodwill for all in the districts of Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Uttara Kannada and Davangere on Friday with special prayers being said seeking heavenly intervention to end COVID-19. However, there was considerable decrease in the number of visitors this time. Apart from special prayers, feeding the poor, cultural programmes and carol singing formed part of the celebrations. Solemn rejoicing marked the celebrations in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad, particularly in Dharwad where the Basel Mission was established in 1836. Churches in the these districts, which usually witness large gatherings for the festival, on Friday, saw fewer number of people walking into the churches due to the health scare. Even within the churches seating arrangement was made in accordance with physical distancing norms. Most of the elderly persons stayed away from the churches because of the pandemic. Most of the Christians in the twin cities had put up the traditional star signs in front of their houses. Several streets were illuminated with colourful lights. Shops in the markets of Hubballi-Dharwad had been doing brisk business for the past many days. Artificial Christmas trees and decorative lamps were in great demand. Bakeries and shops selling cakes, puddings, chocolates and sweets, and stores selling greeting cards also did good business. The centuries-old Hebich Memorial Church, the Church of All Saints, the Holy Cross Church in Dharwad, the Basel Mission Church and other churches in Hubballi were illuminated as part of the celebrations. The twin cities have followers of different denominations of Christianity belonging to different ethnic and linguistic groups and the festival is celebrated as per their local traditions. Several Christian families were seen sending sweets and cakes to non-Christian families as part of the celebrations.
26 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rangayana to stage play on Samrat Ashok in seven districts||With the government permitting theatre activities, Dharwad Rangayana plans to stage the play, “Samrat Ashok, The Great”, in the seven districts of North Karnataka. Administrator of Rangayana Gopalkrishna B. told presspersons in Dharwad on Friday that the first show of the play would be held at the open air theatre of Rangayana at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. He said that as per the government direction, all COVID-19 guidelines would be followed strictly, while staging the play. Director of Dharwad Rangayana Ramesh Parvinaikar said that the first show of the play would be inaugurated by Laxmibai Yenagi, wife of theatre legend late Balappa Enagi. MLA Arvind Bellad, MLC Shantaram Siddi and Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil would be the guests. This play, written by playwright Dayaprakash Sinha, has been translated into Kannada by Shashidhar Narendra. Veena Sharma has directed it. Mr. Ramesh Parvinaikar said that they had plans to stage 25 shows in the seven districts. They would also be resuming their weekend drama shows.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Revised notification on no parking zones following public suggestions||Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash has issued a revised notification modifying his September 30 notification which had earmarked 61 areas in the city as no parking zones. Modifications have been carried out in view of grievances and suggestions received from the general public, he said in a release here on Friday. About 50 commercial complexes in the city, which have utilised space allotted for parking for commercial purposes have been identified. A letter to get such illegal commercial outlets removed had been sent to the Commissioner, Mangaluru City Corporation. Information about a drive conducted against 14 such commercial complexes has been communicated by the commissioner of the corporation. Hence, taking into consideration all these factors a revised notification has been issued, he said. Accordingly, on Balmatta Road, provision has been made for parking of two-wheelers on New Balmatta Road adjacent to Ambedkar Circle. At Surathkal Junction, on the road leading to MRPL from Surathkal Junction to Primary Health Centre, provision has been made for parking vehicles on the roadside. Due to heavy vehicular movement, three places at Padavinangady Junction had been identified as no parking zones. However, after examining the feasibility, parking of vehicles without hampering vehicular movement has been allowed from Padavinangady Youth Club to Mugrody Cross. The existing no parking zone from Hampankatta Road to PM Rao Road Cross, from Karnataka Bank to Navabharat Circle and from Besant Cross to Empire Mall was examined. It is now notified that starting from Hampankatta to PVS Circle and from there further along MG Road up to Ballal Bagh Cross, there will be no parking on either side of the road. As several commercial complexes along this road have basement parking facility, notification has been made banning parking on both sides of the road and the zone has been notified as a no parking zone. The no parking notification from Kudmul Rangarao Road to Court Road along the left side of the road has been examined. A stretch of 20 metres on the left side of this road and a stretch of 200 metres along the right side of this road have been declared as no parking zones. The parking system from KB Katte up to Ganapathy High School has been modified. The left side of the road from KB Katte up to Janatha Bazaar has been notified as no parking zone while the existing notification for rest of the road has been continued without any change. The road starting from the direction of Karavali Circle, i.e., from Kalpana Road I Dross up to Unity Hospital, had been identified as no parking zone. In the revised notification, the road leading from Karavali Circle to up to I Cross Vas Lane only has been notified as no parking zone. As the road from I Cross Vas Lane up to Unity Hospital is sufficiently wide, the earlier no parking notification for this stretch has been withdrawn, he said.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New farm laws aimed at freeing farmers from middlemen: MP||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel reiterated here on Friday that the new farm laws of the Union government are aimed at freeing farmers from the clutches of middlemen. Speaking at the Kisan Samman Day and birth anniversary celebrations of the former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Kateel said that the farm laws allowed farmers to sell their produces at competitive rates as per their will. Vajpayee was the first to introduce Kisan Cards in the country, he said and added that Vajpayee knew about the issues concerning farmers very well. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too is following in the footsteps of Vajpayee to help farmers by introducing crop insurance scheme, soil health cards, setting up an independent Ministry for fisheries and taking steps to ensure that farmers did not face the shortage of fertilizers. Neem-coated urea was introduced in the country to overcome the shortage of fertilizers, he said. He said that the late former Prime Minister [Vajpayee] thought about the development of India as a whole and upheld its prestige globally. Going a step ahead, Mr. Modi introduced a scheme for directly transferring Rs. 6,000, in three instalments, annually to the accounts of farmers, he said. Mr. Kateel said that Vajpayee had added Jai Vignan to the popular slogan Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, to instil scientific temper among people and to promote science for the development of the country. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Ports, Fisheries, In-land Water Transport and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that with the new farm laws in place, farmers have got control over their produces without the need to succumb to pressures from middlemen. He said that Vajpayee who had been elected to the Lok Sabha nine times and to the Rajya Sabha twice remained an unparalleled leader.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Polling in 200 GPs tomorrow||In all, 200 gram panchayats will go to the polls in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi during the second phase on Sunday. The elections will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Counting of votes will be taken up on December 30. Of the panchayats where elections will be held during the second phase, 114 are in Belthangady, Puttur, Sullia and Kabada taluks in Dakshina Kannada. Of these, candidates in 41 gram panchayat constituencies have been elected unopposed in the district. Hence, elections will be held to 1,500 constituencies under the Puttur sub-division. Of the total constituencies, Belthangady taluk has 46, Puttur 22, Sullia 25 and Kadaba taluk has 21 constituencies. Of the total 3,421 candidates in the fray, 1,921 candidates are from the general category, 699 from Backward Class A, 138 from Backward Class B, 371 from Scheduled Castes and 272 candidates are from Scheduled Tribes. In Udupi, 86 gram panchayats in Kundapur, Karkala and Kaup taluks will go to the polls. As candidates for 65 seats have been elected unopposed, elections will be held for 1,178 seats. As many as 2,706 candidates are in the fray.  Polling In the first phase of elections on December 22, Dakshina Kannada recorded 74.43 % polling. Taluk-wise, Mangaluru reported 72.32 % polling, Moodbidri 72.82 % and Bantwal recorded 76.47 % voting. Udupi district recorded 74.06 % polling. Voting recorded in Udupi taluk stood at 74.80 %, in Hebri 79.41 %, in Brahmavar 73.69 % and in Baindoor, it was at 71.28 %. Elections had been announced for a total of 220 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada and 153 panchayats in Udupi. As Kodi Gram Panchayat in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi did not go to the polls on Tuesday as there were no candidates in the fray, in reality only 152 gram panchayats faced the elections in Udupi.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two die after being hit by car||Two pedestrians died after they were hit by a car at Tenka Yermal near Padubidri on Friday. The Padubidri Police gave the names of the deceased as Arvind (20) of Uttar Pradesh and Sanjeeva Devadiga (53) of Yermal. Both were waiting for a bus. The car going from Udupi towards Mangaluru hit Devadiga and then Arvind, before ramming a tree. Devadiga and Arvind died on the spot. A case was registered against the car driver, the police said. Stuck in lift Four girls were stuck in a lift of a residential complex in Kalladka for nearly two hours on Friday evening. According to the police, Fidanaina (15), daughter of Latif Neralakatte, stays in the Gangadhar apartment in Kalladka. In the evening, Fidanaina took her three relatives, Maysheena (14), Siyana (13) and Afra (19), in the lift. However, the lift got stuck midway following which she raised an alarm. The residents lowered the lift but could not open the door. The police came along with personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services who then opened the door of the lift.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Become aware of empanelled hospitals’||People need to check empanelled hospitals that provide treatment they require and go there with the referral letter of the Government Wenlock Hospital to avail themselves of benefits under the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said here on Friday. Speaking at a programme held to mark the birthday anniversary of the former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the Atal Seva Kendra in Kodailbail, Mr. Kamath said that not all the 1,000 treatments covered in the scheme are provided by 72 empanelled hospitals in the district. “Do not randomly go into any hospital and then, pay for treatment after realising that it is not empanelled for treating the particular ailment,” he said. In emergency cases, Mr. Kamath said, a referral letter from Wenlock Hospital can be taken within 24 hours of admission to a private hospital. Mr. Kamath asked personnel at the Seva Kendra to make applicants aware of these facts. Ratnakar, district nodal officer for the scheme, told The Hindu that of the 72 empanelled hospitals, 32 hospitals that include hospitals of the eight private medical colleges are empanelled to treat both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 cases. Dr. Ratnakar said that guidelines have been changed recently for treating COVID-19 only in cases that require ICU facility. Free COVID-19 treatment is given in those cases where a patient incidentally tests positive.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Car with boy inside towed away||The police towed away a car without knowing that a nine-year-old boy was in it here on Thursday. The boy, Prakhyath, was from Mijar. He had come along with his mother and brother to the city in the car. The car was parked on a pavement near a shopping store in Mallikatte. While his mother and brother went to the store, the car driver followed them soon after, leaving Prakhyath inside the car whose windows and windshield were tinted. In view of the recent directions from Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash to tow away vehicles parked on pavements, the towing vehicle team came to the spot. As cars windows were tinted it could not see anybody present in the car. After shooting a video of the vehicle parked on the pavement, the car was towed away, the police said. A little while later, the Mangalure East Traffic Police released the vehicle after Prakhayth’s mother approached them, the police added.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman robbed of jewellery||A man threatened a woman and made away with her gold chain, a pair of ear rings and a ring, in all about 12 grams of gold ornaments, at Kanatadka near Vitla on Friday. According to Vitla Police, Jainabi was alone in the house, as her husband Rafiq, an autorickshaw driver, went for namaz to a masjid near the house at around noon. Their 10-year-old son had gone to play at a neighbour’s house. As she was working in the kitchen, the man entered the house and threatened her and forced Jainabi to give away her gold chain, ear rings and the ring. Jainabi lost her conscience as the man was leaving the house. A few minutes later when Rafiq returned home, he found his wife tied to a chair. Efforts are being made to trace the accused.
26 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada exam||Kannada Sahitya Parishat will conduct its Kava, Jana and Ratna examinations on January 8, January 9 and January 10, 2021, respectively, at 19 centres in the State. Hall tickets have already been dispatched to the candidates by post. Call Ph: 080-26623584 for details.
26 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vaikunta Ekadashi celebrated||Vaikunta Ekadashi was celebrated in the city on Friday sans the fervour and the crowd at the various temples dedicated to Sri Venkateshwara. This was due to the restriction imposed to curb the possible spread of coronavirus. Though some of the temples including Yoga Narasimhaswamy temple in Vijayanagar, Venkateshwara temple attached to Maruti temple in Gangotri Layout and Sri Venkateshwara temple at Sri Ganapathi Sachhidananda Ashram were open, the crowd was relatively muted. Devotees were required to wear masks and no special prayers for individuals were conducted. Vaikunta Ekadashi traditionally draws a large crowd at Sri Ranganathaswamy temple at Srirangapatna. This is one of the oldest temples in the State and is the first of the three temples of Lord Vishnu reclining on Adisesha (Adiranga) on the banks of the Cauvery. The Madhya Ranga is at Shivanasamudra and Anthyaranga is at Srirangam in Tamil Nadu. The temple at Srirangapatna saw a significant number of devotees. Many devotees usually visit all the three temples on the same day on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadashi. But many of them dispensed with the practice this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.
26 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Stage set for second phase of GP elections in Mysuru||The stage is set for the second phase of the gram panchayat polls in the district slated for Sunday (January 27) in which 5,069 candidates are in the fray for 1,834 seats. The elections will be held for 102 gram panchayats spread across Mysuru, Nanjangud and T.Narsipur taluks. Of these, there are 23 GPs in Mysuru district, 43 in Nanjangud and 36 gram panchayats in T.Narsipur. Though there are 1,929 seats across these GPs, 82 have already been elected unopposed while there were no contestants for 13 seats. The Mysuru district administration has completed all the preparations pertaining to the elections and will deploy 4,092 personnel for the smooth conduct of the polls which will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. In Mysuru taluk, there are 1,63,657 eligible voters of whom 82,603 are men and 81,044 women besides 10 transgenders. There are 2,63,214 voters in Nanjangud taluk of whom 1,32,453 are men and 1,30,734 are women apart from 27 transgenders. In T.Narsipur there are 6,30,488 eligible voters of whom 3,16,651 are men and 3,13,800 are women. The authorities said 152 KSRTC buses and 13 mini-buses or maxicabs and 15 jeeps will be deployed for the transportation of the electoral officers and the ballot boxes. The mustering exercise will take place on December 26tat the respective taluk headquarters. Preparations in Kodagu  In Kodagu, 35 of the 38 gram panchayats in Virajpet taluk will go to the polls during the second phase for which preparations have been completed. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said in all there are 366 seats for which 924 candidates are in the fray while for 54 seats elections are not being held as the candidates have been elected unopposed. Also, no nominations were received in case of 4 seats. Security There are 50 sensitive, 18 hyper-sensitive and 4 naxal-affected booths in the area for which security has been intensified for the smooth conduct of the elections. The authorities will deploy 220 polling returning officers and 220 assistant polling returning officers apart from 440 polling officers for the conduct of the elections. The terrain being hilly and forested, the district administration has identified 128 booths that fall in the epicentre of the human-animal conflict which is high in the region.
26 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Gaiety marks Christmas in Mysuru||Christmas was celebrated with traditional gaiety and fervour in the region on Friday. Though held in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic it did not dampen the festival spirit with many of the churches including the St.Philomena’s Church in the city witnessing a steady arrival of the devout for prayers. While the attendance at the churches was relatively thin, there was a sizeable presence of devotees at St.Philomena’s Church where a lengthy queue was witnessed to catch a glimpse of Infant Jesus in the crib. The traditional midnight mass too was thinly attended but the Bishop of Mysuru K.A. Williams had stated earlier that admission would be limited to a manageable number of people unlike in the past where there used to be a steady flow of devotees throughout the day. The attendance to the special prayers was limited to about 300 per batch after which the subsequent batch of devotees were let in for the next round of prayers. Most of the churches in the city including CSI Harwicke Church, St.Bartholomew’s Church and St.Philomena’s Church were illuminated to mark the occasion.
26 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Paddy harvesting gains traction in Mysuru district following good rains||Paddy harvesting has gained traction across the district where nearly 100,000 hectares of land was brought under paddy cultivation this year. K.R.Nagar, T.Narsipur, parts of Mysuru and Nanjangud are the key paddy cultivating taluks and almost 80 per cent of the harvesting has been completed in K.R.Nagar. Joint Director of Agriculture Mahanteshappa said that good rains during the monsoon preceded by pre-monsoon showers helped the major reservoirs of the region get filled to the brim this year and was instrumental in extending the crop to 1 lakh hectares. There were concerns during the beginning of the kharif season that the target for agriculture could not be met as the country was under a lockdown due to the pandemic and farming activity would be affected. But there was semblance of normalcy due to the graded unlocking and agricultural activity gained momentum after the initial uncertainty caused by labour scarcity and the imperatives of ensuring social distancing. Mr. Mahanteshappa said paddy is a water-intensive crop cultivated on irrigated land and hence availability of water in the reservoir is the key criteria before the farmers opt for it. In 2018 farmers were discouraged from cultivating paddy due to water stress and uncertainty over its release from the reservoirs due to poor storage. With the focus shifting to harvesting, the Agriculture Department has procured combined harvesting machines for the benefit of the farmers. “There are 33 hoblis in Mysuru district and the department has procured 10 of these harvesters as paddy is not cultivated in all the hoblis. Besides, each of these harvesters cost around Rs. 25 lakh and is being made available to the farmers on a nominal rental basis.” Only 10 per cent of the harvest takes place manually and 75 per cent of the farmers have shifted to mechanized harvesting to save both labour cost and time, according to Mr. Mahanteshappa. Contrary to the popular perception that mechanisation will render the landless labourers jobless, he said labour was hard to come by as bulk of traditional agricultural workers were shifting to other vocations including construction sector. “This has given a fillip to mechanisation of farming activities. For paddy cultivation, almost 80 per cent of the work including preparing the land is done through mechanised means.’ Post-harvest, farmers will take up rabi or winter crops and though agricultural activity ebbs in winter almost 67,000 hectares has been brought under crop cover this year. This is against a normal of 53,000 hectares and is above the target of 61,000 hectares set for this year.
26 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Regulate COVID-19 messages on phone: NGO||An NGO involved in consumer rights advocacy is planning to approach higher authorities with an appeal to regulate the awarness messages on COVID-19 on phone. Consumer Voice, the NGO, says that the man-hours lost daily while listening to such messages is staggering. Such messages no longer served the purpose of educating the public, it said. It was in the first week of March that the Government of India had directed the telecom service providers to change the default ringtone and precede it with messages on the imperatives of maintaining social distance and ensuring use of hand sanitisers. But, nine months later, there has been no signs of the pre-call messages being reduced, which has irked a large section of the subscribers, and consumer rights groups are now toying with the idea of approaching the relevant authorities to regulate it. Bhamy V. Shenoy, a consumer rights activist and Governing Council member of Consumer Voice, said a calculation by Mysuru-based social activist Roy Joseph indicated that India was losing nearly 2.5 crore man-hours every day. And if one attributed even Rs. 50 per hour, then the loss works out to around Rs. 125 crore per day or Rs. 45,625 crore per year, which is huge by any standard. These figures are broad indicators and based on the assumption that 100 crore subscribers make three calls a day and have to listen to the 30-second audio every time they make a call. This translates to 2.5 crore hours per day and at Rs. 50 per hour, it amounts to Rs. 125 crore per day, as per the rough calculation, which has not factored in the cost of power to recharge the phones for three crore hours, according to Mr. Shenoy. He said Consumer Voice, which is a national-level voluntary action group of academicians and professionals constantly working to raise awareness on consumer rights and laws, was taking up the issue with the Telephone Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) or with the decision makers at a higher level. The existing technology should be able to stop giving the message after a mobile phone user has heard it 10 or 5 times in a month or it could be restricted to the first two calls a day rather than forcing the subscribers to listen to it every time, according to Mr. Shenoy. Consumer Voice activists say there was growing consensus that what started as a good cause in March, had now become a nuisance. In addition to the man-hours wasted, it had ceased to serve as an educative tool, according to Mr. Shenoy.
26 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Track inspection completed||The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for southern circle, Bengaluru, A.K.Rai, has conducted statutory inspection of the newly laid double line track between Harihar and Devaragudda stations in the Mysuru railway division of South Western Railway. The track inspection was conducted on Wednesday and Thursday and the distance was 31 km. A release said curves, , level-crossing gates, and major and minor bridges were checked for safety. The inspection commenced from Harihar and entailed the use of motor trolley between Harihar and Ranebennur on Wednesday The CRS conducted checks at various bridges on the section followed by inspecting the signalling works at Chalageri station. On Thursday the inspection commenced from Ranebennur where passenger amenities provided was also checked followed by motor trolley inspection up to Devaragudda station. This was followed by speed trial in which the inspection rake was run at a speed of 125 kmph between Devaragudda and Chalgeri. The release said the run was observed to be smooth and passed the water glass challenge. This refers to a glass of water full to the brim kept on a surface in the moving train but does not spill over, underlining the smoothness of the ride. The total cost of project is Rs. 298 crore and included the completion of the bridge across the Tungabhadra.
26 December 2020||Sringeri (Chikkamagaluru),KARNATAKA||Areca disease has many farmers in dire straits||There is a deep sense of despair among areca growers in Chikkamagaluru because there is no hope of relief from yellow leafdisease (YLD). The residents of Sringeri, Koppa, N.R. Pura, and Mudigere taluks have been growing areca for centuries. In the high-rainfall area, areca is considered most suitable because of its water-resistant quality. However, in recent decades, hundreds of planters have lost revenue from their areca plantations. Several of them, who once got yields of up to 100 quintals a year, are barely getting 100 kg now. A quintal of areca is priced between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 40,000. Hundreds of youngsters have left their native places in search of a better life, converting major parts of Malnad into a land of senior citizens. “All my ancestors have lived here for ages. But now, I am worried about my son’s future. For years, the yield from my seven-and-a-half-acre farm was 100 to 110 quintals. Now it has come down to 50 quintals,” said Kalkuli Vittal Hegde, a writer and activist in Sringeri. Many planters, who used to earnhandsome returns from areca, are now forced to compensate for their losses by converting a portion of their farmhouses into home-stays. “About 20 years ago, we had scores of people working on our farm during the harvest,” recalled Bhaskar Rao, a planter near Sringeri. He owns a 22-acre farm affected by the disease. “The only solution to the disease-affected farm is to cut the trees. I have tried all suggestions, but they have all failed.” Small farmers with one or two hectares are the worst-hit as the yield from their farms has been zero. Srinivasa Murthy, a farmer with two acres of areca plantation at Mundugodu, said he tried all alternative crops in the past few years, but none proved to be suitable. “The scientists have not yet come out with a solution to the disease, which was noticed decades ago. How long should we wait? Soon, areca plantations will vanish from this region,” he rued. Research The disease was first noticed in parts of Kerala in 1949. Later, it was traced in parts of Chikkamagaluru district. The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute at Kasaragod in Kerala and the Horticulture Research Centre at Sringeri have been conducting research on YLD. So far, no one has arrived at a conclusive finding on a remedy. M. Narayana Swamy, professor at the University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences in Shivamogga, heads the research centre set up at Sringeri in 2009. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, he said the research was going on. He has been conducting field trials and will be doing DNA study of phytoplasma, said to be the cause of YLD. “We have only three acres of land,insufficient to conduct field trials. At least 30 acres are required. As of now, we are researching private plantations, where farmers follow many methods suggested by different people to safeguard their crop. We cannot assess our remedies effectively,” he said. Besides that, there are regular scientists to assist him at the centre. The scientist exuded confidence of finding a solution, though he expressed an inability to declare when that would happen.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||IMA scam: Last date to apply for claims extended to Jan. 3||For investors who lost money in the IMA Group, the Special Court has extended the last date to apply for claims to January 3, 2021. Depositors may apply for claims online even if they do not possess the bank account, Aadhaar number or identity card issued by IMA. According to Section 7(3) of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004, those depositors who fail to apply for claims before the last date will not be able to seek claims thereafter, a communiqué said on Friday. The earlier deadline for submitting applications for claims was December 24. The competent authority had already conducted an audit of IMA books and has a list of depositors. If the details of the claimants match those in the database, they do not need to submit any proof, it was reported earlier. Contact points For more details, visitimaclaims.karnataka.gov.in, or contact the call centre (080-46885959) between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., send an email tosplocaima20@gmail.com, post queries on WhatsApp on 7975568880 or on the chatbox athttps://bot.v-connect.in. They may also visit the office of the Competent Authority, 2nd Floor, BMTC Complex, Shanthinagar, Bengaluru 560027.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||10 more people who returned from U.K. test positive; 1,419 tested so far||Ten more UK returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in Karnataka on Friday. With this, a total of 14 persons who returned to the State from the UK between December 1 and 22 have tested positive for COVID-19. The 14 samples are now undergoing genome sequencing at NIMHANS. According to the State’s media bulletin, as many as 1,419 of the 2,127 UK returnees have been tested so far. Of the 1,419 tested, 744 have tested negative and reports of 661 are awaited. Sources said the remaining persons have either not been traced or are not available for tests. “If any of those who are yet to be tested are carriers of the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 strain, there is a risk of the infection spreading as the new strain is highly infectious,” sources said. Official sources said they were finding it difficult to trace and convince the UK returnees to get tested. “Although we are able to contact them, several people who had returned before the Centre’s regulations on flights and quarantine were imposed, have told us they are out of station or are immediately not available for tests. Such people are also arguing that they had landed in the first week of December or even before that, and are doing well and, hence, there is no need to get tested,” sources said. New cases Meanwhile, Karnataka on Friday reported 1,005 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,14,488. With five deaths, the toll rose to 12,044. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,102 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,88,917. Of the remaining 13,508 active patients, 208 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.01%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.49%. Bengaluru Urban reported 578 cases, taking its tally to 3,85,586. With four deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,287.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister resolves dispute over billing of patient||Following allegations by the family of a deceased COVID-19 patient that a private hospital had not only charged “exorbitantly” but was also not handing over the body till the bill is cleared, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar intervened and resolved the issue on Friday. The family of Rajasthan-based Bhimaram Patel alleged that the patient who died at Manipal Hospitals in Jayanagar on December 23 had been billed Rs. 44 lakh for 40 days. The hospital had refused to hand over the body till all the bills were cleared, the family alleged. A media statement from the Minister’s office stated that he contacted the hospital management about the case and got bills amounting to nearly Rs. 10 lakh waived off. The remaining was paid partly through insurance and by the family. The body was then handed over to the family on Friday, according to the statement. Charges denied However, the management of Manipal Hospitals, Jayanagar denied the charges. In a statement, the hospital said the patient had a severe form of COVID-19 and had to be put on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) life support. “Unfortunately, the patient succumbed to the illness after a prolonged course. His COVID-19 status was updated to the health authorities at the time of admission and the family was periodically appraised of the patient's treatment and his condition, including the possible outcomes,” the statement said. “As a policy, we do not withhold the body for any reason, including financial, except when there is a requirement by government regulations. The body was released immediately on receiving clearance from BBMP,” the statement added.  As a policy, we do not withhold the body for any reason, including financial, except when there is a requirement by government regulations. The body was released immediately on receiving clearance from BBMP Statement from hospital
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Jury is still out on State’s welfare priorities||In a time of crisis, no government can make its citizens happy no matter how well it governs. Any judgment on governance in Karnataka during the past nine months of crisis fuelled by COVID-19 must be subject to this caveat. But the story of the State’s governance during this phase is not just about managing the pandemic and its complex impact. For, the crisis appeared as an opportunity for the Karnataka government, much like the Union government and many other States, to push its own agenda of governance dictated by its politics. Karnataka may not yet present any model of best practices in managing the crisis, but the State, despite many constraints, must be credited for not allowing the situation to slip out of control. In any case, given the complexity of the crisis, any conclusion about what went right and what did not will be tentative. Many unknown stories as well as the unknown subtexts of the known stories may remain hidden. For a fuller account of governance, therefore, attention needs to move beyond the narrow range of activities around managing the pandemic to cover the entire gamut of the State’s actions related and unrelated to COVID-19. For any sensitive chronicler of governance during the crisis, one image that will haunt for long is that of the ferocity of the police during the early phase of enforcing a hurriedly announced national lockdown. The political class, which should have reined in the police, appeared to have gleefully watched the sordid sadism unfold on the streets. A lawyer, who is also a ruling party sympathiser, took up the cudgels against the might of the regulatory state by filing a PIL petition in the High Court of Karnataka. The police chief then issued an order to the men and women in khaki to show restraint — thank the judiciary for small mercies. There may be a lesson in this on how to and how not to use the police during a humanitarian crisis, but who cares for it in a society that seems to revere the violent police culture. The crisis period has also seen Karnataka pass a plethora of laws. Obediently taking orders from the political bosses in Delhi, the BJP government went virtually berserk, passing new laws and amending existing ones to comply with the Central laws. The last visage of land reforms era was conclusively removed when the restrictions on purchase of farm land by non-agriculturists were lifted by amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961. Many labour regulations were relaxed. The APMC Act was amended in line with the Central legislation, paving the way for bigger and smoother entry of private capital to the farm market. Cattle transportation and slaughter were subjected to more restrictions by amending an existing Act. Most of these laws were brought in through the Ordinance route. Even when the Bills were introduced in truncated sessions of the legislature to replace the Ordinances, hardly any debate was entertained. The worst case was that of the cattle slaughter Bill, which was passed even before copies of the Bill were circulated among the members! Whatever might be its ways, the government seems to be hell-bent on seeing the State economy more liberalised than ever before by the time the crisis ends. A Rs. 1,722-crore relief package was announced in three instalments in May. That was the last word one heard of it. ‘Who gets what’ is not what politics seems to be concerned with any more. In the middle of the crisis, a flood made it worse for people in many districts. Media reports suggested that most of these flood victims were still left to fend for themselves. Warped priorities However, in the meantime, the government has announced a Rs. 500-crore bonanza for one of the most socially and economically advanced communities — an example of its welfare priorities during the crisis. In the wake of massive public spending that the crisis demanded, the corridors of power were awash with stories of corruption, but none became an issue. What seems to matter in governance during a crisis is what gets done and not whether the rulebook is followed. But, skeletons may start tumbling out of the closet after the crisis is gone.  (A. Narayana teaches policy and governance at Azim Premji University)
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||South division police bust drug racket||The crackdown on drug peddling in the run-up to the New Year continued as the V.V. Puram police, on Friday, caught two peddlers and seized over 100 kilos of ganja, which they had allegedly smuggled from a neighbouring State. The duo, Venkataramana, 38, and Muneer Khan, 38, are natives of Mulbagal in Kolar district. They were caught red-handed while waiting in an autorickshaw to hand over the consignment to a contact. The police have seized two mobile phones and the autorickshaw. Came in autorickshaw The police suspect that the duo was part of an inter-State drug racket and had come to city in the autorickshaw to hand over the consignment to their clients for the upcoming New Year celebrations. The police are trying to ascertain the source of the drugs and their contacts. One of their contacts, identified as Alambhai, managed to escape, and efforts are to track him down, Harish Pande, DCP, South said. On Wednesday, the East division police had busted an international drug racket and arrested two Nigerian nationals allegedly trying to sell synthetic drugs worth Rs. 1 crore after raiding a tea stall near Bagmane Tech Park. In another incident, the CCB arrested three persons, including a Nigerian national, and recovered 100 MDMA pills worth Rs. 5 lakh.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Online loan app fraudsters also stole data||Investigations into the mobile app loan racket busted by the CID revealed that the accused would not only harass and threaten customers who defaulted on payment of interest or repayment of the loan amount, but also hack into their mobile phones, including contacts and pictures. Voice message Using these personal data, they allegedly created a WhatsApp group consisting of the contacts of customers and posted abusive messages against the customer with the photograph of the customer, labelling them ‘fraud’ or ‘defaulter’. There are instances of voice messages by recovery agents of the company threatening physical and sexual assault on female customers, CID sleuths said. Harassed customers ended up taking loans through other apps to repay the previous one, getting caught in a vicious circle of taking and repaying loans, officials said. Preliminary investigation revealed that citizens of neighbouring countries are the investors and CEOs of these apps. Taking serious note of the fraud, the RBI has cautioned against unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps. Unauthorised lenders Yogesh Dayal, Chief General Manager, RBI, in a statement on Wednesday, said that there have been reports about individuals or small businesses falling prey to a growing number of unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps on promises of getting loans in quick and hassle-free manner. These reports refer to excessive rates of interest and additional hidden charges being demanded from borrowers, adoption of unacceptable and high-handed recovery methods; and misuse of agreements to access data on the mobile phones of the borrowers. KYC documents Consumers should never share copies of KYC documents with unidentified persons, unverified apps and should report such apps or bank account information associated with the apps to law enforcement agencies or use Sachet portal (https://sachet.rbi.org. in) to file an online complaint, according to the statement.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for sexual assault||The Chandra Layout police arrested a man for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman on the pretext of getting her a job in the city. The accused has been identified as Sagar Gowda from Mandya. He was arrested following a complaint by the victim. The police said that the accused had met the complainant at a birthday celebration of his relative, after which he befriended her and asked her to send her resume. Recently, he took her to his relative’s house and allegedly offered her juice laced with a sedative, and then sexually assaulted her, the police said. After she gained consciousness, she revealed the same to her family members.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Christmas celebrations||
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Paying obeisance||
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nature’s bounty||
26 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tadipatri clashes: former MLA and his son booked under SC/ST Act||The Tadipatri police on Friday filed two cases each against former Andhra Pradesh TDP MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son Ashmit Reddy under various sections of the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, based on complaints received from two persons.  Deputy Superintendent of Police Chinta Chaitanya Kumar Reddy told The Hindu that a third case was filed suo motu against an unnamed person for posting an audio clip on YSRCP MLA Kethireddy Pedda Reddy. “The clip posted on the social media led to clashes between two groups in Tadipatri on Thursday and imposition of Section 144,” Mr. Chaitanya said. While a person travelling on the street, Kasi Manoj, lodged a complaint against Mr. Prabhakar Reddy and Ashmit Reddy, and eight others, another person, identified as Bhramendra, driver of Anil Kumar Reddy, too filed a complaint against the former MLA and his son, and the same eight persons. As per the complaint, Mr. Manoj sustained a head injury and the car being driven by Mr. Bhramendra was damaged, the police said. Asked about the CCTV footage that showed the MLA and a few others entering his house, Mr. Prabhakar Reddy said he would not file a complaint against anyone.
26 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One of 22 U.K. returnees tests positive in Anantapur||One of the 22 people who have returned from the United Kingdom to Anantapur district recently tested positive for coronavirus, District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) Y. Kameswara Prasad has said. A woman, who tested positive for COVID-19 four days after her return from the U.K., has been admitted to the hospital in the city. However, all her primary contacts tested negative. She was asymptomatic. In all, 27 names who have returned from the U.K. to the district in the past month were sent from the State government. However, five of them turned out to be natives of other districts or duplicate names. RT-PCR test “The district does not have the facility to test the new strain that was identified in the U.K. We are waiting for the protocol to be followed in such cases. Depending on the directions from the government, the samples would be sent to the designated place for confirmation. Of the 22 samples that underwent RT-PCR test, 21 samples tested negative for the new strain (SARS n-COV2),” said Dr. Prasad.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah updated on status of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech’s senior leadership on Friday called on Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu and updated him on the status of COVID-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin being developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV). The discussion revolved around the status of the indigenous vaccine and plans to make it available in the country and rest of the world, said an official release on the interaction Mr. Naidu had with Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella and Joint MD Suchitra Ella at his residence in the city. The Vice President stressed the importance of public private partnership in coming with indigenous world class products. He lauded the collaboration between the ICMR and Bharat Biotech, the release said. An inactivated vaccine, Covaxin, is being developed and manufactured at Bharat Biotech’s Bio-Safety Level 3 (BSL-3) bio-containment facility in Hyderabad. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited the company’s facility in Genome Valley here and reviewed the status of Covaxin. Following this, earlier this month, 70 Ambassadors and High Commissioners from several countries visited the facility as part of an initiative of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Phase III clinical trials Phase III clinical trials for the vaccine are underway since last month and set to involve about 26,000 volunteers. The company had a few days ago announced the recruitment of 13,000 of the volunteers for the Phase III trials that are being conducted at multiple sites across the country. It is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a COVID-19 vaccine, and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in the country, the company had said. Phase I and Phase II clinical trials of Covaxin involved around 1,000 subjects. A pre-print paper on the interim findings of the Phase II trials said the vaccine candidate showed tolerable safety outcomes and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. In Phase I, it produced high levels of neutralising antibodies that remained elevated in all participants three months after the second vaccination. Though a timeframe pertaining to Phase III trials, receipt of approvals and launch is not clear as yet, the company had recently applied for an emergency use authorisation (EUA). Its application, however, was kept on hold, citing the need for more evidence, by an expert committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). ICMR on Thursday had tweeted, “Data generated from within India underlines impressive safety and immunogenicity profile of Covaxin and sparks Lancet’s interest in publishing them.”
26 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan celebrates Christmas at Pulivendula church||On the last day of his three-day tour of his native district on Friday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took part in the Christmas celebrations at the CSI Church in his home town of Pulivendula along with his mother Vijayamma, wife Bharathi, and other family members. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy cut the cake along with his mother, and released the New Year calendar brought out by the church. Addressing the devout on the occasion, the Chief Minister said the government chose the day to launch the State-wide programme to distribute 31 lakh house sites pattas to the poor in view of its spiritual significance, as it also coincided with Vaikunta Ekadasi, which is considered very auspicious by the Hindus. ‘Legal hurdles’ At the same time, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed pain at the government’s inability to distribute 8,300 pattas in Pulivendula in view of certain legal hassles. Recalling the petition moved in the court over the distribution of land belonging to the APIIC as house site pattas to the poor, the Chief Minister pointed out that the APIIC lands also belonged to the government. The Chief Minister expressed his determination to overcome the legal hassles and distribute the pattas soon. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy, in-charge Minister A. Suresh, and former MLA A. Amaranath Reddy participated. Later, the Chief Minister reached the helipad developed at Bhakarapuram and flew to the Kadapa airport, from where he left for Rajamahendravaram. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and other officials saw him off at the airport.
26 December 2020||KAIKALUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for sending morphed pictures of girl||A 20-year-old youth was booked for allegedly sending ‘morphed, obscene’ photographs of a girl, a Class 7 student, and threatening to upload them on social media groups if she did not pay him money. The accused, who reportedly befriended the girl over phone while attending online classes, allegedly demanded Rs. 20,000 and collected the amount sent through a Class 9 boy. Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Satyanandam said the accused, an SSC dropout, had allegedly introduced himself to the girl under an assumed name over the phone a few months ago. Recently, the youth wished the girl on her birthday and asked her to send her photographs. The accused then allegedly morphed her photographs. While the girl is a resident of Kaikalur mandal in Krishna district, the accused hails from Kalisapudi village of Undi mandal in West Godavari district. Family steps in “A couple of days ago, the youth had again demanded money from the girl. When the girl said she had no money, the accused reportedly told her to part with her gold ornaments. With the minor boy alerting them, the girl’s family members observed her movements and caught her while she was handing over the jewellery on Thursday,” said Kaikalur Rural Sub-Inspector T. Ramakrishna. Based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s parents, the accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, he said. “We have booked a case against the accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, Section 419 (cheating by impersonation), 506 IPC (criminal intimidation) and 354 (A) IPC (sexual harassment with an intention to outrage her modesty) and arrested him,” Mr. Satyanandam said. Instructions were given to check whether the accused had resorted to similar crimes earlier. A cyber bullying sheet would be opened against him, the DSP added.
26 December 2020||KOMARAGIRI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Court stay on distribution of house sites in Amaravati sad, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday said he was saddened to know that the court stayed the government’s proposal to sanction house sites to 54,000 poor families in Amaravati, following a petition filed by the TDP supporters that stated that the initiative would result in an imbalance of “caste-based demography” in the region. Addressing the gathering at the housing site here, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “I am wondering at the court order staying the plan to sanction house sites for the poor in Amaravati, in response to the petition that claims caste-based demographic imbalance if the sites are granted in the region.” Accusing TDP president N. Chandrababu and his aides of launching a legal battle against the housing scheme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the several cases filed at various courts was leading to a delay in the issue of pattas to the 3.74 lakh families. “The State government is unable to distribute pattas to the 10% of the beneficiaries due to the stays issued by various courts across the State,” the Chief Minister said. “The government has approached the apex court, and the housing sites will be sanctioned to all the 3.74 lakh families as soon as the legal hurdles are cleared,” he said. ‘Rethink on capital’ On the capital issue, the Chief Minister said, “A place deserves to be called the capital only when people representing all castes, religions and regions are allowed to stay there. But some sections of society approached the court against allowing the poor to live there. In such a scenario, I appeal for a rethink on the issue. A capital that is owned by every section of society and region will be built with the blessings of God and support of the people.”
26 December 2020||KOMARAGIRI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will complete TIDCO houses in two years’||The State government will provide basic facilities such as drinking water, electricity and drainage in the townships being developed by the AP Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO) by spending Rs. 3,000 crore. During the distribution of house site pattas programme here on Friday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Works costing about Rs. 3,000 crore pertaining to infrastructure in the TIDCO townships were pending by the end of the previous government’s tenure. We will finalise the tenders and commence work by January 2021.” The State government is committed to completing the construction of the 2.62 lakh flats in three categories – below 300 sq. feet, 365 sq. feet and 430 sq. feet in the urban areas. “The government is prepared to spend Rs. 9,500 crore to complete the TIDCO housing project in two years,’ he said. “As many as 1.43 lakh beneficiaries are in the below 300 sq. feet category. They will be given flat for Rs. 1 as the government will bear an expenditure of Rs. 3,805 crore. In the case of the beneficiaries in the other categories, the government will bear half of the advance to be paid by the beneficiary by allocating Rs. 482 crore,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said.
26 December 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man who returned from U.K., mother test positive||A 34-year-old man, who has returned from the United Kingdom and his mother, tested positive for COVID in Nellore as the health authorities identified 144 persons with travel history to Britain, in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The man returned from the U.K. 15 days ago. The health officials said the man and his mother were in an isolation ward in the Government General Hospital in Nellore. However, the father of the foreign returnee tested negative for the virus. The samples collected from the duo were being sent to the National Institute of Virology to assess whether it was new and more infectious coronavirus strain, which led to spike in fresh cases in Britain, Nellore District and Medical Officer S. Rajyalakshmi told The Hindu . Following this, the SPSR Nellore district authorities stepped up containment measures in Nellore city, where 37 U.K. returnees were quarantined. As many as 20 U.K. returnees tested negative in the district, where the first positive case was a person who had returned from Italy. The district administration made a frantic search for four U.K. returnees who were not found in the address given in their passport. The details of their passports were forwarded to Cyberwing of the police to trace them. In Prakasam, health authorities heaved a sigh of relief as none of the 97 U.K. returnees tested positive so far. While three persons were put on institutional quarantine, the other foreign returnees were allowed home quarantine, said Prakasam DMHO P. Ratnavalli. Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar said the health situation was well under control with active cases, which reached the peak in the month of August, declining to a low 149. The district administration is fully geared up to face any spike in fresh cases in New Year. Meanwhile, the health authorities identified 25,000 health workers for inoculation of vaccine in the first phase in the district.  New cases With 36 new cases, the cumulative tally rose to 1,25,620 in south coastal Andhra pradesh in the last 24 hours. With 38 patients getting cured during the period, the number of active cases dipped to 689 in Nellore and Prakasam districts.
26 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic dampens Christmas spirit||Christmas was celebrated on a modest note in the wake of coronavirus pandemic in Prakasam district on Friday. The large gathering of devotees in churches was missing across the district as the religious heads urged the old people and sick not to participate in the midnight mass at churches as a precautionary measure. However, all special Christmas services were organised as was the practice at St. Theresa RC Church near the Old Market centre and others. Those who came to churches to participate in the candlelight service during the midnight and other services took the necessary precautions such as wearing masks and sanitising hands following the instructions issued from the health authorities who warned of a possible second wave of coronavirus. The Jewett Memorial Baptist Church, considered head of all Baptist churches in the south, was tastefully decorated and the same scene was witnessed over the 150 denomination of churches. Devotees made a beeline for the historic Baptist church at the coastal village of Ramayapatnam. Christmas carols were sung in the JDBM Baptist Church at Kandukur on the occasion as pastors delivered the message of God. Persons dressed as Santa Claus kept the gathering in a good humour. Devotees also decorated their homes with illuminated stars and Christmas trees. ‘Nativity scenes’ with infant Jesus, Mother Mary and Joseph were arranged at Cloughpet. Devotees also remembered John E. Clough, a missionary from the U.S.A. , who had run a string of educational institutions in the region.
26 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees make a beeline for ‘Uttara dwara darshan’ at temples||Thousands of devotees thronged the historic Lord Chennakesava Swamy temple here for ‘Uttara Dwara Darshan’ on the auspicious Vaikunta Ekadasi on Friday. Wearing face masks, devotees stood in a serpentine queues right from the dawn. Chants of Govinda namam filled the air as the northern entrance of the temple was opened for darshan by priests amid the chanting of vedic hymns. Huge crowds were witnessed at the Sri Venkateswara temple at Srigiri. In Nellore district, devotees arrived in large numbers at various Vaishanative temples on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi. They had ‘Uttara dwara darshan’ at Sri Talpagiri Ranghanadha Swamy temple at Ranganayakulapeta on the southern bank of the Penna river. Special Correspondent from Tirupati adds: Spiritual ecstasy pervaded at the temples on Friday on the auspicious occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi. The devotee turnout was higher than expected in most of the temples governed by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in and around Tirupati. At Sri Kalyana Venkateswara temple in Srinivasa Mangapuram, the ‘Vaikunta dwara darshan’ began at 4 a.m. and the devotees were allowed till 7 p.m., in view of the COVID-19 protocols. Restricted ritual timings The temple activities were restricted between 3.30 a.m. and 9 p.m. at Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple, which also witnessed a higher footfall when compared to the previous months. The temples dedicated to Sri Padmavathi Ammavaru (Tiruchanur), Sri Kodandarama Swamy, Sri Prasanna Venkateswara temple (Appalayagunta), Kalyana Venkateswara (Narayanavanam), Sri Venugopala (Karvetinagaram), Sri Vedanarayana (Nagalapuram), Sri Pattabhirama (Valmikipuram) and Sri Kodandarama (Vontimitta), scattered around Tirupati, were tastefully decorated for the occasion. Staff Reporter from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram adds: Religious fervour marked the Vaikunta Ekadasi as devotees thronged the Vaishnavite temples in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Friday. The temples of Lord Venkateswara Swamy and Sri Astalakshmi in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts wore festive look with the flower decoration and illuminations. Devotees thronged the temples from the early hours to have darshan of the presiding deities through the Uttara Dwaram. Govindanama Smarana Brindam performed special prayers. Devotees sought Lord Balaji’s blessings to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic, said Govindanam Smarana Brindam founder Mahanti Srinivasa Rao. ‘Govindanama japam’ Hundreds of devotees participated in ‘Govindanama Smarana Japam’ on Vaikunta Ekadasi. TTD Dharma Prachara Parishad member Baratam Kameswara Rao congratulated Mr. Mahanti Srinivasa Rao for involving youngsters in the japam. Astalakshmi Sameta Aishwarya Venakteswara Swamy temple in Vizianagaram witnessed a huge rush of devotees from the dawn. All arrangements were made in strict adherence of the COVID-19 protocols, said temple trustees Durga Balaji and D. Umadevi. The temples under the purview of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) , Kalyana Venakteswara Swamy temple on the Ring Road also witnessed heavy rush.
26 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders confident of strengthening party base||Leaders of YSR Congress Party in the district were in a jubilant mood on Friday as the distribution of house sites to the poor is likely to consolidate further their vote bank. According to them, such large-scale distribution of house sites took place across India during the regime of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and now the poll promise made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy turned into a reality. Former Revenue Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao distributed house-site pattas to eligible families at Patrunivalasa, located on the outskirts of the district headquarters. Speaker Tammineni Sitaram handed over pattas to beneficiaries in Gajulakollivalasa of Amadalavalasa constituency. ‘Memorable event’ He said that the distribution of house sites was a memorable event in his political career. He said that Jaganna Bhoo Hakku -- Bhoo Raksha Padhakam was also an innovative and would ensure hassle-free land transactions for villagers across the district. Around 1.23 lakh house sites would be distributed in Srikakulam district under the programme. Vizianagaram As far as Vizianagaram district is concerned, 1.08 lakh families get benefited with the distribution of house sites, according to officials. They said that the distribution process began in all nine Assembly constituencies except Vizianagaram where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself would distribute house sites on December 30 during a public meeting at Gunkalam.
26 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour marks Vaikunta Ekadasi||Religious fervour marked the auspicious Vaikunta Ekadasi as devotees thronged the Vaishnavite temples in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Friday. The temples of Lord Venkateswara Swamy and Sri Ashtalakshmi in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts wore festive look with the flower decoration and illuminations. Devotees thronged the temples from the early hours to have darshan of the presiding deities through the Uttara Dwaram. Govindanama Smarana Brindam performed special prayers. Devotees sought Lord Balaji’s blessings to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic, said Govindanam Smarana Brindam founder Mahanti Srinivasa Rao. TTD Dharma Prachara Parishad member Baratam Kameswara Rao congratulated Mr. Mahanti Srinivasa Rao for involving youngsters in the japam. Ashtalakshmi Sameta Aishwarya Venakteswara Swamy temple in Vizianagaram witnessed a huge rush of devotees from the dawn.
26 December 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks Vaikunta Ekadasi||Religious ecstasy marked the Vaikunta Ekadasi celebrations at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Friday. Soon after the completion of daily rituals, which were all performed in ‘ekantham’ in the small hours, the celestial ‘abhishekam’ was conducted. After complying with other religious formalities, the doors of ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’ -- the inner most passage circumambulating the sanctum sanctorum -- were ceremoniously opened for the public at the pre-designated ‘sumuhurtham’ amid chanting of Vedic hymes. Immense significance is attached to Vaikunta dwara darsanam as it is widely believed that one who passes through this passage, which is opened only once a year on this ekadasi festival, day attains salvation. The protocol VIPs were the first to be allowed for the darshan of deity followed by other dignitaries and Sri Vani Trust donors and succeeded by special entry and dharma darshan devotees. Several prominent dignitaries such as Chief Justice of India Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, judges of the State as well as Telangana and Karnataka High Courts, Ministers, bureaucrats and elected people’s representatives and others were among those who had the Vaikunta dwara darshan. Procession The presiding deity was adorned with very rare and precious diamond-studded gold jewels befitting the occasion. Further adding grandeur to the festival, the inner precincts of the hill temple were also tastefully decorated with a variety of flowers and It was colourfully illuminated. Splendour marked the procession of golden chariot that followed the festivities. Lord Malayappa flanked on either side by his two divine consorts and mounted atop the imperial chariot took a celestial ride along the thoroughfares of the town. The festival day also proved rewarding for TTD as the member trustee Kumara Guru handed over a demand draft for Rs. 1 crore for the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateswara at his native constituency Ulundurpet in Tamil Nadu, while a noted philanthropist from Hyderabad Indra Kumar donated Rs. 1.08 crore to be shared equally among the Vidyadana and Pranadana trusts.
26 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aditya Nath Das visits ailing APGenco official||Chief Secretary-designate Aditya Nath Das on Friday called on B. Sreedhar, Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation Limited (APGenco) MD, who is undergoing treatment at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super speciality hospital. Mr. Das, accompanied by SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, reached the hospital’s cardiology ICU where Mr. Sreedhar was recovering. Dr. Vengamma explained him about the quality treatment being offered.
26 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complicated heart surgery performed||In what is termed as a complicated surgical procedure, the heart valve has been replaced for the second time for a 37-year-old man. The man, Yugandhar, a resident of Tirupati, underwent his first heart valve replacement 12 years ago, but started experiencing discomfort for the last six months. The patient reached Amara Hospital after the corporate hospital in Chennai projected a higher bill by citing it a ‘high risk’ case. A team of cardiothoracic surgeons and anaesthetists, led by CT surgeon Nagaraju Makam, performed the complicated operation on the patient recently. “We infused a lot of courage and confidence into the patient who was thoroughly worried at the development and completed the surgery,” Dr. Nagaraju said. Mr. Yugandhar recovered and was discharged from the hospital.
26 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkateswara Ayurvedic College gets new principal||P. Muralikrishna, professor and head of Panchakarma Department of the TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic College (SVAC) at Tirupati, has been appointed its principal. He took charge from the Resident Medical Officer G. Padmavathi, who was holding the full additional charge, on Thursday. Dr. Muralikrishna, a specialist in Panchakarma therapy, has conducted several CMEs and national workshops on the subject in the past. Vice-principal V. Sundaram and other teaching and non-teaching staff were present on the occasion.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees throng Vishnu temples, have ‘uttara dwara darshan’||Devotees in good numbers thronged temples, mostly dedicated to Lord Vishnu and his incarnations, to offer special prayers on the occasion of the auspicious Vaikunta Ekadasi on Friday. Priests performed special pujas for the presiding deities at various temples. The devotees from far and wide had a darshan of the presiding deities of the historic temples such as Panakala Narasimha Swamy temple at Mangalagiri, Srikakula Andhra Maha Vishnu temple at Srikakulam village in Krishna district and Venugopala Swamy temple at Nemali.The managements of the temples made arrangements for safe darshan of the deities. Amid concerns over the new strain, social-distancing guidelines maintained strictly. The devotees, who turned up in large numbers braving the cold weather conditions to witness the grand religious event, chanted slogans of Govida at temples like Labbipeta Venkateswara Swamy temple here. Richly decorated The richly decorated northern entrance of the temple was thrown open for the sacred ‘Uttara dwara darshanam’ or Vaikunta dwaram darshan. A host of special rituals signifying the importance of the sacred event — ‘Uttara Dwara Darshanam’ were performed. The devotees had a darshan of Lord through the northern entrance, which is opened only once in a year amid spiritual ambience replete with Vedic hymns in praise of the deity by the temple priests before the break of the dawn. At Sri Panchamukha Veeranjaneya Swamy temple at Tadepalli near here, Vishnu sahasranama parayana etc were recited. Every year approximately 75,000-1,00,000 devotees from all over the State used to visit Sri Panakala Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple on Vaikunta Ekadasi. The footfall this year was slightly less compared to previous years.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,148 persons arrived from U.K. in one month||The Health Department stated in a press release on Friday that the total number of persons who returned from the United Kingdom in the last one month stands at 1,148, of whom 1,040 have been traced. Of those yet to be found, 18 persons are from other States and 16 have invalid addresses. A total of 982 persons were placed in quarantine. Four persons were found positive among them and their fresh samples were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad and the National Institute of Virology at Pune to ascertain whether the infection is due to the new strain of coronavirus. The results of these tests will be known in three days. Two deaths The State registered 354 new COVID positive cases and two deaths (Krishna and Guntur districts) in the last 24 hours ending on Friday morning. Chittoor district has the highest number of cases during the period at 81 and Vizianagaram the lowest at six. The total positive cases, tests per million and positivity rate are 8,80,430, 2,15,940 and 7.64 respectively.  Trial run Meanwhile, arrangements have been made for a trial run of the COVID vaccine administration process at five locations in Krishna district on December 28 to check if the web-based software is working properly, as per the Central government’s instructions.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bapu Museum likely to have more attractions||People who have visited Dilli Haat that provides the ambience of a traditional ‘rural haat’ or village market, but one that suits the contemporary needs and closer home the ‘Night Bazaar’ on the premises of Shilparamam in Hyderabad, have experienced the charm exuded by such buzzing places. The good news is that the State Department of Archaeology and Museums has plans to create a similar facility on the premises of Bapu Museum in Vijayawada. Earlier, known as Victoria Jubilee Museum, which has received a facelift through renovation and renamed as ‘Bapu' Museum, the place, now equipped with state-of-the-art technology, stands as a world class archaeological museum. In what is claimed as a first of its kind in the country, the museum is equipped with advanced digital interactive display technologies like immersive project theatre, augmented reality, virtual reality, interactive digital display panels and cabinets, a digital book and interactive kiosks, that give the viewers a world-class experience in visualizing history. As part of its decision to outsource the operation and management (O&M) of the museum in Pubic and Private Participation (PPP) mode, the department has invited a request for proposal (RFP). “Transformation of the Victoria Jubilee Museum into a modern museum has been a herculean task. After overcoming issues like getting the required funds and completing the project in time without compromising on quality, the challenge now is to ensure proper maintenance of the project,” says G. Vani Mohan, Commissioner, Department of Archaeology and Museums. Development works The department is currently focussed on development of the museums at Eluru and Kurnool, the Ahobilam temple where a lazer show is being introduced and renovation of the 2,000-year-old Buddhist mahastupa at Thotlakonda, said Ms. Mohan.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jesus strived for welfare of mankind: Naidu||Jesus Christ preached mercy, peace, tolerance, brotherhood, and such other virtues, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said on Friday while extending his Christmas greetings to the people. “Jesus Christ was a true saviour who had striven for the well-being of mankind as a whole,” Mr. Naidu said. In a series of tweets, Mr. Naidu said, “Those resorting to violence and destruction will not get the blessings of Christ. Affection for fellow human beings and a path without jealousy and hatred are the hallmarks of the Christian way of life.” Stating that the TDP had always batted for the welfare of Christians, Mr. Naidu said the gifts the TDP government had given to the poor on the festival was aimed at making the occasion merrier. The YSRCP, after coming to power, stopped giving Christmas and marriage gifts, he said.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya, vasathi deevena schemes modified||In post-graduation courses, the Jagananna Vidya Deevena and the Jagananna Vasathi Deevena schemes will be applicable only to the students admitted under the convener quota in the State-funded Universities and Government Degree / Post-Graduate colleges in the State from 2020-21. A G.O. was issued on Friday on partial modification of the Vidya Deevena (Reimbursement of tuition fee) and Vasathi Deevena (Maintenance fee for hostel and food expenses) schemes. ‘Not applicable’ It clarified that the two schemes were not applicable to the post-graduate students admitted under the convener quota, either regular or self-finance mode, in private aided and private unaided degree/PG colleges from 2020-21.
26 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNV launches alumni portal||It was a special Friday for the alumni of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) who now have a common platform to share and support the causes they feel deeply about and interact and build a strong network. Vinayak Garg, Commissioner of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samithi, a conglomerate of 661 JNVs with over 2,65,574 students enrolled, launched the alumni portal (www.nvsalumni.com) . Assistant Commissioner Aditya Prakash Singh, coordinator (Alumni affairs and outreach) Ramachandra, and others were present. With the efforts of the alumni portal’s core team led by Padmaja KVS (JNV Anantapur and Vinil Kumar (JNV Adilabad), more than 1,000 people joined .
26 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge crowds throng Simhachalam temple||Huge crowds thronged the temple of Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam here on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi on Friday. The temple was specially decorated with flowers, floral rangolis and illuminated with lights to mark the occasion. Temple Trust Board Chairperson Sanchaitha Gajapathi Raju was received at the temple. She had darshan alone. Another member of the royal family Sudha Gajapathi Raju, wife of Anand Gajapathi Raju, who came for darshan told the media at Simhachalam that she was asked to wait at the temple guest house till Ms. Sanchaitha completed darshan. Ms. Sudha wanted to go for darhsan in the queue and have darshan but the temple staff requested her to wait. She said that the temple staff and authorities were helpless as they had instructions from the Chairperson not to allow anyone till she left. She, however, said that she had ‘darshan’ of the deity later.
26 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special train from Dhanbad to Alappuzha from Jan. 1||The railways has decided to run special train services between Dhanbad- Alappuzha- Dhanbad via Visakhapatnam with effect from January 1, 2021. Train no. 03351 Dhanbad – Alappuzha special express train will leave Dhanbad daily at 11.40 a.m. with effect from January 1 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 8.15 a.m. and departat 8.35 a.m. and will reach Alappuzha at 3.25 p.m. on the third day of its journey. Train no.03352 Alappuzha- Dhanbad special express train will leave Alappuzha daily at 6 a.m., with effect from January 4 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 1.10 p.m. and depart at 1.30 p.m. and will reach Dhanbad at 10.20 a.m. on the third day of its journey, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. This pair of trains have stoppages at Jharsuguda, Sambalpur Road, Bargarh Road, Barpali, Balangir, Titlagarh, Kesinga, Muniguda, Rayagada, Parvatipuram Town, Parvatipuram, Bobbili, Vizianagaram, Kottavalasa, Simhachalam, Visakhapatnam and Duvvada over East Coast Railway. These pair of trains will have Second AC-1,third AC-2, Sleeper Class-12, Second Class-4 Second class-cum-luggage coaches-2, pantry car-1 in its composition. Passengers have been asked to avail of these special train services. They are also asked to follow health protocol at the railway premises and in trains during their journey.
26 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 28 new COVID cases||The district reported 28 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 59,520 as on Friday, according to the bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar. The toll stands at 518, as the district has not reported any COVID-19 death since December 16. As many as 30 persons undergoing treatment for the virus were discharged or completely recovered.
26 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks Christmas celebrations in city||Singing of carols and offering of prayers marked the Christmas celebrations at various churches in the city on Friday. Nativity scene was arranged at some of the churches. Despite chilly weather in the city, the devout attended the morning mass. The churches were illuminated and decorated to herald Christmas. Special Christmas cakes were sold at the bakeries. People arranged X-mas tree outside their homes and invited friends for dinner. The weekend holidays doubled their celebrations. The Beach Road was chock-a-block with traffic and people had fun on the beach. Cafes and restaurants arranged X-mas trees and customers took selfies.
26 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House site pattas distributed||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao distributed house site pattas to women beneficiaries of Valimeraka village of Pendurthi mandal in the district on Friday.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entertains only in parts||The title says it all. In the past few months, we have been treated to intermittent publicity material wherein the hero gives gyan to a group of people, with posters of Narendra Modi, Mamata Banerjee and R Narayana Murthy in the background, hinting at advocating bachelorhood. The opening scene has Virat (Sai Dharam Tej), founder of ‘Solo brathuke so betteru’, addressing his peers about how difficult a situation would be if they found themselves taking permission from their girlfriends to go out. A committed relationship is akin to giving permission to hurt, he says adding that behind every unsuccessful man there is a woman. The rhetoric draws huge response and it is obvious that the gathering — including women — is averse to marriage and love. There is a beauty pageant winner in college who has lost her heart to Virat but he turns down her proposal; she leaves but not before stating that there will be a day when he will feel the pain of rejection and need of love. Virat has a detached relationship with his father and he moves to Hyderabad to work in an event management company. His roommates who swore never to get hitched, ditch him one by one to get married and he is left all alone. His alter ego is his maternal uncle (Rao Ramesh) who supports him all through but visits him one day with the news that his wife is no more. He instils sense that men realise the value of their partner only when they are gone and he should at least not mess his life with senseless ideologies. Virat begins a hunt for a partner. The leading lady Amrutha (Nabha Natesh) doesn’t appear for an entire one hour and steps in to declare that she will marry only Virat, who is a guest at her wedding. She is his fan and takes over the ‘Solo brathuke so betteru’ foundation and expresses her wish to marry him, just to escape from her wedding. The rest of the story is how he convinces her to change her view. Rao Ramesh and Rajendra Prasad stand out in their cameos and hold the show as long as they can but the inexperience of the debut director is on ample display. The dialogues are good, the screenplay is convincing but there is not enough content in the story. Another sore point is that right from the title, the first frame, dialogue, credits, all the songs and even the last dialogue of the film…there is a stress on bachelorhood; that seems redundant.  All in all, a tame and a flat ending it is. Sai Dharam Tej and Nabha could have benefited from a better script.  (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)   Solo Brathuke So Better   Cast: Sai Dharam Tej and Nabha Natesh Direction: Subbu  Music: S S Thaman
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yuletide spirit||
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yuletide spirit||
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Houses for population equal to four districts’||“At present, the government is distributing D-Patta to the beneficiaries due to the legal hurdles associated with granting the ‘right to sale’. However, the ‘right to sale’ will be accorded once the hurdles are cleared,” the Chief Minister said. Asserting that the programme would give a boost to the rural economy, he said people engaged in nearly 30 occupations associated with the construction industry would be guaranteed employment.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||The plea to stay the process of land acquisition and distribution of house sites under the ‘Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme was turned down by a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and not by Justices Rakesh Kumar and J. Uma Devi as reported in these columns on Friday.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Favourite hotspot||
26 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||MLA alleges breach of protocol at Bhadrachalam shrine||Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah lodged a complaint with the district authorities alleging that the organisers of the Teppotsavam held at Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Thursday evening breached protocol. In a letter addressed to the District Collector, Mr Veeraiah, the tribal legislator of the Congress party, expressed his serious concern over the alleged violation of the protocol by the organisers of the event held under the aegis of the Endowments department. There was no one at least to receive a local public representative, the MLA stated in his letter, adding that he would approach the Protocol Department of the Telangana State legislature if this kind of ‘protocol violation’ repeats. He appealed to the district authorities to safeguard the powers and protocol vested in favour of an elected tribal member of the Legislative Assembly from the Agency constituency. Talking to reporters in the temple town on Friday, Mr Veeraiah alleged that the organisers of the annual religious event allowed VVIPs of their choice during the event citing the COVID-19 protocols and kept the event out of bound for ordinary devotees. He slammed both the State and Central governments for allegedly showing callous apathy towards the development of the historic shrine in Bhadrachalam.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||INCOIS tsunami warning centre issued 7 warnings of 101 events since 2011||On this day in 2004, when Tsunami struck the Indian coastline due to the great Sumatra earthquake, not many people in India were aware of its devastating capacity to cause loss of life and damage to property. The Ministry of Earth Sciences established the Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWS) at the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Systems (INCOIS) here in October 2007. The centre has issued timely warnings for seven Tsunami events in less than 10 minutes for 101 earthquakes in the Indian ocean since then to about 25 countries. The warnings have been issued in the form of email, SMS, fax and global communication systems, said INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar on Friday. Warnings are issued after any major earthquake in the Indian Ocean and the centre over the years has monitored 630 earthquakes of magnitude ≥ 6.5. “Tsunami early warning is a race against time and through continuous effort of scientists, there has been substantial improvement in Tsunami warnings and timelines by deploying better sensors, accurate models and multiple modes of dissemination,” he said. It came into being following the great Sumatra earthquake (Mw 9.3) of December 26, 2004 and the devastation caused which exposed the vulnerability of the Indian coastline and unprecedented loss of life and damage to property in Indian Ocean rim countries. ITWES functions round the clock, has a real-time seismic monitoring network to detect Tsunamigenic earthquakes, real-time sea-level network of Tsunami buoys and tide gauges to monitor the Tsunami waves, and numerical models to estimate the Tsunami travel times and wave heights at the coast, explained Dr. Kumar. While innovative concepts in Tsunami modeling, mapping of coastal inundation, decision support system and standard operating procedures were introduced, update of hazard assessments, warning capabilities and community preparedness is imperative because of the complexity of events. This was amplified during the Palu Tsunami ( Sept 28, 2018) triggered by submarine landslide, Sunda Strait Tsunami (Dec 22 , 2018) following the Anak-Krakatau volcano eruption, and most recent tsunami in Turkey and Greece (Oct 30, 2020) to issue the warnings, especially for Tsunamis generated by near-source and atypical one like submarine landslide, volcanic eruptions, coastal subsidence etc., explained the director. Focus is on research and development efforts towards advanced procedures such as water level inversion, real-time inundation modelling, use of near-field GNSS - global navigation satellite system, measurements for real-time rupture characterisation and 3D mapping of vulnerable coastal areas. ITWES advanced computational and communication infrastructure helps receive and analyse real-time data from hundreds of sensors for timely advisories to vulnerable communities. “Yet, success of a warning is measured by what actions people take once the respective authorities issue a public warning. Developing and maintaining a culture of self-evacuation is important for saving lives, especially in case of near-source tsunamis which can reach the coast in minutes, leaving little time for warnings even with advanced technologies,” said Dr. Kumar.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four taken into custody in app-based money lending cases||The Cyberabad Police on Friday announced the arrest of four persons, including a Chinese national, for their involvement in the app-based money lending cases. According to the police, the accused are Yi Bai alias Denis, the Chinese citizen, Satyapal Kyalia, a resident of Delhi who hails from Rajasthan -- Aniridh Malhotra and Murathoti Richie Hemanth Seth, both residents of Hyderabad. Two others, identified as Umapati alias Ajay and Zixa Zhang, another Chinese national, are said to be absconding. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar said that police raided a Cubevo Technology Private Limited, a call centre. The arrests were made after this raid. Police said that Cubevo has its head office by the name Skyline Innovations Technologies India Private Limited, in Delhi. Its directors, the accused Umapati and Zixa Zhang developed 11 instant apps which provide loans to applicants and allegedly collect large sums as interest payments, processing charges, GST, and default charges. The duo allegedly established Digipeergo Tech Pvt Limited in December 2019, and later incorporated Skyline Innovation Technology India Pvt Ltd. In order to collect repayment on loans, they allegedly took the services of four other call centres in the country which include Topfun Technologies Pvt Ltd registered in Goa, Fasmate Technologies Pvt Ltd in Gurugram, Cubevo Technologies Pvt Ltd in Hyderabad and Best Shine Technology Pvt Ltd, also in Hyderabad. The investigation thus far has revealed that the companies floated by the accused are not associated with any non-banking financial companies.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three from Bengaluru held||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police on Friday announced the arrest of three persons from Bengaluru who are allegedly involved in the app based lending of money. The accused have been identified as K Eswar, who works in the administrative section of Anniu Pvt Ltd., Madhusudhan, a senior manager at Truthigh Pvt., and Satish Kumar, a manger with Truthigh Pvt Ltd. The two call centres are in H S R Layout in Bengaluru. Police said that both call centres have around 350 tele-callers working there. The two call centres were later closed. Police said that as many as 27 cases have been booked at the Cyber Crime Police Station. Further as many as 42 loan applications were processed by four companies - Liufang Technologies Pvt Ltd., Pin Print Technologies Pvt Ltd., Hotful Technologies Pvt Ltd., and Nabloom Technologies Pvt Ltd.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Avoid crowded places, practise safety: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy said that BJP cadre would take up an awareness campaign among citizens throughout the country on the need to cover their faces with masks, follow social distancing norms and maintain personal hygiene by frequent hand washing to ward off the threat of a second wave of COVID-19. Addressing a gathering as part of the public campaign at Mallepally on Friday, he said in view of the ongoing festivals and winter chill, it was necessary for people to avoid crowded places and practise safety precautions as coronavirus has not gone away. The Central government has already issued detailed guidelines to States on steps needed to tackle the new variant discovered in UK, he said. The government has already halted flights from London and tracing and testing of travellers who had already arrived is being done to keep a tab on their health condition. He advised senior citizens and those with chronic health issues not to venture out unnecessarily -- and others too should be responsible in their social behaviour. Mr. Reddy himself took up the task of freely distributing face masks at a few places and also sought to point out that party workers had been active in helping people in need during the lockdown period. Earlier, the Minister participated in the blood donation camps at the city office and Sindhi Colony, besides distributing clothes and blankets to inmates of the State Home in Yousufguda on the occasion of 96th birth anniversary of former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee. “It is a momentous day because we have Christmas and Mukkoti Ekadasi as well as Gita Jayanti. The country will forever remember the clean and transparent government under Vajpayee,” he added. Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh led the meeting held to pay homage to Vajpayee. Mr. Singh and other leaders garlanded his photo and recalled his services to the party and nation.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Year 2020 will be remembered for Secretariat demolition||The demolition of the iconic Secretariat complex that served as the seat of power before and after the Hyderabad State’s merger with the Andhra State to form the first linguistic State in the country stands out among the major events in 2020. The Secretariat complex which was witness to several important developments, political and administrative, was razed starting July 7 after the government managed to get a go ahead from the High Court. It took a full one year for the government to start demolition of the complex comprising several buildings old and new after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao formally laid the foundation stone for the construction of the new integrated complex more than a year ago on June 27, 2019. Nine blocks of the Secretariat, including the G-block, the 133-year-old building constructed during the VI Nizam Mahbub Ali Khan, and later modified by his successor the VII Nizam Osman Ali Khan in 1916, had been razed to the ground in just a couple of weeks resulting in 4,500 truckloads of debris. The old Secretariat complex has a total built up area of 9.93 lakh sq.ft., including 50,183 sq.ft of the G-Block. Reputed architects were asked to finalise the designs for the new integrated complex to be constructed over the net site area of 28.05 acre against the 25.42 acre area on which the old complex stood. The Chief Minister cleared the design prepared by Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects with an estimated cost of Rs. 617 crore, Rs. 217 crore more than the Rs. 400 crore expenditure cleared by the State Cabinet initially. The total built up area of the new complex has increased from 66,479.92 sq.m (7.15 lakh sq.ft) to 70,315.19 sq.m (7.56 lakh sq.ft) in the main complex with 11 floors in addition to ground and lower ground floors (LG+G+11). Though the number of floors in the main complex remained the same, the built up area has increased from 6.66 lakh sq.ft to 6.99 lakh sq.ft. Tenders were invited for the construction of the new complex subsequently and the process had to be postponed once after the design underwent some changes. The government had also refused to budge to the demand from the contractors for payment of mobilization advance claiming that the process had been done away with as a matter of policy. Infrastructure development company Shapoorji Pallonji and Company has been given the contract after it outbid another infrastructure major L&T. The company was handed over the letter of acceptance on November 17 with a pre-condition that the entire work should be completed and the new integrated complex should be handed over to the government within one year, by Nov. 16 next year. The contracting firm has accordingly taken up ground levelling works for the construction of the new complex, but major works for the new complex are yet to start going by the delay in deployment of heavy machinery required for the construction of the massive complex at such a short notice.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Devotees throng temples on Vaikunta Ekadasi||Vaikunta Ekadasi was observed with religious fervour and by performing special poojas in temples across the State on Friday. Devotees thronged the temples in large numbers and performed special poojas on the occasion. Several Ministers and other elected representatives of different political parties also visited temples on the occasion. Minister for Women and Child Development Satyavathi Rathod along with Mahabubabad MP M. Kavitha visited Bhadrachalam temple, while Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy participated in special poojas at a temple in Suryapet. At Dharmapuri, Minister for Scheduled Castes Koppula Eshwar along with his family members performed special poojas at the Laxminarasimha Swamy temple there. Peddapalli Zilla Parishad Chairperson D. Vasantha, District Cooperative Marketing Society Chairman Y. Srikanth Reddy, district officials and others also participated in the event. Uttara Dwara Darshanam The Uttara Dwara Darshanam was organised with great exuberance and splendour on the occasion of Mukkoti (Vaikunta) Ekadasi festival at the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Friday. The mega religious event was held from 5 a.m. to 6 a.m. at the shrine in conformity to the COVID-19 safety guidelines with only a select gathering comprising a host of elected representatives, officials and others in attendance. Devotees were allowed inside the temple to have the darshan of the temple deity only after the hour-long annual holy event, sources said. Thousands of devotees in erstwhile Nalgonda thronged several Vaishnavite temples for darshan of the deity on Friday, which marked the significance of Mukkoti Ekadasi or Vaikunta Ekadasi, an auspicious day as per the Hindu calendar. Long queues Devotees at the Yadadri-Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple were in queues as early as at 5 a.m., for the Uttara Dwara Darshan that began at 6.43 a.m. and proceeded till 9.30 a.m. along with Ubhaya Darshan. The temple was opened at 3 a.m. Vaikunta Dwara Darshan at the Pathagutta temple continued till 10 a.m. Deputy Chairman of Legislative Council Nethi Vidyasagar along with officials and temple executive officer N. Geetha offered prayers. Starting with Mukkoti Ekadasi, officials said the six-day Adhyayanotsavam rituals with special deity alankaram and an avataram on each day will be conducted. In Suryapet, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and Rajya Sabha member B. Lingaiah Yadav participated in special prayers at the decorated Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple. Popular temples such as the Sri Lakshmi Chennakesava Swamy Devasthanam at Pillalamarri and Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy tempe at Mattapally along the Krishna river in Huzurnagar also witnessed large number of devotees.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||9 more persons with UK travel history test coronavirus positive||Nine more persons who reached Telangana from or via UK have tested COVID positive from among 80 persons traced and tested, taking the total positive cases to 16 and total traced persons to 926 out of the 1,200 who flew here since December 9. According to Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, of those who tested positive so far, four each were from Hyderabad and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts, two from Jagitial and one each from Mancherial, Nalgonda, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet and Warangal Urban districts. Act of caution He stated on Friday that the Health department was acting cautiously in the wake of the new strain of novel coronavirus found in UK. Stating that they were implementing tracing, testing and treating method to prevent the spread of virus, Dr. Rao said that the department was engaged in collecting details of those who travelled into the State either from or via the UK, tracing them and observing their health condition. The exercise to trace the remaining 274 persons out of 1,200 was also in progress, he noted. In special wards The 16 persons with UK-linked travel history and who tested COVID positive were being treated in special wards in different hospitals and 76 close contacts of these 16 persons were also identified and were in close observation with mandatory home quarantine. He hoped that the results of swab samples of these cases sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for knowing the genome sequence of virus in them would come in a couple of days. Dr. Rao appealed to the remaining persons or their acquaintances who travelled to the State from or via UK since December 9 to give their details by calling on 040-24651119 or sending the details on whatsapp number 9154170960 so that the health staff visit them at their home and examine them medically and collect their swab samples for testing. Stating that the Telangana government had been taking foolproof steps in fighting and preventing the spread of the virus from the beginning, he attributed the comparatively lower cases in the State to such efforts. Seeking the cooperation of people in preventing the virus spread in the coming few weeks and months too, the Director of Public Health (DPH) said that although there was no need to panic about the new strain of virus, people were required to be cautious and follow on all COVID related safety guidelines.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaikunta Ekadasi at Golden Temple||Hare Krishna Movement – Hyderabad (HKM) celebrated ‘Vaikunta Ekadasi’ grandly at Swayambhu Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Golden Temple, Banjara Hills, on Friday, to mark the auspicious occasion of Lord Sri Vishnu coming personally to the ‘Vaikunta Dwara’ to receive His devotee Sri Namma Alwar, a great saint in Sri Vaishnava tradition. As part of the celebrations, “Sampoorna Gita Parayanam” was performed during the day as devotees from all corners of the city visited the temple to offer prayers. HKM president Sri Satya Gaura Chandra Dasa said, “Vaikunta Ekadasi marks the beginning of all auspiciousness and good fortune for everyone. The day is also marked as ‘Gita Jayanti’ for the advent of ‘Srimad Bhagavad Gita’, where Lord Sri Krishna gave the sublime message to Arjuna on the battlefield of Kurukshetra. All the festivities were in strict adherence to COVID-19 regulations like mandatory mask wearing, temperature checks, social distancing measures and sanitising arrangements, said a press release.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pleas to quash FIR, ECIR dismissed||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court dismissed a batch of criminal petitions filed by three persons seeking to quash First Information Report (FIR) and Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) issued by CBI and ED respectively against them in a bank loan fraud involving Rs. 182.99 crore. Delivering the verdict, the judge observed the petitioner Ishoo Narang, Chandulal Patel, Rudra Raju Srinivas Shah and M/s Kyori Oremin Limited represented by its managing director Ishoo Narang prima facie appeared to be economic offenders. The Supreme Court in different judgements categorically held that it was not proper for the High Court to exercise power to quash FIRs in economic offences. ‘It is nothing but stalling investigation/enquiry initiated by the authorised officer under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the verdict said. Referring to this verdict, Justice K. Lakshman noted that the apex court had also ruled that ‘quashing the criminal proceedings is called for only a case where the complaint does not disclose any offence, or is frivolous’. The payments made by the petitioners under One Time Settlement (OTS) was only a fraction of the total dues they owed to different banks. “The said money ultimately belongs to the public and tax payers. Thus, prima facie, the petitioners have committed fraud only against one or two banks, but against the public in general,” the judgement said. The company’s managing director and two directors availed credit facilities under multiple banking arrangements for coal trade primarily from Central Bank of India, State Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Bank of Baroda and ICICI bank. While the total principal amounts was Rs. 134.18 crore, with interests the petitioners owed Rs. 241.93 crore to the banks. Out of this total dues, they paid Rs. 61.94 crore as part of OTS. Still, they owe Rs. 182.99 crore to the banks. As the petitioners defaulted payments, the banks approached the CBI which issued a FIR against them. Based on CBI report, the ED authorities issued an ECIR. The bankers contended that the petitioners purposefully defaulted repayment of loan and tried to get away by paying a small percentage of the total dues under OTS. Such economic frauds adversely affect the financial and economic well-being of the nation and have implications which lie beyond the domain of a mere dispute between the petitioners and the banks, the judge observed.
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||VIT-AP gains big in placements||The first batch of Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Andhra Pradesh students, who will be graduating in May 2021, scored big with 419 job offers from 73 companies. Many of these have secured Super Dream offers (CTC of Rs. 10 lakh and above per annum) right at the beginning of the season that began in July and it will continue till May 2021. VIT-AP University student Harshvardhan Kushwaha, B. Tech with specialisation in Networking and Security has got the highest offer of Rs. 20 lakh per annum offer from CommVault. Some of the companies which gave big offers include Amazon, Philips, Volvo, Bank of America, JP Morgan, Citi Bank, Barclays, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Honeywell among others, according to S.V. Kota Reddy, Vice-Chancellor.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gang indulging in house burglaries busted, four arrested||In a joint operation, the North Zone Task Force and Begumpet Police apprehended four persons accused of involvement in house burglary cases, and seized property which includes 1 kg in silver ornaments, two two-wheelers and Rs. 12.09 lakh in cash. The accused have been identified as Mantri Shankar (60), a resident of Chilkalguda and prime accused. The others are his alleged associates and have been identified as Abdul Latif Khan (27), a resident of Falaknuma, Md Majeed (23), a resident of Bhavani Nagar, and Md Imtiyaz Ahmed (21), a resident of Nallakunta. Police analysed CCTV footage at several locations and identified the accused. After this, they apprehended them even as they were allegedly trying to flee the State. Police said that Shankar has been involved in thefts since 1979. He is also allegedly involved in as many as 250 cases in the tri-commissionerates. Past record He has been detained under the Preventive Detention Act four times. After his release on December 12, he formed a gang with the three other accused persons who have been caught several times in the past in connection with other offences, including bodily offences. Police said that Shankar is an expert in breaking locks. He allegedly used to conceal an iron rod and screw driver in his clothing, and was on the lookout for houses locked from the outside. He would then allegedly gain entry by breaking locks and commit thefts.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government buys Rs. 11,000 crore worth paddy||The State government has purchased 40.06 lakh tonnes of paddy grown in last kharif worth Rs. 11,000 crore from 9.18 lakh farmers. The purchases were made at minimum support price at 6,441 procurement centres. They included 14.81 lakh tonnes of fine variety and 25.25 lakh tonnes of raw rice. Gunny bags About 15 crore gunny bags were placed at the disposal of procurement centres, a release of Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar said. The sale amount will be credited to the bank accounts of farmers in three or four days. Mr. Kamalakar said private persons and traders purchased 25 lakh tonnes of fine variety of paddy at rates in excess of MSP. About ten lakh tonnes of paddy was yet to be lifted from procurement centres. Toll free number A toll free number 180042500333 was set up to address grievances of farmers in case they had any difficulty in selling their produce. Tokens indicating the date allotted to them for sale were issued to farmers.
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farm inputs distributed||Agricultural implements, cane juice machines and vegetable oil production equipment worth Rs. 42 lakh was given free of cost to farmers and unemployed youth and women by Marri Rajashekar Reddy, TRS incharge for Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency. At a programme held at Medchal Mandal Praja Parishad office here on Wednesday, the equipment and implements were distributed by Labour Minister M. Malla Reddy. Mr. Rajashekhar Reddy said that modern implements and equipment were designed at the Department of Science and Technology of Marri Lakshman Reddy Institute of Technology (MLRIT). He said the idea was not only to help the unemployed youth who lost employment due to COVID-19 but also expose them to latest equipment that is easy to manage without any recurring financial burden. Some of the implements distributed included power tillers, fertiliser spraying machines and easy to operate vegetable oil producing machines.
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy ‘unhappy’||Sangareddy MLA and senior Congress leader T Jayaprakash Reddy has expressed displeasure that his name was not included in the top contenders for the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief post despite his seniority and services to the party when it was down. Though he was unhappy that the AICC incharge has not recognised his services, Mr. Reddy said he would abide by the decision taken by AICC chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, given his loyalty to the party and the Gandhi family. He hoped that Ms Gandhi would take a decision that would not lead to a split in the party. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy reminded the huge public meeting he conducted in Sangareddy spending huge money wherein Mr. Rahul Gandhu participated. He said he conducted the meeting on the request of Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy when the party was in trouble. Mr. Tagore should have considered my name as well and found out with the seniors on my capabilities. “However, it is painful that the high command had not discussed my name for TPCC chief post,” he said.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Condition of Jawaharnagar inspector stable||Jawaharnagar Inspector of Police P Bhikshapathi Rao, who received serious burn injuries after inmates of a house threw kerosene on him and set him on fire, is said to be in a stable condition at a private hospital. On Thursday, Mr Rao along with other policemen from the Jawaharnagar Police Station went to provide protection to officials of Jawaharnagar Municipal Corporation after they embarked on a drive to remove illegal encroachments . Police said that inmates of the house, identified as Nihan Chand, Shanthi Devi and Nirmal tossed flammable liquid on Mr Rao and constable Arun, and allegedly set them afire. Mr Rao and Mr Arun received burn injuries. They were taken to Aditya Hospital in Dammaiguda and then moved to Yashoda Hospitals in Somajiguda.Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat visited Mr Rao on Friday and inquired about his health. Meanwhile, police booked two cases against the accused in the case .
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||518 test COVID positive in Telangana||With fears of the new strain of COVID looming large, Telangana reported 518 new cases during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on Thursday. According to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, the number of positive cases in the State has gone beyond 2.84 lakh (2,84,074) and a total of 2,75,708 of them have recovered so far, including 491 as declared recovered on Thursday. With three more deaths due to COVID on Thursday, the number of fatalities has gone up to 1,527. The case fatality rate remained at 0.53% against 1.4% at the national level. Similarly, the recovery rate in the State is at 97.05% against 95.8% at the national level. As on Thursday, the number of active cases was 6,839 with 4,723 in home and institutional isolation and the remaining 2,116 undergoing treatment in government and private hospitals. On the screening tests for finding COVID positive persons, the bulletin stated that a total of 44,869 samples were tested on Thursday taking the total tests done to 66,55,987. However, reports of 691 samples were awaited. Of the positive cases reported on Thursday, 91 were from the GHMC area followed by 41 from Rangareddy, 39 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 35 from Warangal Urban, 26 from Khammam and 25 from Karimnagar.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VP to deliver Atal memorial lecture today||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu will deliver the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee memorial lecture organised by New Delhi-based India Foundation on ‘Building democratic consensus - the Vajpayee way’ at a hotel on Saturday. The earlier two lectures in the series were delivered by former Union Minister Arun Jaitley and former President Pranab Mukherjee respectively. India Foundation invited a few eminent citizens, including Vice Admiral Shekhar Sinha, ex-commander-in-chief Western Naval Command.
26 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SBI, NABARD ink MoU||The SBI and NABARD inked an MoU to collaborate in emerging areas of mutual interest under Atmanirbhar Bharat. The MoU is to achieve financial inclusion goals, helping people in rural areas and agriculturists through developmental projects and to explore opportunities in rural development through collaboration by way of direct and indirect involvement in financing the projects designed by NABARD. Various schemes under infrastructure development like agriculture infrastructure fund, agricultural marketing infrastructure, mission for integrated development of horticulture, joint liability group, SHG, farmers producer company, agri clinic and agri business centres, financial literacy programmes are covered under the MoU. SBI Hyderabad Circle CGM Om Prakash Mishra and NABARD Hyderabad Circle CGM Y.K Rao signed the MoU in the presence of NABARD chairman G.R.Chinatala.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||This redux is a tedious watch||There was an unmatched ease and manic energy with which Govinda pulled off inane comic situations and dance moves in the 1990s. He and director David Dhawan delivered a slew of superhits, often in the company of Karisma Kapoor. In this remake of the 1995 film of the same name, which itself was a remake of the Tamil film Chinna Maapillai (1993), David Dhawan’s son Varun tries too hard to imbibe but mostly ends up mimicking Govinda’s body language. Even in the 90s, the plot was outlandish and outdated but we gave in and watched because the lead actors along with Kader Khan had a way of making the ‘mindless humour’ work. The broad plot remains the same, but is dressed up differently. Instead of a bus stand, we see Raju (Varun Dhawan) as a coolie at a railway station. Things take a turn when he meets matchmaker Pandit Jai Kishan (Jaaved Jaaferi) who is seething after the insult meted out by the money-crazed Jeffrey Rozario (Paresh Rawal) who wants only ultra-rich boys for his two daughters, Sara (Sara Ali Khan) and Anju (Shikha Talsania). Raju is projected as a millionaire heir who is looking to construct a new port in Goa, where Jeffrey lives. Jeffrey and family are hoodwinked easily and Raju gets married to Sara. When he finds himself cornered, the old plot device of a twin comes in handy. The film is packed with pop culture references. The ‘ mere paas maa hai ’ line is reworked in the opening portions and later Varun ends up imitating Dilip Kumar, Mithun Chakraborty, Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan and a host of others — an exercise of ticking off names from a checklist without actually inducing many laughs. The only laugh aloud moment, perhaps, was Varun sporting oversized welding glasses and commenting that it’s in vogue, referencing Ranveer Singh’s sunglasses. The Varun-Sara romance happens in many candy-floss settings and some of the original hits are rehashed, with the lead pair trying its best to recreate the dance moves. But where Govinda and Karisma made it look effortless, this duo pales. This is a time when Hindi cinema is putting forth out-of-the-box content that’s far from being mindless. The world that makes up the new Coolie no 1 doesn’t manage to suspend disbelief and buy into the comedy. Lines such as ‘what ego ego, you go man’, ‘of the train, by the train and for the train’ and ‘1p.m. one-time baat with the PM’ aren’t even funny. And in 2020, a rich hotelier from Goa who wants to visit his daughter and son-in-law in Mumbai is likely to fly down rather take the train.  (For longer version of the review, check www.thehindu.com )   Coolie No 1 Cast: Varun Dhawan, Sara Ali Khan and Paresh Rawal Direction: David Dhawan Streaming on: Amazon Prime Video
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Christmas cheer||
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mending the gap||With people taking to the streets on multiple occasions over the past one year, be it the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests or a demand for rollback of fee hike at Jawaharlal Nehru University, services on the Delhi Metro network have remained disrupted. The Delhi riots in February this year, followed by the COVID-19 pandemic hampered metro services. Apart from the COVID-19-induced lockdown, imposed nationwide, when metro services were suspended for over five months, every time stations were shut for security measures due to some protest, the closure lasted for up to six hours. During the riots, some stations were even shut for the entire day. On December 19, 2019, the maximum number of stations were closed at a go due to demonstrations that were being held across the national capital against the CAA, with the number touching 19. Stations that were shut The first few stations to shut were Jamia Millia Islamia, Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh, Munirka on the Magenta Line, Lal Quila, Jama Masjid on the Violet Line and Chandni Chowk and Vishwavidyalaya stations on the Yellow Line. Subsequently, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had to close entry and exit gates of stations such as Patel Chowk, Lok Kalyan Marg, Udyog Bhawan on the Yellow Line, Pragati Maidan and Barakhamba stations on the Blue Line and ITO, Khan Market and Mandi House stations on the Violet Line. According to statements issued by the DMRC, the stations were closed following directions from the Delhi police. As the protests gained momentum, in a bid to restrict movement of those intending to participate in the demonstrations, the DMRC had to close around 17 stations across the network on December 20 last year, following police advisories. While Jasola Vihar, Shaheen Bagh and Jamia Millia Islamia stations had to be shut for a few hours in the morning, later in the day, with demonstrations beginning in the Walled City, stations like Chawri Bazar, Lal Quila, Jama Masjid and Delhi Gate, among others, were also closed. Metro stations on the Pink Line in north-east Delhi, including Jaffrabad, Maujpur-Babarpur and Johri Enclave were also closed for commuters that day. Security measures The DMRC had earlier said that “owing to sudden safety and security reasons” stations had to be “closed for a few hours this week”. Officials also added that the move to shut stations temporarily was a “precautionary measure amid protests”. On November 18, 2019, entry and exit points of five Delhi Metro stations had to be closed for around two hours due to a protest march carried out by JNU students who were demanding a rollback of fee hike. While initially entry and exit points of three metro stations near Parliament House were shut, later Jor Bagh station was shut as students assembled near the area. During the Delhi riots, the first stations to be get closed on February 23 this year were Jaffrabad and Maujpur-Baburpur and they remained shut for several hours as violence had erupted in the area. A day later, the DMRC had to shut nine stations, including Jaffrabad, Maujpur-Baburpur, Gokulpuri, Johri Enclave and Shiv Vihar, apart from Udyog Bhawan, Patel Chowk, Central Secretariat and Janpath. The stations on the Yellow Line were closed in view of a protest called near the Delhi Police Headquarters by the Jamia Coordination Committee. Also, seven stations in north-east Delhi had to be closed owing to security reasons on February 25 this year, during the riots. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Delhi Metro has remained operational for around four months now after it resumed services in September. The public transporter was forced into a long hiatus from March 22 to September 7 owing to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Operations resumed in a graded manner with staggered timings.  Maintenance work During the five-month period when metro services were suspended, the DMRC operated two trains daily to keep the nearly 400-km-long network well-oiled. The DMRC officials also said that maintenance work of over 2,200 coaches, 264 stations, 1,100 escalators and 1,000 lifts across the metro network was being undertaken during this period.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Farm laws will do a lot of harm: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Centre’s three agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and instead will do a lot of harm. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with a political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre’s talks with protesting farmers. Reacting to the PM’s speech, Mr. Kejriwal questioned how the farm laws would benefit the farmers and alleged that their negative impact outweighed the intended benefits. “The BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what will be the benefit? They say that now the farmer will be able to sell the crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold for half the price. How does this ‘benefit’ happen? The truth is that there is a lot of potential for harm from these laws and not a single benefit,” the Chief Minister tweeted. Amit Shah event Meanwhile, the BJP’s senior leadership, including a gamut of Union Ministers, addressed programmes across the city in support of the PM and the three controversial farm laws. Addressing an event in south Delhi’s Mehrauli, Union Home Minister Amit Shah credited the Prime Minister for having bettered the state of farmers in the country since coming to power. “I have come to say to the farmers that these three farm laws are in favour of the farmers, it will not harm the farmers. The Minimum Support Prices system will not be closed nor will anyone take away the land of the farmers. As long as Modi ji is the Prime Minister, no corporate can take away the land of the farmers, this is the promise of the BJP,” Mr. Shah told attendees. “The Opposition wants to use the farmers’ protest for its own political selfishness. In 2014 and 2019, farmers gave an absolute majority to PM Modi. The highest priority of the Centre is the welfare of the farmer,” he added.   Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three farm laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Mr. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of the protesting farmers. Earlier this month, the Delhi CM had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for the farmers by the city government.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police raid on my office lasted 15 hours, tweets Mehmood Pracha||Advocate Mehmood Pracha on Friday said a team of Delhi Police raided his office in Nizamuddin here for 15 hours. He tweeted: “Delhi Police team just left despite 15 hours of marathon scrutiny of all my office computers filed and even bathrooms when could find nothing frustrated they assaulted me and my associates. If @DelhiPolice doesn’t destroy the Court ordered video recording of [sic].” “The raid the real masterminds of North East Delhi violence will get exposed. I was repeatedly threatened with the name of @AmitShah Sahab. I thank all the people who supported me. I promise that we will not back down in our Mission Save Constitution. Jai Bhim Jai Bharat [sic],” he said in series of tweets. Proud of his juniors Calling the incident “an attack on the lawyers’ community”, he said he is proud that all his juniors stood like rock against the move. On Thursday, a team of Delhi Police Special Cell conducted search at the office of Mr. Pracha after getting permission from court. During the course of a bail matter pertaining to an accused in the north-east Delhi riots, use of a forged notary stamp and creation of allegedly false or manipulated evidence at the hands of certain members of the bar was noticed. DCP (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said the raid that lasted over four/five hours and Mr. Pracha along with his associates obstructed the investigation. The officer and his team recorded the happenings. A complaint regarding the conduct of Mr. Pracha and his associates has been reported to the police. On February 24, riots had broken out in north-east Delhi after CAA and anit-CAA groups clashed with each other.  The raid the real masterminds of North East Delhi violence will get exposed. I was repeatedly threatened with the name of @AmitShah Sahab...[sic[ Mehmood Pracha Advocate
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riots victims stand with advocate||North-east Delhi riot victims, who have been allegedly facing pressure to withdraw their complaints, came forward in support of senior advocate Mehmood Pracha on Friday. A group of such victims held a media interaction session at the Press Club of India where they said, after the riots when the government or law enforcing agencies denied assistance to them, Mr. Pracha stood by them. They claimed, Mr. Pracha provided them legal assistance and other help for free. One such victim, Wasim, who was “beaten by policemen during the February riots”, said when he had gone to Jyoti Nagar police station to register an FIR, they had turned him away. ‘Police against Parcha’ “Policemen refused to register FIR on my compliant. They threatened me to implicate me in false cases and make my life hell. When I lost all hope, another riots victim told me about Mr. Pracha. He helped me register an FIR. During probe, the policemen asked me disengage myself from Mr. Pracha or else, I will get in trouble,” said Mr. Wasim. Another victim, Mohammad Nasir, who turned blind in one eye during the riots, said the police had refused to register his complaint and also misbehaved with him. “I forwarded my compliant to all senior police officers and also to Home Minster but it was never lodged. I got my FIR registered only after the intervention of Mr. Pracha. He is God for us. A staff at Bhajanpura police station asked me to leave the premises and gave me death threats for being associated with Mr. Pracha,” said Mr. Nasir. “I have also been offered another advocate by the police,” he added. The victims said that the police are showing fake witnesses and filing fake case to trouble the advocate.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for killing minor||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing a boy in Maidan Garhi here, the police said on Friday. Inspired by a crime TV show, Bittu from Sanjay Colony Bhati Mines, first kidnapped the minor and then murdered him, they said. The case came to fore when on November 28, a woman from Sanjay Colony Bhati Mines lodged a missing report of her son. Initially, it was found that there was some family dispute over the custody of the child between his parents — who live separately. The police then interrogated his parents but did not find any clue. Next, they analysed CCTV footage of the area but still got no headway in the case. On Thursday, a decomposed body was found in a pond near Maidan Garhi Village. The parents then identified it as their son, an officer said. During probe, a name — Bittu, whom the victim’s mother knew — came to the fore.“He was then apprehended. He said he wanted to marry the boy’s mother since childhood but her parents arranged her marriage with another person. He has been upset over the same since then,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. Two years ago, when the complainant and her husbandstarted living separately, Bittu thought he would try to get close to the woman. He used to send her food items through her son. He was friendly with the boy. Next, Bittu proposed to the woman but she refused to marry him, saying “she has a son”. On the day of the crime, he lured the boy to a jungle promising him berries and new clothes.He then strangulated him with a cloth and dumped his body in the pond, the police said. He then came to the woman’s house and pretended to help her look for the minor, an officer added. Next day, he went to the jungle and realised that the body was visible. He took it out of the pond and tried to burn it but failed. He then hid the body under big stones in the jungle. Later, he He packed the body in a plastic bag and threw it in the pond, the police added.
26 December 2020||new delhi,||Gol gappa langar a hit at protest site||On the eve of Christmas, a group of seven firemen from Sirsa in Haryana began distributing free ‘’gol gappa’’ at the farmers protesting at the Singhu border. The stock was over within half-an-hour. What prompted Surender Kamboj and his friends to start this novel langar was seeing a child loitering near a stall selling “gol gappa”. He asked the child what he wanted. “‘Gol gappa’ said the boy who did not have any money,” recalls the 33-year-old fire service personnel. What happened next amazed the child and the farmers in nearby trolleys. Kamboj and his friends from the Rania fire station bought the entire stock of the seller and started a ‘’gol gappa’’ langar at the spot.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for routing Rs. 9 crore black money||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly opening seven bank accounts with forged documents and routing black money to the tune of Rs. 9 crore through them during the demonetisation drive, police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Gaurav Singhal, a resident of Shahdara, they said.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Today’s special||
26 December 2020||Mumbai,||TRP scam: ex-CEO of BARC remanded in police custody||A magistrate’s court on Friday remanded Partho Dasgupta, a former CEO of the rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in police custody till December 28 in the alleged fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam. Mr. Dasgupta was arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch from Pune district on Thursday and was produced before the court on Friday. The police sought his remand for further probe, saying his custodial interrogation was required to understand his role in the scam.Mr. Dasgupta’s lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre argued that the offences of cheating and criminal breach of trust for which he had been booked were not made out against him. The probe was harassment and a use of pressure tactics by the police, the lawyer alleged. After hearing both the sides, the court sent the accused to the custody of the Crime Branch till December 28. Mr. Dasgupta is the 15th person to be arrested in the case related to alleged rigging of TRP by some TV channels. The court on Thursday had granted bail to another accused in the case, Ramil Ramgarhia, a former chief operating officer of the BARC. The probe was over and therefore his detention was not needed, the court said. Most of the accused in the case are now out on bail. The Mumbai Police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers. It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their ratings.
26 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC prepares priority list for giving COVID-19 vaccine||A total of 16,921 medical corona warriors — 4,490 employees from 42 centres of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and 12,431 employees from 904 private health institutions — will be vaccinated in the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination programme by the civic body. NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar on Thursday chaired a meeting with all officers concerned, members of the corona vaccination task force committee, and medical officers of the civic health centres to review the preparations for the drive. Around 10 NMMC health officers on December 22 received training for the programme from State government officials while the corporation personnel who would be present at the vaccination booths are yet to be given the training. “Even though the vaccination drive is yet to be started, we have made sure that our corporation is ready to undertake it,” Mr. Bangar said. After the programme has begun, the registered person will be informed about the day, place and time of getting the vaccine through a message on their registered mobile number and a certificate after receiving it will be sent on the same mobile number. Mr. Bangar said that the vaccination booths/centres would be designed as per the government guidelines. “Each booth would have a waiting room, vaccination room, and observation room. The team that would be posted at every booth will consist of four vaccination officers and one vaccinator. At one centre, around 100 people would be vaccinated every day.” Those expected to get vaccinated would be registered by the corporation on CoWin app. After the arrival of the person at the vaccination centre, their presence would be recorded, and their identity card and other documents would be verified by the designated officer. From the waiting room the person would then be sent to the vaccination room as per the order in which the list of persons has been registered. After the vaccination, the person would be kept in the observation room for some time and their condition would be monitored. A second dose of the vaccine will also be given after a few days and the message about it would be sent to the receiver of the first dose on their registered mobile number. The civic chief directed officials to make arrangements for imparting training to officers and staff appointed at the vaccination centre. Mr. Bangar also reviewed the cold storage and transportation services for vaccines.
26 December 2020||Pune,||IISER scientists identify the gene that greens plants||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have identified a gene that facilitates in the greening of plants by playing a crucial role in regulating the levels of protochlorophyllide — an intermediate in the biosynthesis of the green pigment chlorophyll. Dr. Sourav Datta, Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences, IISER Bhopal, and a PhD research student Nikhil Job have identified the gene ‘BBX11’ and their study was recently published in the prestigious British journal New Phytologist . “The synthesis of chlorophyll in plants is a lengthy, multi-step process. When a seedling emerges from under the soil it must quickly synthesise chlorophyll to start supporting its own growth. In order to facilitate quick synthesis of chlorophyll, plants make a precursor of chlorophyll called ‘protochlorophyllide’ in the dark, which glows red when blue light is shone on the plant. As soon as the plant comes out into the light from under the soil, light-dependent enzymes convert protochlorophyllide to chlorophyll,” explained Dr. Datta. Using genetic, molecular and biochemical techniques, the duo found a mechanism where two proteins oppositely regulate the ‘BBX11’ gene to maintain optimum levels of ‘BBX11’. Dr. Datta said that the amount of protochlorophyllide synthesised needed to be proportional to the number of enzymes available to convert them to chlorophyll. “If there is excess of free protochlorophyllide, then exposure to light converts it into molecules that cause ‘photobleaching’. Thus, it is very important to regulate the amount of protochlorophyllide synthesized by the plant and here comes the vital plant played by the ‘BBX11’ gene. If it is less, plants are unable to efficiently ‘green’ in order to harvest sunlight. If the amount of protochlorophyllide is more, then plants bleach under the light,” he explained. According to Dr. Datta, the study could have tremendous implications in the agriculture sector in tropical countries like India and can help provide leads to optimise plant growth under stressful and rapidly changing climatic conditions. Due to the rapidly changing climatic conditions, farmers in several states in India, especially in Maharashtra, are suffering huge losses in crop yields. “This often leads to severe distress among the farming community as indicated by the high number of farmer suicides in Maharashtra for several years. Severe drought, high temperature and high light are some of the major reasons for crop failure. Young seedlings emerging out of the soil are extremely sensitive to high irradiance of light. This study can provide leads to optimise plant growth under these stressful conditions,” Dr. Datta said.
26 December 2020||Pune,||New agri laws will provide freedom to farmers: Fadnavis||Defending the three new agriculture laws brought by the Centre, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said these “revolutionary” legislations were aimed at providing freedom to farmers to sell their produce wherever they want. The former Maharashtra Chief Minister said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had always stood behind the country’s farmers and would continue to do so in future. Mr. Fadnavis also accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government of fooling the farmers through false promises. “Farmers, who sell their produce at the market yards, have to pay transport, labour, weighing and other charges. For example, a farmer recently sold his produce worth Rs. 15,000 in Pune’s market yard. Of the Rs. 15,000, he paid Rs. 4,000 towards transport, labour, and weighing charges. This is injustice,” he said while showing the payment receipt. Mr. Fadnavis was addressing a farmers’ congregation in Pune before the Prime Minister’s event in Delhi, in which he released Rs. 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmers and interacted with a section of them. The Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly said that after the Centre de-regularised fruit trading, mango producers from the Konkan region were benefited during the lockdown as they could sell the produce by going directly to the housing societies. He alleged that some people had double standards on the new agriculture laws. “In 2006, Maharashtra brought a law regarding contract farming. So the law related to contract farming brought by Modiji was introduced in Maharashtra in 2006,” he said.
26 December 2020||Pune,||Aim of International Sports University is to make India a sports superpower: minister||Stating that the aim of the proposed International Sports University (ISU) in Pune’s Balewadi is to prepare a talented young force that would in turn help transform Maharashtra and India into a ‘sports superpower’, State Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sunil Kedar on Friday said that the ISU would be envisaged as an establishment with facilities matching international standards. “Today, competition at the world level is the new basic. The prime aim of any sportsperson is to compete at the international level. We have similar expectations from the ISU and accordingly, we are aiming to create a place with facilities matching international standards where students will acquire a high-level of expertise that in turn will make Maharashtra and India a force to reckon with in the future,” Mr. Kedar said. The first-of-its-kind ISU is to be set up at the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex at Mhalunge in Balewadi. Mr. Kedar further said that the idea for the ISU was unanimously passed by all legislators regardless of party and ideology. “There is no political hindrance to this project. The idea was approved, appreciated and passed unanimously by all the members of the State legislature,” he said. When questioned as to why the ruling Maha Vikas Agahdi government had chosen Pune as the site of the ISU, the minister pointed to Balewadi’s ready infrastructure and the city’s robust sports culture. “To establish a university, you need to create infrastructure. If we set up the ISU in some other city, we will have to spend a huge amount only on creating the infrastructure. It will not only require more money, but also require more time and approvals. We have a very good, ready infrastructure in Pune and have only to design courses,” he said. The ISU will also offer students an opportunity to learn from international experts in the field, Mr. Kedar said, adding that there would be a provision of a students’ exchange programme while international experts would be visiting the institute. Maharashtra Sports Commissioner Omprakash Bakoria said the Sports Department was in talks with prestigious institutes like the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay and the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad for possible tie-ups with the ISU.
26 December 2020||BRUSSELS,||EU envoys assess post-Brexit trade deal||Ambassadors from the European Union’s 27 nations convened on Christmas Day to start assessing the free trade deal the bloc has struck with former member Britain, a historic accord that takes effect in just a week. At Friday’s exceptional meeting, the EU delegations asked for more time to study the texts before sending them to lawmakers at the European Parliament, according to an EU diplomat. The ambassadors are expected to meet again on Monday. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson hailed Thursday’s agreement as a “new beginning” for the U.K. in its relationship with its European neighbours. In a Christmas message, Mr. Johnson sought to sell the deal to a weary public after years of Brexit-related wrangling since the U.K. voted narrowly to leave the EU in 2016. Although the U.K. formally left the bloc on January 31, it remains in a transition period tied to EU rules until the end of this year. Without a trade deal to set out the terms of their new relationship, tariffs and other impediments would have been imposed on trade between the two sides starting January 1. Both sides would have suffered economically from a failure to secure a trade deal, with the British economy taking a bigger hit at least in the near-term, as it is more reliant on trade with the EU than vice versa. “I have a small present for anyone who may be looking for something to read in that sleepy post-Christmas lunch moment, and here it is, tidings, glad tidings of great joy, because this is a deal,” Mr. Johnson said. “A deal to give certainty to business, travellers and all investors in our country from January 1. A deal with our friends and partners in the EU,” he said. Under the deal, there will be no tariffs or quotas on trade between the two sides, though there will be more red tape for businesses because the U.K. is leaving the EU’s frictionless single market and customs union. Firms will have to file forms and customs declarations for the first time in years. There will also be different rules on product labelling as well as checks on agricultural products. Under the terms of the deal, the EU will give up a quarter of the quota it catches in U.K. waters, far less than the 80% Britain initially demanded. The system will be phased in over 5 1/2 years, after which the quotas will be reassessed. The French government announced aid for its fishing industry to help deal with the smaller quota, but insisted that the deal protects French interests. The president of the French ports of Calais and Boulogne-sur-Mer, Jean-Marc Puissesseau, said life for his port will become more difficult because “there will no longer be free movement of merchandise.”
26 December 2020||ROME,||A Christmas celebrated under the pandemic’s shadow||Hundreds of millions across the world celebrated pared-down Christmas festivities on Friday due to coronavirus restrictions, as Pope Francis appealed for people to show “fraternity” faced with crises aggravated by the pandemic. “At this moment in history, marked by the ecological crisis and grave economic and social imbalances only worsened by the coronavirus pandemic, it is all the more important for us to acknowledge one another as brothers and sisters,” Pope Francis said in his traditional “Urbi et Orbi” message. The pontiff, who just celebrated his 84th birthday, gave his eighth Christmas message “to the city and the world” by video from the apostolic palace, to prevent a crowd from gathering in St Peter’s Square. The battle to halt the pandemic, which has claimed more than 1.7 million lives, is far from over despite the launching of mass vaccine campaigns. Europe, where a new strain of coronavirus believed to spread much faster has emerged in Britain, on Friday passed 25 million confirmed cases. Last week, it became the first global region where more than 5,00,000 people have died of the virus. In Asia, South Korea reported its highest daily number of coronavirus cases on Friday, as the country's Christmas celebrations were marred by a harsh third wave of COVID-19. The nation has been held up as a model of how to combat the virus, with the public largely following official guidelines, but Friday saw a record 1,241 new infections. “It really is heartbreaking to see,” said Park Jae-woo, a member of the Yoido Full Gospel Church in Seoul which would usually expect up to 10,000 worshippers, but on Friday was only able to welcome 15 staff and choir members. And in Catholic-majority Philippines, services were rocked when a 6.3-magnitude earthquake struck the country, capping off a troubled yuletide already muted by bans on parties and carol singing. Despite warm weather, the usual picnicking crowds also avoided the sands of Sydney’s Bondi Beach, while the waves were empty of surfing Santas and patrolling police officers enforced social distancing rules. Tough new coronavirus restrictions were imposed on Thursday over the Christmas and New Year period across Italy, the hardest-hit European country, with nearly 71,000 deaths and more than two million cases. Online service Bethlehem, where Christians believe Jesus was born, prepared for a Christmas unlike any in its recent history. Christmas Eve mass at the Church of the Nativity is traditionally the highlight of a holiday season that sees hundreds of thousands of visitors flock to the Palestinian city in the occupied West Bank. The service was held online this year, with only clergy and select individuals allowed inside the basilica, which was sterilised ahead of the service. In war-ravaged northeast Syria, hundreds of residents of a predominantly Christian neighbourhood in the town of Qamishli ditched face masks and donned Santa hats, throwing caution to the wind to celebrate a Christmas tree lighting ceremony. Germany has been forced to cancel its famous Christmas markets, while in Kuwait, churches were closed until January 10 despite being home to a large Christian community. Britons, meanwhile, were cut off from swathes of the world due to the emergence of a new COVID-19 strain. Some U.K. border restrictions have been temporarily relaxed for the holidays.
26 December 2020||MADISON,||Trump loses Wisconsin lawsuit||A federal appeals court on Thursday upheld a decision dismissing a lawsuit seeking to declare President Donald Trump won swing state Wisconsin. Democrat Joe Biden defeated Mr. Trump by 0.6 points in Wisconsin in the November 6 election, a key victory that helped propel Biden to the White House. Mr. Trump filed the lawsuit in the Eastern District of Wisconsin on December 2 against the state elections commission, arguing the court should order the state’s Republican-controlled Legislature to declare he had won the state. U.S. District Judge Brett Justice Ludwig, a Trump appointee, refused, ruling on December 12 that Mr. Trump’s arguments “fail as a matter of law and fact.” He said that ruling in Mr. Trump’s favour would amount to the “most remarkable ruling in the history of this court or the federal judiciary.” Mr. Trump then turned to the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. A three-judge panel from that court affirmed Justice Ludwig’s decision on Thursday afternoon, finding that Mr. Trump should have challenged the state’s election laws before the election. All three judges were appointed by Republican Presidents. One of them, Michael Scudder, was appointed by Mr. Trump. “Allowing the President to raise his arguments, at this late date, after Wisconsin has tallied the votes and certified the election outcome, would impose unquestionable harm on the defendants, and the State’s voters,” Justice Scudder wrote. Mr. Trump and his allies have suffered dozens of defeats in Wisconsin and across the country in lawsuits that rely on unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud and election abuse.
26 December 2020||ATLANTA,||U.S. to require negative COVID-19 test for U.K. arrivals||The United States will require airline passengers from Britain to get a negative COVID-19 test before their flight, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced late on Thursday. The U.S. is the latest country to announce new travel restrictions because of a new variant of the coronavirus that is spreading in Britain and elsewhere. Airline passengers from the United Kingdom will need to get negative COVID-19 tests within three days of their trip and provide the results to the airline, the CDC said in a statement. The agency said the order will be signed on Friday and go into effect on Monday. “If a passenger chooses not to take a test, the airline must deny boarding to the passenger,” the CDC said. The agency said because of travel restrictions in place since March, air travel to the U.S. from the U.K. is already down by 90%. Last weekend, Britain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the new variant of the coronavirus seemed to spread more easily than earlier ones and was moving rapidly through England. But Mr. Johnson stressed “there’s no evidence to suggest it is more lethal or causes more severe illness,” or that vaccines will be less effective against it. Some 40 countries imposed travel bans on Britain, leaving the country increasingly isolated.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||As court seeks clarification, PM Oli reshuffles Ministry||Disregarding criticism from the rival faction of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli reshuffled his Cabinet on Friday. The swearing-in ceremony of the eight newly inducted Ministers took place in the evening, hours after the Supreme Court of Nepal asked Mr. Oli to provide explanation for dissolving the elected Parliament. Among the newly appointed Ministers are Top Bahadur Rayamajhi, who will take charge as the Minister for Energy, Prabhu Sah as the Minister for Urban Development and Prem Ale as Minister for Forest and Soil Conservation. The reshuffle is being interpreted as an assertive move by Prime Minister Oli as he continues to fend criticism from his rival Prachanda, who has urged the Supreme Court of Nepal to uphold the constitutional spirit. A constitutional bench of the Supreme Court of Nepal met on Friday and issued a notice to the Oli government seeking clarification about the decision to dissolve the House of Representatives. The move was a response to the 12 writ petitions that were filed after President V.D. Bhandari dissolved the Parliament last Sunday acting on the recommendation of Mr. Oli. The constitutional bench is expected to meet twice every week and is expected to deliver a verdict on the legality of the dissolution. Mr. Oli’s team has repeated that the dissolved Parliament can not be resurrected. However, the Supreme Court has sought original documents related to Sunday’s decision, from the offices of the Prime Minister and the President.
26 December 2020||Columbus,||Killing of unarmed Black man sparks fresh outrage in U.S.||The fatal shooting of an unarmed Black man by police in Columbus, Ohio — the U.S. city’s second such killing this month — sparked a fresh wave of protests on Thursday against racial injustice and police brutality in the country. Andre Maurice Hill, 47, was in the garage of a house on Monday night when he was shot several times by a police officer who had been called to the scene for a minor incident. Seconds before the gunfire, bodycam footage shows Mr. Hill walking towards the policeman holding a cell phone in his left hand, while his other hand cannot be seen. Columbus police chief Thomas Quinlan announced on Thursday that he was moving to fire the officer, Adam Coy, on allegations of “critical misconduct”. “We have an officer who violated his oath to comply with the rules and policies of the Columbus Division of Police,” Quinlan said in a statement. “This violation cost an innocent man his life.” According to local media reports, Mr. Coy had previously received complaints of excessive force. Mr. Coy and his colleague waited several minutes before approaching Mr. Hill, who was still alive, but died later. Mr. Hill, the second African-American killed by police in Columbus in less than three weeks, was not carrying a weapon. Casey Goodson Jr., 23, was shot several times on December 4 while returning home. His family has said he was holding a sandwich which law enforcement mistook for a gun. Several dozen protesters gathered on Thursday, waving Black Lives Matter signs and calling for justice for people killed in police shootings.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. leaders urge Pompeo to raise farmers’ protest with Jaishankar||A group of seven American lawmakers — six Democrats and a Republican — has written to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on the farmers’ protest, expressing “serious concern” over the “ongoing civil unrest” in India. The letter asks Mr. Pompeo to reach out to his counterpart, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, on the issue. “As a nation that is familiar with political protests we believe that the United States can offer counsel to India during their current period of social disturbance,” the lawmakers wrote on December 23 about the thousands of farmers from States like Punjab and Haryana who have been engaging in a ‘Dilli Chalo’ (march to Delhi) protest for a month. “As national legislators we respect the right of the government of India to determine national policy, in compliance with existing law. We also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against agricultural laws that many Indian farmers see as an attack on their economic security,” they wrote. New Delhi has previously bristled at criticism from foreign governments and said it is an interference in India’s internal affairs. Earlier this month, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s comments in support of the farmers were called “ill-informed” and “unwarranted” by Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.  “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikh Americans linked to Punjab, although it also heavily impacts the Indian Americans belonging to other Indian states. Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned for the well-being of their families in India.” Another set of three lawmakers of the American Sikh Caucus had written to India’s U.S. Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu in early December, expressing concern over the government’s reaction to the protests. “In view of this serious situation, we urge you to contact your Indian counterpart to reinforce the United States’ commitment to the freedom of political speech abroad,” the latest December 23 letter says. The lawmakers who authored the letter are Democrats Donald Norcross (New Jersey), Brendan F. Boyle (Pennsylvania), Pramila Jayapal (Washington), Debbie Dingell (Michigan), Mary Gay Scanlon (Pennsylvania), David Trone (Marlyand) and Republican Brian Fitzpatrick (Pennsylvania).
26 December 2020||BEIRUT,||Israeli jets fly over Beirut, blasts reported in Syria||Israeli jets flew very low over parts of Lebanon early on Friday, terrifying residents on Christmas Eve, some of whom reported seeing missiles in the skies over Beirut. Minutes later, Syria’s official news agency reported explosions in the central Syrian town of Masyaf. Other Syrian media said Syrian air defences responded to an Israeli attack near the town in the Hama province. There was no immediate word on what the target was or whether there were any casualties. Israeli jets regularly violate Lebanese airspace and have often struck inside Syria from Lebanese territory. But the Christmas Eve flights were louder than usual, frightening residents of Beirut who have endured multiple crises in the past year, including the catastrophic August 4 explosion at the city’s port that killed over 200 people and destroyed parts of the capital. That explosion resulted from the detonation of a stockpile of ammonium nitrates that was improperly stored at the facility. There was no immediate word from Israel on Friday’s flights and alleged attacks on Syria. In the past few years, Israel has acknowledged carrying out dozens of airstrikes in Syria, most of them aimed at suspected Iranian weapons shipments believed to be bound for Hezbollah. In recent months, Israeli officials have expressed concern that Hezbollah is trying to establish production facilities to make precision guided missiles.
26 December 2020||TOKYO,||Japan also records cases of new variant||Japan’s Health Ministry has confirmed the country’s first cases of infection with the new variant of the coronavirus that was identified in Britain. The five people arrived between December 18 and December 21, before Japan stepped up border control on Friday for entrants from Britain. A man in his sixties developed fatigue, but the other four were without symptoms.
26 December 2020||KABUL,||AS--Afghanistan||At least two Afghan Army officers, including a battalion commander, were killed on Friday when their vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb in the northern Balkh province, the military said. Hanif Rezaie, a spokesman for the Army, said Capt. Mohammad Qasim Paikar and another officer were killed and two other soldiers were wounded in the explosion, which took place between Balkh and Char Bolak districts.AP
26 December 2020||Kabul,||Afghan women’s rights activist shot dead||Gunmen on a motorbike shot dead a women’s rights activist and her brother north of Afghanistan’s capital on Thursday, officials said. Freshta Kohistani, aged 29, was the second activist to be killed in two days after a prominent pro-democracy advocate was gunned down in Kabul on Wednesday. Their murders follow a similar pattern seen in recent weeks, in which prominent Afghans have died in targeted killings in broad daylight, several of them in the capital.AP
26 December 2020||Geneva,||Don’t squander sacrifices of 2020: WHO chief||The sacrifices made to protect people during the pandemic must not be squandered over the festive period, the World Health Organization’s chief said in a Christmas message. Millions were making “heart-wrenching sacrifices” by staying away from loved ones on Christmas Day, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a video posted to Twitter late on Thursday, while others will have a missing face at the family table.AFP
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The making of a tinderbox||Anxiety writ large on their faces, Abhishek and Sunil walk into a small playground littered with garbage. Their attentive eyes scan the area to see if anyone other than The Hindu team is in the vicinity. It takes a lot of convincing for the duo, engineering graduates in their early 20s, to open up. Abhishek and Sunil, who are from Kolar city in Karnataka, went to work until recently. Now they not only worry about whether they still have their jobs, but are also scarred by the violence that broke out on December 12 at their workplace, the Wistron Infocomm facility at Narasapura, about 20 km from Kolar, where workers assemble Apple’s SE2 iPhones. The trigger “We did not expect violence though tensions had been simmering among the employees over lack of payment for overtime and problems with the punching machine that resulted in loss of pay,” says Abhishek. The sudden increase in work hours was taking a toll on their health, he says. The anger reached a peak on December 12. At around 5.45 a.m. on that day, when the night shift employees were getting ready to leave and the day shift employees had just walked in, an argument broke out between the contract employees and the executives of a staffing company that had hired them, recalls Sunil, who is employed in the Final Assembly Test and Pack (FATP) department. The night shift employees claimed that they had not received any information about their salaries being credited to their accounts (they had deposited their phones in lockers before getting into the assembly line). Those in the day shift had noted that discrepancies in overtime wages between what they were entitled to and what they had received for the months of October and November had continued into December as well. On the night of December 11-12 (Friday-Saturday), the atmosphere was tense, Sunil recalls. Employees stopped production in the assembly line a few times in protest and gathered in small groups to discuss these issues. They approached the manager in one of the lines, who promised to sort out the matter by Monday. However, as the shift ended and workers came down to the locker room adjacent to the exit area, where punching machines are installed, miscommunication between the executive of a staffing company and those employed by the company sparked off violence, says Sunil. There were about 200 angry employees at the spot, clearly outnumbering the 30 odd security staff present at the time. In all, about 5,000 employees were present at the 43-acre facility when the violence broke out. Then pandemonium broke out as enraged workers broke the window panes, set the aprons they wear in the assembly line on fire, and broke CCTV cameras, laptops and other electronic gadgets. Several employees allegedly took with them laptops, modems and any other gadget that they could lay their hands on.  A tea stall owner just outside the facility says some laptops had been recovered from the fields too. Wistron, the Taiwan-headquartered company, which claimed the losses to be worth Rs. 437 crore, in the First Information Report filed with the Narasapura police, drastically scaled down the extent of losses later to Rs. 40 crore. As many as 167 workers have been arrested following the violence, and an FIR mentions 7,000 workers. “Investigation is on and we have recovered some of the stolen laptops. Two teams are scanning 454 CCTV cameras to identify those involved in the violence,” says Kolar Superintendent of Police Karthik Reddy. “Now my job is at stake and I am scared of police action though I was not on that shift. Many employees have left Kolar fearing arrest,” says Abhishek, who joined Wistron’s engineering department in June. Abhishek joined the company closer home after losing his job in Bengaluru during the COVID-19 lockdown. “We don’t know what is happening and we are not sure if we will be called back. So far, there has been no word from the company. But my overtime dues have been transferred to my account now,” he says. Resentment building up Many employees insist that the assembly line had become a tinderbox in the first week of October. Workers were divided into two shifts, with each shift working 12 hours a day for five days a week. In the earlier schedule, there were three shifts, with each working for eight hours a day for six days a week. To ensure a frenetic pace of production, the company went on a hiring spree. Incidentally, as part of its efforts to bring in more industry, the State government on May 22 had introduced 10-hour shifts but later withdrew the order on June 12 after protests from unions. As early as in the second week of November, production was affected briefly when employees stopped work at the assembly line for about an hour. Work resumed after line supervisors convinced employees to resume work, with the promise that their issues would be resolved. “Until October, we did not have any issue with our salary. If there was any problem with the punching machine, the problem would be rectified. However, the employee strength started increasing, and hundreds of new workers were added. The glitch in the punching machine was not fixed, and the information centre set up by the company to address these complaints could not handle the growing number,” says Abhishek. He also says that there was a huge difference between the salary offered and what the workers actually received. Overtime payment did not bring much relief, he says.   Employees claim that they were given notice about the increase in their shift time to 12 hours only about 10 days before the change was brought in. Already affected by COVID-19-related stress, this only added to their woes, they say. While each shift had two 30 minute-long breaks for meal times and two 15 minute-long tea breaks, employees took time to travel to and from the facility, which meant that they were out for about 15 hours everyday. “Some people had to travel from places as far as Chintamani, Mulbagal and Kolar Gold Fields, so it took them even longer. Employees had no life outside of work and would end up sleeping on their weekly offs. When we joined, we were not told about the 12-hour shift,” Abhishek says. The major provocation for the violence on that day was the fact that the day shift employees knew how much salary they had received as they had got notifications on their phones but the night shift employees did not, and there were discrepancies in the salaries, claim workers. “I know my friends received only Rs. 300 and Rs. 600 as salaries for the full month of November. Overtime in October and November did not reflect in the salaries of many people. These people’s families depend on their salaries,” says Nithin, a B.Com graduate employed in the FATP department. As an incentive, the company had introduced a monthly attendance bonus of Rs. 1,000 for those who did not take any leave. Excitement and disappointment Months before the incident, the Rs. 3,000 crore investment by Wistron in Narasapura had caused great excitement among the youth in this district for two reasons. One, given that iPhones were to be assembled there, they knew that the facility would generate employment closer home. This meant that they didn’t have to go all the way to Bengaluru, 70 km away. As hiring started, young people below 25, from Kolar Gold Fields, Malur, Mulbagil, Hoskote, Kolar, Chikkaballapur and also Tamil Nadu and the northern States, landed contract jobs through staffing firms Randstad, Quess Corp, Innovsource, Creative Engineers, Needs Manpower Support Services, Adecco Group, and  United (House Keeping). As local trains to Bengaluru from Kolar Gold Fields and Bangarapet were cancelled during the pandemic, a vital link to the capital for those commuting daily had been cut off. These people joined Wistron as they were offered transport facilities. With colleges closed, many students also joined the growing workforce. While no educational qualifications were specified for those joining the FATP department, only engineers were hired for the engineering department. Abhishek says the job was not stressful. “The management was not pushing us to meet bigger targets. Many quit Honda Motorcycles and joined here because the job did not require physical exertion. Also, assembly lines were yet to stabilise so the assembly of iPhones had not reached the peak capacity. It all changed once the 12-hour shifts kicked in and overtime wages were not paid.” Many violations The violence triggered a series of investigations by government agencies. The preliminary inspection report by the Department of Labour shows that the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act of 1970; the Minimum Wages Act of 1948 and Rules of 1958; the Equal Remuneration Act of 1976 and Rules, 1976; and the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act of 1946, all of them crucial labour laws, were violated. A separate report by the Department of Factories, Boilers, Industrial Safety and Health says that the increase in manpower in the factory from the license capacity of 5,000 to 10,500 was done within a short span of time. More serious was the move to increase working hours from eight hours to 12 hours on a continuous basis without informing the department and without seeking the necessary exemptions under the Factories Act for overtime work. It also found that there was no assessment of the repercussions of moving from eight-hour shifts to 12-hour shifts. The company was found not to have followed statutory compliance pertaining to the requisite number of safety officers, welfare officers, and medical officers as stipulated by the Factories Act. At an internal meeting, the Labour Department found that no yardstick in terms of educational qualifications was provided: Pre-University Course graduates, Industrial Training Institutes graduates, diploma graduates, and B.E. graduates were all doing the same work for a monthly salary of Rs. 15,000. It was also found that without consent letters, women had been posted in night shifts. The department noted that 1,343 permanent workers and 8,490 contract workers had been hired through six contractors. A glaring violation can be seen in this pattern, note trade unions, as there is a disproportionate number of contract workers compared to permanent workers. The Contract Labour Act of 1970 prohibits appointment of workers in jobs that are perennial in nature. Acknowledgement and apology On December 19, about a week after the incident, Wistron publicly acknowledged that some workers had not been paid correctly or on time and apologised to them. “This is a new facility and we recognise we made mistakes as we expanded. Some of the processes we put in place to manage labour agencies and payments need to be strengthened,” it said in a statement. The company also said it was enhancing the processes and restructuring teams to ensure that such issues are not repeated. Hours later, Apple issued a statement further acknowledging the lapses. The smartphone major’s preliminary inquiry found violations of Supplier Code of Conduct. Proper working hour management processes had not been implemented, leading to payment delays for some workers in October and November. “We are disappointed and taking corrective steps to address these issues. Wistron is restructuring their recruitment and payroll teams at Narasapura,” Apple said. It also said that Wistron had been kept on probation and will receive no further orders until it completes corrective action. Official response Over the last two weeks, as the incident in Karnataka, a State that is otherwise regarded peaceful and investment-friendly, attracted international attention, the government has been on an overdrive to send a positive message to investors. Before the violence at Narasapura, on the other side of Bengaluru, workers were protesting against Toyota in Bidadi where a lockout has been declared in one of the plants. Government intervention has not brought relief. In the aftermath of the violence, the government first said it would provide security to the company as thousands of jobs were at stake. Over the last few days, Ministers and top government officials have been tight-lipped about the issue. Their focus has been on restarting the facility at the earliest. In fact, despite Wistron and Apple acknowledging the workers’ problem publicly, the State government is yet to speak on the issues raised by the workers. The Union government is also keen on bringing the facility back on its feet, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced. In the process, the information flow has been tightened and no official action has been announced yet on Wistron even as the company is focusing on re-starting operations. Labour officials say the company has submitted documents. Permanent employees have started going to the factory, while contract workers are yet to hear about their fate. Meanwhile, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions comprising eight unions told the State government that it is “a matter of great shame” that the supplier company, Wistron, and parent company, Apple, have shown the courage to admit mistakes, but the State government agencies, which are tasked with the welfare of workers, have no official response in this matter. The unions have also sought to be a part of the investigation team, and have told the government to treat the issue as a complex industrial relations issue and not a law and order one. The names of the workers have been changed to protect their identity
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Article 356 and an activist judiciary||‘In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this; you must first enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself,’ said James Madison. Judicial activism may be good as a rare exception but an activist judiciary is neither good for the country nor for the judiciary itself as it would encourage the government to appoint committed judges. Sometimes even the collegium’s recommendations on transfer of judges and chief justices today looks more like an executive order transferring IAS officers. The recent order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court directing the Andhra Pradesh government to come prepared to argue on the ‘breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state’ is shocking as it opens up the possibility of use or even misuse of Article 356 by the judiciary. Though the Supreme Court of India has stayed the order, we need to go deeper into this observation and look at the controversial provision of Article 356 because of which the High Court could make such an observation. The devil is in the provision itself. Behind the inclusion No liberal democratic Constitution in the world has a provision such as Article 356 that gives the central government the power to dismiss a democratically-elected State government except the Constitution of Pakistan. Both India and Pakistan borrowed this provision from the Government of India Act, 1935. Interestingly, the leaders of our freedom struggle were so very opposed to this provision that they forced the British government to suspend it; thus, Section 93 of the Government of India Act, 1935 was never brought into effect. The provision which we had opposed during our freedom struggle was incorporated in the Constitution strangely in the name of democracy, federalism and stability. On June 11, 1947, it was agreed in the Constituent Assembly that the Governor could use this emergency power. By this time the Governor was supposed to be elected by the people of the State rather than nominated by the Centre. Govind Ballabh Pant did say that by mere elections, Governors will not become all wise. G.B. Pant and Hirday Nath Kunzru opposed it and termed it as virtual reproduction of the 1935 Act. H.N. Kunzru defied the whip and voted against it. Laxmi Kant Maitra and Tangutri Prakasam said that Indian Governors would not behave like British Governors who acted as agents of the Centre. Alladi Krishnaswami justified the provision in the name of representative government at the Centre. Subsequent decades proved all of them wrong both in respect of Governors as well as the central government. The power of a word After several revisions, provision became Article 278 (now Article 356). H.V. Kamath termed it as a surgical operation for a mere cold. He criticised the word ‘otherwise’ and said only god knows what ‘otherwise’ means. As the Governor had been made a nominee of the Centre by this time, he asked why the President could not have confidence in his own nominees. He went on to say: “if he cannot have confidence in his own nominees, let us wind up this Assembly and go home.” ‘Otherwise’ can include anything including a presidential dream of breakdown of constitutional machinery in a state. Though Shibban Lal Saksena was happy about Parliament’s power to ratify President’s Rule in States, he did concede that this was a ‘retrograde step’ and that ‘we are reducing the autonomy of the states to a farce.’ P.S. Deshmukh too favoured deletion of the term ‘otherwise’. Naziruddin Ahmad said that “I think we are drifting, perhaps unconsciously, towards dictatorship. Democracy will flourish only in a democratic atmosphere and under democratic condition.” In a strongly worded observation, he said the drafting committee had become a ‘Drifting Committee’ as it had gone against the original draft. ‘Otherwise’ can include anything including a presidential dream of breakdown of constitutional machinery in a state. The Andhra Pradesh High Court could pass such an order due to this very term ‘otherwise’. But for this word which negates the ideals of constitutionalism by giving unlimited powers to the Centre, the High Court could not have overstepped the line as it did. But this is not the first instance of judicial overreach on this issue. On August 13, 1997, a Patna High Court Bench of Chief Justice B.M. Lal and Justice S.K. Singh while disapproving the functioning of the Rabri Devi government had observed that the Governor’s report was not conclusive regarding the invocation of Article 356, and the High Court could also report to the President about the breakdown of constitutional machinery in the State. The record Article 356 has been used/misused more than 125 times though B.R. Ambedkar had assured that it would remain a dead letter. Both on Article 356 and the Governor, experience has proven Ambedkar wrong. In almost all cases it was used for political considerations rather than any genuine breakdown of constitutional machinery in the States. All Presidents signed presidential proclamations without demur except K.R. Narayanan who twice returned the cabinet’s recommendation on October 22, 1997 in respect of the Kalyan Singh government in Uttar Pradesh which had just won the controversial confidence vote and stating that imposition of President’s Rule would be constitutional impropriety. He also returned the cabinet’s recommendation on September 25, 1998 in respect of the Rabri Devi government in Bihar, and in an unprecedented detailed note, rebutted all the charges made by the Governor Sunder Singh Bhandari. Inflicting more wounds In the very first invocation of Article 356 in 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru removed the Gopi Chand Bhargava ministry in Punjab though he enjoyed the majority. In 1959, it was used against the majority opposition government of the E.M.S. Namboodripad government in Kerala and Governor B. Ramakrishna Rao in his report argued that the government had lost ‘support of [the] overwhelming majority of people’ and belittled the fact of it enjoying the confidence of [the] House which he said was an important consideration at the time of formation of government not its continuance. Strange logic indeed. Indira Gandhi has the dubious distinction of using Article 356 as many as 27 times, and in most cases to remove majority governments on the ground of political stability, absence of clear mandate or withdrawal of support, etc. She did not spare even Chief Ministers of her own party. But the Janata government did worse than Mrs Gandhi by removing nine majority Congress governments in one stroke on April 30, 1977. The Supreme Court of India upheld it in State of Rajasthan v. Union of India (1977). Mrs Gandhi replied in the same currency on her return to power in 1980 by removing nine Opposition majority governments at one go. Subsequent governments too acted in similar fashion including the Narendra Modi government which invoked Article 356 in Arunachal Pradesh on Republic Day itself, in 2016. The most notable case of non-use of Article 356 was the refusal of the P.V. Narasimha Rao government prior to the demolition of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 as in the draft Constitution, emergency power could be used to safeguard the ‘legitimate interests of minorities’ and the government was fully aware of a breakdown of constitutional machinery in Uttar Pradesh. However, the subsequent dismissal of three Bharatiya Janata Party governments in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, though upheld by the Supreme Court in S.R. Bommai v. Union of India (1994) was wrong as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ban was better implemented in these States and much greater violence had taken place in the Congress-ruled States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. Today, when many constitutional experts are of the view that the judiciary is increasingly becoming more executive-minded than the executive itself, the observations of the Andhra Pradesh High Court are a worrisome sign. Ideally, the word ‘otherwise’ should be deleted from Article 356 and the provision be used only sparingly and to never remove a majority government. Faizan Mustafa is Vice-Chancellor, the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR) University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The fallout of keying in the wrong labour codes||On December 12, contract workers ransacked Wistron’s iPhone assembly factory in Karnataka, at Narsapura in Kolar district, about 80 kilometres from Bengaluru. There are reports that property worth Rs. 50 crore was damaged, and many workers sent to jail. The factory which began production in July, employed about 2,000 permanent workers and 7,000 contract workers. The factory does not have a labour union. What caused the violence? The reason is said to be the reported non-payment, or only partial payment, of wages, or its delay, and flouting of labour laws, such as non-issuance of the wage contract, and employing women workers in night shift without providing adequate safety. Incident and deeper impact The central and State governments have sharply condemned the violence. They are now busy controlling the damage the incident has caused to the country’s high-profile global campaign to attract foreign direct investment, especially under its production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to boost domestic investment in mobile phone manufacturing. The Wistron project showcased the government’s success in attracting foreign direct investment, and promoting Atmanirbhar Bharat, the vision of making India self-reliant. However, according to a preliminary inquiry report by the State labour department into the incident (the report is unavailable in the public domain), Wistron and its labour contractors violated many provisions of the laws that led to the violence. The Taiwanese assembler has admitted its faults, and sacked its vice-president for its India operations for the lapses. Apple Corporation has condemned the violations of statutory laws and has reportedly put further business on hold until Wistron addresses the labour dispute. In July, the State government promulgated an ordinance to dilute the major labour laws including the Factories Act 1948. The Act regulates the ordinary working day’s length, overtime wages, hours of work, the timing of shifts, safety, and health issues. Couched in legalese, the yet-to-be-operationalised law, effectively repealed the standard eight-hour working day with a 12-hour (with overtime payments applicable for work 75 hours to 125 hours, per quarter). This is evident from workers’ testimonies in the police inquiry into the incident. The pandemic as a foil Amid the health pandemic and the lockdown, a few State governments sensed an opportunity to quickly ram through pieces of legislation or ordinances to whittle down the labour laws. It was purportedly to attract foreign capital seeking alternative locations to China, considering rising geopolitical tensions. The reform effectively knocks down the foundations of national labour laws by paring down many protective laws. The Karnataka government is apparently at the forefront of such a reform drive, with the media widely reporting the legal changes and the deep discontent among workers in the State. India’s labour laws are indeed a cumbersome web — some 47 central laws and 200 State laws, mostly applicable to organised sector workers — requiring rationalisation. Efforts to consolidate them have been on for quite a while, but with modest progress for lack of agreement among the stakeholders and the complexity of the legal frame. In 2019, the government consolidated 29 central laws into four labour codes and introduced bills in Parliament. The codes concern: industrial relations; occupational safety, health and working conditions; social security, and wages. The Code on Wages Bill, 2019 was passed last year and the remaining three in September  this year, but without adequate consultation with the stakeholders and legislative scrutiny. ILO stand, how it is in China National trade union federations, including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), have opposed many contentious changes. The reforms go against many of the International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions to which India is a founding signatory. In May, the ILO chastised the Uttar Pradesh government which sought to suspend the labour laws for the next three years. There is undoubtedly a lot to learn from China’s industrial success. But the government seems keen to emulate China’s long working days and flexible use of labour. However, China also mandates employers to provide dormitory accommodation for workers close to factories and other social security benefits. Factory-provided dormitory accommodation is the principal reason for slum-free Chinese industrial cities, unlike in India. Moreover, as is widely known, China’s local governments compete with each other to offer excellent physical infrastructure and ensure adequate credit to industrial enterprises through the national development banks, thus implicitly subsidising production costs. The local governments and party officials, whose objective is employment generation, act as midwives in industrial promotion. Why do they do so? Because the professional rewards for Chinese bureaucracy and provincial ruling party officials are dependent on the local economic performance. India’s efforts at cherry-picking legal changes for labour reforms, without reasonable compensation, are bound to face resistance. Data on earnings The average daily earnings of casual workers in urban India in 2018-19, as per the official Periodic Labour Force Survey (https://bit.ly/3hpS2h6), are Rs. 256 (or Rs. 6,400 a month for 25 days of work). It is well below the official living wage as defined by the Seventh Pay Commission for central government employees. Industrial workers are ever eager to work longer hours for overtime, considering the low absolute earning levels. Trade unions mostly welcome negotiations for labour flexibility linked to productivity but resist its unilateral imposition if the productivity gains accrue mainly to the management (the ‘winner takes all’ situation). The Wistron episode has highlighted how the government has short-changed workers, as the length of the working day was unilaterally raised from eight hours to 12 hours in October, undoing the principal provision of the Factory Act 1948. The State Labour Department has reportedly admitted the flaw in the ordinance, in its letter to the Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment at the Centre. If the “principal employers” (Wistron in this case) and their labour contractors view the reforms as unbridled “hunting licence”, such legal changes are bound to unleash a backlash, sooner than later. The Wistron episode seems proof of this. No surprises What are the lessons of the sorry episode? Hoodwinking workers is politically illegitimate and economically suicidal in a shrinking economy. During the lockdown following the novel coronavirus pandemic, when lakhs of workers lost jobs and livelihoods, trudging back to their villages, an insensitive government instead of addressing the humanitarian crisis, cleverly sought to capitalise on working-class misery to undercut wages — a morally reprehensible act in any civilised society. So, it should not come as a surprise if such hasty and crafty measures have now backfired, denting India’s image among global investors. The Wistron dispute has apparently turned the clock back on the government’s efforts to boost domestic production (‘Make in India’), and enhance national self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat). R. Nagaraj is with the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Recharging DTH||The Union Cabinet’s approval of a revised scheme for the Direct-to-Home (DTH) television distribution sector beginning with 100% FDI brings a measure of calm to an industry buffeted by technological change and revenue pressures this year. Under the new norms, the licence period will go up to 20 years from the present 10, and, importantly, the fee has been reduced to 8% of Adjusted Gross Revenue, after setting off service tax, as opposed to 10% on Gross Revenue now. The proposal for a reduction in the licence fee has been on the backburner for six years since the regulator, TRAI, recommended it. The DTH operators have also been facing a challenge from high bandwidth Internet and new generation entertainment providers using Over The Top (OTT) channels that are chipping away at their urban viewer base so valuable to advertisers. Many broadcasters now have a live Internet presence, and newer screen casting technologies pair mobiles to large screen TVs. In such an environment of flux, some existing players have combined technologies, incorporating DTH, Internet service and OTT. There is relief among the DTH players on the licence fee decision, although the Indian Broadcasting Foundation would like to see further liberalisation — the removal of cross media ownership restrictions. Significantly, a legal challenge against the existing annual licence fee in the Supreme Court was recently posted for hearing in February 2021. The DTH operators have been arguing that, since TRAI issued the New Tariff Order (NTO) for television last year, they have become mere carriers of channels and bouquets, with no pricing powers for these. Any high fee would, therefore, be anomalous, in their view. The broadcasters, on the other hand, have approached the courts against the amended NTO issued in January, which increased the available channels for a mandated network capacity fee paid to platforms like DTH, reduced the maximum price of pay channels in bouquets, and curbed price rigging using bouquet arrangements. These are measures that strike a blow for the common man. While major platforms accepted the network fee provision, the channels have baulked at regulation. India is one of the biggest single markets for audiences, with an estimated 200 million cable and satellite households, and regulation favouring the consumer is warranted. In fact, the recent controversy surrounding fake audience numbers for channels points to the need for scrutiny of the methods adopted. What broadcasters, including state-run Doordarshan, must realise is that audiences are won by the power of authentic programming and entertainment. In a diverse cultural milieu, with a vibrant public sphere and a sporting tradition, there is space for everyone, and the best combination of technology and pricing will win the viewer’s favour.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Limits of sovereignty||The tariff-free trade accord in goods that the U.K. and the EU signed on Thursday, days before the post-Brexit transition expires, should mitigate somewhat the consequences of Britain’s narrow decision, in 2016, to leave one of the largest trading blocs. The eleventh hour agreement averts a catastrophic ‘no deal’ scenario. This is borne out by the findings from the UK Office for Budget Responsibility. The country now faces a potential 4% loss of GDP over 15 years, compared to remaining in the EU. Leaving without any agreement would have led to a potential loss of 6% of GDP, estimates the fiscal watchdog. Moreover, given the U.K.’s reliance on the EU for about 75% of food product imports, the significance of zero duty trade for consumers and the retail economy cannot be exaggerated. Brexit’s biggest trade-off for the ordinary citizen is perhaps the restrictions on the right to free movement and work. The tariff-free access to Europe’s single market has been realised in exchange for guarantees that Britain would not undercut EU competition rules and environmental regulations. Among the more contentious issues in the talks, the arrangement allays apprehensions about the potential economic threat from the “Singapore-on-Thames” growth model the U.K. might pursue outside the EU. The biggest stumbling block was the access for EU fisheries to British seas, which London was keen to reclaim as demonstration of wresting sovereignty after Brexit. There is now a five-and-a-half-year transition period that guarantees continued access for the affected EU states. The reduced terms for the latter are expected to help British fisheries. A major challenge now would be to keep border checks and red tape to the minimum, besides ensuring that supply chains are not unduly disrupted. U.K. businesses have given a cautious welcome to the agreement, which has left the EU market in services out of its purview, requiring Britain’s pre-eminent financial services sector to negotiate ad hoc measures with European counterparts. Politically, the post-Brexit partnership could end the rancour that has polarised British society. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has predictably claimed victory for restoring the nation’s sovereignty that had supposedly eroded under its 47-year EU membership. His Conservative party’s massive parliamentary majority would enable its automatic approval early next week. The Opposition Labour party has announced its backing for the agreement. Thursday’s terms will provisionally enter into force on January 1, while the European Parliament is expected to give its nod in a few weeks. Conservative hardliners surely have their moment of triumph. But they can hardly escape the reality of their country juxtaposed to the EU 27 in areas of mutual cooperation. That will set the limits of national sovereignty.
26 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Demand in manufacturing revived in Q2’||Demand conditions in the manufacturing sector returned to recovery mode with a softer contraction of 4.3% year-on-year in the quarter ended September in terms of nominal sales, according to RBI data. This followed a shrinkage of 41.1% in the previous quarter that was hit by countrywide lockdowns due to COVID-19. The recovery was led by iron and steel, food products, cement, automobile and pharmaceuticals companies, showed the data on the performance of the private corporate sector during the second quarter (Q2) of 2020-21. Manufacturing companies reported sales of Rs. 5,99,479 crore in the second quarter, compared with Rs. 3,97,233 crore in April-June of FY21. The data had been drawn from abridged quarterly financial results of 2,637 listed non-government non-financial (NGNF) companies, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. Nominal sales of non-IT services sector also registered lower contraction of 14.5% year-on-year, led by expansion in sales of telecommunication and real estate companies. Sales growth for IT companies remained steady at 3.6% in Q2. As per the data, sales of non-IT firms and IT firms stood at Rs. 80,842 crore and Rs. 1,01,353 crore, respectively, during the second quarter. ‘Savings spurred profits’ “Operating profits of manufacturing companies increased on the back of savings in expenditure; operating profits of services (both IT and non-IT) companies also increased in Q2,” the RBI said in a statement. On expenditure, it said input cost pressure from raw materials remained subdued for the manufacturing sector in the quarter. Meanwhile, staff cost growth decelerated for IT firms in the second quarter, whereas it remained in contraction mode for the manufacturing and non-IT services sectors. ‘Interest coverage rises’ As per the data, with rise in profits, the interest coverage ratio (ICR) of manufacturing companies improved to 4.6 in the second quarter from 2.4 in the immediately previous three-month period. The ICR of non-IT services companies remained below one. Also, profit margins improved across manufacturing and services companies on account of a rise in profit from cost savings. The coverage of companies in different quarters varies, depending on the date of declaration of results. This, however, was not expected to significantly alter the aggregate position, the RBI said.
26 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||National Textile Corporation to reopen mills in phases||The management of National Textile Corporation (NTC) has decided to reopen mills in a phased manner. An official told The Hindu on Friday the mills had ceased production when the nationwide lockdown was announced in March to control the spread of COVID-19. However, the 23 NTC mills in India had stocks of both raw materials and finished products. The market was also weak in the initial months when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. The demand began picking up in September-October and the mills were able to start clearing yarn stocks. The market outlook was good now. “The Textiles Minister has been monitoring the situation and it was decided to reopen six mills initially,” the official said. These are three mills in Tamil Nadu and one each in Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. These account for almost 40% of NTC’s total production. The mills would resume production using the raw material stocks available, sell the products and generate cash. The situation would be reviewed in a month and more mills would be reopened. Five or six more mills had the potential to operate and generate cash. The aim was to have 10-12 mills running by next March. Dues cleared The NTC had paid salaries till November to all the workers and cleared dues to vendors till January, the official said. The NTC had decided to reopen the mills in phases following cash constraints. The mills were selected for operation based on cash profitability, according to the official.
26 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Nine in 10 employees in India ready for long-term ‘work from remote’: Dell study||A majority of employees in India is ready to work outside of the traditional office space, over the long term, according to a Dell Technologies study. The study also found that these employees, however, said the new normal had blurred work-life boundaries. The study found that 91% of employees in India, as against 81% in the Asia Pacific and Japan, felt they were prepared for long-term remote work but faced ongoing productivity challenges. The employees shared concerns about not having access to the right technologies and the blurring of boundaries between work and personal lives. Nine in 10 employees in India were prepared to work remotely for the long-term provided they had access to the right technology assets and human-resources support. The Remote Work Readiness (RWR) survey, which covered more than 7,000 professionals across the region, including 1,027 people from India, captured data on employee readiness for long-term remote work and their views on factors important for its success. ‘Onus is on employer’ “For CIOs and their teams who displayed agility and speed in achieving or embarking upon digital transformation for their business earlier this year, it has become clear that the onus is on the organisation to enable employees with support available at every stage,” said Indrajit Belgundi, senior director & general manager, Client Solutions Group, Dell Technologies, India.  “This will be essential to establishing a productive and connected digital workforce, Mr. Belgundi added.
26 December 2020||MOSCOW,||Russia backs increase in oil output by OPEC+ from Feb.||Russia expects to support an increase in oil production by the group, known as OPEC+, of another 500,000 barrels per day (bpd) from February at next month’s summit of the leading global oil producers, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said. Oil prices are trading above $50 per barrel, after coming under pressure this week from concerns that new fast-spreading variants of the coronavirus will lead to reduced fuel demand. In comments, cleared for publication on Friday, Mr. Novak also said that Moscow views an oil price between $45 and $55 per barrel as the optimum level to allow for recovery of its oil production, which has been significantly reduced as part of the OPEC+ supply deal. Russia, other leading oil producers and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, a group known as OPEC+, agreed to reduce output to support the global oil market as the COVID-19 pandemic has weakened fuel demand. Since the agreement on a record global supply cut in April, OPEC+ has progressively reduced the cuts and is expected in January to release an extra 5,00,000 bpd into the market. The group holds its next online summit on January 4. “If the situation stays normal and stable, we will support this position (increase by 5,00,000 bpd),” Mr. Novak told reporters.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India must strongly push for U.K., EU trade pacts’||With the European Union (EU) and the U.K. clinching a post-Brexit trade pact, India should now aggressively pursue free trade agreements (FTAs) separately with both the regions, according to experts. Although it was premature to assess the gains for India from the agreement between the European Union (EU) and the U.K., Indian goods would not benefit much from this pact, they said. However, India can explore opportunities in services sectors such as IT in both the markets as the EU-U.K. pact does not cover services, they added. “There is not much gain for Indian goods, but we can gain in services in both the markets,” Federation of Indian Export Organisations director general Ajay Sahai said. Rakesh Mohan Joshi, professor at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, said after the trade deal with the EU and the U.K., India will get a better opportunity to cater to demand in these markets.
26 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Ampersand Group to foray into telemedicine||Ampersand Group, which provides school management services to more than 3,000 government schools in 20 States, has announced plans to foray into healthcare through a chain of assisted-telemedicine clinics called Ashvin Care. The pan-India network of tech-enabled kiosks would be run by local entrepreneurs in areas that have little access to healthcare and be supported by on-ground paramedic or nursing assistants. Each kiosk would be linked to a virtual doctor for consultation, diagnosis, follow-up and medical care with the technology back-end being handled by the company. The group plans to open 200 nursing-supported digital clinics in West Bengal by April 2021, followed by kiosks in rural J&K and Maharashtra in the first phase. “The facilities will house the most advanced equipment and highly-skilled paramedics and nursing assistants to provide premium quality healthcare services to the underserved population,at an affordable cost,” Rustom Kerwalla, chairman, Ampersand Group said in an interview. The company has earmarked an investment of Rs. 50 crore in phase one, meant for building the digital infrastructure. A kiosk will need two people and 7-8 IoT devices such as stethoscopes and ECG equipment. For now, one doctor may be dedicated to 2.5 kiosks. The expense for a patient may be about Rs. 250-300 per visit.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Loan rejig, other steps to save PSBs from shock’||Loan restructuring and other measures announced by the government to help the industry hit by the pandemic may save public sector banks from ‘shock’ in the next year, a top Finance Ministry official said. Despite the pandemic, the lockdown and the consequent damage done to the economy, there are quick signs of recovery, Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda told PTI.  “There is a steady uptick in the credit growth. Retail, home and agriculture loans are doing well, and MSMEs again, with the intervention of the government through the ECLGS and other similar schemes, have also picked up,” he said. Mr. Panda added that with the window for restructuring now made available by the RBI through the COVID-19 resolution plan, which offers resolution for all kinds of loans,, the impact may not be that severe as had been projected earlier. However, it was difficult to exactly predict the numbers, he said. “We don’t anticipate a big shock going to hit public sector banks (PSBs) next year, on account of high provision coverage ratio, steady decline in non-performing assets (NPAs), and one-time restructuring of loans, among other things,” Mr. Panda added.
26 December 2020||new delhi,||‘Independent directors not really independent’||A significant percentage of individual shareholders believe the constitution of the board of directors of most Indian companies is tilted towards promoters as many independent directors are not really independent, says a survey. According to the Corporate Governance Survey 2020 by online platform LocalCircles, 79% individual shareholders have expressed concern about the independence of independent directors. LocalCircles conducted the survey after observing citizen posts on corporate governance over a 12-month period. The survey received more than 48,000 responses from 21,000 unique shareholders located across 272 districts of India. As many as 65% of individual shareholders said that independent directors in publicly-traded Indian companies are not acting to protect the interest of minority shareholders, the survey said. Further, the top-three concerns of individual shareholders of such companies are accounting fraud, selling of company assets without shareholder knowledge and insider trading.
26 December 2020||new delhi,||Centre tells Dish TV to pay Rs. 4,164-cr. fee||Direct-to-home operator Dish TV on Friday said it had received a demand notice from the government for payment of Rs. 4,164.05 crore, which included the licence fee and interest. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, (MIB) asked the Essel Group firm to pay the said amount towards licence fee from the date of issuance of DTH licence till the financial year 2018-19, the company said. The MIB has, in its letter, also said the amount was further subject to verification and audit and the outcome of pending court cases in the matter of DTH licence fee.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Chennaiyin looks to sustain momentum||Chennaiyin FC, which ended its four-match winless streak with a 2-1 victory over FC Goa in its previous match, will be the favourite when it takes on SC East Bengal at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Saturday. Things fell in place for the former champion following the return of skipper Rafael Crivellaro who, along with Anirudh Thappa, helped the team become more organised and creative. Be sharper However, Chennaiyin would want to be sharper in the final third and not squander as many chances as it did in the game against Juan Ferrando’s side. The contest against East Bengal, without a win and lying last in the table, offers Csaba Laszlo’s team an opportunity to climb up from its eighth position. The CFC coach is, however, not taking things for granted. “Even when you are the favourite, there is a lot of pressure. It will be a tough game for us. They are a new team but have adapted well. We have to remain focused,” he said. East Bengal would rue the fact that it squandered a golden chance to register its maiden win in the ISL. The Kolkata outfit led by a goal before conceding a goal against Kerala Blasters in the 94th minute. Morale high Coach Robbie Fowler said that despite the heartbreak, the team’s morale was high and things were looking good. “We have been unlucky at times. It is really unfortunate that you are conceding goals at the last minute. But the boys played well and created a lot of chances,” said Fowler. “We are not a million miles away. The tide is turning. Hopefully, it will happen pretty soon,” he added.
26 December 2020||LONDON,||Three managers under the scanner||Slaven Bilic's sacking by West Brom last week made him the earliest managerial departure in a Premier League season for six years after it took 18 games for Cardiff City to dismiss Neil Warnock in 2014. The next sacking may not be long in coming with several bosses having serious question marks over their futures. AFP Sport looks at three bosses who could do with some Christmas cheer: Arteta to banish the BluesMikel Arteta's FA Cup success last season and then victory over Liverpool in the Community Shield suggested the turbulent period for Arsenal under his predecessor Unai Emery had been laid to rest. However, heading into a tough home clash with highflying London rivals Chelsea on Saturday the bright new dawn has clouded over and the former Gunners captain's future after just over a year in charge is in doubt. The 38-year-old Spaniard has overseen their worst start since the 1974/75 season -- they have scored just 12 goals to boot -- and lie just four points above the relegation zone. It says a lot about the gloom surrounding the club the board have inserted clauses in the players contracts of a cut in pay should they be relegated for the first time since 1912/13 when they were known as Woolwich Arsenal. Areta will hope the board keep the faith and listened to the sterling defence his former boss at Manchester City Pep Guardiola mounted after the Gunners lost 4-1 to them in the League Cup on Tuesday. "It's just a question of time and he will do well. Football changes in one week so quick," said Guardiola.Bruce to get Magpies flyingSteve Bruce knows all about the ups and downs of football management especially after Newcastle's disappointing League Cup quarter-final exit at the hands of second-tier Brentford. The Magpies look reasonably comfortable in 12th place in the table. However, with a trip to Manchester City on Saturday and then welcoming champions Liverpool a few days later the eight points separating them from the relegation zone could be whittled away such is the volatility of this campaign. Bruce, 59, is believed to enjoy the support of Magpies owner Mike Ashley but there are growing rumblings of discontent from the fans who aside from seeing a chance of a trophy disappear are far from happy with the unimaginative style of play. Bruce has not been helped by losing two influential players captain Jamaal Lascelles and French star Allan Saint-Maximin who are both suffering the after-effects of Covid-19. Bruce said after the Brentford defeat he had not lost the dressingroom, though, it was hardly the most convincing of responses. "Are the players playing for me? I think they are," he said. "Maybe they're not playing well enough, but it's not without effort and determination."Final cut for Blades' WilderBilic might well scratching his head at being the first manager sacked when he compares notes with Sheffield United's Chris Wilder. The Blades' board have shown admirable gratitude and restraint in retaining faith with the 53-year-old Englishman despite garnering just two points this season -- the worst start in Premier League history. Wilder is living off the currency he gained through guiding Sheffield United to the Premier League and then ninth spot last term. Wilder has a tough test at home to Everton on Saturday but the board's patience may snap if he fails to secure points at Burnley on Tuesday. A 3-2 loss to Manchester United and then a draw with struggling Brighton has given hope to Wilder. "If we don't show that right attitude, we're toast -- we understand that, so it won't happen," he said. "At least there's a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel after the last two games."  The weekend schedule: Saturday: Leicester vs Manchester Utd, Arsenal vs Chelsea, Manchester City v Newcastle, Aston Villa vs Crystal Palace, Fulham vs Southampton, and Sheffield United vs Everton.   Sunday: Leeds vs Burnley, Liverpool vs West Brom, Wolves vs Tottenham, and West Ham vs Brighton .
26 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||New Zealand faces the Pakistan test||New Zealand begins its final push to make the World Test Championship (WTC) final when it meets an injury-hit Pakistan in the first Test at Bay Oval from Saturday. The Kiwis are full of confidence coming off a comprehensive 2-0 series win against the West Indies, and need to produce a similar result in the two Pakistan Tests. India and Australia are ahead of New Zealand on the WTC ladder, but if India continues to struggle and New Zealand sweeps the series against Pakistan, it could be enough to see the Black Caps at Lord's for the final in June 2021. New Zealand presents a settled line-up with the only question over whether it will play spinner Mitchell Santner or all-rounder Daryl Mitchell in the XI. When Ross Taylor walks in at No. 3 in this Test, it will make him the most capped New Zealand player with 438 appearances across all three formats. The Bay Oval ground is expected to produce a lively green wicket which will suit the home attack of Tim Southee, Trent Boult, Neil Wagner and Kyle Jamieson, but stand-in Pakistan captain Mohammad Rizwan said it could also benefit his side. “It doesn't matter if (the pitch) has grass on it. The grass is the same for us as it is for New Zealand. It all depends on hard work. Whoever does the hard work is going to get the result,” he said.
26 December 2020||Chennai,||Balance is the key to good batting: Cullinan||Former South African batting ace Daryll Cullinan believes the Indian batsmen would do well to cut the additional movement around the crease in Australia. He told The Hindu , “You got to be sure-footed. Head has to be still and the bat close to the body.” The South African explained, “And you have to play the ball as it is released. No predetermined movements. And your feet movement has to be according to the length of the ball.” Position important Cullinan, now the director of coaching in M.S. Dhoni’s cricket academy at the SRMC’s Sports Medicine Centre here, observed, it was the position of the batsman when the ball was released that held the key. “You could have a totally different stance like that of Shivnarine Chanderpaul. But when the ball was being released, he got into a good side-on position,” he said. Cullinan observed, “Cricket is a side-on game. If you are side-on when the ball is being released, you generally get yourself into good positions. Balance is the key to good batting. If you are balanced, your head is still.” The South African noted, “Even if the batsman had a trigger movement, it must be small.” Cullinan said the best batsmen stood still at the point of release and did not commit themselves. “It is the length of the ball that determines their movement. So they do not get caught out at the crease.” The South African said, “You don’t want your hands moving too much, the head moving too much. You got to be compact to make the target area smaller for the bowler.”  Among contemporary batsmen, Cullinan picked New Zealand’s Kane Williamson as the most complete batsman. “He is composed and his movements are minimal and just what the delivery requires.” Cullinan went on, “And, apart from the ability to leave the ball, he picks the line very well, the deliveries that are outside his eyeline, has a sound defence and can play all the strokes.” The South African added, “You see he uses the depth of the crease so well. He waits for the ball to come to him, plays it late and plays it close to his body.” The South African named maestro Sachin Tendulkar as the most complete batsman. “Technically, he was the master. His movements were measured and in keeping with the length and he was so balanced.” He said, “Tendulkar moved quickly, and he moved only once. He was decisive whether going forward or backward. He could see the ball early and play it as late as possible.” Cullinan said, “All great batsmen use the crease. They go right forward or are right back.” The South African also said, apart from good technique the Indians had to display intent in Australia. “You have to be sound off the back foot. And you got to cut and pull.”
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||I don’t want to put pressure on the openers, says Rahane||Ajinkya Rahane feels the team needs to back itself and stick to its plans despite the humiliating loss in the first Test in which India was bowled out for 36 in the second innings. Speaking ahead of the second Test that starts in Melbourne on Saturday, Rahane who will lead the side in Virat Kohli’s absence, said, “In Adelaide, we had two good days. But it was one bad hour where we lost it completely. The preparations have been good, and the chat was all about backing ourselves as individuals and as a team. We want to play to our strengths and try to stick to whatever we had planned for the first Test.” With Shubman Gill replacing the out-of-form Prithvi Shaw as the opener for the second Test, Rahane has vowed not to put pressure on the openers. “The role of the openers is crucial everywhere and not just in Australia. I don’t want to put pressure on them and want to give freedom to play their game. Having said that, when you get a good (opening) partnership going, it becomes easy for the batsman coming after,” Rahane added. Apology to Kohli Rahane also revealed that he apologised to Kohli for triggering a mix up that saw the latter being run out in the first innings in Adelaide and conceded the dismissal swung the momentum towards Australia. “After the end of day’s play I went and said sorry to him (Kohli) but he was all okay, he was okay about it,” he said. The 32-year-old Mumbai batsman had led India against the same opponent in Dharamshala in 2017, and said that he would use the learnings from that Test. “It is a great opportunity and responsibility, but I don't want to take any pressure. What I want to do is back my team-mates and, as a team, we want to do well. I learnt a lot during that (2017) Test — to just back your instincts and to remain calm under pressure,” he added.
26 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Paine doesn’t expect India to ‘roll over’ at Melbourne||Skipper Tim Paine Friday called India a proud nation that won’t “roll over” in the Boxing Day Test, and that Australia must be “bang on the mark” to inflict more misery on the visitors after their Adelaide collapse. “We can’t pay any attention to mental scars or whatever anyone is talking about,” said Paine. “India is a proud cricket country, they are an extremely talented Test side with lots of dangerous players.” About India making four changes — Shubman Gill, Rishabh Pant, Ravindra Jadeja and Mohammed Siraj — for the second Test, Paine said Australia had studied everyone and his side was ready for everyone who takes the field. “We know that some of the players who are coming into the side are dangerous ones who like to take the game on and play positively,” he said. “If we give players like that an inch, they will take a mile. We need to be bang on the mark as we were in Adelaide and be prepared to turn up for another five-day battle. “We have been on overseas tours before when we have been bowled out for 50 and it can be really difficult. That’s why it's so important for us to turn up with the same attitude as the first Test,” said Paine. “We’re going to have to do our best to get them in a position like we did in Adelaide. If we can do it, Tests three and four will become a real battle for them.”
26 December 2020||London Colney,||’Fearless’ opener Edrich passes away||England’s former “fearless” opening batsman John Edrich passed away aged 83, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced on Friday. 103 centuries Diagnosed with leukaemia in 2000 the left-hander, who played for county side Surrey, scored 103 First Class centuries. He played 77 Tests, scoring 5,138 runs at 43.54. Former England great Ian Botham wrote on Twitter: “Very sad news today to wake up on Christmas Day and to be told that John Edrich has passed away !! A wonderful man who I was lucky enough to spend some quality time with...RIP.” ECB CEO Tom Harrison said: “With John’s passing, we’ve lost a prolific and fearless batsman — one of the select few who have scored more than 5,000 runs for England. His duels with some of the world’s best fast bowlers were legendary, and it’s a testament to his ability that his 310 not out against New Zealand in 1965 remains the fifth highest Test score by an English batsman.”  Edrich played 77 Test matches, scoring 5,138 runs at 43.54   Edrich played 77 Tests, scoring 5,138 runs at 43.54
26 December 2020||BENGALURU:,||Cosmos wins Bangalore St. Leger||Darius Byramji trained Cosmos (Suraj up), won the Bangalore St. Leger, the chief event of the races held on Friday (Dec 25). The winner is owned by Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Jockey Suraj won three races for the day.     1. MOUNT JOY PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: GOLDEN VISION (Suraj) 1, Bloom Buddy (Anjar Alam) 2, Activated (R. Marshall) 3 and Florencia (Sai Vamshi) 4. 4-1/4, 5-3/4 and Nk. 1m 13.43s. Rs. 15 (w), 12, 14 and 23 (p), SHP: 23, THP: 75, FP: 65, Q: 49, Trinella: 418 and 183, Exacta: 5,094 and 3,274. Favourite: Golden Vision. Owners: Mr. Daulat Chhabria, Mr. Sunil K. Vasant & Mr. S. Narredu. Trainer: S. Narredu.  2. TOPMOST PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: CASEY (M. Naveen) 1, Sadaqat (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Hafnium (Trevor) 3 and Zhu Zhu Zest (Darshan) 4. 5-3/4, 1-3/4 and 3/4. 1m 27.01s. Rs. 68 (w), 14, 15 and 15 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 65, FP: 339, Q: 478, Trinella: 1,677 and 419, Exacta: 1,827 and 940. Favourite: Hafnium. Owners: Mr. Prakash Raje Urs & Mr. K.L. Gangadhar. Trainer: Samar Singh.  3. KOLAR PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over: WINGS OF DESIRE (Trevor) 1, Venus Bay (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Tio Rico (Likith Appu) 3 and Radiant Treasure (S. Mubarak) 4. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m 14.09s. Rs. 24 (w), 14, 15 and 72 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 153, FP: 156, Q: 106, Trinella: 3,711 and 1,193, Exacta: 2,755 and 1,181. Favourite: Wings Of Desire. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: S. Dominic.  4. NARASIMHARAJA TROPHY (2,000m), rated 60 & above: ROYAL CRYSTAL (S. John) 1, Peluche (Antony) 2, Roma Victor (Akshay K) 3 and Electra (Trevor) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 2m 04.94s. Rs. 35 (w), 20, 135 and 18 (p), SHP: 254, THP: 40, FP: 3,908, Q: 1,177, Trinella: 10,343 and 1,477, Exacta: 12,787 (carried over). Favourite: Angelino. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  5. BANGALORE ST. LEGER (2,800m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): COSMOS (Suraj) 1, My Opinion (Akshay K) 2, Well Connected (Trevor) 3 and Secretive Force (S. John) 4. 1/2, 9-3/4 and 1/2. 3m 02.52s. Rs. 15 (w), 13 and 24 (p), SHP: 38, THP: 34, FP: 56, Q: 110, Trinella: 87 and 35, Exacta: 165 and 159. Favourite: Cosmos. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  6. R.W.I.T.C CUP (1,400m), rated 75 & above: NORTHERN ALLIANCE (Suraj) 1, Rafa (Rayan) 2, Saint Petersburg (S. John) 3 and Into The Groove (Trevor) 4. 5-1/4, 1-1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m 25.57s. Rs. 11 (w), 10 and 207 (p), SHP: 136, THP: 34, FP: 235, Q: 179, Trinella: 852 and 159, Exacta: 1,826 and 559. Favourite: Northern Alliance. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas & Mr. Dean Stephens. Trainer: S. Inayathulla.  7. BHARACHUKKI PLATE (1,400m), rated 45 to 65, 4-y-o & over: POSEIDON (Jagadeesh) 1, Grey Channel (Arshad) 2, Hokkaido (Suraj) 3 and Le Marc (P.P. Dhebe) 4. 1/2, 1/2 and 2. 1m 26.24s. Rs. 435 (w), 24, 14 and 12 (p), SHP: 30, THP: 61, FP: 13,858 (carried over). Q: 2,145, Trinella: 4,137 and 9,652 (carried over), Exacta: 24,729 (carried over). Favourite: Hokkaido. Owners: Mr. H.K. Lakshman Gowda, Mr. N. Prem Kumar, Mrs. Divyajyothi C.M & Mrs. Shruthiba L. Gowda. Trainer: V. Lokanath.  8. MOUNT JOY PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: MYSTIC EYE (Zervan) 1, Lovely Sierra (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Griffin (Anjar Alam) 3 and Flamingo Road (S. John) 4. Not run: Akasi and Capable. 2-1/4, 1/2 and 4-1/4. 1m 13.94s. Rs. 15 (w), 14, 42 and 22 (p), SHP: 92, THP: 50, FP: 134, Q: 705, Trinella: 4,971 and 1,065, Exacta: 27,743 and 5,945. Favourite: Mystic Eye. Owner: Mr. Chitturi Krishna Kannaiah. Trainer: Kishan Thomas. Jackpot: Rs. 74,534 (two tkts); Runner up: 5,808 (11 tkts); Treble (I): 204 (29 tkts); (ii): 14,135 (one tkt).
26 December 2020||London,||From prisoner to mentor: Swaibu warns of the dangers of match-fixing||When Moses Swaibu stands in front of future Premier League players, warning of the dangers of becoming embroiled in match-fixing, he is speaking from experience. “You do not want to end up in my position, going to prison,” Swaibu recalls telling some of the game’s most famous players in talks at training grounds, “sitting in the cell with someone you once looked up to that played in the Premier League, eating tinned food and a packet of crisps and someone opening your door, telling you what you should and shouldn’t do for 24 hours.” Swaibu’s educational talks at academies with future stars are about ensuring the current generation of players does not make the same mistakes as him. They are lessons in how a series of fateful mistakes ended up five years ago with him being convicted of conspiracy to bribe lower-league players in England and jailed, along with Delroy Facey, who played as a striker for Bolton. While the 31-year-old Swaibu began his career at Crystal Palace, he never got to play in the top division, drifting down the leagues before ending up in the fourth professional tier at Lincoln where he met Facey. His big regret “Delroy had asked us to come down to his hotel room and he introduced us to these match-fixers that wanted us to throw a game,” Swaibu said in an interview with The Associated Press. “They produced around €60,000 but at that time, everyone turned around and said, ‘No, we’re not going to do it.’ But it was never reported (to the authorities).” Swaibu regrets that. It set Swaibu on a path that led to spending four months in jail after a judge denounced his and Facey’s behavior as “like a cancer” that could have undermined the fairness of football. Investigators said they were part of a concerted attempt to build a network of corrupt players in Britain. “They deliberately targeted lower leagues believing that because players earn less, they could be more susceptible to taking a bribe,” National Crime Agency officer Adrian Hansford said. Swaibu insists no games were ever manipulated but even just offering money to come to meetings with potential fixers is wrong — and he wants players to be aware of that.
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rayudu to lead Andhra in Mushtaq Ali Trophy||Ambati Rayudu returns as captain of the Andhra team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy starting from January 10. This was announced by the Andhra chairman of the senior selection committee and former Ranji all-rounder K.S. Shahabuddin. “We hope Rayudu’s vast experience and class will rub on to the team members, especially the young boys. He is bound to have a major influence on the team’s campaign as he will be the donning role of mentor also, having played for Andhra earlier,” Shahabuddin told The Hindu . Heartening feature “The way the boys were interacting and sharing their thoughts with Rayudu during the preparatory camp at Vizianagaram Cricket Academy which concluded yesterday before the Mushtaq Ali Trophy squad was announced was a heartening feature,” he said. “No, we have not discussed yet with him about playing for Andhra in the Ranji Trophy this season. We will take a call once the BCCI finalises the domestic calendar,” Shahabuddin said. “The preparatory camp was pretty successful with a lot of players from the districts experiencing the bio-bubble which was in place,” he said. “The best part of the preparations of Andhra for the Mushtaq Ali Trophy was that the boys played a lot of T20 matches in the last two months. And, I am sure, they will be a force to reckon with in the championship though Andhra is placed in a tough group,” Shahabuddin said. Reflecting on the team’s strengths, Shahabuddin said it had the perfect balance to test the best of the sides. “The batting banks on the experience of K. Srikar Bharat, Ricky Bhai besides the captain Rayudu himself. Bowling has a lot of balance and variety,” he said.  The Andhra squad:   Ambati Rayudu (Capt.), K. Srikar Bharat (vc), Ricky Bhai, D.B. Prasanth Kumar, Ch. Kranti Kumar, K. Ashwin Hebbar, M. Dheeraj Kumar, P. Girinath Reddy, Shoaib Md Khan, S. Ashish, A. Lalith Mohan, Sk. Ismail, Ch. Stephen, Karthik Raman, S. Dhruvkumar Reddy, G. Manish, M. Vamsi Krishna, D. Naren Reddy and K. Nithish Kumar Reddy. Coach: C.D. Thomson .
26 December 2020||Centurion,||SA seeks turnaround against Lanka||South Africa and Sri Lanka will end a lengthy COVID-induced break from Test cricket when the first of two world championship Test matches starts at SuperSport Park in Centurion on Saturday. Neither side has played a red-ball international since January, when South Africa finished 3-1 loser in a home series against England while Sri Lanka was winning a two-match series 1-0 in Zimbabwe. Sri Lanka can call on most of the players who shocked the Proteas by winning both Tests on their previous tour of South Africa two seasons ago. Weaker outfit On paper, South Africa is weaker than it was in that previous series with their entire fast bowling attack of Dale Steyn, Kagiso Rabada, Vernon Philander and Duanne Olivier missing through retirement, injury or, in the case of Olivier, the lure of the British pound. The Sri Lanka series also marked the end of the distinguished Test career of batsman Hashim Amla. There has been a change of captaincy, with Faf du Plessis having resigned, although he remains in the team as a player. Wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock, South Africa's leading Test batsman last season, has accepted what amounts to a caretaker role for the 2020-21 season only. De Kock’s appointment has echoes of that of Dimuth Karunaratne, the Sri Lankan opening batsman, who was announced as a ‘stand-in’ captain for the 2018-19 tour but did such a good job of instilling a positive attitude in his players that he has remained at the helm. Different conditions Conditions, though, will be significantly different, with the matches being played on the fast, bouncy pitches of Centurion and Johannesburg instead of the slower, coastal surfaces in Durban and Port Elizabeth where Sri Lanka prevailed last time. Despite having a completely different fast bowling attack, South Africa’s bowlers will present a tough challenge to the visiting batsmen. Anrich Nortje is one of the fastest bowlers in the world, while Lungi Ngidi has returned to form after a series of injuries. Glenton Stuurman could win a first cap as a like-for-like replacement for the naggingly accurate Philander. Key for Sri Lanka will be the expected return of Kusal Perera. The left-hander played a career-defining innings when he made 153 not out in the first Test in Durban on the previous tour, turning what seemed likely to be a routine South African win into a thrilling one-wicket victory for the tourists, sealed with an unbeaten last wicket stand of 78 with Vishwa Fernando. Before that innings, Perera had a Test batting average below 30. He was unable to sustain his Durban form and was dropped after a poor series against New Zealand later in 2019.
26 December 2020||Pune:,||Iron Age wins feature event||Trainer Imtiaz Sait’s ward Iron Age piloted by Y.S. Srinath won the Christmas Cup, the feature event of Friday’s (Dec.25) Mumbai races held in Pune. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas.  MURIOI PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 (No whip race): NORTHERN SINGER (Kaviraj) 1, Tristar (Peter) 2, Gold Member (Malam) 3 and Va Bene (Ayyar) 4. 5-1/2, shd and 2. 1m 11.47s. Owners: M/s. Harisharan Hardial Devgan & Tinder S. Ahluwalia. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  CARDINAL PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, Maiden, 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: POWERFUL LADY (Sandesh) 1, Costa Rica (Srinath) 2, Super Girl (Parmar) 3 and Evangeline (K.Kadam) 4. Not run: Major General. Nk, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 10.79s. Owner: Mr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  BEAUTIFUL STRANGER PLATE (1,200m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: KILDARE (Sandesh) 1, Golden Guest (Chouhan) 2, Mystic Bay (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Excellent Gold (Kaviraj) 4. Not run: Lady Of Luxury. 3-1/2, 1 and Shd. 1m 9.34s. Owners: Mrs. M.B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Trainer: S. K . Sunderji.  ALMA MATER PLATE (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: LADIDA (T.S. Jodha) 1, Irina (Chouhan) 2, Cabo Da Roca (Dashrath) 3 and Kingsway (Santosh G) 4. Not run: Summer Night. 1-3/4, 3-1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m 40.46s. Owners: Mr. Geoffrey B. Nagpal, Mrs. Charonne Nagpal & Mr. S.R. Sanas. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  CONRAD PEREIRA TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: SANDALPHON (T.S. Jodha) 1, Retained Asset (Malam) 2, Romanesque (Nazil) 3 and Jetfire (Parmar) 4. 5-1/4, 1 and 2-1/2, 1m 26. 41s. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Himmat Singh.  CHRISTMAS CUP (1,200m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: IRON AGE (Srinath) 1, Intense Stylist (Sandesh) 2, Gazino (Chouhan) 3 and Augustus Caesar (Neeraj) 4. 2, 5-3/4 and 1/2. 1m 8.96s. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breedes’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  CONRAD HOTELS, PUNE TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only: ARIES (Bhawani) 1, Fast Rain (Dashrath) 2, Nishk (Sandesh) 3 and Succession (Yash) 4. Not run: Dragoness. 1-1/2, 4-1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m 11. 36s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  MURIOI PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 (No whip race): ABRAXAS (Aniket) 1, Colosseum (Nazil) 2, Saltbae (Gagandeep) 3 and Arabian Storm (Kaviraj) 4. 2-3/4, 2 and Hd. 1m 11.81s. Owners: Mr. Waahiid Ali Khan rep. Sshaawn Horses and Sports Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Vijay V. Shah & Mrs. Pooja V. Shah rep. Vs Zaia Thoroughbred Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Ocean of Advaita||Appayya Dikshitar lived around the sixteenth century and records show that he was multi-faceted and multi-talented in philosophy, the sastras, literary graces, poesy and so on. He is believed to be an incarnation of Siva. Hailing from a family well-versed in the Vedanta tradition, he easily mastered the scriptures early in life. Inspired by Adi Sankara’s exposition of Advaita siddhanta, Appayya Dikshitar naturally imbibed its core values and spirit and has restated the authority of the acharya’s credo at a time when other systems of philosophy had emerged around the Advaita system. The epithet ‘Advaita Stapanacharya’ is thus equally applicable to him. In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to not only the depth of his profound sastra jnana, but also his thorough mastery over other branches of learning such as other sciences, metaphysics, poetics and alankara sastra. His works sparkle with his wisdom even as they stand out for his unbiased stance which is devoid of any prejudice. He has explained in detail not only Adi Sankara’s bashya on the Brahma sutra, but also those of others such as Ramanuja and Madhava that expound the philosophies of Visishtadvaita and Dvaita. He gives an impartial explanation of these schools of thought. He always maintained that all systems of thought would merge in the ocean of Advaita, the storehouse of all philosophies. He also would often state that all Gods are one, and hence accept that he has no preference over the gods or the philosophies. But he also proclaimed that Siva is his Ishta devata. His other great forte is his devotion and he shows that when wisdom is aligned to devotion, the efficacy of spiritual sadana is confirmed.
26 December 2020||GURUGRAM:,||Dhruv and Mansi reign||Top seeds Dhruv Sachdeva and Mansi Singh won the boys’ and girls’ titles respectively in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament.  The results: U-14 boys: Dhruv Sachdeva bt Arjun Pandit 6-2, 6-2. Girls: Mansi Singh bt Divya Sharma 6-3, 6-2 .
26 December 2020||Manchester,||Jesus and Walker test positive||Manchester City’s Gabriel Jesus and Kyle Walker have tested positive for COVID-19. The Premier League team said two staff members also tested positive and that all four are self-isolating in accordance with the League and government protocols. Injuries Jesus has been slowed down by injuries and has just four goals this season in all competitions. The Brazil forward scored 23 goals in 53 games last season. England defender Walker is into his fourth season with City. The club said it wished all four “a speedy recovery over the Christmas period ahead of their return to work, training and competition”. The duo will miss at least four to five games for the club.
26 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vinesh to train abroad||The Union Government has sanctioned a 40-day training camp for champion wrestler Vinesh Phogat, along with her personal coach Woller Akos, sparring partner Priyanka Phogat and physiotherapist Poornima Raman Ngomdir, for a total cost of Rs. 15.51 lakh. The camp was sanctioned under the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS). The camp will take place from December 28 to Jan. 24, 2021 at Budapest and from Jan. 24 to Feb. 5 at Szczryk, Poland. The total cost includes airfare, local transportation, boarding and lodging charges and out of pocket allowance. Vinesh is a part of TOPS and medal prospect at the Tokyo Games. The training camp has been planned by Vinesh’s personal coach Akos, giving her the opportunity to spar with many other European wrestlers in her weight category and improving on her technical and tactical aspects. Vinesh said: “As a wrestler, I need to know my level and getting to spar with good wrestlers will be very helpful in assessing where I stand.” Vinesh qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in the women’s 53kg event.
26 December 2020||Barcelona,||‘Messi ‘very engaged’ at Barca: Koeman||Barcelona manager Ronald Koeman said Lionel Messi is “very engaged” and trains hard every day to play games for the club and win them. “In theory, it’s the same for every player. If he is fit to play and good enough, then he will. But, of course, Leo is older than before, although he’s a player who still wants to be in games, and especially to win them. He trains hard every day. He’s very engaged,” the club’s official website quoted Koeman “As I coach I like to speak to my players, and I also speak to Leo about this and other things because he’s also the team captain. We speak about a lot of things.”  You get no prizes for finishing fourth, you need to be first
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Surprise package||
26 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Exciting win for Hyderabad Bottling||Hyderabad Bottling scored an exciting four-run win over Gemini Friends in the A1-Division three-day league championship here on Friday. On Thursday, centuries by opener A. Sai Pranay (139, 181b, 19x4, 3x6) for Hyderabad Bottling and M. Abhirath Reddy (100, 136b, 17x4) for Gemini Friends were the highlights. K. Sumanth (101 n.o., 73b, 7x4, 2x6) for Central Excise, Shashank Lokesh (118 n.o., 101b, 9x4, 3x6) for Zinda Tilismath Syed Ghouse (100, 74b,15x4, 4x6) for Charminar CC and Shivam Tiwari (110, 107b, 10x4, 1x6) for AOC Centre also batted well.  The scores:   Friday: Hyderabad Bottling 385/7 in 90 overs & 220 in 40 overs (B. Ahaan Reddy 39, Aman Sharon 3/44, P. Vishnu 4/51) bt Gemini Friends 386 in 85 overs & 215/7 in 40 overs (Yash Gupta 75, Abdul Ela Qureshi 79, B. Harshith 3/25).   Thursday: A1-Division three-day league: Group A: Income Tax 369/9 in 90 overs & 148/9 in 39.3 overs (C.V. Milind 3/25, Vidyanand 3/27) bt Deccan Chronicle 230 in 72.4 overs & 210/8 in 40 overs (Shreyas Vala 31, Srikar Reddy 34, Yash Kapadia 76 n.o., Anirudh Raj 3/41, B. Sandeep 3/88).   Central Excise 196 in 59.3 overs & 315/8 in 40 overs (K. Sumanth 101 n.o., Sai Anurag 30, Manish Reddy 3/54) lost to Sporting XI 453/8 decl. in 69.5 overs & 60/1 in 9.3 overs (Himalay Agarwal 34 n.o.).   R. Dayanand 316 in 82.1 overs & 160/8 in 36.2 overs (K. Nitesh Reddy 70) lost to Budding Star 402 in 83.3 overs & 75/7 in 20.4 overs (C. Hitesh Yadav 4/10).   Jai Hanuman 311 in 72.1 overs & 50/4 in 7.4 overs drew with EMCC 189 in 63 overs (Aman Rao 49, Sohail Shaik 40, Lokesh Gait 31, Anurag Vittal 3/29, Rohit Rayudu 4/27, Sai Purnanand Rao Rao 3/43).   Group B: MP Colts 154 in 43.1 overs & 275/8 in 40 overs (C. Rahul Radesh 94, Sai Sampath 56, G. Gireesh Goud 33 n.o., K. Vamshi Krishna 3/36) lost to Evergreen 323/8 in 90 overs & 107/3 in 10.2 overs (Rahul Buddhi 56 n.o., Chandan Sahani 46).   Concorde CC 217 in 58.1 overs 268/8 in 40 overs lost to Zinda CC 231 in 60.1 overs & 258/4 in 39.1 overs (Shashank Lokesh 118 n.o., Koushik Reddy 46, S. Balaji Raghuveer Reddy 52 n.o.).   AOC 372 in 79.4 overs (Sachin Shinde 81, Atul Vyas 4/89) & 225/6 in 40 overs (Shivam Tiwari 110, Sachin Shinde 45) bt Ensconse 163 in 58 overs & 234/ 6 in 40 overs (Junaid Ali 32, Mehdi Hasan 43, V. Sahasra 63 n.o., Ammaar Ayub 45, Rahul Chahar 4/40).   Group C: Balaaji CC 353 in 73.5 overs & 249/9 in 40 overs (Paras Raj 52, H.K. Simha 83, Md Abrar Mohiuddin 4/44) bt Jai Bhagwathi 245/9 in 90 overs &192/9 in 40 overs (Arnav Kothapalli 71, V.L. Sashank 4/42).   Sri Chakra 286 in 88.2 overs & 220/8 in 40 overs (Malik Mustafa Khan 61, D. Suresh 41, Gaurav 3/27) lost to Mahmood CC 328 in 86.3 overs & 179/2 in 35.3 overs (Jasprith Reddy 75 n.o., S.V. Santosh 65).   Rohit XI CC 121 in 33.1 overs & 279/8 in 40 overs (Shahnawaz Khan 74, A. Jayasurya 61, Abhishek Muragan 3/46) bt Sportive CC 92 in 22.2 overs & 205/7 in 40 overs (Chandrasekhar 30, Abhishek Muragan 40, C. Aryan 41 n.o., Nitin Sai Reddy 4/38).   Charminar CC 317/5 in 66 overs 238/6 in 40 overs (Syed Ghouse 100, N. Sathwik Reddy 46, Md. Adnan Ahmed 35 n.o.) bt Khalsa CC 239 & 165/9 in 40 overs (Devesh Daima 57, Abdul Quadri 3/46, Trishank Gupta 4/32).   Gouds XI 213 in 57.4 overs & 151 in 32.6 overs (Naresh 3/26, Suresh 3/39) lost to Apex CC 359 in 83.5 overs & 6/0 in 1.3 overs.    S. Ramu (102, 49b, 10x4, 8x6) and Mahesh (54) helped Nirmal Thunders record a comfortable 116-run win over Singareni Blasters in the TCA-Kakatiya Cup T20 league cricket championship in Warangal.  The scores:   Friday: Satavahana Warriors 99/6 in 16 overs lost to Medchal Giants 101/2 in 13.2 overs (Rakesh 50).   Suryapet Sunrisers 156/7 in 20 overs (Avinash Kailash 58) bt Mulugu Masters 52 in 11.5 overs (Sai Kumar 4/2, Manish 4/26).   Kakatiya Kings 137/9 in 20 overs (Rishi 36) bt Medchal Giants126 in 19.4 overs (Mahesh 39, Aditya 3/20).   Nirmal Thunders 225/5 in 20 overs (S. Ramu 102, Mahesh 54) bt Singareni Blasters 109/9 in 20 overs (Manoj Kumar 59, Makes 3/22).   Satavahana Warriors 111/4 in 16 overs (Srujan Reddy Yalam 49) bt Tandur Tigers 100/9 in 16 overs (Srikanth 3/30).   Thursday: Kakatiya Kings 159/7 in 20 overs (Manoj 33, Md Gouse 3/27) bt Indur Icons 78 in 19 overs (Sai Kumar 3/7, Aditya 3/24).   Mulugu Masters 141 in 20 overs (Harsha Vardhan 3/19) bt Bhongir Bradshaw 118 in 19 overs (Pavan Kumar 48, Sagar 3/23).   Singareni Blasters 55/9 in 16 overs (Md Imran 4/17) lost to Suryapet Sunrisers 59/1 in 3.1 overs (Avinash Kailash 33).    Former hockey player N.A. Praveen Kumar passed away recently. He was 59. Praveen represented the Hyderabad State team in the senior Nationals in 1985 and the junior Nationals in 1981 besides playing for Osmania University as a centre-forward.   Telangana Basketball Association will organise a 3x3 tournament at MLRIT College here on December 26 and 27 on a knock-out basis for men and under-18 years separately. For details, call Yogi on 90596 29420.   Osmania University cricket selections for men’s team will be held under the aegis of Hyderabad Cricket Association at Gymkhana Ground here on Dec. 27 and 28.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Revisiting the meals of 2 020||This time last year, I suppose I was sitting in an open-air café, basking in the sun, and biting into a juicy something or the other. It seems like another age altogether. But I have become philosophical with time. And my favourite mantra now is: This too shall pass. Thus, in this last column of the year, allow me to look at the brighter side of life. The year 2020 came with its share of grave problems, but people stood up and extended a helping hand to others. And among those who did so – along with countless others who fed the hungry on the streets -- were home cooks, small entrepreneurs, delivery agents and top chefs. This was the year that gave new meaning to the term home delivery. I have several good food memories of 2020. Among the ones I remember fondly are the shami kabab and yakhni pulao from Arq, an Awadhi food outlet based in Gurugram. The kababs, prepared with beaten meat, were chewy and soft, and the pulao had been cooked in meat stock with saffron and milk. I missed the haleem that I used to order from Hyderabad’s Pista House every year, so was very happy with the one prepared by the chefs atpotpot.in. It was wonderfully meaty and the cracked wheat gave it the mildly crunchy texture it needed. Of other regional cuisines, the one I recall in particular is the Kerala food prepared by The Naadan Kitchen, a small outlet in Vaishali. Their pork fry was spicy and delicious, and I hugely enjoyed their rich plum cake over Christmas. The Kolkata mutton stew from an outlet called Park Street Khana was superb: it consisted of soft pieces of lamb and veggies in a mildly sweet sauce. Among the many European dishes that we ordered I cannot forget the quiches from Wenger’s and the roast chicken with onion sauce, whole browned potatoes and glazed vegetables from Utpala Mukherjee’s Culinary Connections. The pandemic taught us that even street food can be delivered home. From a regional food service called Bhawan’s I had aloo dum dahi vada, an Odia dish of spicy aloo dum served with yoghurt-topped dahi vadas, and golgappas. The puffs came with different kinds of fillings and flavoured water -- gondhoraj lime et al. I am still smacking my lips. Thanks to the pandemic, I also discovered an old favourite – Fa Yian, a restaurant in the middle lane of Connaught Place. Their chop suey – with juicy prawns, tender pieces of chicken and all kinds of crunchy veggies mixed with crisp noodles, a tangy sauce on the side – reminded me of all the great meals we’d had at that restaurant long years ago. I had three other interesting meals last week. One day, I ordered some pork, chicken and vegetable momos prepared by Prasuma and delivered by Meatigo. We steamed the momos and thought they were the best we’d had in a long time. The casing was thin and light and the fillings were deliciously juicy. From Hoipure, I ordered a dosa batter packet, sambar pack and chutney prepared by a company called Aasai. The dosa came out nicely crisp, and the coconut chutney was sweet and granular. The sambar, however, was pretty much flavourless. Then one day, I received a sampler of biryanis and pulaos -- including gosht Bohri biryani and Metiaburz biryani -- from ITC Hotels. The dishes, as you would expect, had all the right flavours: The rice was fragrant, and the meat moist and tender. They came with various kinds of raitas (with mustard, or pomegranate seeds and cucumber, or onions and so on), mirch ka salan and gulab jamuns. The one I liked the most was surprisingly a vegetarian pulao – the nimona mirch pulao – which had such a delectable flavour of green chillies that I had it without any side dishes. The year 2020 had its moments. But 2021 promises to rock. Happy New Year – and let there always be food!  The writer is a seasoned food critic
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Art by acid attack survivors||Check out this exhibition of art works and paintings made by acid attack survivors. The Mitti Handprints is an initiative bythe Laxmi Foundation to provide a creative platform and empower the survivors. At the Foundation office in Laxmi Nagar till December 31, entry is by invitation or registration. Call 7252827774/ 8595282507
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||ITC's biriyani n pulao pack||For a safe dining experience, the ITC Hotels' has curated a collection of 'biriyani and pulao' in 10 flavours from the heritage kitchens of north, south, east and west. Priced between Rs. 625 to 825 each, the pack can be ordered on Swiggy, Zomato, EazyDiner. and is available across special take-out counters at ITC Maurya and Welcom Hotel Sheraton.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Eat Italian at home||Ritu Dalmia has curated a retail line DIVA Casa pantry with special recipes. Freshly rolled pastas, sauces, seasonings, meats, seafood and salad dressing are measured, separately packed and prepared for each dish. The hamper is home delivered with a QR code for a video link of the chef explaining how to cook it. Call 7290043704/ 7291996198
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||2021: what’s in store||Priya Mitron , with Sant Nikhil Das Diwas out of the way, the last of the homemade somapanam quaffed, the CDs of  ‘ Shanti Raat, Punya Raat’ , and ‘ Jhanak Ghante, Jhanak Ghante ‘ put away, you must be wondering what 2021 has in store for you. Fear not, Dear Readers. Using my profound yogic powers, and a double dose of secret lehyams , I have time travelled to our ancient future and returned with some genuinely majama tidings. January starts with a bang. I am delighted to inform you that, after the Republic Day Parade, Boris bhai Johnson (who will be repeatedly referred to as Boris Becker by our leader in his speech) will ceremonially return the Kohinoor to its rightful owner: our queen, HRH Kangananika Ranautvanshi I. Following which he will issue an eviction notice to QE 2 so that Buckingham Palace will be made available within 60 days to its new tenant, HRH KR 1. After that, in no particular order, here are some of the delights in store for us.  Thalaivar Rajinikanth will finally become CM of Tamil Nadu. And usher in an era of spiritual politics. Meaning, he will walk in slow motion followed by Senthil, Ramesh Khanna & Co, and solve all our material problems with some nifty finger swishing and aanmiga punchlines. We will realise only at the end of the year that it was never him at all but his best friend, master of disguise, Ulaganayagan Kamal Saar, playing Rajini to perfection, as the real Superstar was taking it easy in a cave in the Himalayas (yes, the same one) all along. Kareena and Saif will have their Baby Number 2, another boy. He will be named Prithviraj (after her great-grandfather) Sai Bebo Kaptaudi so that there is no controversy over his name. Virat and Anushka will have twins, a boy and a girl. One will sign up with Coke and the other with Pepsi. Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi will voluntarily return to India. And deposit the combined amount of Rs. 25,000 crores in India’s most popular fund (you know which one). And move to Sabarmati to spin khadi yarn. The money will be used to build the world’s biggest roller coaster around the Central Vista. It will be called Swachh Bharat Upar Neeche Gol Gol Vahan . Paramahamsa Nithyananda’s sovereign Hindu nation, Kailasa, will declare war on China and defeat it comprehensively using goats and cows that speak fluent Sanskrit. Andsooperconshusnessss. The history of China’s geography will forever be altered by the depth of the physics in the Me in the me. There will be a sudden Hindi renaissance in Tamil Nadu coinciding with the rise in spirituality. Raghuthaatha Gindi Nagin Maloom Institutes will mushroom all over the state with Hema Malini as dean. There will be stiff competition between Kareena Kapoor’s Pregnancy Bible (renamed Kareena Beti Ki Maa Banne Wali Gita for the Indian market) and Priyanka Chopra’s memoir Unfinished (not to be confused with Nick Jonas’ memoir Finished ) for the Booker. Judge Shahid Kapoor will declare it a tie. Eventually, K Jo’s Big Thoughts Of Little Luv will be declared the winner. In the megabudget Mahabharata that is being made for our mythology-hungry patriots, Mukesh Khanna will have creative differences with his co-showrunner, Barack Obama, and try to strangle him with his old Shaktimaan suit. Peace will prevail when Akshay Kumar (playing all five Pandavas and Draupadi) intervenes. In December, Kamala Harris will have her much delayed arangetram at the Schmidt Memorial. And Nehru will finally be arrested. Jai Hind. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Glowing up this year||When the country locked down on March 25, few could imagine that we would be fighting the pandemic till the year’s end. Call it research, vanity or a coping mechanism, but for me 2020 has been all about self-care. As the world shut down, I took solace in pots, tubes, oils, creams, powders and tools. I see beauty routines as a direct connection within, grounding and calming with every stroke. Having saved money on clothes and eating out, I spent lavishly on skincare. Day and night creams and cleansers for my retired General father, who now refuses to wear an AM moisturiser in the PM. Mother stopped dyeing her hair, so I worked to elevate her skin with face massage, organic sunscreen (Coola), rosehip oil (Purearth) and eye cream (iS Clinical). As for me, I swung from plant-based skincare to potent actives. I mixed kasturi manjal with red sandalwood, orange peel, honey and rose water to create a daily cleanser and mask. I also discovered the power of Tretinoin and how it can transform your skin. I followed the 10-10-10 massage technique created by Paayal Mahajan, the founder of Essential Body Couture Skincare, to which I added the last five moves of the Tanaka face massage to smooth and tighten my skin. I added a sprinkling of gua sha , acquiring not one but two tools along the way. I found that ordering from Beauty Heroes and The Boxwalla is best to feed beauty obsessions. They deliver to India for a small charge, without excessive duty — but there are exceptions to this rule. Though it may seem that I created an awful lot of waste, the opposite is true. 2020 is the year I stopped accepting PR gifts. Not only have I reduced both waste and the pressure from brands to post about them but, more importantly, I’ve become reacquainted with the value of money. Collaborating with others has been a source of meaningful, human contact in what could have otherwise been a year of solitude. I hosted and participated in several Insta Lives and webinars, and have generally been more productive and visible — even more than 2018, the year I launched my debut book. I’m now working on part two of the Micro Beauty Awards with Aishwarya Subramanyam, former editor of Elle and current hell-raiser on the ’gram. The first edition, featuring skincare recommendations from reliable beauty influencers, was so successful that we’re doing a make-up edition on Christmas. We only did it because we were bored, but this is more proof that beauty isn’t just gratifying, but also has the potential to unite people. And what about 2021? I like to believe the online chatter, which claims that just like we had the roaring ’20s right after the First World War and Spanish Flu, we will again recover. If history indeed repeats itself, I expect some decadence and the opportunity to finally flaunt the results of my 2020 rituals. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Indian||I have a confession to make. I’m a scaredy-cat. There are many things I am scared of, but my fear of the supernatural trumps them all. This can be traced back to my childhood, when my sister would narrate Stephen King novels to me at bedtime, sending me into a spiral of tears, shakes and the occasional fever. After a stirring read-aloud of Cujo , my mother was forced to paste a godly sticker on my headboard, promising that nothing bad would happen to me. The sticker stayed there for the next decade, as I took perverse pleasure in scaring myself by watching everything from It to The Exorcist . My MO was (and still is) to watch anything mildly terror inducing in the middle of the day, on mute, with all the lights on and the curtains wide open. So I was rather bemused when I received Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India written by J Furcifer Bhairav and Rakesh Khanna, from Blaft Publications. I won’t lie, while reading the book I did look over my shoulder, half hoping to see a sticker there to watch over me. What if I came across the detached head of an Ahmaw, a jealousy demon from Mizoram, rolling about in search of food? Or a Kaniyam Pey, that lecherous male spirit from Tamil Nadu? Though, maybe, I am too old to warrant the latter’s attention.  A ghostly turn  Reading the book was an eye opening experience. I had no idea there were so many ghosts, monsters and demons roaming the forts, forests and railway stations of this country. I’m sure if I had tried to name all the supernatural species I knew of before I read the book I wouldn’t get past 10 names. Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India has 353 entries (722 if you include subtypes), some of which are accompanied by striking black-and-white illustrations by artists like Appupen, Shyam, Priya Kurian, Rashmi Ruth Devadasan and Vidhyun Sabhaney. The anthology includes short stories, poetry, myths and more, and beautifully balances the macabre with the whimsical, the eerie with the humorous. While the alphabetical categorisation gives it an encyclopaedia-like feel, the writing is far from pedantic. It is this matter-of-fact style of writing and the humour in the book that I particularly enjoyed. Under B for Bhoot , for example: ‘They can also attack by choking, or by magically removing a person’s liver or kidneys. This is done without leaving any mark on the skin (which tends to be perplexing for the doctor performing the autopsy).’ The book has been in the works since 2016, and Misha Michael, who edited the anthology, wanted to keep its tone conversational. “The idea was to succinctly capture serious, spooky, or silly elements of each character,” she says. Khanna, who includes Edgar Allen Poe, Nosferatu and the 1963 version of The Haunting as early influences, agrees that there’s not enough known about Indian ghosts. “It is a little weird for English-speaking Indians to grow up knowing all about vampires and phoenixes, but not much from India beyond your basic rakshasas and jinns. So we decided to try to compile everything we could find and make a comprehensive list.”  Know your pey from your aavi   The authors have taken pains to point out the nuanced differences between species (how remiss of me to use pey , pisasu and aavi interchangeably), and it also draws attention to the connections between similar apparitions from different regions. Khanna cites the example of a hunter-ghost from Kumaon called Airi, who has eyes on top of his head and venomous spit. “It seems to be almost the same entity as the spectre huntsman in Malaysia called Hantu Pemburu. It is very curious to me how this fellow got from Kumaon to Malaysia without leaving a footprint in between!” While I enjoyed the entertaining stories around familiar names (in 1901, a man in Changanacherry, Kerela, was said to have 100 k uttichathans, or mischievous demons, running errands for him), it was my introduction to the Northeast’s rich pantheon of spirits and demons — from the monstrous Baak to Garo mythology’s shapeshifting mermen called Buga — that I found fascinating. “The supernatural has more of a presence in oral culture, folklore and urban legend in the region,” affirms Assamese author and translator Annanya Baruah. Her translation of the well-known children’s poem Kumpu’s Dream by Jyoti Prasad Agarwala features in the book. In the poem, a child tells her mother how she saw two baby bhoots and jhokinis twirling and whirling, giggling and singing. It seems sweet enough on the surface but I detected a slightly menacing undertone. “The book subverts the general belief that all ghosts are blood-thirsty intellectual predators or strategic planners,” says Michael, who counts the stories about ghosts that could be easily fooled or tricked such as Naale Ba Boota amongst her favourites. It is this thread of diversity and inclusion — who knew one could use that phrase with regards to the supernatural — that makes the book extra special. Khanna hopes that through it, readers will look “beyond the nationalist tendency to promote a very narrow, monolithic view of what Indian religion is supposed to be, and step back and look at the tremendous diversity of ideas and stories around evil, death, the supernatural, and the afterlife that we have in this country.’ In a year where our worlds have shrunk to the size of our computer screens and mostly restricted to the four walls of our home, Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India provides a much-needed escape to an entirely different kind of world. And whether you already have an interest in the subject or are approaching the book as a card-carrying scaredy-cat, you’re sure to find something in it that will make you laugh, wince and, yes, look over your shoulder. Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India, from Blaft Publications, is priced at Rs. 995.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Striding on to the screen||A whisky brand, and a blended one at that, might not seem like the top candidate for a documentary. But when it is Johnnie Walker, the world’s best selling Scotch brand, all bets are off. BAFTA-winning director Anthony Wonke’s new independent film, The Man Who Walked Around the World , looks at how the ‘striding man’ became omnipresent, far removed from its humble start as a grocer in 1820. Wonke — who has previously made documentaries on Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo and Star Wars — is no stranger to culture and fandom. With his latest offering, the two collide for an often-hagiographic history of the Scottish distillery. “I am intrigued by the brand’s iconography and how it somehow resonates in our lives today,” he tells me over an email interview. “Whisky itself is imbued with historical and cultural connotations, a Zelig-like character that has been part of major social and political scenes in history.”  A dram of history  Encompassing almost 200 years and as many countries in a film is a tough task. Those seeking a deep dive will be disappointed — the film is an exploration of what ‘it takes to become an icon in popular culture’. There is, however, deep respect for the whisky maker, both by those interviewed on camera — ranging from actors and musicians (like Sophia Bush and Cappadonna) to barmen, activists and artists — and those behind it. As a result, the final cut spans a period, that, as Wonke says, “has covered the two World Wars, the influenza pandemic [which was at the same time as their 100-year anniversary], the civil rights movement, the feminist movement, civil unrest, prohibition etc. The brand has seen all sorts of major historical events”. One of the most interesting anecdotes is from Iraq. “We managed to talk to an ex-intelligence analyst and advisor to [retired United States Army general] David Petraeus, who spent at least five years in Iraq. A lot of what he did was talking to ‘bad actors’, as he would put it. In the morning he would be having tea with a member of the Al-Qaeda, in the afternoon, he would be talking to an ex Iraqi Baath party member. In the evenings, he would sit down to negotiate and work out some form of intelligence gathering. Ultimately the truth only came out when a bottle of whisky was put on the table. And that whisky was always Johnnie Walker Blue,” shares Wonke. “So, I quite like the idea that if that bottle of whisky could talk, what would it say about the world, about global history, and about significant moments in life. I think that was one of the things that really struck me.”  Watch The Man Who Walked Around the World on SonyLIV.   I am intrigued by the brand’s iconography and how it somehow resonates in our lives today Anthony Wonke,director
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Goodbye pyjamas, hello tuxedos||There is a lot riding on the pantsuit, a visual metaphor for female emancipation and empowerment this year. Back in October, the hashtag and social media campaign, #AmbitionSuitsYou, was meant to mobilise American women to vote. It addressed the biases against women who were driven, and hot pink suits worn by comedian Amy Schumer and other celebrities filled Instagram feeds. Then when US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris took to the stage in Delaware on November 8, it wasn’t just her victory speech that made headlines but her white pantsuit as well. The Carolina Herrera ensemble, fashion pundits pointed out, was a nod to suffragettes in the early 20th century, who wore all-white while fighting for the right to vote.  Counting power suits  “Historically, politicians wearing suits has been a deterrent for some women because of the horrible stereotype… female politicians wearing dowdy suits. I think it is time we changed the way we think about that, with Kamala Harris or AOC [American politician Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez] or whoever else,” begins Daisy Knatchbull of The Deck, the first women’s tailor to have a shopfront on Savile Row. When Knatchbull, 28, opened shop in September on the most famous men’s clothing street in the world, she made headlines. After all, this is where venerable tailor Henry Poole invented the tuxedo. And where the residents are known to meet the sartorial needs of kings, politicians and Hollywood royalty, from The Prince of Wales and The Duke of Kent to Tom Hardy and Benedict Cumberbatch. Knatchbull has her A-listers too: Lauren Hutton, Gillian Anderson, Maggie Gyllenhaal and scores of others. “It is exciting to see more and more woman wearing the suit as a vehicle of their power,” she explains. “Women tell me it gives you confidence; it is like modern armour, you know.” At The Deck (named after a deck of cards), four signature silhouettes are offered as a starting point: The Single-Breasted, The Double-Breasted, The Boyfriend and The Safari, accompanied by a choice of straight-leg, wide-leg, flared or cigarette trousers, and more than 7,000 types of material. “We work with the Savile Row cloth merchants but we whittle it down for our clients so they are not overwhelmed… I know how women shop,” says Knatchbull. When we speak she is at work, wearing a three-piece pin-stripe suit, but with trainers and a T-shirt. “I like to ‘casual’ my suit down and later when I head out to dinner for a friend’s birthday, I’m going to put on a pair of heels and a silk shirt,” she says. Many designers say that after months of lounging in T-shirts and track pants, smarter dressing is on its way back in, with focus on softer tailoring, colour and textured fabrics. Knatchbull agrees, adding that the pandemic has given clients time to think about consolidating their wardrobes, to buy less and buy better. It is about a long-term investment, not a short-term fix. “Everyone keeps saying luxury is going to be down 30% but people are no longer going to be spending on a dress for one event. Instead, they are going to put that money on a suit that will last them a lifetime. And they don’t need events for that, they can wear the jacket and trouser separately, they can pair it with trainers, T-shirts,” she continues.  For women, by women  While The Deck’s head tailor, Michaela Boskova — “she’s brilliant, her mother and grandmother were tailors on Savile Row” — manages everything from fittings onwards, the suits are made at an atelier in Portugal. Knatchbull says it allows her to charge £2,200 as the starting price for a made-to-measure suit rather than £5,000. With clients from across the world, including Delhi and Mumbai, the requests for tropical and white suits are growing. “They often bring in reference imagery and I think I try to project what they want to be and what inspires them,” she laughs. Clearly, 2021 will see more women in smoking jackets and gender-fluid party wear, especially during the movie awards season. Knatchbull is no stranger to creating trends. Back in 2016, she became the first woman to wear a top hat and tails for Royal Ascot, the Queen’s favourite horse race. This was two years before Suicide Squad’s Cara Delevingne wore a three-piece suit and top hat to a royal wedding — Princess Eugenie’s. “I was working at Huntsman [legendary Savile Row tailor] as a communications director then,” she recalls, “and it was an incredible feeling. I couldn’t believe that no one had done it before.” She launched her business on King’s Road in the basement of another shop. “The rise of female empowerment was building in the background. At the same time, suiting was coming back as a central wardrobe staple for women. So many women were being let down by the ready to wear market. We are given sizes that society tells us we should be in. We often apologise for our bodies… just because our arms are too long, or our thighs are bigger than our waist. At The Deck, I offer something for women that men have been offered for centuries. And while there are other women tailors, there’s room for more of us to do our best to level the playing field.” We love a one-button front, a slanted pocket, a nip in the waist, a strong shoulder, and a slightly longer jacket — it gives you the illusion of appearing slimmer and longer, as it draws the eye to the centre Daisy Knatchbull
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||machan||When Niharika NM hit a million followers on Instagram, she celebrated by dancing to the song ‘Vaathi Coming’ from Vijay’s upcoming Tamil movie, Master . It can’t get more apt than that for someone whose fans came for the relatable Reels and stayed for the South Indian humour. She reached the milestone on December 17, exactly two months after touching the one lakh mark. This puts her in an elite bracket of 0.32% of users who have this kind of reach (according to the Mention x Hubspot Instagram Engagement Report 2020). Other Indian influencers who have similar numbers include YouTuber-turned-actor Prajakta Koli (@mostlysane, 3 million), content creator Kusha Kapila (@kushakapila, 1.5 million) and chef Ranveer Brar (@ranveer.brar, 1.2 million). The pandemic also helped accelerate her growth, as did guest appearances on Netflix India’s social media show, Behensplaining . “It can be a little intimidating to think of the people behind these numbers... It is very easy to lose track of what you truly want to do and what you are passionate about once you start playing the number game — that is not where I intend to go or to be,” says the 23-year-old Los Angeles-based content creator who is simultaneously working on an MBA degree.  Digital native     Niharikais not new to the social media scene. Back in 2016 — in her second year of engineering college — she started a successful YouTube channel with long-form sketches such as ‘Types of Students Before an Exam’ and ‘Annoying Things That People Do’. “It just started as a hobby, but when the videos began getting a lot of attention, it required me to be consistent. Not being able to balance academics and content creation, I slowly dropped off the scene,” she explains. After moving to the US for her MBA, she chose the easier option when Instagram launched the Reels feature. “There was no other excuse to avoid creating content. Also, it is easier to hold audience attention for 15 to 20 seconds than it is for 15 minutes,” she laughs. Born in Chennai and brought up in Bengaluru, Niharika’s taste in comedy is “extremely diverse”. She counts everyone from Jim Carrey to Rowan Atkinson and Brahmanandam to Vadivelu, as well as Vivek, Santhanam and Vennela Kishore among her inspirations. “If all else fails, I turn to my friends and family because they’re all absolute clowns,” she says. True to this, her content often references them, especially her parents, whom she describes as “very traditional but also cool at the same time”. Through her childhood, they captured her innate humour on video and are therefore very used to it. “Whatever I do they’re like ‘Oh my god, so great, we love it!’ So, I don’t really trust their judgment but they love me and I love them,” she adds.  Repping the South     Thecasual way in which she throws around ‘da’ and ‘machan’ in her 30-second clips has probably done more for Tamil and Kannada thanChennai Expressdid to mainstream South Indian languages and culture. In a recent Reel, she starts off by singing along to ‘Body’ by Megan Thee Stallion and pivots to arguing with a bad driver in Kannada. It hits a sweet spot of both western and Indian pop culture. In a space where regional accents and actions can easily fall into offensive parody territory, how does she tread the line? “I try to stay in my lane and not generalise. Which is why most of my videos start with ‘sometimes my friend/mum says this’. I make sure it is about my life, so others can relate to it instead of me preaching what other’s experiences possibly are,” she explains. Her signature way of saying ‘actually’ always manages to elicit a laugh. Instead of considering social media a beast that needs to be fed constantly, Niharika looks at it more as a creative outlet. “I don’t really force myself because that won’t be organic or funny or relatable. I make sure I give myself a break to recharge in case I don’t feel like it on a particular day,” she says. Of course, there are inspired days when more than one sketch is created. As for trolls, she largely ignores them and will try to differentiate between fact and opinion. She says, “I am quite aware that I’m not everyone’s cup of tea. It would be weird if that was the case, since comedy is so subjective!”  Course correction     Despitethe large following, Niharika makes it a point to check who is sliding into her DMs almost every day. “I absolutely love it when people send me reaction videos of their parents watching my content. Then there was a girl who sent me screenshots of a conversation between her and her best friend, where every message was a line from my videos. It made me feel really important, at least for a brief second,” she recalls. She likens being a content creator to being an entrepreneur, where “you need to take risks to get rewards”. She also recommends having more than one revenue stream so if one brand limits ad spends (especially in a vulnerable post-Covid economy) you have other sources of income. Apart from her work with Netflix, she has also created sponsored posts for Amazon Prime Video. “I think I am monetising my skills to the best of my ability. If I wasn’t a comedian or a content creator, I would definitely use my MBA or my engineering degree to become an entrepreneur in the tech space, just to be aligned with the true Bengaluru spirit,” she concludes.  “I can’t pick a particular song, but artistes like Megan Thee Stallion, Doja Cat and Saweetie helped me get through this year. As for books, there was Big Magic by Elizabeth Gilbert, Pet Sematary by Stephen King and Eleanor & Park by Rainbow Rowell.”
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The luxury shift||First, we stocked up on sweatpants, then we made home improvements. Next will we be booking vacations and buying beach bags? It is not the most outrageous idea. Since the arrival of a Covid-19 vaccine, there has been a “great rotation” in the stock market: investors have been pulling out of safe-haven stocks, such as consumer staples, and moving into those that could benefit from a recovery, such as banks and airlines. Shift the focus to shoppers, and we may see a great rotation in what people buy, too. Spending could move away from lockdown-inspired home improvements and back to travel and dining. Even with the pandemic raging and restrictions getting tighter over the holidays, tour operators, luxury groups and fashion retailers should be prepared for some future shifts.  Banking on travel?  Consumer behaviour has already changed a great deal this year. Those fortunate enough to keep their jobs and work from home saw their savings swell. When they decided to spend, it wasn’t on dressy clothes, shoes or holidays. Instead, they splurged on cashmere loungewear, indulgent food and, of course, their residences. For luxury goods brands, a renewed appetite for experiences over things will bring mixed results. They have benefited from Chinese, American and European consumers treating themselves to top-end goods such as Rolex watches and Christian Dior bags with some of their accumulated savings. This demand will probably fade as a broader array of spending options becomes available. But any decline in domestic consumption should be offset by a gradual increase in tourist spending, as people begin travelling again. This will be particularly important for European luxury groups, including LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE and Gucci-owner Kering SA. On average, some 50% of luxury sales in Europe come from overseas tourists, according to Flavio Cereda, an analyst at Jefferies.  Going bold  A vaccine brings hope that we’ll eventually return to workplaces, at least for a few days a week. After almost a year of not dressing for the office, people are bound to refresh their wardrobes. Winser London, an online retailer that specialises in upmarket workwear, has seen demand for its silk blouses remain strong during the pandemic (one still wants to look good on Zoom) and even intensify recently. Demand for its dresses and blazers also briefly recovered in the autumn when people started to return to offices. It makes sense if you think about the new world of work, where routine tasks will be done at home, while days in town will be for meetings and presentations — events that require more polished outfits. Meanwhile, Anita Balchandani, who leads McKinsey & Co’s apparel and luxury work in Europe, says there’s a “huge pent up demand for glamour”. According to Lyst, the fashion platform, searches for heels and gowns held up even when people had nowhere to go. And trend forecaster WGSN sees a return to colours and prints amid increasing optimism about a post-pandemic future. Yet fashion often reacts against prevailing conditions. Faith Popcorn, CEO of marketing consulting firm BrainReserve, whose job is to imagine the future for big consumer groups, says this could manifest in what she calls the ‘Roaring 2020s’ — decorative clothing, high heels and lots of make-up could be a backlash against the drab leisurewear that characterised much of the year. This turn would be a relief for high-end sellers, such as Gucci, Chanel and Louis Vuitton, as well as fast fashion chains like Hennes & Mauritz AB and Inditex’s Zara. Whichever version of the future emerges — be it comfort chic or more splashy getups — a shift in wardrobes will be one more great rotation to pay attention to. Bloomberg
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Faberge’s Polar Bear Surprise||This Christmas, Fabergé is looking beyond reindeer and carousels. In an homage to an onyx polar bear produced in 1909 (and bought by the Vanderbilts, then America’s wealthiest family), in-house designer Liisa Tallgren has created the Rose Gold and Blue Guilloché Enamel Locket with Polar Bear Surprise. “It is always a challenge to create small surprises to fit inside lockets because the ‘surprise’ is less than 10mm in height, and getting in all the details in proportion is not easy,” says Tallgren. The egg pendant is crafted from 18k rose gold, decorated with midnight blue guilloché enamel, and set with 15 brilliant cut white diamonds. Inside, the white gold polar bear is encased in white enamel with black diamond eyes. “What makes this pendant truly special is the vitreous enamel work on the egg. Enamelling is a specialist skill that few master, and there’s no other material or technique that could achieve the same look,” she adds. The piece is the latest addition to the Russian jewellery house’s Heritage collection. The Polar Bear Surprise Locket retails for £8,800 / $11,500 (approximately Rs. 8,77,890), on faberge.com.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The science behind cooking||Calling it a ‘nerd’s exploration of Indian cooking’, author Krish Ashok’s latest book,Masala Lab, is aimed at turning the reader into a better cook. He goes behind the science of adding a teabag when boiling chickpeas or why a pinch of salt makeskheermore flavourful. In the ‘exhaustively tested and researched’ book, Ashok tells us why following a recipe without knowing the science behind it can be a sub-optimal way of learning how to cook. Published by Penguin India,Masala Labis priced at Rs. 399. penguin.co.in
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Wrapped in bandhani||Known for its intricate peacock, elephant and geometric motifs, Kachchibandhanigets a new lease of life in this new collection by the Craft Council of India. Featuringbandhanisilk saris, stoles anddupattasin shades of pink, green and blue, the collection celebrates the textile’s interplay of colour and pattern. For details, call 9840700445 or head to Kamala Crafts Shop, Egmore.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Lucky Ali Live||Loved the viral video of Lucky Ali crooning ‘O Sanam’, impromptu and unplugged? Catch him live in Goa as you bring in 2021, singing his greatest hits. In addition, there will be surprise musical and dance acts, as well as an aerial fireworks display. At Prince of Tides, Calangute, from 8 pm onwards. Tickets from Rs. 499 on insider.in
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Airbnb Adventures||If you’d like to end 2020 on a high note, head on a trek to the highest peak of the Naldehra region, a remote area in the foothills of the Himalayas. Adrenaline junkies can also go river rafting in the Sutlej and try ziplining. The experience includes Himachali meals and accommodation at a private campsite. From Rs. 5,000 on airbnb.co.in.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bending reality||Eschaton, New York’s virtual nightclub launched during the pandemic, can be surreal. Thanks to the time difference, you can join their special Zoom event,NYE: The Dissolution, at 9.30 am on January 1, 2021. Slip on festive attire for the 60-minute experience, which also gives access to an hour-long after party. From Rs. 2,000 (approx) on tickettailor.com
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||K-Pop on YouTube||This virtual event brings together top K-Pop acts like BTS, TXT, Lee Hyun, and GFriend, for a New Year’s Eve concert. Singers Halsey, Lauv and Steve Aoki are also set to make an appearance. All three artistes have earlier collaborated with BTS, so tune in for this year’s hits in one place. From 6 pm IST on YouTube. Free to stream.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Camping in Alibag||Choose from a wide variety of camping options, including live music, dinner, campfire and an overnight stay in tents. The Hikers Club has a kid-friendly do (Rs. 1,499 for ages five to 12). Tickets on in.bookmyshow.com. GetSetCamp’s sixth edition of the Paradise Beach Camp comes with unlimited food and barbecue, as well as a dance floor. From Rs. 3,300 on insider.in
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Yearly Departed, December 30||Some of the world’s funniest women — Tiffany Haddish, Natasha Rothwell, Rachel Brosnahan, Patti Harrison, Natasha Leggero, Ziwe Fumudoh and Sarah Silverman — are all set to give this year a fitting goodbye. Their comedy special,Yearly Departed, will premiere next week and have each of the artistes perform a eulogy for the year 2020. The trailer that dropped on the streaming platform recently has the comedians taking the stage in a funeral-like setting to bid adieu to the year that was. On Amazon Prime.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Goodbye pyjamas, hello tuxedos||There is a lot riding on the pantsuit, a visual metaphor for female emancipation and empowerment this year. Back in October, the hashtag and social media campaign, #AmbitionSuitsYou, was meant to mobilise American women to vote. It addressed the biases against women who were driven, and hot pink suits worn by comedian Amy Schumer and other celebrities filled Instagram feeds. Then when US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris took to the stage in Delaware on November 8, it wasn’t just her victory speech that made headlines but her white pantsuit as well. The Carolina Herrera ensemble, fashion pundits pointed out, was a nod to suffragettes in the early 20th century, who wore all-white while fighting for the right to vote.  Counting power suits  “Historically, politicians wearing suits has been a deterrent for some women because of the horrible stereotype… female politicians wearing dowdy suits. I think it is time we changed the way we think about that, with Kamala Harris or AOC [American politician Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez] or whoever else,” begins Daisy Knatchbull of The Deck, the first women’s tailor to have a shopfront on Savile Row. When Knatchbull, 28, opened shop in September on the most famous men’s clothing street in the world, she made headlines. After all, this is where venerable tailor Henry Poole invented the tuxedo. And where the residents are known to meet the sartorial needs of kings, politicians and Hollywood royalty, from The Prince of Wales and The Duke of Kent to Tom Hardy and Benedict Cumberbatch. Knatchbull has her A-listers too: Lauren Hutton, Gillian Anderson, Maggie Gyllenhaal and scores of others. “It is exciting to see more and more woman wearing the suit as a vehicle of their power,” she explains. “Women tell me it gives you confidence; it is like modern armour, you know.” At The Deck (named after a deck of cards), four signature silhouettes are offered as a starting point: The Single-Breasted, The Double-Breasted, The Boyfriend and The Safari, accompanied by a choice of straight-leg, wide-leg, flared or cigarette trousers, and more than 7,000 types of material. “We work with the Savile Row cloth merchants but we whittle it down for our clients so they are not overwhelmed… I know how women shop,” says Knatchbull. When we speak she is at work, wearing a three-piece pin-stripe suit, but with trainers and a T-shirt. “I like to ‘casual’ my suit down and later when I head out to dinner for a friend’s birthday, I’m going to put on a pair of heels and a silk shirt,” she says. Many designers say that after months of lounging in T-shirts and track pants, smarter dressing is on its way back in, with focus on softer tailoring, colour and textured fabrics. Knatchbull agrees, adding that the pandemic has given clients time to think about consolidating their wardrobes, to buy less and buy better. It is about a long-term investment, not a short-term fix. “Everyone keeps saying luxury is going to be down 30% but people are no longer going to be spending on a dress for one event. Instead, they are going to put that money on a suit that will last them a lifetime. And they don’t need events for that, they can wear the jacket and trouser separately, they can pair it with trainers, T-shirts,” she continues.  For women, by women  While The Deck’s head tailor, Michaela Boskova — “she’s brilliant, her mother and grandmother were tailors on Savile Row” — manages everything from fittings onwards, the suits are made at an atelier in Portugal. Knatchbull says it allows her to charge £2,200 as the starting price for a made-to-measure suit rather than £5,000. With clients from across the world, including Delhi and Mumbai, the requests for tropical and white suits are growing. “They often bring in reference imagery and I think I try to project what they want to be and what inspires them,” she laughs. Clearly, 2021 will see more women in smoking jackets and gender-fluid party wear, especially during the movie awards season. Knatchbull is no stranger to creating trends. Back in 2016, she became the first woman to wear a top hat and tails for Royal Ascot, the Queen’s favourite horse race. This was two years before Suicide Squad’s Cara Delevingne wore a three-piece suit and top hat to a royal wedding — Princess Eugenie’s. “I was working at Huntsman [legendary Savile Row tailor] as a communications director then,” she recalls, “and it was an incredible feeling. I couldn’t believe that no one had done it before.” She launched her business on King’s Road in the basement of another shop. “The rise of female empowerment was building in the background. At the same time, suiting was coming back as a central wardrobe staple for women. So many women were being let down by the ready to wear market. We are given sizes that society tells us we should be in. We often apologise for our bodies… just because our arms are too long, or our thighs are bigger than our waist. At The Deck, I offer something for women that men have been offered for centuries. And while there are other women tailors, there’s room for more of us to do our best to level the playing field.” We love a one-button front, a slanted pocket, a nip in the waist, a strong shoulder, and a slightly longer jacket — it gives you the illusion of appearing slimmer and longer, as it draws the eye to the centre Daisy Knatchbull
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||How housing fared in 2020||Anarock’s year-end data indicates that the top seven cities saw total home sales of over 1.38 lakh units in 2020 against approx. 2.61 lakh units in 2019 — a decline of 47%. Further, new housing supply in 2020 declined by 46% against the preceding year — from approx. 2.37 lakh units in 2019 to approx. 1.28 lakh units in 2020. MMR and Pune were the showstoppers in overall residential activity in 2020. While residential real estate bottomed out in 2020 against the previous peak of 2014, there are strong revival signs in Q4 2020 with home affordability being at its all-time best. Amidst varied offers and discounts, the top seven cities saw robust sales of approx. 50,900 units in Q4 2020, rebounding to almost 86% of the corresponding period in 2019. Last year, the festive quarter saw total home sales of 59,160 units. MMR and Pune drove residential sales, with the two cities accounting for an over 53% total share. Supply streak If we are to look at the supply front, the top seven cities added nearly 52,820 units in Q4 2020 against 51,850 units in Q4 2019 — increasing by 2% y-o-y. Hyderabad outpaced other cities and added a massive new supply of 12,820 units in the quarter, followed by MMR with over 11,910 new units. Due to increased new launches across cities, unsold inventory declined by 2% on a yearly basis — from over 6.48 lakh units in Q4 2019 to over 6.38 lakh units in Q4 2020. However, in comparison to the peak levels of 2016 — when unsold stock stood maximum at approx. 7.91 lakh units in top 7 cities — it declined by a significant 19%. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants says, “2020 has been an unprecedented year due to COVID-19, causing all-round upheaval. However, the residential segment was quick to pick up momentum in the last two quarters of 2020 on the back of growing homeownership sentiment catalysed by the exigencies of the pandemic. This pent-up demand was further accelerated by the ongoing discounts and offers, the prevailing lowest-best home loan interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra.” He further explains how their data reveals that the festive quarter (Oct.-Dec. period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra. Puri adds, “Buoyed by the rising sales, developers also saw it fit to unleash ample new supply into the market, leading to a 2% y-o-y jump in Q4 2020 against the same period in 2019. The new supply was dominated by strong branded developers. This strong growth in Q4 has set the stage for revival of residential activity in the year 2021 as well.”  Housing sales overview Altogether, the top cities saw housing sales of approx. 1,38,350 units in entire 2020 as against 2,61,370 units in 2019, declining by 47%. MMR saw housing sales of approx. 44,320 units in 2020, reducing yearly by 45%. Last year, the city saw total sales of nearly 80,870 units.  In Bengaluru, housing sales touched 24,910 units in 2020 against 50,450 units in 2019 — a decline of over 51%.  In Pune, housing sales stood at 23,460 units in 2020 against 40,790 units in 2019 — a fall of 42%.  NCR witnessed housing sales of 23,210 units in 2020 over 46,920 units a year ago. The region saw its sales plummet 51%.  Hyderabad sales stood at 8,560 units in 2020 versus 16,590 units in 2019 — thus reducing by 48%.  In Chennai, housing sales in 2020 stood at around 6,740 units as against 11,820 units in 2019 — a 43% fall.  Kolkata saw housing sales of 7,150 units in 2020 against 13,930 units in 2019 — a 49% yearly drop.  New launches  Annually, the top seven cities saw approx. 1,27,970 new units launched in entire 2020, against 2,36,570 units in 2019 — reducing by 46%. Hyderabad was the only city to see new launches increase during the year. The key cities contributing to 2020 new unit launches were MMR, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, which together accounted for 76% of addition.  In Hyderabad, new launches increased by a whopping 42% in 2020 compared to 2019.  Meanwhile, MMR saw restricted new launches of approx. 30,290 units in 2020 as against 77,990 units last year — declining by 61%.  Pune added approx. 23,920 units in 2020 against 46,110 units in 2019 — reducing by 48%.  Chennai added approx. 9,170 units in 2020 against 13,000 units a year ago, reducing by 29%.  Bengaluru added approx. 21,420 units in 2020 against 39,930 units in 2019, a fall of 46%.  NCR kept its new supply restricted to approx. 18,530 units in 2020 against 35,280 units in 2019 — a decrease of 47%.  Kolkata added the least new supply of approx. 3,530 units in 2020 against 9,420 units in 2019 – a decline of 63% y-o-y.                                                   Unsold inventory The top 7 cities saw their unsold stock decline by 2% in the year — from approx. 6,48,400 units in 2019-end to approx. 6,38,020 units as of 2020-end. Kolkata saw the maximum decline of 8% in the year, followed by Bengaluru and MMR that witnessed a decline of 6% each. Interestingly, data trends of the last seven years (2013 till date) indicate that the unsold stock in the top seven cities was highest at the end of 2016 — approx. 7,90,500 units. In comparison to this peak-level, unsold housing stock has declined by a significant 19%.  Chennai added approx. 9,170 units in 2020 against 13,000 units a year ago
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A call for safe, open spaces||When it comes to our urban spaces, the one key aspect that the pandemic has highlighted is the lack of social interaction outside our homes. We have now realised the dearth of accessible, open public spaces that would provide the kind of social interaction we need, albeit in a safe manner. If designed well, such spaces could provide us an outlet during trying times. They would allow us to communicate with our neighbours, help participate in street life and also make way for or distancing and private ‘corners’. Brimming with greenery, these zones would be the lungs of our cities, providing us serenity in the midst of our hectic schedules and would enhance our overall quality of life. They would not only add character to our cities and help bring people together but also function as open markets to add economic value to the region. Looking back in history, the Greek ‘Agoras’, Roman ‘Forums’ and Italian ‘Piazzas’ were examples of the classic open public space within the city’s centre. They served as a marketplace for economic activity as well as a gathering space for social interaction, thus forming the focal points of economic, social and even political activity. The zones provided an outlet to people to interact with others and helped foster creativity and innovation. However, with modernism came the emphasis on functionality, leading to the fading away of such public spaces in the pretext of ‘development’. There was very little attention given to the open public space. Buildings came up with no connection to the rest of the city, leaving people with no escape from their enclosed built spaces. Although government intervention is needed to ensure such central public spaces are brought back into our cities, they needn’t be contained in one area. We should look at our streets and neighbourhoods as smaller hubs that can be accessible to all. Planting and caring for a tree in front of our homes, building a bench for seating, and ensuring adequate lighting in our neighbourhood are a few small steps we can take to ensure safe public spaces. As a result of this pandemic, people are more likely to invest in independent homes in lieu of apartments. Especially so, it is time we start re-imagining our cities and bring back safe, green and open public spaces, giving these unbuilt spaces as much importance as the built.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution,   a sustainable architecture firm   We should look at our streets and neighbourhoods as smaller hubs that can be accessible to all
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Land measurement dispute||In 2016, we bought a piece of land in Udumalpet Taluk. The deed mentions an area of 47 sq.ft. and we also have a moola pathiram (1981). In 1992, the resurvey patta was in meters and mentioned 14 m. The adjacent land’s owner is going to sell his plot and when measuring the said land, the Village Administrative Officer (VAO) informed him that it is 45.92 sq.ft. by conversion. He also mentioned that our house is .8 inches in their property. The owner is now asking for money for this space or wants the wall removed. The building is as per the records that state a space of 47 sq.ft. How do I proceed? Vinoth Kannan P Chennai If there is a dispute between the adjacent owner on measurements of their land holding, the same has to be resolved by conducting a joint survey of the property with the assistance of the government surveyor. The recitals of documents evidencing ownership and the information in the revenue records have to be looked into while settling the ownership dispute. If there is any encroachment by one party on the land of another, the same has to be removed failing which the aggrieved party may move the jurisdictional court for necessary orders.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||A fondue on New Year’s eve||This festive season, the focus is on small, intimate gatherings instead of big bashes. Blame the coronavirus if you want, but many of us are appreciating the smaller scale. So, now that New Year’s is round the corner, many of us are finally looking to entertain. But if you don’t want to spend hours in the kitchen, why don’t you fondue? The slight nip in the air is the perfect time to throw a fondue party. The best part? It can be assembled in little time, doesn’t need you to spend hours in the kitchen and ends up in great feedback most of the time. We put together a list of dos and don’ts for the perfect bash:  Let there be enough    Ensure you have ample fondue pots and forks on hand. Ten people sharing four forks and sticking them into a tiny pot bubbling on a tea light doesn’t really cut it.  Let there be a theme  Who doesn’t enjoy theme-based soirées? Plan a 1970s or 1980s party — guests come attired in costumes relevant to that time and dip away as classic tunes play in the background. Let your creative juices run as you explore themes like vampire gothic, fantasy, vintage, military, Victorian, sci-fi and Bollywood. Or else, try creating fondue versions of popular combos like tomato soup and grilled cheese, or fish and chips.  Let there be courses  Rather than putting all that you have out there, create a formal dinner feel with courses. Fondues lend themselves well to a three-course meal — appetizer, main dish and dessert. Ideal scenario? Go for a cheese-based dip (with bread cubes, soup sticks and veggies such as broccoli, peppers and baby carrots) in the first round. Follow up with a savoury sauce served with cubed grilled chicken, prawns, fish meat or shrimp. Round things off in style with a sweet sauce flanked by cake, cookies, fruits and dried fruit.  Let there be proper prep  Do most of the prep work the day before and on the day of the party. No slicing fruit, veggies and cheese as the guests are walking in. Ensure that you have enough tea lights/candles to keep your pot bubbling through the night. If your fondue has turned out too thick, don’t dilute with water. Opt for something flavoursome such as chicken or vegetable stock, wine or beer.  Let it be a BYO bash  Who said a fondue party can’t be a potluck? It adds to the variety and creativity so let guests know what kind of fondue you’ll be making — savoury, sweet, cheesy or chocolaty — and let them get their share. Ensure that the food they get is prepped and ready to serve.  Let there be rules  Don’t assume that all your guests are well versed in fondue etiquette. Lay down some ground rules: no eating from dipping forks (provide dinner forks), following the dipping order (clockwise or counter-clockwise), and no children under eight allowed (we want dipping, not dropping!) Once everything is in place, let the party begin!
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||CREDAI writes to the PM||In January 2020, a 50 kg bag of cement cost around Rs. 349. Today, the same bag costs between Rs. 420 and Rs. 430. As cement prices have increased by more than 23% and steel prices have risen by more than 45% since the beginning of 2020, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has written to the Prime Minister and all concerned ministries to take note of the issue. CREDAI also requested the government for an immediate intervention in regulating the prices of construction raw materials amidst the ongoing pandemic. Due to the rising costs, ‘developers are experiencing an inevitable increase in construction cost and are faced with a situation that will create a delay in delivery, stalling of projects in some cases, thereby impacting homeb uyers at large’, states a press release. “The real estate sector is battling unsold inventory on one hand and unfinished projects [due to lack of funds] on the other. With a stagnant demand, developers have not increased the prices and are selling projects at affordable rates. The sector feels ignored because of lack of support from the government on various issues. There is an urgent need to control the spiralling prices of cement, steel and other raw materials,” says Jaxay Shah, Chairman, CREDAI. In addition to cement, steel manufacturers too have been taking undue advantage of the increase in demand for steel and have been increasing the prices every month, stated the release. At the beginning of this year, the per tonne rate of steel was Rs. 40, 000 and has now rocketed to Rs. 58,000 in December 2020.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2020 2015  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury 5,500 5,500 apartments  Premium 5,000 4,800 apartments   Budget 4,200 3,800 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||How housing fared in 2020||Anarock’s year-end data indicates that the top seven cities saw total home sales of over 1.38 lakh units in 2020 against approx. 2.61 lakh units in 2019 — a decline of 47%. Further, new housing supply in 2020 declined by 46% against the preceding year — from approx. 2.37 lakh units in 2019 to approx. 1.28 lakh units in 2020. MMR and Pune were the showstoppers in overall residential activity in 2020. While residential real estate bottomed out in 2020 against the previous peak of 2014, there are strong revival signs in Q4 2020 with home affordability being at its all-time best. Amidst varied offers and discounts, the top seven cities saw robust sales of approx. 50,900 units in Q4 2020, rebounding to almost 86% of the corresponding period in 2019. Last year, the festive quarter saw total home sales of 59,160 units. MMR and Pune drove residential sales, with the two cities accounting for an over 53% total share. Supply streak If we are to look at the supply front, the top seven cities added nearly 52,820 units in Q4 2020 against 51,850 units in Q4 2019 — increasing by 2% y-o-y. Hyderabad outpaced other cities and added a massive new supply of 12,820 units in the quarter, followed by MMR with over 11,910 new units. Due to increased new launches across cities, unsold inventory declined by 2% on a yearly basis — from over 6.48 lakh units in Q4 2019 to over 6.38 lakh units in Q4 2020. However, in comparison to the peak levels of 2016 — when unsold stock stood maximum at approx. 7.91 lakh units in top 7 cities — it declined by a significant 19%. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants says, “2020 has been an unprecedented year due to COVID-19, causing all-round upheaval. However, the residential segment was quick to pick up momentum in the last two quarters of 2020 on the back of growing homeownership sentiment catalysed by the exigencies of the pandemic. This pent-up demand was further accelerated by the ongoing discounts and offers, the prevailing lowest-best home loan interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra.” He further explains how their data reveals that the festive quarter (Oct.-Dec. period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra. Puri adds, “Buoyed by the rising sales, developers also saw it fit to unleash ample new supply into the market, leading to a 2% y-o-y jump in Q4 2020 against the same period in 2019. The new supply was dominated by strong branded developers. This strong growth in Q4 has set the stage for revival of residential activity in the year 2021 as well.”  Housing sales overview Altogether, the top cities saw housing sales of approx. 1,38,350 units in entire 2020 as against 2,61,370 units in 2019, declining by 47%. MMR saw housing sales of approx. 44,320 units in 2020, reducing yearly by 45%. Last year, the city saw total sales of nearly 80,870 units.  In Bengaluru, housing sales touched 24,910 units in 2020 against 50,450 units in 2019 — a decline of over 51%.  In Pune, housing sales stood at 23,460 units in 2020 against 40,790 units in 2019 — a fall of 42%.  NCR witnessed housing sales of 23,210 units in 2020 over 46,920 units a year ago. The region saw its sales plummet 51%.  Hyderabad sales stood at 8,560 units in 2020 versus 16,590 units in 2019 — thus reducing by 48%.  In Chennai, housing sales in 2020 stood at around 6,740 units as against 11,820 units in 2019 — a 43% fall.  Kolkata saw housing sales of 7,150 units in 2020 against 13,930 units in 2019 — a 49% yearly drop.  New launches  Annually, the top seven cities saw approx. 1,27,970 new units launched in entire 2020, against 2,36,570 units in 2019 — reducing by 46%. Hyderabad was the only city to see new launches increase during the year. The key cities contributing to 2020 new unit launches were MMR, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, which together accounted for 76% of addition.  In Hyderabad, new launches increased by a whopping 42% in 2020 compared to 2019.  Meanwhile, MMR saw restricted new launches of approx. 30,290 units in 2020 as against 77,990 units last year — declining by 61%.  Pune added approx. 23,920 units in 2020 against 46,110 units in 2019 — reducing by 48%.  Chennai added approx. 9,170 units in 2020 against 13,000 units a year ago, reducing by 29%.  Bengaluru added approx. 21,420 units in 2020 against 39,930 units in 2019, a fall of 46%.  NCR kept its new supply restricted to approx. 18,530 units in 2020 against 35,280 units in 2019 — a decrease of 47%.  Kolkata added the least new supply of approx. 3,530 units in 2020 against 9,420 units in 2019 – a decline of 63% y-o-y.                                                   Unsold inventory The top 7 cities saw their unsold stock decline by 2% in the year — from approx. 6,48,400 units in 2019-end to approx. 6,38,020 units as of 2020-end. Kolkata saw the maximum decline of 8% in the year, followed by Bengaluru and MMR that witnessed a decline of 6% each. Interestingly, data trends of the last seven years (2013 till date) indicate that the unsold stock in the top seven cities was highest at the end of 2016 — approx. 7,90,500 units. In comparison to this peak-level, unsold housing stock has declined by a significant 19%.  Chennai added approx. 9,170 units in 2020 against 13,000 units a year ago
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||2021: what’s in store||Priya Mitron , with Sant Nikhil Das Diwas out of the way, the last of the homemade somapanam quaffed, the CDs of  ‘ Shanti Raat, Punya Raat’ , and ‘ Jhanak Ghante, Jhanak Ghante ‘ put away, you must be wondering what 2021 has in store for you. Fear not, Dear Readers. Using my profound yogic powers, and a double dose of secret lehyams , I have time travelled to our ancient future and returned with some genuinely majama tidings. January starts with a bang. I am delighted to inform you that, after the Republic Day Parade, Boris bhai Johnson (who will be repeatedly referred to as Boris Becker by our leader in his speech) will ceremonially return the Kohinoor to its rightful owner: our queen, HRH Kangananika Ranautvanshi I. Following which he will issue an eviction notice to QE 2 so that Buckingham Palace will be made available within 60 days to its new tenant, HRH KR 1. After that, in no particular order, here are some of the delights in store for us.  Thalaivar Rajinikanth will finally become CM of Tamil Nadu. And usher in an era of spiritual politics. Meaning, he will walk in slow motion followed by Senthil, Ramesh Khanna & Co, and solve all our material problems with some nifty finger swishing and aanmiga punchlines. We will realise only at the end of the year that it was never him at all but his best friend, master of disguise, Ulaganayagan Kamal Saar, playing Rajini to perfection, as the real Superstar was taking it easy in a cave in the Himalayas (yes, the same one) all along. Kareena and Saif will have their Baby Number 2, another boy. He will be named Prithviraj (after her great-grandfather) Sai Bebo Kaptaudi so that there is no controversy over his name. Virat and Anushka will have twins, a boy and a girl. One will sign up with Coke and the other with Pepsi. Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi will voluntarily return to India. And deposit the combined amount of Rs. 25,000 crores in India’s most popular fund (you know which one). And move to Sabarmati to spin khadi yarn. The money will be used to build the world’s biggest roller coaster around the Central Vista. It will be called Swachh Bharat Upar Neeche Gol Gol Vahan . Paramahamsa Nithyananda’s sovereign Hindu nation, Kailasa, will declare war on China and defeat it comprehensively using goats and cows that speak fluent Sanskrit. Andsooperconshusnessss. The history of China’s geography will forever be altered by the depth of the physics in the Me in the me. There will be a sudden Hindi renaissance in Tamil Nadu coinciding with the rise in spirituality. Raghuthaatha Gindi Nagin Maloom Institutes will mushroom all over the state with Hema Malini as dean. There will be stiff competition between Kareena Kapoor’s Pregnancy Bible (renamed Kareena Beti Ki Maa Banne Wali Gita for the Indian market) and Priyanka Chopra’s memoir Unfinished (not to be confused with Nick Jonas’ memoir Finished ) for the Booker. Judge Shahid Kapoor will declare it a tie. Eventually, K Jo’s Big Thoughts Of Little Luv will be declared the winner. In the megabudget Mahabharata that is being made for our mythology-hungry patriots, Mukesh Khanna will have creative differences with his co-showrunner, Barack Obama, and try to strangle him with his old Shaktimaan suit. Peace will prevail when Akshay Kumar (playing all five Pandavas and Draupadi) intervenes. In December, Kamala Harris will have her much delayed arangetram at the Schmidt Memorial. And Nehru will finally be arrested. Jai Hind. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Glowing up this year||When the country locked down on March 25, few could imagine that we would be fighting the pandemic till the year’s end. Call it research, vanity or a coping mechanism, but for me 2020 has been all about self-care. As the world shut down, I took solace in pots, tubes, oils, creams, powders and tools. I see beauty routines as a direct connection within, grounding and calming with every stroke. Having saved money on clothes and eating out, I spent lavishly on skincare. Day and night creams and cleansers for my retired General father, who now refuses to wear an AM moisturiser in the PM. Mother stopped dyeing her hair, so I worked to elevate her skin with face massage, organic sunscreen (Coola), rosehip oil (Purearth) and eye cream (iS Clinical). As for me, I swung from plant-based skincare to potent actives. I mixed kasturi manjal with red sandalwood, orange peel, honey and rose water to create a daily cleanser and mask. I also discovered the power of Tretinoin and how it can transform your skin. I followed the 10-10-10 massage technique created by Paayal Mahajan, the founder of Essential Body Couture Skincare, to which I added the last five moves of the Tanaka face massage to smooth and tighten my skin. I added a sprinkling of gua sha , acquiring not one but two tools along the way. I found that ordering from Beauty Heroes and The Boxwalla is best to feed beauty obsessions. They deliver to India for a small charge, without excessive duty — but there are exceptions to this rule. Though it may seem that I created an awful lot of waste, the opposite is true. 2020 is the year I stopped accepting PR gifts. Not only have I reduced both waste and the pressure from brands to post about them but, more importantly, I’ve become reacquainted with the value of money. Collaborating with others has been a source of meaningful, human contact in what could have otherwise been a year of solitude. I hosted and participated in several Insta Lives and webinars, and have generally been more productive and visible — even more than 2018, the year I launched my debut book. I’m now working on part two of the Micro Beauty Awards with Aishwarya Subramanyam, former editor of Elle and current hell-raiser on the ’gram. The first edition, featuring skincare recommendations from reliable beauty influencers, was so successful that we’re doing a make-up edition on Christmas. We only did it because we were bored, but this is more proof that beauty isn’t just gratifying, but also has the potential to unite people. And what about 2021? I like to believe the online chatter, which claims that just like we had the roaring ’20s right after the First World War and Spanish Flu, we will again recover. If history indeed repeats itself, I expect some decadence and the opportunity to finally flaunt the results of my 2020 rituals. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The Indian||I have a confession to make. I’m a scaredy-cat. There are many things I am scared of, but my fear of the supernatural trumps them all. This can be traced back to my childhood, when my sister would narrate Stephen King novels to me at bedtime, sending me into a spiral of tears, shakes and the occasional fever. After a stirring read-aloud of Cujo , my mother was forced to paste a godly sticker on my headboard, promising that nothing bad would happen to me. The sticker stayed there for the next decade, as I took perverse pleasure in scaring myself by watching everything from It to The Exorcist . My MO was (and still is) to watch anything mildly terror inducing in the middle of the day, on mute, with all the lights on and the curtains wide open. So I was rather bemused when I received Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India written by J Furcifer Bhairav and Rakesh Khanna, from Blaft Publications. I won’t lie, while reading the book I did look over my shoulder, half hoping to see a sticker there to watch over me. What if I came across the detached head of an Ahmaw, a jealousy demon from Mizoram, rolling about in search of food? Or a Kaniyam Pey, that lecherous male spirit from Tamil Nadu? Though, maybe, I am too old to warrant the latter’s attention.  A ghostly turn  Reading the book was an eye opening experience. I had no idea there were so many ghosts, monsters and demons roaming the forts, forests and railway stations of this country. I’m sure if I had tried to name all the supernatural species I knew of before I read the book I wouldn’t get past 10 names. Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India has 353 entries (722 if you include subtypes), some of which are accompanied by striking black-and-white illustrations by artists like Appupen, Shyam, Priya Kurian, Rashmi Ruth Devadasan and Vidhyun Sabhaney. The anthology includes short stories, poetry, myths and more, and beautifully balances the macabre with the whimsical, the eerie with the humorous. While the alphabetical categorisation gives it an encyclopaedia-like feel, the writing is far from pedantic. It is this matter-of-fact style of writing and the humour in the book that I particularly enjoyed. Under B for Bhoot , for example: ‘They can also attack by choking, or by magically removing a person’s liver or kidneys. This is done without leaving any mark on the skin (which tends to be perplexing for the doctor performing the autopsy).’ The book has been in the works since 2016, and Misha Michael, who edited the anthology, wanted to keep its tone conversational. “The idea was to succinctly capture serious, spooky, or silly elements of each character,” she says. Khanna, who includes Edgar Allen Poe, Nosferatu and the 1963 version of The Haunting as early influences, agrees that there’s not enough known about Indian ghosts. “It is a little weird for English-speaking Indians to grow up knowing all about vampires and phoenixes, but not much from India beyond your basic rakshasas and jinns. So we decided to try to compile everything we could find and make a comprehensive list.”  Know your pey from your aavi   The authors have taken pains to point out the nuanced differences between species (how remiss of me to use pey , pisasu and aavi interchangeably), and it also draws attention to the connections between similar apparitions from different regions. Khanna cites the example of a hunter-ghost from Kumaon called Airi, who has eyes on top of his head and venomous spit. “It seems to be almost the same entity as the spectre huntsman in Malaysia called Hantu Pemburu. It is very curious to me how this fellow got from Kumaon to Malaysia without leaving a footprint in between!” While I enjoyed the entertaining stories around familiar names (in 1901, a man in Changanacherry, Kerala, was said to have 100 k uttichathans, or mischievous demons, running errands for him), it was my introduction to the Northeast’s rich pantheon of spirits and demons — from the monstrous Baak to Garo mythology’s shapeshifting mermen called Buga — that I found fascinating. “The supernatural has more of a presence in oral culture, folklore and urban legend in the region,” affirms Assamese author and translator Annanya Baruah. Her translation of the well-known children’s poem Kumpu’s Dream by Jyoti Prasad Agarwala features in the book. In the poem, a child tells her mother how she saw two baby bhoots and jhokinis twirling and whirling, giggling and singing. It seems sweet enough on the surface but I detected a slightly menacing undertone. “The book subverts the general belief that all ghosts are blood-thirsty intellectual predators or strategic planners,” says Michael, who counts the stories about ghosts that could be easily fooled or tricked such as Naale Ba Boota amongst her favourites. It is this thread of diversity and inclusion — who knew one could use that phrase with regards to the supernatural — that makes the book extra special. Khanna hopes that through it, readers will look “beyond the nationalist tendency to promote a very narrow, monolithic view of what Indian religion is supposed to be, and step back and look at the tremendous diversity of ideas and stories around evil, death, the supernatural, and the afterlife that we have in this country.’ In a year where our worlds have shrunk to the size of our computer screens and mostly restricted to the four walls of our home, Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India provides a much-needed escape to an entirely different kind of world. And whether you already have an interest in the subject or are approaching the book as a card-carrying scaredy-cat, you’re sure to find something in it that will make you laugh, wince and, yes, look over your shoulder. Ghosts, Monsters, and Demons of India , from Blaft Publications, is priced at Rs. 995.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Six clubs sealed in Delhi for flouting COVID-19 guidelines||The Delhi government’s Excise Department fully or partly sealed a total of eight night clubs and bars in the past one month and imposed fines totalling around Rs. 1.15 crore on them for violating COVID-related guidelines and other rules, said authorities. In most cases there was overcrowding, no social distancing, and people were not wearing masks, according to officials. ‘Strong message’ “Penalty was imposed on all of them to send a strong message to the industry to follow COVID guidelines and Excise Department rules. Health is of paramount importance and we cannot afford to have a fourth wave [COVID-19 infection]. Everytime, a peak happens around festive season and people should take precautions,” Rahul Singh, Commissioner of Department of Excise, Entertainment and Luxury Tax, toldThe Hindu. The clubs that were sealed includeKey Night ClubinHotel Samrat, Kautilya Marg; andSohoinThe Ashok Hotel, Chanakyapuri. InPrivee,Shangrila Eros Hotel, andClub BWin Hotel Surya, New Friends Colony, the department found liquor being served to underage people. Other clubs that were fully or partly sealed wereMajestic Cafein Pusa Road,Bokansituated in Community Center in East of Kailash,Air Bar and Loungein West Punjabi Bagh, andMoti Mahal DXin Panchkuian Road. Some of these clubs have reopened after paying the fine. About the violations at nightclubPrivee, the inspection report said: “The inspecting team entered the club around 3 a.m. and observed that around 325-350 persons were inside the club and it was jam-packed. No social distancing was being followed and nobody was wearing a mask. All blatant violation of the Standard operating procedure issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).” Overcapacity According to the COVID-19 guidelines of the DDMA, clubs and bars are allowed to operate at 50% of total seating capacity. The ones with L-16 licence (night clubs mostly in five-star hotels) can operate 24 hours and establishments with L-17 licence (clubs/bars) can operate till 1 a.m. Majestic CaféandBokanwere sealed for violation of COVID-related rules. Also, there were extra seats than approved capacity and liquor was served outside the licensed premises, according to documents. The third floor of theAir Bar and Loungewas sealed as their excise licence was only for the second floor. Sohowas sealed for violating COVID-related rules. Part of theMoti Mahal DXwas sealed for serving non-duty paid liquor andKey Night Clubfor not following COVID-related rules.  The team enteredPriveein Shangrila Eros Hotel around 3 a.m. and observed that around 325-350 persons were inside the club and it was jam-packed. No social distancing was being followed and nobody was wearing a mask Delhi Excise dept. report
26 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Governor not sending Bills for Presidential assent, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the Amendment Bills passed in the State Assembly last month to counter the Centre’s farm laws were held up in Raj Bhavan, as the Governor was not sending them for Presidential assent. The Union government was not willing to accept that the Bills were in “public interest”, he said. Addressing a press conference here to mark the completion of two years of the Congress government, Mr. Gehlot said the Bills on honour killings and mob lynching, passed earlier this year, were also not getting the President’s approval. “The democracy is being challenged and the States are being denied their rights. Rahul Gandhi has correctly said that we now have an imaginary democracy.” Mr. Gehlot said the Chief Ministers of four Congress-ruled States had sought an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind to raise the issue of farmers’ agitation, but he did not entertain the request for meeting. “The President is under so much pressure that he was not even willing to meet us. I have seen this for the first time,” he remarked. While accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders of conspiring to topple the State government, Mr. Gehlot said the people would give a “befitting reply” to them in the next elections. Asked about the role of Congress leader Sachin Pilot in the recent political crisis, Mr. Gehlot said his earlier statement that he was ready to “forget and forgive” had sent across a strong message. The Chief Minister said the NDA government at the Centre was showing its insensitivity to the issues raised by farmers in their agitation, which would soon complete a month, and was trying to create confusion by inviting them for talks and making baseless allegations against the Opposition parties. Mr. Gehlot said 50% of the promises made in the Congress manifesto for the 2018 Assembly election had been fulfilled in the first two years of his government. The challenge posed by COVID-19 epidemic was also successfully met and the State government had made all efforts to save lives and livelihoods of people, he added. Mr. Gehlot said the political appointments in the State were getting delayed because of the model code of conduct enforced for panchayat and local boy elections. Referring to the issue of loan waiver for farmers, he said the State government had already taken action for the loans disbursed by cooperative banks, but the Centre was not helping in respect of the public sector banks. All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken, who arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit, also addressed the press conference.
26 December 2020||Bhatinda,||Farmers ransacked venue of BJP event in Bathinda: police||A group of farmers on Friday ransacked the venue of an event organised here by the BJP to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, leaving at least five party workers injured, the police said. However, some farmers at the venue claimed that anti-social elements and not peasants were behind the incident. Some people were listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address at the venue on Amrik Singh Road when a group of farmers reached there shouting slogans and ransacked the place. They broke chairs and the LED system, the police said. Women, children and the elderly fled to nearby shops for safety. The police said they rushed to the spot and resorted to mild baton charge to control the situation. Bathinda BJP chief Vinod Gupta and State BJP legal cell co-convener Ravinder Gupta, among others, sustained minor injuries in the incident. While some farmers present claimed the ransacking was the handiwork of anti-social elements, the BJP leaders sought police action against them. An investigation in the matter is underway, the police said. “Complete anarchy is prevailing in Punjab where law and order is in the hands of goons and the police have become a silent and helpless onlooker,” remarked BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh. He said the Amarinder Singh government has been playing vicious games against the BJP and its complete breakdown of law and order in Punjab. Saying the BJP workers are “facing threats to their life”, Mr. Chugh urged Punjab Governor V.P. Singh Badnore to take action against the Amarinder government.
26 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Potato farmers in Haryana stare at loss as prices start to crash||With arrival of season’s fresh potato crop picking up in the markets of Haryana, the potato growers have started feeling the pinch on account of poor return as the average price has seen a sharp dip from around Rs. 3,200 per quintal a month and half ago to nearly Rs. 700 per quintal currently. Farmers and traders told The Hindu that as potato crop arrival will increase in the coming days the price is likely to fall further. “In Shahbad, Pipli and Babain vegetable markets, which are considered to be the centre of potato trading, potato crop was fetching Rs. 800-850 per quintal for the past three days, depending on the quality,” said Ashok Gupta, a Kurukshetra based commission agent, adding that demand was weak and supply has increased in the last few days, resulting in drop in price of potato crop. He said initially when the fresh crop started to arrive in the markets during mid-November, farmers were fetching price somewhere in the range of Rs. Rs. 3,000-3,200 per quintal. “Gradually the price started to fall down as the arrival increased. This trend is usual and it is seen every year,” he said. Concerned over the falling price, farmers say if the trend continues, they won’t be able to recover even the expenses of input costs in the crop. “I have started harvesting the crop. Four days ago, I sold first lot of my crop in Babain market at Rs. 640 per qunital. On an average the cost of production for potato settles around Rs. 7 to 8 per Kg, but what I fetched is even below that. Sustaining in farming is becoming difficult day by day,” said Amit Saini, who has sown potato in nearly 6 acres at Berkheri village in Naraingarh. “Given the way the price is crashing, if am not able to sell my produce in the next few days I’ll then have to throw my crop on the road,” he added. Another potato farmer from Hasanpur village, Rajeev Sharma, said he was staring at huge loss as his crop would be ready for harvesting in another the next 12-15 days. “The arrival of potato in markets is continuously increasing, which eventually will result in further drop on price. The prevailing price in local mandis is Rs. 700-Rs 800. In next few days it (price) will fall further - which would mean a total loss,” he said. Rattan Mann, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) in Haryana, said it’s a phenomenon that farmers have to encounter year after year as there is no government intervention.s
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Fewest daily infections since Aug.||The Capital reported 758 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest in more than four months — taking the total to 6,21,439, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. This is the lowest number of new cases since August 16, when 652 infections were reported in a day. As per the bulletin, a total of 85,749 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. The death toll has reached 10,414 after 30 more fatalities were reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 6,03,758 people have recovered and there are now 7,267 active cases in the city. The test positivity was 0.88% on Friday, far less than the average daily test positivity in November, which was 11.65%. This is also the lowest positive rate in over eight months. On Wednesday, the test positivity was 0.99%. The overall positivity till now is 7.57%, as per the bulletin. Over 85% beds vacant Out of the total 18,774 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 85.8% were vacant. About 2,656 people were admitted in hospitals and 3,762 patients were under home isolation.  There are now 5,001 containment zones in the city. Meanwhile, in the ongoing door-to-door contact drive being conducted by the Delhi government to test U.K.-returned persons for COVID-19, eight have so far been found infected, officials said on Friday. A total of 19 passengers out of over 13,000 who landed from the U.K. at the IGI Airport between November 25 and December 21 have been found positive. Eleven were tested positive at the airport while eight others were found positive during the door to door contact and testing drive.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Teen robs woman for refusing friendship||A 19-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly robbing a woman of over Rs. 1 lakh and other expensive items in Pul Prahladpur here on December 22, the police said on Friday. Faisal, who came in contact with the woman through a mobile app, had planned the crime with his friend Ansar, they said. On the day of the crime, the accused forcibly entered her house at 1 p.m. and tied her up with dupatta and tried to strangulate her. They then fled the spot with her laptop, mobile phone, gold chain and Rs. 1.25 lakh in cash. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said during the probe, the two men were spotted on CCTV cameras installed near her house. The team succeeded in apprehending Faisal from Muzaffarnagar. A manhunt has been launched for Ansar. “The accused told the police that he came in contact with the woman on an app — Friend search Tool Simulator-Direct Chat. He then got her number from the app and wanted to be her friend. Initially, she refused but later she started talking to him,” he said. In January this year when he went to meet her, she refused to befriend him as he was “young”. Keeps visiting her After that, he visited her house a few times but she did not entertain him. In July, she called him to her house where her husband and sons asked him not to “disturb” her anymore. At the time, he assured them that he would not keep any contact with her but had decided to take revenge, the DCP said. The phone and Rs. 11,000 in cash have been recovered.
26 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Congress expels Assam MLA ahead of Amit Shah’s visit to State||The Congress expelled one of its most influential MLAs in Assam for alleged anti-party activities, hours before Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Guwahati on Friday night. Assam’s Finance and Health Minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma said the Congress could have taken action against Ajanta Neog, a former Minister, on the basis of rumours. He, however, said that the Bharatiya Janata Party would welcome her if she decides to join the party. ‘Expulsion approved’ Ranjan Bora, the general secretary (organisation) of the Assam State Congress Committee, said the party’s central leadership has approved Ms. Neog’s expulsion. The development followed speculations that she and at least two other Congress MLAs, Roselina Tirkey and the expelled Rajdeep Goala, both from the “tea tribes” community, were set to join the BJP in the presence of Mr. Shah. Speculations “Ajanta Neog met Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal recently with a request to establish the Birangana Sati Sadhini State University in Golaghat. But this triggered speculations that she was joining the BJP. We have had no political discussions with her even as I talk to you,” Mr. Sarma told journalists on Friday. Mr. Sarma, however, said: “Following her expulsion, I cannot say what development will take place. She is one of the tallest leaders. If she desires to join the BJP, the BJP will welcome her.” Mr. Sarma also said Mr. Goala and Gana Shakti Party MLA Bhuban Pegu were likely to meet Mr. Shah on Saturday. During his stay in Assam, the Union Home Minister will inaugurate various projects from Amingaon in north Guwahati. He will also take part in the distribution of Rs. 155 crore as aid to 8,000 namghars, Vaishnavite prayer houses, under the Assam Darshan programme. Mr. Shah will leave for Manipur on December 27 where he will lay the foundation stones of some projects.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi gets some respite from ‘severe’ air quality||After three days of ‘severe’ air pollution, the air quality of Delhi and Noida improved to the ‘very poor’ category on Friday and Gurugram's continued in the ‘very poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).     The air quality of Delhi is expected to further improve on Saturday and Sunday.       Air pollution of the ‘very poor’ category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, according to the government.      The 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi was 357 on Friday. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 302 and 386, respectively. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Friday, said monitoring agency SAFAR.                            “Marginally better ventilation conditions are forecast for the next two days. The AQI is forecast to improve to the middle of the ‘very poor’ category on December 26 and 27, and may further improve on December 28,” said SAFAR.          The speed of surface-level winds, which was “low” for the past three days, picked up speed and was “moderate” on Friday. Faster surface winds help in dispersion of pollutants.     Mixing layer height, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, remained “low”. This leads to accumulation of pollutants near the surface, which increases air pollution.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||FIR lodged in DJB office vandalism case||A day after BJP workers allegedly vandalised the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) headquarters in central Delhi, the Delhi police have registered an FIR into the matter under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, said a senior police officer. Delhi BJP chief named Earlier in the day, AAP MLA and DJB Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha filed a police complaint naming Mr. Gupta and others. On Thursday, a group of BJP workers led by party Delhi chief Adesh Gupta attacked the DJB headquarters and assaulted the DJB employees, according to the Aam Aadmi Party. In multiple videos released by the AAP, a mob chanting “Adeshjisangharsh karo”, “Jai Shri Ram”, and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” can be seen forcing its way through the main gate of the DJB headquarters and vandalising government property. Mr. Gupta can also be seen in the videos as the main figure in the group both inside and outside the main DJB building. Mr. Gupta, however, had claimed that the attack was carried out by AAP workers.
26 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Mutant strain of virus to be studied in Jaipur||The mutant strain of the virus causing COVID-19, detected in Britain, will be studied at Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here with genetic sequencing and testing of the spike protein. The biggest hospital in Rajasthan is developing the study facility at its state-of-the-art microbiology laboratory. SMS Medical College’s principal and controller Sudhir Bhandari told The Hindu on Thursday that the samples for study would be obtained from the patients returning from Britain and other European countries, who test positive in the regular RT-PCR investigation. The hospital’s Microbiology Department was already conducting 6,000 RT-PCR tests a day, he said. The sequencing lab, expected to start shortly, will detect the mutation in SARS-CoV-2 by testing spike protein and the specific genes which were targeted as part of screening of the infection cases. Dr. Bhandari said any structural changes found in spike protein or the mutation detected in the virus would indicate an alteration in its infection properties. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also pointed out on Thursday that the new variant of the virus could spread 70% faster. He called upon the people to take all precautions to avoid infection and adhere to the protocol of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Mr. Gehlot said the infection by the new virus strain has been detected in countries, such as Austria, France and Belgium, in addition to Britain. The State government is alert for screening of the people travelling from these countries. The SMS Hospital was the first medical institution to use hydroxychloroquine and anti-HIV drugs, Lopinavir and Ritonavir, in the first few COVID-19 patients earlier this year with encouraging results. “All these drugs are today a part of solidarity trial by the World Health Organisation. The recovery rate has been phenomenal because of [our] intense management,” Dr. Bhandari said. Dr. Bhandari, who heads the COVID-19 management group, said the State had achieved the recovery rate of 95% with the help of medical experts, administrative action and healthcare facilities. The condition of each patient with or without co-morbid symptoms was assessed and their management planned along with a close monitoring, he said.  All these drugs [hydroxychloroquine and anti-HIV drugs] are today a part of solidarity trial by the World Health Organisation. The recovery rate has been phenomenal because of [our] intense management   Sudhir Bhandari SMS Medical College’s principal and controller
26 December 2020||Agartala,||Tripura launches scheme for violence victims’ kin||Tripura government has launched a scheme to provide jobs to next of kin of those who died in political violence over a period of 46 years with 2018 as a cut-off year. This was one of the assurances the ruling BJP declared in its vision document released ahead of State’s Assembly elections held in February 2018. Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath, who is assigned to inform important decisions of the State government, said a committee which was set up immediately after the last Cabinet meeting already started scrutinising applications. “The committee has reviewed applications of ten families so far and recommended jobs for six applicants. Next of kin of those killed before March 2018 are eligible to be considered under the scheme,” Mr. Nath, who is the chairman of the six-member committee, said. Officials on Friday said the applications of families who lost one or more members in political violence over a time of 46 years since Tripura became a full-fledged State will be accepted for consideration. They said the candidates should have the eligibility to be enrolled in government jobs and the victim families must not have viable alternative sources of income. The government might consider relaxation of age and educational qualification of candidates.
26 December 2020||New Delhi,||More field trips once schools open||In a step aimed at resurrecting both the tourism sector and revenue generation — affected by lockdown and COVID-19 guidelines — the Directorate of Education (DoE) will begin encouraging students to virtually learn about the heritage of Delhi. This will be followed by trips and excursions for students to tourist spots in the Capital as soon as schools open. “All heads of DoE schools are requested… to equip the students through virtual mode,” read a circular by the department. “Excursions and tours can be organised subject to opening of schools after COVID-19 pandemic to overcome impending crisis being faced by the tourism Industry,” it also stated. As per the Delhi Economic Survey 2019-2020, approximately 2.74 million (28.35%) foreign tourist arrived in Delhi during 2017. Prior to the pandemic, Delhi government records show its flagship Bed and Breakfast scheme hosted over 1.05 lakh tourists till December 2019. While the number of tourists lodged at these sites in 2018-19 was 1.14 lakh.
26 December 2020||Banda,||Dalit man beaten up for using common handpump||A 45-year-old Dalit man was beaten up in a village in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh on Friday allegedly by people who objected to his using a handpump instaled by the government, the police said. In an FIR lodged at Bisanda police station, Ramchandra Raidas has alleged that family members of Ram Dayal Yadav attacked him with sticks when he had gone to fetch water from the handpump in Tendura village here, Station House Officer Narendra Pratap Singh said. Mr. Raidas was admitted to a primary health centre, Mr. Singh said.  An investigation in the case is under way, the police officer said.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Feeding time||
26 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Don’t disrupt State’s telecom services, Punjab CM tells farmers||Amid reports that power supply to mobile towers was being disconnected by protesting farmers in different parts of the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to them to not inconvenience the general public with such actions. He asked them to exercise the same restraint that they had been showing over the past several months and said that telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws should show the same discipline and sense of responsibility which they had been exercising during their protest at the Delhi border and also earlier during their agitation in the State.
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Striding on to the screen||A whisky brand, and a blended one at that, might not seem like the top candidate for a documentary. But when it is Johnnie Walker, the world’s best selling Scotch brand, all bets are off. BAFTA-winning director Anthony Wonke’s new independent film, The Man Who Walked Around the World , looks at how the ‘striding man’ became omnipresent, far removed from its humble start as a grocer in 1820. Wonke — who has previously made documentaries on Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo and Star Wars — is no stranger to culture and fandom. With his latest offering, the two collide for an often-hagiographic history of the Scottish distillery. “I am intrigued by the brand’s iconography and how it somehow resonates in our lives today,” he tells me over an email interview. “Whisky itself is imbued with historical and cultural connotations, a Zelig-like character that has been part of major social and political scenes in history.”  A dram of history  Encompassing almost 200 years and as many countries in a film is a tough task. Those seeking a deep dive will be disappointed — the film is an exploration of what ‘it takes to become an icon in popular culture’. There is, however, deep respect for the whisky maker, both by those interviewed on camera — ranging from actors and musicians (like Sophia Bush and Cappadonna) to barmen, activists and artists — and those behind it. As a result, the final cut spans a period, that, as Wonke says, “has covered the two World Wars, the influenza pandemic [which was at the same time as their 100-year anniversary], the civil rights movement, the feminist movement, civil unrest, prohibition etc. The brand has seen all sorts of major historical events”. One of the most interesting anecdotes is from Iraq. “We managed to talk to an ex-intelligence analyst and advisor to [retired United States Army general] David Petraeus, who spent at least five years in Iraq. A lot of what he did was talking to ‘bad actors’, as he would put it. In the morning he would be having tea with a member of the Al-Qaeda, in the afternoon, he would be talking to an ex Iraqi Baath party member. In the evenings, he would sit down to negotiate and work out some form of intelligence gathering. Ultimately the truth only came out when a bottle of whisky was put on the table. And that whisky was always Johnnie Walker Blue,” shares Wonke. “So, I quite like the idea that if that bottle of whisky could talk, what would it say about the world, about global history, and about significant moments in life. I think that was one of the things that really struck me.”  Watch The Man Who Walked Around the World on SonyLIV.   I am intrigued by the brand’s iconography and how it somehow resonates in our lives today Anthony Wonke,director
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||machan||When Niharika NM hit a million followers on Instagram, she celebrated by dancing to the song ‘Vaathi Coming’ from Vijay’s upcoming Tamil movie, Master . It can’t get more apt than that for someone whose fans came for the relatable Reels and stayed for the South Indian humour. She reached the milestone on December 17, exactly two months after touching the one lakh mark. This puts her in an elite bracket of 0.32% of users who have this kind of reach (according to the Mention x Hubspot Instagram Engagement Report 2020). Other Indian influencers who have similar numbers include YouTuber-turned-actor Prajakta Koli (@mostlysane, 3 million), content creator Kusha Kapila (@kushakapila, 1.5 million) and chef Ranveer Brar (@ranveer.brar, 1.2 million). The pandemic also helped accelerate her growth, as did guest appearances on Netflix India’s social media show, Behensplaining . “It can be a little intimidating to think of the people behind these numbers... It is very easy to lose track of what you truly want to do and what you are passionate about once you start playing the number game — that is not where I intend to go or to be,” says the 23-year-old Los Angeles-based content creator who is simultaneously working on an MBA degree.  Digital native     Niharikais not new to the social media scene. Back in 2016 — in her second year of engineering college — she started a successful YouTube channel with long-form sketches such as ‘Types of Students Before an Exam’ and ‘Annoying Things That People Do’. “It just started as a hobby, but when the videos began getting a lot of attention, it required me to be consistent. Not being able to balance academics and content creation, I slowly dropped off the scene,” she explains. After moving to the US for her MBA, she chose the easier option when Instagram launched the Reels feature. “There was no other excuse to avoid creating content. Also, it is easier to hold audience attention for 15 to 20 seconds than it is for 15 minutes,” she laughs. Born in Chennai and brought up in Bengaluru, Niharika’s taste in comedy is “extremely diverse”. She counts everyone from Jim Carrey to Rowan Atkinson and Brahmanandam to Vadivelu, as well as Vivek, Santhanam and Vennela Kishore among her inspirations. “If all else fails, I turn to my friends and family because they’re all absolute clowns,” she says. True to this, her content often references them, especially her parents, whom she describes as “very traditional but also cool at the same time”. Through her childhood, they captured her innate humour on video and are therefore very used to it. “Whatever I do they’re like ‘Oh my god, so great, we love it!’ So, I don’t really trust their judgment but they love me and I love them,” she adds.  Repping the South     Thecasual way in which she throws around ‘da’ and ‘machan’ in her 30-second clips has probably done more for Tamil and Kannada thanChennai Expressdid to mainstream South Indian languages and culture. In a recent Reel, she starts off by singing along to ‘Body’ by Megan Thee Stallion and pivots to arguing with a bad driver in Kannada. It hits a sweet spot of both western and Indian pop culture. In a space where regional accents and actions can easily fall into offensive parody territory, how does she tread the line? “I try to stay in my lane and not generalise. Which is why most of my videos start with ‘sometimes my friend/mum says this’. I make sure it is about my life, so others can relate to it instead of me preaching what other’s experiences possibly are,” she explains. Her signature way of saying ‘actually’ always manages to elicit a laugh. Instead of considering social media a beast that needs to be fed constantly, Niharika looks at it more as a creative outlet. “I don’t really force myself because that won’t be organic or funny or relatable. I make sure I give myself a break to recharge in case I don’t feel like it on a particular day,” she says. Of course, there are inspired days when more than one sketch is created. As for trolls, she largely ignores them and will try to differentiate between fact and opinion. She says, “I am quite aware that I’m not everyone’s cup of tea. It would be weird if that was the case, since comedy is so subjective!”  Course correction     Despitethe large following, Niharika makes it a point to check who is sliding into her DMs almost every day. “I absolutely love it when people send me reaction videos of their parents watching my content. Then there was a girl who sent me screenshots of a conversation between her and her best friend, where every message was a line from my videos. It made me feel really important, at least for a brief second,” she recalls. She likens being a content creator to being an entrepreneur, where “you need to take risks to get rewards”. She also recommends having more than one revenue stream so if one brand limits ad spends (especially in a vulnerable post-Covid economy) you have other sources of income. Apart from her work with Netflix, she has also created sponsored posts for Amazon Prime Video. “I think I am monetising my skills to the best of my ability. If I wasn’t a comedian or a content creator, I would definitely use my MBA or my engineering degree to become an entrepreneur in the tech space, just to be aligned with the true Bengaluru spirit,” she concludes.  “I can’t pick a particular song, but artistes like Megan Thee Stallion, Doja Cat and Saweetie helped me get through this year. As for books, there was Big Magic by Elizabeth Gilbert, Pet Sematary by Stephen King and Eleanor & Park by Rainbow Rowell.”
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||The luxury shift||First, we stocked up on sweatpants, then we made home improvements. Next will we be booking vacations and buying beach bags? It is not the most outrageous idea. Since the arrival of a Covid-19 vaccine, there has been a “great rotation” in the stock market: investors have been pulling out of safe-haven stocks, such as consumer staples, and moving into those that could benefit from a recovery, such as banks and airlines. Shift the focus to shoppers, and we may see a great rotation in what people buy, too. Spending could move away from lockdown-inspired home improvements and back to travel and dining. Even with the pandemic raging and restrictions getting tighter over the holidays, tour operators, luxury groups and fashion retailers should be prepared for some future shifts.  Banking on travel?  Consumer behaviour has already changed a great deal this year. Those fortunate enough to keep their jobs and work from home saw their savings swell. When they decided to spend, it wasn’t on dressy clothes, shoes or holidays. Instead, they splurged on cashmere loungewear, indulgent food and, of course, their residences. For luxury goods brands, a renewed appetite for experiences over things will bring mixed results. They have benefited from Chinese, American and European consumers treating themselves to top-end goods such as Rolex watches and Christian Dior bags with some of their accumulated savings. This demand will probably fade as a broader array of spending options becomes available. But any decline in domestic consumption should be offset by a gradual increase in tourist spending, as people begin travelling again. This will be particularly important for European luxury groups, including LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE and Gucci-owner Kering SA. On average, some 50% of luxury sales in Europe come from overseas tourists, according to Flavio Cereda, an analyst at Jefferies.  Going bold  A vaccine brings hope that we’ll eventually return to workplaces, at least for a few days a week. After almost a year of not dressing for the office, people are bound to refresh their wardrobes. Winser London, an online retailer that specialises in upmarket workwear, has seen demand for its silk blouses remain strong during the pandemic (one still wants to look good on Zoom) and even intensify recently. Demand for its dresses and blazers also briefly recovered in the autumn when people started to return to offices. It makes sense if you think about the new world of work, where routine tasks will be done at home, while days in town will be for meetings and presentations — events that require more polished outfits. Meanwhile, Anita Balchandani, who leads McKinsey & Co’s apparel and luxury work in Europe, says there’s a “huge pent up demand for glamour”. According to Lyst, the fashion platform, searches for heels and gowns held up even when people had nowhere to go. And trend forecaster WGSN sees a return to colours and prints amid increasing optimism about a post-pandemic future. Yet fashion often reacts against prevailing conditions. Faith Popcorn, CEO of marketing consulting firm BrainReserve, whose job is to imagine the future for big consumer groups, says this could manifest in what she calls the ‘Roaring 2020s’ — decorative clothing, high heels and lots of make-up could be a backlash against the drab leisurewear that characterised much of the year. This turn would be a relief for high-end sellers, such as Gucci, Chanel and Louis Vuitton, as well as fast fashion chains like Hennes & Mauritz AB and Inditex’s Zara. Whichever version of the future emerges — be it comfort chic or more splashy getups — a shift in wardrobes will be one more great rotation to pay attention to. Bloomberg
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||Bending reality||Eschaton, New York’s virtual nightclub launched during the pandemic, can be surreal. Thanks to the time difference, you can join their special Zoom event,NYE: The Dissolution, at 9.30 am on January 1, 2021. Slip on festive attire for the 60-minute experience, which also gives access to an hour-long after party. From Rs. 2,000 (approx) on tickettailor.com
26 December 2020||December 26 2020 00:00 IST,||K-Pop on YouTube||This virtual event brings together top K-Pop acts like BTS, TXT, Lee Hyun, and GFriend, for a New Year’s Eve concert. Singers Halsey, Lauv and Steve Aoki are also set to make an appearance. All three artistes have earlier collaborated with BTS, so tune in for this year’s hits in one place. From 6 pm IST on YouTube. Free to stream.
