27 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Noticeable thinning of Chinese troops along the LAC in Ladakh’||Chinese troops have neither vacated nor removed any of the prefabricated or semi-permanent structures built since May in the disputed sites along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh, a senior government official told The Hindu . However, the official added that in the past three days, there has been a “noticeable thinning of presence of Chinese troops” at some of the three friction points. The removal of the structures was not a part of the original June 22 agreement at the Corps Commander-level talks, till the two parties met with concrete proposals stitched together by the two governments, the official said. “It was decided that there will be no patrolling, movement of troops and vehicles or any fresh construction activity by either side. This reduction [of structures] was not being expected,” he said. The three areas are Galwan, Hot Springs and the Finger area near Pangong Tso (lake) in Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China has also fortified positions at Depsang plains in the north. Another official said the entire stretch along the LAC in Ladakh was seeing “worrisome hardening of Chinese positions, including the placement of 10 mechanised and armoured regiments and at least 15 positions of artillery guns.” The situation was particularly precarious in the Finger area area near Pangong Tso, where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has occupied positions till Finger 4, the first official said. The distance between Finger 4-8, around 8 km, was till now patrolled both by India and China. India considers its perception of the LAC to end at Finger 8. However, since April, the Chinese troops advanced till Finger 4 and have occupied the area where both sides regularly patrolled and face-offs used to occur, the official said. On May 18, violent clashes occurred at this site, resulting in injuries to many soldiers. After the June 22 Corps Commander-level talks, which took place in the aftermath of the June 15 Galwan incident, where 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a clash, both China and India agreed to reduce their presence from the friction points where they are still “eyeball to eyeball,” with Finger area emerging as a thorn in the discussion. “The Chinese have reduced the presence in the Finger area but they have not moved back an inch. It is anticipated that if they agree to do so, then they will use it as a leverage to assert their claim in some other disputed area,” said the official.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 150 fresh cases||The State on Friday reported 150 fresh COVID-19 cases. With 65 recoveries, the number of active cases now is 1,846, all of whom are undergoing treatment in hospitals across districts. While 139 of the new cases are imported cases of infection diagnosed in people who have returned home from abroad and other States, it is a matter of concern that 11 people have contracted the disease through local transmission, after they came into contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Five of the 11 cases of local transmission have been reported in the capital city where large areas have been declared as containment zones after close to 10 persons, including a family cluster of eight, acquired COVID-19 from the community. 6 CISF jawans infected In Kannur, the situation is a matter of concern as six out of the 13 who tested positive are members of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), while three are employees of the Army canteen. Two of the CISF personnel who tested positive had been on duty at the Kannur airport. The State has sent 5,859 samples over the past 24 hours for testing. So far,2,09,456 samples have been tested. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 114.
27 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Total lockdown in Guwahati for 14 days||The Assam government has decided to impose a total lockdown in Guwahati for 14 days from the midnight of June 28 in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. The government has also decided to impose night curfew across the State and twice-a-week lockdown in all urban and semi-urban places with immediate effect. Community spread “The COVID-19 cases in Guwahati have been increasing exponentially. Since June 15, we have recorded 676 cases of community transmission. We have thus decided to impose total lockdown in the city from June 28 midnight till July 12,” Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday. There would be no lockdown for rural areas but the night curfew from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. will be in force. Apart from essential services, including movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities, nothing would remain open for the first seven days in Kamrup (Metro) district, of which Guwahati is a part. Grocery shops and vegetable markets would remain closed too. “The administration and police have been told to ensure a strict lockdown. We will assess the situation next Friday and take a call on relaxations, if needed,” said Mr. Sarma. The movement of vehicles would be monitored during the lockdown period and no vehicle — private or commercial — would be allowed to enter or exit. “Anyone willing to leave the city should do so by Saturday,” he said. All religious places, hotels, restaurants and e-commerce would remain closed, while up to 20 people would be allowed to take part in funerals or cremations. However, farm and tea estate activities would function unlike during the first lockdown. Cases from other States The Minister said Assam had so far tested 4.5 lakh swab samples with more samples being tested. “I have been told some States have done better, but an analysis of cases from 20 districts in Assam revealed that many cases were from such States. For instance, 82 positive cases were of people who had come from Kerala after that State was said to have flattened the curve. Similarly, 104 cases were from Karnataka,” he said. On Friday, Assam recorded 6,646 positive patients, with 2,387 active cases and 4,247 people discharged. Nine persons have died, while three migrated to other States.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,||Fiscal deficit could touch Rs. 85,000 crore: Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu’s fiscal deficit could touch Rs. 85,000 crore this year due to the pandemic if the existing trend of revenue shortfall continues, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. “Revenue receipts have dried up over the past two months. With industries and businesses remaining shut, we will sustain a shortfall of about Rs. 12,000-Rs. 13,000 crore a month as per the Finance Secretary’s projections,” he told journalists. A month ago, Mr. Palaniswami, citing a Finance Department estimate, had put the anticipated revenue shortfall, vis-a-vis budget estimates of revenue receipts, at Rs. 35,000 crore. He said a decision on extending the lockdown beyond June 30 or expanding it would be taken based on inputs of the expert committee and the Centre’s decision. “The committee meeting is scheduled for Monday.”
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC okays CBSE plan for Class X, XII exams||The Supreme Court accepted a Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) scheme, where students of Class X and XII will be assessed for the exams cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic by taking an average of their best performance in the papers they have already taken. The cancelled examinations were originally scheduled between July 1 and 15. 10-page order Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the CBSE, said the assessment scheme was available on the official website. “Assessment of the performance of students in the cancelled examinations will be done based on the assessment scheme,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, referred to the CBSE notification in a 10-page order. The assessment results will be out by July 15. The Bench said its order and the notification would govern “any petition pending in this court or any other court concerning the subject of conducting examinations for Classes 10 and 12 by the CBSE scheduled from July 1 to July 15”. The ICSE, represented by senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, said it would have a “slightly different” assessment scheme from that of the CBSE. It had also cancelled exams scheduled between July 1 and 14. Mr. Gupta informed the court that its scheme would be available on its website in a week. According to the CBSE scheme, students of Class X and XII, who have completed their examinations, will be assessed on their performance. The assessment results, which will be out by July 15, will be treated as final for Class 10. However, unlike the CBSE, Mr. Gupta said the ICSE may allow its Class 10 students to appear for an optional examinations like their Class 12 counterparts. The court agreed that “whenever the CBSE decides to conduct the optional exam, it will be notified”
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||MCA asks CM to bat for return from the pavilion||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has requested Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to release standard operating procedures (SOP) for resumption of maidan cricket activities.  The Hindu has accessed a letter written by Sanjay Naik, the MCA secretary, and joint secretary Shahalam Shaikh, which was submitted to the Chief Minister’s Office on Friday. “As the governing body for cricket, we've followed all the directions/notifications of the government and will continue to do so in the future. At the same time, we have to understand that there are thousands of players who are anxiously waiting to get back to cricketing activities and pursue their careers. They have been patiently waiting for the pandemic to get over. However, it seems that we have to learn to live with the virus,” the letter stated. “In these unprecedented times, we request you to kindly provide us some guidelines/standard operating procedures regarding getting back to cricket. We intend to keep all the players well informed so that they follow all the government guidelines. We would greatly appreciate it you could provide us with the necessary directions as to when and how we can resume cricketing activities.” While the Centre has allowed training for top sportspersons at stadia, lack of guidelines and the fear of contracting the COVID-19 infection has resulted in cricket activities literally coming to a standstill in the Mecca of cricket. The MCA is the custodian of all the cricket activities in Greater Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts, along with parts of Raigad district in and around Kharghar in Navi Mumbai. With cricket coming to a halt, hundreds of curators and local coaches have been struggling to make ends meet. Besides, the pandemic having coincided with the summer cricket window, which is primarily used for talent identification by hundreds of clubs, has resulted in increasing the concern of hundreds of young cricketers and their parents. “I wouldn’t mind resuming training of my son if there are proper guidelines in place and are adhered to. It’s too much of a risk if one full year goes waste without cricket,” said a parent of an 11-year-old cricketer who trains in Mulund, requesting anonymity. The Board of Control for Cricket in India had last week notified its affiliates, including MCA, that it is preparing SOP for resumption of domestic cricket. However, the MCA officials believe the BCCI guidelines will primarily deal with inter-State matches at all levels and feel the State government should try and clear doubts arising in young cricketers’ and their parents’ mind.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC stays GR stopping schools from hiking fees||In what may come as a huge jolt to parents, the Bombay High Court on Friday granted an interim stay on a State government resolution that restricted educational institutions from hiking their fees for the academic year 2020-2021, in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In a government resolution (GR) issued on May 8, under the Maharashtra Education Institution (Regulation of Fees Act), and Disaster Management Act, the State had directed educational institutes to not increase the fees in the academic year 2020-2021. It also asked schools to not collect dues/balance fees for year 2019-2020 at one go, and instead give parents an option to deposit it on a monthly or quarterly basis. The GR also stated that if certain educational facilities are not being utilised, schools could reduce the fees after passing a resolution in the executive committee. Several educational trusts, including Association of Indian Schools, Global Education Foundation, Kasegaon Education Trust and Sant Dnyaneshwar Sanstha, had approached the high court seeking quashing of the GR. A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla, in an interim order, stayed the operation of the GR pending final hearing and disposal of the petitions. Senior counsel Milind Sathe and advocate Saket Mone, representing Kasegaon Education Society — a public charitable trust which runs a school in Navi Mumbai — said the scheme under both the Acts do not confer any power and/or contemplate the State government to issue any directions in the nature contained in the GR. The 80-page petition mentions, a GR issued on March 30, 2020 which categorically stated that parents have requested the State to allow them time to pay fees for academic year 2019-2020 and 2020-2021. Thus at no point the intent of either the parents or government was to not make payment of the fees but defer or seek more time during lockdown. The Association of Indian Schools in their 64-page petition stated the GR is in violation of Articles 19 (1) (g) (To practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) and 30 (Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions) of the Indian Constitution, and sought a direction from the court restricting authorities from implementing the GR.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Uddhav urges PM to back State on cancelling exams||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct apex bodies to cancel final year/semester exams of professional courses. He said, “Considering the current COVID-19 situation, the State Disaster Management Authority, in a meeting on June 18, decided not to conduct final year/semester examinations of non-professional and professional courses, and award degrees to students based on a formula to be decided by universities.”
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||10 deaths and 605 fresh cases in State||The State witnessed 10 more COVID-19 deaths and 605 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike taking the tally to 11,489. The toll has gone up to 146 with most of the cases being reported in the past few days. Of the total cases, 9,353 cases are of locals while 1,764 are of people from other states and 372 are of foreign returnees, according to a bulletin issued by the health authorities. On the whole, there are 6,147 active patients and the number of recoveries increased to 5,196, including the 208 discharges in the past 24 hours. Most of the new deaths occurred in Kurnool and Krishna districts, which reported four cases each. Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Of the 605 new cases, 570 are of locals and most of them came from Kadapa (133), West Godavari (79), Anantapur (79), Guntur (74) and Kurnool (60). The remaining cases are from Prakasam (28), Chittoor (26), Vizianagaram (23), Visakhapatnam (20), Krishna (20), Nellore (15), East Godavari (12) and Srikakulam (1). With 22,305 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, the State has so far performed 7.91 lakh tests, the bulletin said.
27 June 2020||BEIJING,||‘Bid to alter status quo will have ripples’||India on Friday warned China that trying to alter the status quo on the ground by resorting to force would not just damage the peace that existed in the border areas but could also have “ripples and repercussions” in bilateral relations. It demanded that Beijing stop its activities in eastern Ladakh. The only way to resolve the current stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh is for Beijing to realise that trying to “change the status quo by resorting to force or coercion is not the right way forward,” India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said in an interview. Asserting that actions taken by the Chinese forces have damaged “considerable trust”, the Indian ambassador added that it was entirely the responsibility of the Chinese side to take a careful view of the relations.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||More micro containment zones in Delhi||The Delhi government’s June 22 order to review and redesign containment zones has not only resulted in an increase in the number of such zones but may also lead to the demarcation of more ‘micro containment zones’. A State government official said the idea behind these smaller containment zones is to reduce inconvenience to people. “While only 19% of the total cases are from containment zones, around 45% of the cases show clustering, for example two to three cases from adjacent houses in an area,” the official said. Under the revised containment zoning, such clusters will be intensively identified, linked and contained. The district officials are working with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for this purpose. The redesign is part of a ‘Revised COVID Response Plan’ adopted by the Delhi government on Monday based on directions from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.With officials of all 11 city districts being directed to aggressively comb their areas, the number of containment zones increased from 261 on Monday to 280 on Friday and is expected to go up further.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Snip in time||
27 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana fixes price caps for treatment||Categorising the sickness due to COVID-19 as ‘moderate’, ‘severe’ and ‘very severe’, the Haryana government has fixed the maximum charges for the treatment in the State’s private hospitals and medical colleges with a cap of Rs. 18,000 per day for treatment in ICUs with ventilator in JCI/NABH-accredited hospitals. The rates will include charges such as lab investigations, monitoring charges, drugs and consumables. Besides, the shopping malls in Gurugram will open in a week’s time with Standard Operating Procedures to be announced soon.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Restrict height of Ganesha idols, CM urges mandals||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday appealed to all Ganesh mandals in the State to restrict the Ganapati idol size to four feet, observe austerity in celebrations, and follow safety norms during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Thackeray said, “Extravagant celebrations and huge Ganesha idols is an attraction in Mumbai and Pune. But we will have to avoid them this year. I have held talks with representatives of mandals, and we unanimously agreed to celebrate the festival with discipline and safety.” The CM said it has also been decided to restrict the height of idols to four feet. “In case of bigger idols, the manpower required too increases. We will have to prevent crowds even in pandals. Even the immersion will have to be performed with as few people as possible.” He said the dahi handi festival, too, has been cancelled.
27 June 2020||Pune,||State reports record single-day high of 5,024 cases||With a record single-day high of 5,024 fresh COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra’s total tally surged to 1,52,765 on Friday. The toll went up to 7,106 with 175 more deaths. Of these, 91 deaths were reported in the last 48 hours and 84 were from an earlier period, Health Department officials said. The total number of recovered patients went up to 79,815, with the discharge of 2,362 people. The number of active cases stood at 65,829. With 1,297 new cases, Mumbai’s tally reached 72,175, including 28,244 active ones. With 44 deaths, the toll reached 4,179. Meanwhile, Health Minister Rajesh Tope categorically refuted allegations made by former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis that the government had not reported around 1,000 COVID-19 related deaths. “Transparency and honesty is the dharma of the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition, and we conduct ourselves in that manner. To say that we are conducting fewer tests or are under-reporting deaths is completely wrong,” he said.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,||10 new COVID-19 deaths||Karnataka saw 10 more COVID-19 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 180. Although the number of non-COVID deaths increased to five, including the death of a 60-year-old woman at K.C. General hospital, the Health Department is yet to take note of it in the update.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Patient found dead in washroom of ward||A 60-year-old COVID-19 patient was found dead in the washroom in K.C. General hospital in Bengaluru on Friday. The woman, along with her daughter-in-law and granddaughter, had been shifted from a quarantine centre to the hospital on June 18 after they tested positive.
27 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Govt. to work to reduce waiting time for beds||The State government has decided to prepare a blueprint on the requirement of beds for the coming days and work towards reducing the waiting period for COVID-19 beds from the present range of 24-48 hours to eight hours.
27 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||'Govt. keen on averting custodial deaths'||Information Minister ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju said here on Wednesday that the government was keen on preventing custodial deaths.
27 June 2020||Chennai,||Number of samples tested crosses a million||The number of samples tested for COVID-19 crossed one million in the State, the first to reach the milestone in the country. The tests were done in 47 laboratories in the government sector and 42 in the private sector. Chennai’s index lab — the King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine, in Guindy — has tested the largest number of samples, 1,24,046.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Why scheme only for Yes Bank, asks HC||The Delhi High Court has directed the Reserve Bank of India and the Centre to explain why they decided to secure the interest of the depositors of scam-hit Yes Bank with a ‘Reconstruction Scheme’ as opposed to Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC), another scam-hit bank.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Need time to get health in order: Safoora||Jamia Millia Islamia scholar Safoora Zargar, who was granted bail by the High Court earlier this week after being lodged in Tihar jail for nearly two months in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, said she needed time and space to get her health and life in order.
27 June 2020||New delhi,||Survey to map virus spread starts today||A serological survey to understand the spread of COVID-19 and immunity developed against the virus, by drawing blood samples of 20,000 random people across the city, will start from Saturday.
27 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||One death each in Bidar, Ballari, Kalaburagi||Three deaths due to COVID-19 — one each in Kalaburagi, Bidar and Ballari districts — were reported on Friday. In Kalaburagi, a 55-year-old male with complaints of fever and breathlessness died on June 24 and later tested positive for the virus. The district also reported 42 new cases of COVID-19. In Bidar, a 65-year-old female, contact of a patient in a containment zone, died on June 25. The district recorded one fresh case on Friday. In Ballari, a 71-year-old male suffering from severe acute respiratory infection died on June 23 and later tested positive for coronavirus. There were 47 new cases in Ballari.
27 June 2020||DHARWAD,||Dharwad records fourth COVID-19 death||Dharwad district recorded its fourth COVID-19-related death. It also reported 30 new positive cases taking the total tally of such cases to 274. Meanwhile, 13 persons were discharged from the designated hospital taking the total number of discharged patients to 155. There are 115 active cases. The COVID-19 death on Thursday was that of a 42-year-old man (P-8,753) from Sasvihalli in Navalgund taluk. This man was admitted with serious health complications and breathed his last due to acute pulmonary thromboembolism (blood clot). He was also HIV positive and the last rites were carried out as per COVID-19 protocol in his native village.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways promises more special trains||Following the increasing demand for trains on certain routes, the Railways on Friday said it would very soon announce more special trains for travellers. Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav said running all available trains would not be possible in the “very near future”, but the Railways was closely monitoring the situation and “is in the process of finalising trains...maybe in a week or ten days will announce more special trains.” Following the suspension of passenger services on March 22, the Railways started running 230 special passenger trains. Of these, Mr. Yadav said, 78 trains were running at more than 100% occupancy, 43 trains at 75-100% and 27 trains at 50-75% as on June 26. “It is a very difficult situation and people are travelling only when essential... We will be adding more special trains. However, running trains at full strength will take time and depends on how the COVID-19 situation changes,” he said at a media briefing. Mr. Yadav added that the Railways had seen an “encouraging” trend of increasing occupancy in trains moving in the “reverse direction”, for example, from States such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar to Mumbai and Gurajat. “Now trains running from Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, to Mumbai are at full occupancy. Similar is the case with trains from Bihar to Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh to Ahmedabad... This is a good sign that economic activity has started and people are returning to work,” he said. The Railway Board Chairman said the demand for Shramik Specials had been “fully satisfied”, and there was no demand pending now. So far, the Railways had run 4,594 such trains, ferrying 62.8 lakh passengers. COVID coaches According to the Railways’ estimate, it is spending Rs. 2 lakh per COVID care coach, including for minor modifications, maintenance, food and linen for patients, and protective gear for the staff. Mr. Yadav said this was being funded by the Central COVID care fund, and the Railways had already been allocated about Rs. 100 crore for the expenses on account of 5,213 such coaches. He said a total of Rs. 620 crore had been sanctioned from the fund to the Ministry of Railways. On manufacturing of ventilators by the Railways, he said it was a “conscious decision” not to make ventilators given that it required a lot of testing before going to market.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon has covered country at fastest pace since 2013: IMD||The southwest monsoon has galloped to cover the entire country at a pace not seen since 2013, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The normal date for the monsoon to span the whole country is July 8. This year, the monsoon set in early on its expected date of June 1 and was only briefly stalled due to the impact of cyclone Nisarga that struck Maharashtra on June 2. Low pressure “The early advance over Central & Northwest India was facilitated by formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards, and another cyclonic circulation over central India,” the IMD said in a statement. “Considering southwest monsoon onset and advance over the country as a whole, there has been normal progress over south and east India, about a week delay in advance over northeast India and about 7-12 days early advance over Central and northwest India.” However, the monsoon’s advent into northwest India has not translated into significant rainfall in the region. The IMD says that most of the rainfall will be towards India’s northeast, at least until June 29. Usually the monsoon trough see-saws, in that heavy rain in the north-east translates to little rain over the rest of the country and when rains wane over the Himalayan foothills and the east, it starts to pick up in the rest of the country. “Rains may revive over north India by June 28th, but they are unlikely to be very heavy,” tweeted Mahesh Palawat, Vice-President, Meteorology, Skymet Pvt. Ltd. So far the monsoon rainfall in June has been 21% more than what is normal for this time of the month.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala looking at cases with no known source||Recording another high on Friday, Tamil Nadu reported 3,645 cases of COVID-19. Of this, Chennai recorded an all-time high of 1,956 cases — its overall tally inching closer to the 50,000-mark. With this, Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally stood at 74,622. The State’s toll increased to 957 with 46 more fatalities, while total number of persons discharged rose to 41,357 as another 1,358 persons left hospitals on Friday. A total of 32,305 persons were under treatment. If Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka kept their focus on mortality and rise in fresh cases, Kerala was looking at potential community transmission of COVID-19 on Friday. Ten people died in Karnataka and an equal number in Andhra Pradesh. Kerala reported 150 new cases on Friday. With 65 recoveries also reported, the number of active cases stood at 1,846, all under treatment in hospitals. Of the fresh cases in Tamil Nadu, 122 persons had returned from abroad and other States. Out of the 3,523 local cases, nearly 45% were reported in 35 districts other than Chennai. Perambalur recorded no new cases. With a number of districts witnessing an increase, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said, “The districts were instructed to take up effective containment, aggressive and intensive testing, isolating and treatment of COVID-19 positive patients.” Of the 46 persons who died, 44 had co-morbid conditions.  With 10 more deaths in Karnataka, the toll rose to 180. Although non-COVID deaths went up to five, including that of a 60-year-old woman at K.C. General hospital, the Health Department was yet to take note of it in its update. While three deaths were in Bengaluru [on June 11, 12, and 25], one each was reported from Kolar, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Bagalkot, Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Ballari. Also, 445 new cases were reported, taking positive patient numbers to 11,005. Chamarajanagar, an erstwhile green district with just 10 cases till Thursday, saw a sudden spike on Friday with 10 more new ones. While 80 of 445 new cases had no contact or travel history, 144 were Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) cases. Following complaints of a lack of hygiene and poor quality food supplied to patients in some hospitals, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar appointed senior officer Somanna Kadakola to supervise. 10 more deaths in A.P. Andhra Pradesh witnessed 10 more COVID-19 deaths and 605 fresh cases, the highest on a single-day taking the tally to 11,489. The toll rose to 146. Among total cases, 9,353 were of locals while 1,764 were of people from other States and 372 foreign returnees. Overall, there were 6,147 active patients, and recoveries rose to 5,196 including 208 fresh discharges. Most new deaths were in Kurnool and Krishna districts at four cases each. Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported one death each.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru bureaus)
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid tensions, Army chief briefs Rajnath on Ladakh||Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane on Friday met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and briefed him on the ground situation along the border in Eastern Ladakh amid continuing tensions, a defence source said. Gen. Naravane was in Ladakh on a two-day visit and oversaw operational preparedness while Mr. Singh returned on Thursday after a four-day visit to Russia. The Army chief briefing was on the operational situation on the ground along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) following his recent visit, a defence source said. He also updated the Minister on the deliberations of the Army Commanders Conference (ACC) held early this week. Gen. Naravane met Mr. Singh at his residence. The Army chief visited the forward areas in Ladakh on June 23-24 where he interacted with troops, including those involved in the recent clashes with Chinese troops. The Phase-II of the bi-annual ACC, which was postponed in April due to the COVID-19 pandemic was also held on Monday and Tuesday.  ‘Long haul’ An Army source said full disengagement and return to earlier positions is going to be a long haul, specially in areas like Pangong Tso and Depsang, where Chinese troops have made ingress and dug in well inside Indian territory which can alter the alignment of the LAC and crate a new normal on the ground. The region will see the onset of winter in a few months and the tough conditions in the high altitude areas will pose a significant challenge to both sides in supporting troops and positions in such large numbers. The agreement for limited de-escalation reached at the first Corps Commander talks was scuttled with the violent clash on June 15, resulting in the death of 20 Indian soldiers including a Commanding Officer. The modalities for disengagement from all the “all friction areas” in Eastern Ladakh agreed to at the second Corps Commander talks on June 22 is yet to get underway.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. can’t shy away from securing borders: Sonia||The Centre cannot shy away from its responsibility of securing India’s borders at a time of hostility with China and Prime Minister Narendra Modi must tell the nation how it will reclaim the land taken away by the Chinese in Ladakh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Friday. As part of the Congress’s campaign, Shaheed Samman Divas, to honour the soldiers who died in clashes with the Chinese in the Galwan Valley, former party president Rahul Gandhi said China stood to benefit from Mr. Modi’s statement that no Indian territory had been occupied by China when satellite images showed otherwise. At an official briefing, the party said the situation was explosive along the border as the Chinese were barely 30 km from the Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip, which was within the Chinese “artillery range”. In a video message posted on Twitter, part of the SpeakUpForOurJawans campaign, Ms. Gandhi asked why the 20 soldiers were martyred when China had not captured any Indian territory, as claimed by the Prime Minister. “Today when there is a crisis-like situation on the India-China border, the Central government cannot shirk its responsibility [of securing it],” she said. “When and how will the Modi government take back from China our land in Ladakh?... Will the Prime Minister take the nation into confidence on the situation at the border?” she said. Stating that satellite images showed Chinese intrusions at three points, Mr. Gandhi said, “If you [the Prime Minister] say Indian land has not been taken by China and it has actually been taken, then China will stand to benefit”.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘With industries not restarting production, ISRO projects affected’||On January 1, 2020, the Indian Space Research Organisation set out an ambitious target of 25 satellite and launch missions for the year. With three months now lost due to the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving the space agency without a single home launch yet, ISRO Chairman and Secretary, Department of Space K. Sivan said though supply of hardware from industries has been affected, work at each centre is on track.  In the last three months how have ISRO and its centres been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic? Definitely there has been some impact on our programme because of the lockdown. But we are not able to assess it now. We are yet to get stabilised output. We have two kinds of activities. One is in-house research and development. The other one is project or mission related, done outside in industry. ISRO’s own activities are not affected. What is affected is the supply of hardware from industries. Most of our work is done outside in the industry and we are waiting for the industry to start functioning fully. Only then, after some time, can we review and make some assessments. At the same time ISRO is not keeping quiet. Each centre has its in-house facilities and is carrying out many developmental activities in full steam. When do you think you can resume launching satellites? Because of the widespread impact of the coronavirus pandemic, project activities and mission work can be decided only later, when we can rightly assess the situation. By hardware do you mean satellites, launch vehicles, rocket tanks and systems, etc? Could you please elaborate how hardware issues have impacted your projects? Yes. Hardware for all our programmes is affected. Most of our hardware comes from Mumbai and other cities but our vendor industry is not yet fully functional. Project work is affected because industry is not fully geared up for production; inter-state movement [of supplies] is affected and also because employees` movements are not normal. Around 500 small, medium and large industries contribute to the space programme ... The virus and its effect are spread across the country. Even if hardware is made, transporting it [to the respective centres] is the problem. We cannot move the rakes, vehicles or the trailers. For example, if they go from Thiruvananthapuram to Bengaluru or from Thiruvananthapuram to Sriharikota, they must pass through Tamil Nadu and will have to get quarantined.  To what extent do you think the COVID-19 pandemic has hit your annual plan of missions? Sometime in March, GISAT-1 was to have been the first domestic launch of 2020 but it got deferred. As I said before, all projects which require industry support are affected. Activities like satellite launch and making rockets available are affected. Not only for the SSLV, it could be Gaganyaan, Chandrayaan[-3] or every project. It is all interlinked. For a launch to take place, launchpad related activities at Sriharikota are done, not by the personnel there but by people from Thiruvananthapuram. Those teams are not able to travel. However, whether it’s SSLV, Gaganyaan or Chandrayaan[-3,] every in-house activity is going on without a problem  Even if hardware is made, transporting it [to the respective centres] is the problem
27 June 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||After NPP’s return, Manipur BJP under pressure again||The return of four National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs to the coalition government in Manipur was expected to have settled the political crisis for the BJP. Instead, it appears to have triggered the start of another crisis for Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren – resentment of another regional ally, the defectors from Congress and some of his own party MLAs. The Chief Minister, however, claimed on Friday that the political storm was over. Fresh trouble for Mr. Biren began after Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, also the BJP’s troubleshooter in the region as convener of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), promised four ministerial berths to the NPP. They would not be required to take oath of office as their resignations from the Council of Ministers had not been approved. The assurance was given after former Deputy Chief Minister Y. Joykumar and three other NPP legislators submitted a letter to Governor Najma Heptulla on June 25, expressing their renewed support to the BJP-led coalition. The NEDA is a BJP-helmed forum of smaller parties in the Northeast that traditionally had the Congress as its main political rival. BJP lawmakers angry The assurance to accommodate all the four NPP legislators as Ministers angered the BJP lawmakers who had been camping at a luxury hotel in Imphal since the political crisis began, as well as those who had defected from the Congress. These MLAs were unhappy with the “interference” of NEDA and others in Manipur politics. The Naga People’s Front (NPF) too demanded one more berth and threatened to leave the alliance if ignored. In a House of 60, Manipur can have a maximum of 12 Ministers, including the Chief Minister. “Our party MLAs, who are feeling left out, are likely to fly to Delhi and meet the central leadership...” a BJP leader said. Mr. Biren, too, said he might leave for Delhi. “I am yet to have a word from our central leaders on the allotment of portfolios.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,||‘Recovery from pandemic will be at terrible cost’||Academician and author Noam Chomsky said on Friday that power-wielding people who are benefiting from U.S. President Donald Trump’s malice are working hard to ensure that the world that emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic will be structurally like the one that caused it. “Even harsher, more authoritarian, more controls, more surveillance. They are working right now on things such as deregulation and many other ways. What’s going to be a post-pandemic world depends on what [these] people are doing right now,” Prof. Chomsky told V.K. Ramachandran, Vice-Chairman of the Kerala State Planning Board, at the 'Kerala Dialogue' web series on new concepts and government models organised by the Kerala government. Stating that counterforces were emerging all over the world, Prof. Chomsky said they could change the ways things would turn out, if they could be brought together to form a powerful voice. “There was the first announcement of a Progressive International, based on the Sanders' movement in the United States; Yanis Varoufakis's DiEM25 in Europe; and transnational organisations in Europe seeking to preserve what makes sense in the EU and overcome the deeply flawed parts of it,” he said. Pointing out that “you can never predict how this conflict will emerge,” Prof. Chomsky said “we are ultimately going to recover from the pandemic at terrible cost, but we will never recover from the melting of polar ice sheets and other consequences of global warming, which are going to have a hideous effect on the world.” On Kerala’s fight against the pandemic, Prof. Chomsky said the State's reaction to the crisis was quite startling, “Its quite amazing to see the reactions around the world. Not just Kerala, take Vietnam. They have not had a single death,” he said. No quick escape Asserting that while it may be too pre-mature to talk about the eradication of SARS- CoV-2 virus and that it appears the COVID-19 virus will stay on because of the spread and transmission that has occurred over the last few months, Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the World Health Organisation, said the world is watching how this virus is behaving and mutating. “So far it is doing like any other coronavirus and hasn’t changed structure in the major domains at which drugs and vaccines are being targeted. It is likely that this virus will stay with us for a long time, hopefully we will have a vaccine soon, and hopefully it will become just another manageable virus,’’ she said. Dr. Swaminathan further added that the world is learning a lot about this virus. “Each week we understand more and more and therefore our thinking about it and the projections we are able to make do change. In science it is very common as you make advances scientist do debate and question each other and that is how knowledge advances. But for the general public it’s a new experience to have all of this debate happening out in the public domain,” she said. Dr. Swaminathan noted that while COVID-19 isn’t Ebola which kills two-third of the people it infects, “COVID-19 has the ability to infect larger numbers and in that make some people very sick, which is why it is called a dangerous pathogen.” Stressing the need to continue testing aggressively for the virus, Dr. Swaminathan said, “Testing is the only way to know where we are, where the population is and where we need to act. This will be the guiding map for governments across the globe. We can’t fight this virus blindfolded.” People ignored Slamming the nationwide lockdown as a “disastrous arrangement” and the actions of a “war-time Napoleon”, Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen said States and countries that took the public into confidence and had a history of public action, had the best response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing the Kerala Dialogues, Dr. Sen said: “The lockdown in India as a whole had features that were very doubtful and unattractive. It was done on a war footing as if the Prime Minister was Napoleon, rather than the leader of a public movement. It’s very important for any initiative, whether it’s lockdown or not, in connection with COVID-19 or any other pandemic, to have a consultation with the people, with civil society, with different political parties, with the unions, and so on,” he said. “Instead of that, we had a unilateral lockdown with a four-hour notice.” Although the attempt to isolate citizens from contact with each other may have made medical sense, it was a “disastrous arrangement” from an economic perspective, with a failure to understand that preventing daily wagers from earning a living would result in people starving to death. The eminent economist contrasted the Centre's actions to the Kerala government's approach of wide testing, contact-tracing and quarantine which banked on the state's strengths in public healthcare and civic cooperation. The State’s ability to bypass red-tape and act with speed and efficiency in dealing with the crisis also boded well for Kerala's future economic development post-pandemic, he said. Kerala’s strong embrace of the welfare state has led the state from third-poorest in the early 1960s to being the top State in terms of per capita expenditure today, said Dr. Sen. On the other hand, Europe’s climate of austerity and the undermining of the welfare state in countries like Italy meant that state intervention was hesitant with costly delays. “The pandemic itself doesn’t come with lessons. The virus kills indiscriminately. It’s what we do and how we understand the problem that makes a big difference,” said Dr. Sen. “Every adversity, every dialectical challenge is potentially a learning experience. But it need not go that way if we refuse to learn.”  (With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan and Priscilla Jebaraj)
27 June 2020||Srinagar,||Boy, CRPF jawan, 3 militants killed in Kashmir||A boy, a CRPF jawan and three militants were killed in two separate shoot-outs in south Kashmir on Friday. A police spokesman said militants fired upon a CRPF party of 90 Battalion around 12.15 p.m. in Anantnag’s Bijbehara, resulting in injuries to a CRPF jawan and a minor boy. “Both the injured were shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment but they died their injuries,” the police said. Zahid Daas, a militant of the J&K Islamic State outfit, was found to be involved in the Bijbehara attack. “The police have registered an FIR against him,” the police said. The boy was identified as six-year-old Nehan Yawar from Kulgam’s Machwa-Yaripora area and the CRPF jawan as Shymal Kumar. J&K’s regional political parties, including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Peoples Conference, condemned the attackers involved in the killing of the boy. Encounter killings In south Kashmir’s Pulwama, the security forces called off an operation, which left three militants dead, after 20 hours in Tral’s Chew Ullar village. “In the encounter, three terrorists were killed. Their identification and affiliation are being ascertained,” the police said.
27 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. helped save 85,000 lives: PM||The efforts made by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh during the COVID-19 pandemic succeeded in saving at least 85,000 lives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. “If Yogi ji and his teammates had not prepared well, if U.P. would have also faced destruction like in America, then today in U.P. not 600 but 85,000 persons could have lost their lives,” he said. Mr. Modi was drawing a parallel between the COVID-19 situation in U.P., the most populous State with around 24 crore people, and the U.S., which has around 33 crore citizens. Despite the “means and resources and modern technology” at its disposal, the U.S. was badly affected by COVID-19 and lost 1.25 lakh lives but in comparison, U.P. has recorded around 600 deaths so far, Mr. Modi said. Speaking through videoconference at the launch of the ‘Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan’, the PM also compared the U.P. situation with that of four major European countries. Mr. Modi said that the combined population of England, France, Spain and Italy was similar to that of U.P. alone, roughly 24 crore, but the death toll due to COVID-19 in these four countries amounted to 1.30 lakh as compared to 600 in U.P.. Despite being “developed” nations and despite the efforts made by their governments, these countries “did not get the same success in saving their citizens that U.P. achieved,” Mr. Modi said.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre rolls out anti-drug plan in 272 vulnerable districts||An annual anti-drug action plan for 272 vulnerable districts was launched by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on Friday, the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The ‘Nasha Mukt Bharat’, or drug-free India campaign will focus not just on institutional support but also on community outreach programmes in the districts identified in coordination with the Narcotics Control Bureau, R. Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, said at the e-launch. “Today, we want to herald a new change in the strategy against drugs. So far, we had been focussed on institutions, but we need to move the focus to working in society at large because the problem is not at the institutional level, it is at the level of society,” he said, adding that while the Ministry would ramp up funding for institutions, it would also launch campaigns in schools and colleges to prevent drug abuse among youth. He said the funding had gone up from Rs. 49 crore in 2017-2018 to Rs. 110 crore in 2019-2020, and Rs. 260 crore estimated for 2020-2021. Mr. Subrahmanyam said the Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs), funded by the Ministry, should reach out to their communities to help those affected by addiction. Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Rattan Lal Kataria said it was important to sensitise parents to, and involve schools in, prevention of drug abuse.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays investigation against TV news anchor, web journalist||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the investigation into multiple FIRs registered in several States against TV news anchor Amish Devgan for his remarks against Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti. A Vacation Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari restrained the police from taking any action against Mr. Devgan. FIRs have been lodged against him in Rajasthan, Telangana and Maharashtra. Another Vacation Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and B.R. Gavai stayed the proceedings in FIRs registered by the West Bengal police against Nupur Sharma, the editor of web portal ‘Opindia.com’, and three others. The offences mentioned in the FIRs include promoting enmity among religions, communities, etc. However, the petition filed by Ms. Sharma, accused the West Bengal government of imposing “illegal censorship” on Press freedom. The orders in both cases come a few days after the court refused to stay the investigation against senior journalist Vinod Dua for sedition for his telecast on the Delhi riots in February. Advocate Siddharth Luthra, for Mr. Devgan, submitted that his client had already tweeted a clarification, and added that errors cannot be construed as criminal offences.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC issues notice to J&K on lawyer’s detention under PSA||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Jammu and Kashmir government to respond to an appeal filed by the erstwhile State’s High Court Bar Association president challenging his nearly one-year detention and solitary confinement in the Agra Central Prison. A Vacation Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and B.R. Gavai, in a virtual court hearing, issued notice to the Union Territory of J&K, the Srinagar District Magistrate, the police and jail authorities in the Srinagar, Tihar and Agra central jails. The court directed the plea filed by senior advocate Mian Abdul Qayoom, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Vrinda Grover, to quash his detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) to be listed immediately after court vacation. In his appeal before the apex court, Mr. Qayoom argued that the J&K High Court rejected his habeas corpus petition to quash his “illegal and prolonged detention” on May 28. The High Court had declined his plea for personal liberty despite concluding that the detention order was based on “somewhat clumsy grounds”. Mr. Qayoom submitted that the detention order was based on four “stale, irrelevant” FIRs dating back to 2008 and 2010. He said he had never been arrested or charge-sheeted on the basis of these FIRs. In fact, he was detained in 2010 on the basis of these FIRs but the detention was subsequently revoked. The same FIRs could not be used a decade later to pass another order of detention in August 2019. Mr. Qayoom was detained on the intervening night of August 4-5 last year.
27 June 2020||Srinagar,||IAS officer from Bihar granted domicile certificate in Jammu||Navin Kumar Choudhary, an IAS officer from Bihar, has become the first senior non-local officer to get a domicile certificate under the new domicile laws notified after the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Mr. Chaudhary, principal secretary, Jammu and Kashmir Agriculture Production Department, was given a domicile certificate by a tehsildar in the Bahu area of Jammu. He has been serving in the Jammu and Kashmir government for the past 26 years. “This is to certify, Shri Navin K. Choudhary, son of Shri Deokant Choudhary, resident of, at present, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, is a domicile of UT of J&K,” reads the certificate, which went viral on social media. Eligibility clause According to the officials, the applicant was eligible under Rule 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Grant Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, notified on May 18. Several categories were introduced through the new domicile laws to allow non-locals to apply for domicile certificate, which is mandatory for buying land and applying for jobs and admission to educational institutes in the Union Territory. Over 32,000 applications have been received, mainly in the Jammu Division, from locals as well as non-locals for domicile certificates. National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said, “All our misgivings about the new domicile rules in Jammu and Kashmir are coming to the fore. The NC opposed the changes because we could see a nefarious design behind the changes. The people on both sides of the Pir Panjal mountains will be the sufferers of these domicile rules.” A People’s Democratic Party spokesperson said in a statement that the objective of population replacement was to change the Muslim majority character of Jammu and Kashmir at a time when everything in the country was viewed through the prism of religion.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Mahagathbandhan should accommodate Left parties’||With the allies of the Mahagathbandhan — the Opposition alliance in Bihar — beginning a dialogue ahead of the Assembly elections, CPI general secretary D. Raja has said the alliance should take lessons from the Lok Sabha polls where the Left parties were not accommodated. Our primary responsibility must be to defeat the BJP and JD(U) combine in Bihar, and to do so all the secular parties need to come together, Mr. Raja said. He pointed out that the CPI and other Left parties had a steady following and vote base in the State. Though the CPI did not win a seat, it got nearly 2% of the vote share. The CPI(ML), on the other hand, won three seats in the Assembly elections. “Aligning with the Left always renders an amount of credibility to the alliance. In Bihar, we have a strong following and a cadre base. So all secular parties should be accommodative to each other,” Mr. Raja said. The Lok Sabha polls were a lesson to this point, he said. “During the Lok Sabha elections, I met Lalu Prasad too at Ranchi jail. But we weren’t given a berth and the result was that the Mahagathbandhan colossally failed to mount a challenge to the NDA parties,” Mr. Raja said. He said it was too early to speak about division of seats but a dialogue must begin in that direction.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajiv Gandhi Foundation got funds from PMNRF, says Nadda||A day after the BJP accused the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) of accepting funds from the Chinese Embassy in Delhi and advocating a Free Trade Agreement with China, party president J.P. Nadda on Saturday further accused the RGF of receiving funds from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF). The PMNRF receives money from citizens to be deployed as relief to those affected by natural and man-made disasters and is handled by the Prime Minster’s Office. The RGF, with members of the Gandhi family on the board, has in its reports for 2005-2006 and 2007-08 shown that the PMNRF donated funds to it. “PMNRF was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi... Totally reprehensible, disregarding ethics,” Mr. Nadda tweeted, attaching screenshots of the annual reports.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hardship may push people into making drugs for a living: UNODC||The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), in its 2020 World Drug Report, has highlighted a wide range of possible consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic on illegal drug production, supply and consumption. The report, released on Friday, expressed concern over the adverse impact of the economic hardship caused by the pandemic. This could lead to an increase in the number of people resorting to illicit activities linked to drugs to make a living. As experienced during the 2008 economic crisis, it could result in reductions in drug-related budgets of the governments; overall increase in drug use, with a shift towards cheaper and more harmful drugs. The measures taken by governments to counter the pandemic inevitably had double-edged consequences on large-scale drug supply. Double-edged sword Some countries, such as Italy, the Niger and countries in Central Asia, have experienced a sharp decrease in drug seizures, amid reports that drug traffickers have diverted their attention to other illegal activities, including cybercrime and trafficking in falsified medicines (in Balkan countries). Other countries, including Morocco and Iran, have reported huge drug seizures, indicating large-scale drug trafficking, while some have reported an increase in interdiction resulting from increased controls. The report, which is in six volumes, said the lockdown could hinder the production and sale of opiates in major producing countries. The key months for the opium harvest in Afghanistan are March to June. This year’s harvest took place during the pandemic.  “A recent uptick in heroin seizures in the Indian Ocean could be interpreted as an indication of an increase in the use of maritime routes for trafficking heroin to Europe along the ‘southern route’. If confirmed, the shift ... would indicate a change in the strategy of drug trafficking organisations as a result of the COVID-19 measures,” the report said.   An uptick in heroin seizures in the Indian Ocean could be interpreted as an indication of an increase in the use of maritime routes for trafficking United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||International routes will be opened case by case: DGCA||While most international flights will remain suspended in the country till July 15, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday said it was considering re-opening some overseas routes on a case-by-case basis. “Scheduled commercial passenger operations will remain suspended till 23.59 hours of July 15,” said the DGCA in a circular, extending its earlier restriction that was in force till June 30. It added, “international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis (sic).” While domestic flights resumed in the country from May 25, the ban imposed on international flights is in place for more than three months. The DGCA barred international flights from March 23. Vande Bharat Mission The only flights operating on international routes right now are those by Air India, and some domestic carriers, under the Vande Bharat Mission for repatriation of Indians. Some international airlines are also conducting relief flights to evacuate foreign nationals from India. The circular from the DGCA comes at a time when the Ministry of Civil Aviation has said it will enter into bilateral agreements with the U.K., the U.S., France and Germany for creating travel bubbles to allow passage for air travellers. Recently, the U.S., France and the UAE raised objections over Air India’s special flights under the Vande Bharat Mission aimed at repatriation of Indians from around the globe. While the U.S. has sought permission to operate flights to India, France has objected to Air India ferrying passengers into the country from India. The UAE too is known to be in discussions with the Indian government and has discussed a “formula” that can be used to allow the airlines of the two countries to carry passengers.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||No COVID-19 deaths in 4 NE States: Ministry||The northeastern States have a comparatively lower number of COVID-19 cases in the country, with 3,731 active cases and 5,715 recoveries. Also the death rate continues to be low, with no deaths in Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. “A critical pillar which hampered the efforts of these States in combating the outbreak was lack of testing facilities. But because of the focussed attention of the Centre through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, these States have 39 testing labs in the public sector and three in the private sector,” said a senior Ministry official. The States suffered from an acute lack of dedicated hospitals, health centres and care centres, he added. “This problem too has been looked into and healthcare infrastructure across the Northeast has been supplemented with 1,518 COVID-19 facilities. The Centre has also supported the States in stepping up ICU beds, isolation beds, oxygen-supported beds and ventilators. This has played a critical role in effective management of cases,” the Ministry said.
27 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Facing disability hands-on||Class 10 student Kaushik Acharya shot to fame on social media in an unexpected manner, and was suddenly in the media spotlight on Friday. When journalists caught up with him at his house on the banks of the Netravathi in Bantwal in Karnataka, the youngster was busy preparing for the mathematics paper due on Saturday. Just a day earlier, he had become famous as the student who wrote the second language paper with his toes and a photograph of him was shared by Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar on Facebook and Twitter. Kaushik himself was unaware of that. The Minister said in his tweet, “I convey my heartfelt appreciation to Kaushik for writing the examination with his toes in SVS Secondary School in Bantwal without anybody’s help...” Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Pooojary too tweeted, expressing confidence Kaushik would succeed in life. Born with the disability of not possessing hands, Kaushik mastered writing using his toes early. “I do not have any discomfort. I finished the paper well within the allotted time yesterday,” he said. The second of three children of carpenter Rajesh Acharya and homemaker Jalajakshi, Kaushik picked up carpentry from his father and is a good swimmer. He is good at dance and music too and is interested in drawing. He has mastered several yogasanas too. Mobility is not a barrier either — he cycles to school from his house.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,||99-year-old woman beats the virus||A spirited 99-year-old woman returned home on Friday after recovering from COVID-19 in a record nine days in Bengaluru. She is the oldest person to recover from the disease in Karnataka so far. Marceline Saldanha walked out of the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre at Victoria Hospital on Friday along with her 29-year-old grandson Vijay Saldanha. Ms. Saldanha, who has a history of hypertension, was admitted along with her 70-year-old son, 66-year-old daughter-in-law, and the grandson. While she was asymptomatic, the other three had fever, cough, sore throat, and fatigue. Recalling that it was her 99th birthday on June 18 when she entered the hospital, Ms. Saldanha said: “When my son told me that we had to get admitted to a government hospital, I was very reluctant. I had been to a government hospital 40 years ago and had not liked the ambience and patient care there. But now as I walk out of another government hospital, my notion has changed.” “I am happy that I am free from the infection. People should not panic over the infection. It is important to be confident and follow doctors’ advice, take precautions, and take medications regularly,” she said.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,||Case against Mohanlal a futile exercise: Kerala||The State government wants to withdraw the prosecution of actor Mohanlal in an ivory possession case as it is “satisfied that the continuance of the prosecution of this case is a futile exercise and total wastage of the precious time” of court. In his application for withdrawal of prosecution, the Assistant Public Prosecutor has requested the court to stop the prosecution “immediately for the interest of justice.” The Hindu had earlier reported that the State government had issued a no-objection certificate for the withdrawal of prosecution.  Certificate of ownership The State contends that the legality of the possession of two elephant tusks by Mr. Mohanlal was accepted by the competent authority under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 by issuing him a certificate of ownership. The possession and custody of the elephant tusks thus become legal after the Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW) issued him the certificate, it submitted. However, the present CWW had noted that the certificate was issued by violating the due process of law and not holding a ‘proper inquiry regarding the legitimacy of elephant tusks and ivory.’ The State was of the view that further conduct of the “criminal trial may go against the good faith amongst the parties” as far as the certificate of ownership issued to Mr. Mohanlal is concerned. As the government had issued the actor the certificate of ownership, it “now cannot go back from that ownership certificate.” The court has posted the case for July.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||985 test positive in TS||Another 14 districts reported single-digit positive cases during the day. Among those succumbed to coronavirus infection in the State on Friday is the Head Nurse of the Govt. General and Chest Hospital at Erragadda here, Victoria Jayamani (58). She succumbed while undergoing treatment in Gandhi General Hospital (GGH). According to Superintendent of the Chest Hospital Dr. Mahabub Khan, the Head Nurse was on medical leave for the last 20 days and said that she might have contracted coronavirus during her leave period. She got admitted herself to the Chest Hospital with serious respiratory problems earlier this week but she was shifted to GGH for ventilator support, where she succumbed. She was due for retirement at the month-end. Her husband also tested positive for coronavirus and is in home isolation. Meanwhile, Minister for Health Eatala Rajender along with officials of DPH held a review meeting with representatives of private labs permitted to conduct COVID-19 tests. The meeting was informed that four teams comprising senior micro biologists and senior officers of the Health Department inspected all the 16 private laboratories. According to officials, the committee has also suspected the possibility of contamination of samples leading to high positivity rate among the samples tested in private labs. The panel observed that safety measures and other protocols were not being followed meticulously in some private labs.
27 June 2020||Bhopal,||NCW seeks M.P. MLA’s explanation on tweet||The National Commission for Women (NCW) and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) have served notices on Madhya Pradesh Congress working president and MLA Jitu Patwari for a tweet targeting the Centre, which said it begot five “daughters” — note ban, GST, inflation, unemployment and recession — in a failed attempt to have a “son” called development. While NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma, taking suo motu cognisance of the tweet, on Thursday sought an explanation from Mr. Patwari “at the earliest” on the “objectionable tweet”, the NCPCR asked him to apologise to “children of the nation” and inform the commission of it within three days. Describing the remark as “sexist”, the NCW noted that Mr. Patwari tried to draw an “obnoxious analogy” between daughters and several economic issues including inflation in his tweet on June 24, when the Congress protested State-wide against the fuel prices hike while heeding a call of party State president Kamal Nath.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SC okays CBSE plan for Class X, XII exams||Students who have taken the exam in more than three subjects will be assessed after the average in their three best performing subjects is taken to assess their scores for the cancelled papers. If students have appeared for only three exams so far, the average of the best two subjects will be taken as their scores in the cancelled papers. In a few cases such as Delhi, if students have appeared in one or two subjects, the average of these marks along with their internal and practical scores will be used for assessment. The assessment results, which will be out by July 15, will be treated as final for Class 10. However, Class 12 students can choose to appear for “optional examinations” to be held in future for the exams that were cancelled These optional exams will be held when the health situation is "more conducive". However, unlike the CBSE, Mr. Gupta said the ICSE may allow its Class 10 students to appear for an optional exams like their Class 12 counterparts.  Optional exams Parents, who are the petitioners in this case and represented by advocate Rishi Malhotra, said a time limit should be specified for the Class 12 CBSE students to decide whether they wanted to appear in the optional exams. Mr. Malhotra suggested that students should specify within 15 days of the declaration of the assessment results whether they wanted to appear in the optional examinations. “The option has to be exercised by the student within 15 days, otherwise this will lead to further litigation They have to conduct the exam within a certain period, say within 15 days of declaration of results. This would be bind the students to take a call within a period”, Mr. Malhotra submitted. To this, Mr. Mehta countered, “suppose the situation gets conducive in October. Then, let the students decide in September. Why 15 days? Why put pressure on them to take a decision... What we do must be pro student”. The court agreed with the Solicitor General, saying “whenever the CBSE decides to conduct the optional exam, it will be notified and the dates will come in that notification”.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Govt. diverting attention’||The Congress on Friday said the BJP is trying to distract and divert attention by spreading ‘disinformation’ regarding the Sonia Gandhi-headed Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) receiving government funds during the UPA government. “Instead of responding to questions which are relevant today for every Indian, they [the BJP] want to distract attention. They want to divert our focus from the actual issue and want to spread disinformation,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a virtual presser.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear petitions of foreign nationals soon||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to hear on June 29 the petitions by foreign nationals challenging the government orders that blacklisted 2,500 citizens from 35 countries for their alleged involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked counsel for the petitioners to serve copies of their petitions on the Centre. Four petitions have been filed by 34 individuals, including a Thai national who is seven months pregnant, challenging the April 2 and June 4 orders that blacklisted over 2,500 foreign nationals currently in India. “The impugned decision, by its very unilateral nature, infringes the principle of natural justice, particularly ‘audi alteram partem’ by blacklisting the said foreigners present in India without first granting an opportunity of being heard or notice of any form, and resultantly depriving the aggrieved foreign nationals of their right of locomotion and travelling back to the country of their citizenship,” said the plea filed by the Thai woman. The petitioners said the en-masse blacklisting of foreigners without any opportunity to defend themselves is a blatant violation of Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Threats won’t stop me from speaking the truth’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday dared the Uttar Pradesh government to take action against her, adding that it could not stop Indira Gandhi’s grand-daughter from speaking the truth. Ms. Vadra’s challenge to the U.P. government came a day after the State’s child rights body issued a notice to her, asking her to file a reply within three days for a “misleading” comment on the Kanpur shelter home case, where some inmates were found to be pregnant and several tested positive for COVID-19. “As a servant of the people, my duty is towards the people of Uttar Pradesh. And this duty is to put out the truth before them,” Ms. Vadra tweeted. “I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter, not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders,” Ms. Vadra said.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,||22 BMTC staff test positive in three months||As many as 22 staff of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) tested positive for COVID-19 in three months, including six new cases on Friday. Five of them have been discharged after treatment. According to a statement from the BMTC, with a view to ensure early detection and speedy treatment of COVID-19, the corporation had organised random testing of crew. While 16 positive cases were detected earlier, six were reported on Friday. Five persons have been discharged from hospital after treatment. “Primary contacts are tracked by the BBMP, and have been put on home quarantine after due briefing regarding Dos and Don’ts,” according to the statement issued on Friday. The lifeline of Bengaluru’s mass transport system, BMTCbuses limped off to a slow but cautious start once given the go-ahead by the government. Experimenting with new measures to tackle the present situation, the corporation began expanding services and scope of passengers – allowing senior citizens too to travel by bus. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha said these 22 cases are the total number detected over the past three months. “Only one conductor is in the affected list. The primary contacts in depots have been put under home quarantine,” she told The Hindu . She said the BMTC has taken enough precautionary measures to tackle the situation, including making masks compulsory for the crew, issuing face shields to conductors, contactless fare collection through QR code, introduction of flat fares, making masks for commuters compulsory and daily temperature checks for the crew.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||More micro containment zones likely in Delhi||“We have been sending day-to-day data on containment zones to the government. During this process, we have added 10 more containment zones in our district,” an official of the East district said. Delhi government officials said the actions taken under the redesign of containment zones and other actions mentioned in the revised response plan for Delhi were discussed in a meeting with the Secretary of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday. “We were asked to look for clustering of cases. Earlier we had only three containment zones in the district and now there are nine containment zones and 18 buffer zones,” said Shashi Kaushal, District Magistrate of North East Delhi.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Noticeable thinning of Chinese troops along LAC’||India considers its perception of the LAC to end at Finger 8. However, since April, the Chinese troops advanced till Finger 4 and have occupied the area where both sides regularly patrolled and face-offs used to occur, the official said. On May 18, violent clashes occurred at this site, resulting in injuries to many soldiers. After the June 22 Corps Commander-level talks, which took place in the aftermath of the June 15 Galwan incident, where 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a clash, both China and India agreed to reduce their presence from the friction points where they are still “eyeball to eyeball,” with Finger area emerging as a thorn in the discussion. “The Chinese have reduced the presence in the Finger area but certainly they have not moved back an inch. It is anticipated that if they agree to do so, then they will use it as a leverage to assert their claim in some other disputed area,” said the official, adding that the commanders on the ground were awaiting the outcome of diplomatic-level talks to take further action. The government also tasked the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) to analyse the satellite images shared by foreign researchers on social media, which indicate that between June 15 and 22, China rebuilt the observation post and also set up structures reinforcing its positions at the clash site in Galwan area. NTRO analyses images “Around 300-500 images were analysed. The images shared on social media of the Galwan valley are 2D images, whereas the situation on the ground is different. The Chinese added structures after the June 15 incident, but no new structure has come up post June 22. The helipad one sees in the image, said to be on the Chinese side, was built by India a few days ago,” one official said. In the image, the Galwan river appears to be flowing on a flat surface when that was not the case on the ground. “We have come to the conclusion that the images are of June 22 but no new structure has come up after the talks. Yes, the Chinese did construct many structures before that,” he said.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,||‘Ready to bring back students for NEET’||The Union government on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that it was ready to bring back students in Gulf countries who had registered for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) under the Vande Bharat Mission to enable them to write the test scheduled on July 26. The submission was made by the Centre when a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a directive to sanction examination centres in Gulf countries for NEET came up before a Division Bench. The Centre said the students could be brought back to the country under Vande Bharat if they made the required applications before the embassies or consulates concerned. The court had earlier asked the Centre to inform it about the possibility of bringing back the students to the country to write the examination when counsel for the National Testing Agency and the Medical Council of India (MCI) had submitted that it would not be possible to allot examination centres abroad for NEET. Unlike the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), NEET was a uniform entrance examination for admission to all medical courses in medical institutions across the country. Besides, it was not feasible to conduct NEET in online mode in a single shift for all candidates, they had submitted. The court reserved its verdict in the case.  MCI had said it was not feasible to conduct NEET in online mode in a single shift for all candidates
27 June 2020||BEIJING,||‘Chinese actions damaged trust in bilateral relations’||The actions taken by the Chinese forces on the ground in eastern Ladakh have damaged “considerable trust” in the bilateral relationship, India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said in an interview. It was China’s responsibility to take a careful view of the relations and decide which direction the ties should move, he said. ‘Straight forward’ Noting that maintenance of peace and tranquillity “on the border is sine qua non for progress in the rest of bilateral relationship”, Mr. Misri said: “The resolution of this issue is quite straight forward from our perspective. The Chinese side needs to stop creating obstruction and hindrances in the normal patrolling patterns of the Indian troops,” he said. Mr. Misri also termed China’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley “completely untenable” and asserted that these kinds of exaggerated claims were not going to help the situation.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Understand the ethos of civil services’||Former President Pranab Mukherjee on Friday said it was important for civil service aspirants to understand the role of the administrative services in a multifaceted country like India. “As aspirants for the coveted civil services of the nation, it is important for you to understand the ethos of a civil servant and what is the role of civil service administration in a multifaceted nation as India,” the former President said at an e-conclave organised by Unacademy in association with The Hindu . “From being instruments of the perpetuation of status quo, the civil service was envisaged as implementational agents of [a] mammoth socio-economic and political transformation,” Mr. Mukherjee stated.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Voters over 64 can opt for postal ballot||Following the COVID-19 pandemic, the Law Ministry has reduced the age limit for senior citizens who can opt for postal ballot in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. In October 2019, the Law Ministry amended the Conduct of Election Rules to allow people with disabilities and those who are 80 or older to opt for postal ballots. The Election Commission approached the government to amend the rule further as the pandemic could continue till the end of the year. On June 19, the Ministry notified a fresh change, allowing those aged 65 years and above to opt for postal ballot.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Mamata flays 100% FDI in coal mining||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed concern over the Union government’s new policy to allow 100 per cent Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the coal mining sector. She asked it to reconsider the decision. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she noted that this contradicted the “very essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat”. She said, “This policy can neither bring FDI or any new technology to which we don’t have access at present.” When Coal India Limited (CIL), the world’s largest coal mining company, had posted a profit of Rs. 27,000 crore in 2018-19 and held a reserve of Rs. 31,000 crore, the FDI decision would demean its capability, she stated. “Moreover, allowing 100 per cent FDI in coal for multi-national companies will carry a wrong message as it would contradict the very essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat” and would also kill the vision of self-reliant policy that we have been following since beginning,” the Chief Minister added.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,||Decentralised governance helped contain pandemic: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that people's participation under the leadership of empowered local governments seems to be the most effective strategy to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “Kerala has made pioneering strides in the decentralised form of governance. There is considerable community participation in the planning process. It has enriched the process of decentralisation of power. This strong participatory governance has helped Kerala in the containment measures related to the pandemic,” he said at the inaugural address of the ‘Kerala Dialogue,' a web series on development organised by the government on Friday.  Game-changer Mr. Vijayan said the experience of the pandemic should act as a game-changer in assessing the role of the State. “A strong public sector in health and education is necessary for this decentralised model to work well. It has also made us rethink on the role of State intervention, especially in social sectors such as health. The public sector interventions in social and economic sectors cannot be treated as an avoidable evil,” he said.
27 June 2020||BENGALURU,||State govt. to work towards reducing waiting time for beds||Taking note of an increase in the number of COVID-19 patients in Bengaluru, the State government has decided to prepare a blueprint on the requirement of beds for the coming days and work towards reducing the waiting period for COVID-19 beds from the present range of 24-48 hours to eight hours. This will be achieved by using places like Kanteerava Stadium, Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre, Legacy Centre and Metro Community Centre, said Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who is in-charge of monitoring the situation in Bengaluru. The target is to have at least 15 to 20 per cent more beds than the requirement, he explained. Mr. Ashok was briefing media persons after a meeting of all-party legislators and MPs from Bengaluru city convened by Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa to take their suggestions. While senior IAS officer Tushar Girinath will monitor availability of beds in the city, nodal officers would also be appointed for monitoring bed availability for all the assembly constituencies, he said.  Rs. 25 lakh for needs Reiterating that the government would opt for seal down of containment zones instead of resorting to lockdown, Mr. Ashok said the geographical jurisdiction of containment zones would be increased. Every ward in Bengaluru city would be given Rs. 25 lakh for taking care of food and other materials required in the sealed down areas, he said. He said the government had decided to increase the testing for COVID-19 in Bengaluru city from the present 4,000 persons per day to 7,500. A total of 5,53,325 persons had been tested so far in the state, he noted. Pointing out that select private hospitals had been told to earmark 50 per cent of their beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients, Mr. Ashok warned of action against those denying treatment. He pointed out that while Bengaluru till June 25 had reported 1,207 active cases, it was lesser when compared with the number as well as deaths in other metropolitan cities of the country.  More ambulances Meanwhile, according to a communication from the Chief Minister’s office, Mr. Yediyurappa agreed to the suggestion by the all-party meeting to increase the number of ambulances that had been dedicated for carrying bodies of those succumbing to COVID-19. He also agreed to consider a suggestion for giving importance to using Ayurvedic health products to increase resistance and as precaution, the release said. Earlier, some of the Opposition members suggested enforcing lockdown while others stressed the need for a mechanism for getting test results immediately, so that the person can be subject to treatment immediately.
27 June 2020||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI,||IAF helicopter makes emergency landing in Haryana||An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter made an emergency landing on an expressway in Haryana on Friday after it developed a snag, officials said. There was no injury to anyone or damage to property. “A Cheetah helicopter was proceeding from Hindan to Halwara for a routine Air Force task. Approximately 14 NM [nautical mile] out of Hindan, the helicopter developed a technical snag and carried out precautionary landing on Eastern Peripheral Expressway,” the Defence Ministry said.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima Koregaon case: orders on Rao, Sen’smedical bail pleas reserved||A sessions court in Mumbai on Friday rejected the interim medical bail pleas filed for the second time in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic by 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao and 61-year-old Prof. Shoma Sen, accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Earlier in the day, the court had reserved the order in both the applications after hearing the arguments. Reasons for rejecting the pleas are not known and a detailed order is expected in due course of time. Both Mr. Rao and Ms. Sen have comorbidities.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI registers another bank fraud case against Puris||The CBI on Friday searched premises linked to the former directors of Moser Baer Solar Limited and others in connection with a new case alleging that they caused a loss of Rs. 787.25 crore to the Punjab National Bank and other lenders of a consortium. “The searches have been carried out on the premises of accused company directors, including Deepak Puri and his son Ratul Puri,” said a CBI official. The role of unknown bank officials is also under investigation.
27 June 2020||Bhubaneswar,||12 parties protest mishandling of COVID-19 in Odisha||As many as twelve Opposition political parties staged a demonstration on Friday protesting against the alleged inaction of the Naveen Patnaik government in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. The leaders submitted a 17-point demand to Governor Ganeshi Lal and requested him to intervene in issues affecting the people. The demands included assistance for workers in the unorganised sector.
27 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Central team takes stock of situation in Ahmedabad||A Central team, led by Lav Kumar Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry, visited Ahmedabad to take stock of the COVID-19 situation in the city. On Friday, Gujarat recorded 580 new infections and 18 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 30,158 and the toll to 1,772. There are 6,348 active cases, including 61 patients on ventilator. Ahmedabad is the worst affected with 1,399 deaths.
27 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab reports 188 cases, Haryana 421||Punjab reported 188 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday and two more deaths, taking the total number of cases to 4,957 and the toll to 122, an official statement said. The deaths were reported from Bathinda and Fathehgarh Sahib districts. Of the fresh cases, Ludhiana accounted for 67 and Patiala 31. The Health Department said the number of active cases stood at 1,634 and 3,201 patients had so far been discharged on recovery.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Looking beyond just a testing milestone||As Tamil Nadu notched up its first million COVID-19 tests, the first to reach the milestone in the country, data on the number of tests being done in its different labs — 47 in the government sector and 42 in the private sector — have been made available. As expected, government institutions in Chennai have done the maximum number of tests in the State. They were early birds, and until the first week of May, were testing samples even from other districts. As more labs were authorised in the districts, these labs were able to take on more testing in Chennai. Chennai’s index lab — the King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine, in Guindy — has tested the largest number of samples, 1,24,046. The city also houses the largest number of labs (32) authorised to test, listed on a document dated June 26. “It is definitely a very important contribution, in terms of a milestone,” said K. Kolandaiswamy, former director of public health. He credited the recent public health history of Tamil Nadu for the achievement. “Since the swine flu experience, we have consciously worked on building testing capacity in Tamil Nadu and putting in place quality control mechanisms. With the dengue epidemic, we were further forced to upgrade the capacity of labs, and we even had tie ups with the CDC, and even labs in Singapore, to learn how to do things well. The overall thrust on labs and testing helped us here for sure,” he said. Further, with reference to this particular pandemic, several institutes, including universities, fisheries and agriculture institutions, pitched in with RT-PCR machines, which helped enhance the State’s capacity during the course of the pandemic. While this is good progress, he said that in the future, attention should be on further upgrading the facilities in labs. “ There is single-plex testing and multiplex testing. In the former, the screening and confirmation should be done separately, and it is a time consuming process. In multiplex testing, it can be combined, and results obtained within a couple of hours. Thousands of samples can be tested on a particular day. We should upgrade to multiplex testing machines. In addition, we need to upgrade to automation in RNA extraction to speed up the testing process,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that until the first week of May there were fewer labs. Over the period, with fast tracking of applications and clearances, several labs have got the clearance to test for SARS-CoV-2 in Tamil Nadu, and it is an ongoing process. He makes it clear: “We are keeping the numbers high, but testing is not our only strategy, social messaging is also important, we need to somehow convey to the people the importance of hand washing, wearing of masks and maintenance of adequate distance from each other. Only then will it work.” With testing numbers going up, it becomes important to make data available on an open platform, especially to understand regional variations.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||383 surgeries, an ICH feat amid lockdown||In 90 days, the Department of Paediatric Surgery of the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children, Egmore, has performed 383 emergency surgeries in the midst of the lockdown and surge in COVID-19 cases in the City. Surgeons established their own COVID-19 sampling facility to expedite testing of children in need of surgery. The lockdown might have hit medical services in many ways but doctors of the Department of Paediatric Surgery, along with a team of anaesthetists of ICH, kept emergency surgeries going. “As of June 24, we have performed 383 emergency surgeries and all of them were major cases. This should probably be the most by any department in the State over the past three months. The surgeries included esophageal atresia with tracheo esophageal fistula, diaphragmatic hernia, intestinal obstructions, absent anus, VP shunts for hydrocephalus, bladder diversions for urinary obstructions and tumour removal,” R. Velmurugan, professor and head, Department of Paediatric Surgery, ICH, said. In normal times, the department performed 150 to 180 emergency surgeries a month. “There was a slight dip as patients found it difficult to reach us from other districts, and secondly, up to 40% of our patients come from Andhra Pradesh,” he said. It was a challenge to facilitate supplies and manage staff quarantine. Maintaining manpower was the main challenge, he said. “At least one-third could not come due to various reasons such as lack of access to public transport, residing in containment zones and quarantine.” In-house sampling facility The surgeons went on to set up an in-house sampling facility. They procured batches of viral transport medium from Madras Medical College, took turns to lift samples from children by wearing personal protective equipment and transported it back for testing in order to avoid straining of resources, he said, adding: “The facility has been functioning since May 15, and we have so far lifted nearly 170 samples. Of this, around 26 children tested positive.” Except in two cases, they knew the COVID-19 status for all children and went ahead with the surgeries. COVID-19 did not affect the outcome of surgeries, he said.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more alleged benamidar of Sasikala moves HC||V.S.J. Dinakaran, co-owner of Spectrum shopping mall at Perambur in Chennai, has approached the Madras High Court contesting the Income Tax Department's claim that he was among the benamidars of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s jailed aide V.K. Sasikala. Justice R. Mahadevan on Thursday directed the Income Tax department to file a detailed counter affidavit within two weeks to his writ petition challenging proceedings initiated under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act of 1988. After The Hindu had, in December last, reported extensively the Income Tax department’s claim of Sasikala having used Rs. 1,911 crore of demonetised currency notes to purchase malls and mills, a number of her alleged benamidars had begun to approach the Madras High Court one after another. In his plea, Mr. Dinakaran said he was primarily involved in the business of money lending, chit fund and trading of waste paper. Denying that he was a benamidar of Sasikala with respect to Spectrum Mall, he said the mall was actually a joint venture between Ganga Foundations Private Limited and two other landowners D.V. Balaji and I. Shanmugadurai. On June 27, 2011, the petitioner had purchased an undivided share of 4,554 sq ft in the mall from Mr. Shanmugadurai for a valid consideration. In January 2012, he purchased 6,581 sq ft more and also bought one of the shops in the mall. Claiming ignorance about any possible transaction between other promoters of the mall and Sasikala, his counsel M.R. Venkatesh asserted that the petitioner was personally not involved in any such transaction. He said there was nothing on record to involve his client in the issue. The Income Tax officials had neither produced any MoU with respect to Spectrum Mall nor proved that his client had deposited any cash in his bank accounts. No proceedings for capital gain had also been initiated so far, he told Justice Mahadevan before M. Sheela, Special Public Prosecutor for the Income Tax department, undertook to file a detailed counter affidavit. Case history After the death of Jayalalithaa on December 5, 2016, the Supreme Court found Sasikala and her sister-in-law N. Ilavarasi guilty in a disproportionate assets case and sentenced them to four years of imprisonment on February 14, 2017. However, in October 2017, Sasikala came out on emergency parole for five days to meet her then ailing husband M. Natarajan. Then, she stayed in the residence of her niece J. Krishnapriya at Habibulla Road in T. Nagar. Suspecting that the real reason behind obtaining parole was to take stock of alleged financial transactions that were carried out after the demonetisation of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 currency notes on November 8, 2016, the Income Tax department searched the residence. The search supposedly led to the discovery of photographs of the front and back pages of a single loose sheet from Ms. Krishnapriya’s mobile phone. The sheet contained a list of properties and different figures written across those names with the suffix ‘paid’ and ‘to be paid’ and the niece reportedly conceded to have taken the photographs when her aunt was residing in her house. After a few more searches at connected places and obtaining statements from people involved, the department felt that a novel modus operandi appeared to have been adopted by Sasikala, after demonetisation, to spend huge cash stash of Rs. 1,911 crore stored in carton boxes at various places in Chennai and the Kodanad Estate owned jointly by her and Jayalalithaa. Of the total amount, Rs. 1,674 crore was used for purchasing properties and the rest of Rs. 237 crore, also in demonetised notes, was given as loan to government contractor T.S. Kumarasamy of Tiruchengode-based Christy Friedgram Industry, which supplies provisions for the nutritious meal scheme in government schools, the I-T department claimed. Promoters of high value properties such as shopping malls, paper mills, wind mills and resorts in Chennai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Puducherry and Madurai were the targets for the crime. After finding that they were desperate to sell their properties but unable to get good offers, she allegedly agreed to pay a handsome amount on condition that it would be in demonetised notes. The promoters agreed for the deal and accepted the demonetised notes. A part of the cash receipts was used by them to settle loans of smaller amounts they had obtained from different individuals and the rest was deposited in their bank accounts by falsifying other business transactions since the Centre had granted time till December 30, 2016 for depositing demonetised notes in bank accounts. The transactions were carried out after making the promoters sign individual Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), acknowledging the receipt of money, but none of those documents contained the name of the purchaser. Since the MoUs had neither resulted in registration of sale deeds nor transfer of shares, the I-T department termed the promoters to be her benamis. However, denying that they were benamis, some of the sellers approached the High Court stating that the entire transaction carried out with them was a ploy to convert black money into white. After the MoUs were signed and the demonetised notes were deposited in bank accounts, Sasikala’s associates cancelled the deals and sought return of money, they claimed.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reconciliation of data on deaths to be completed in a week||The process of reconciling COVID-19 death data is all set to be completed in a week. Of the 235 deaths being analysed in Chennai as part of the reconciliation process, 49 are being closely looked at to ascertain if COVID-19 was the cause. Earlier this month, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine constituted a committee to reconcile COVID-19 death reports of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Official sources in the Health Department said that the committee was reconciling the data, case by case, to do away with ambiguity and was also asking for more information from hospitals. Looking closely “The committee is analysing 235 deaths. The members are of the opinion that 49 of these deaths are not related to COVID-19. Though these persons tested positive for COVID-19, they say that the deaths were due to other reasons. They are looking at each of these casesheets. We have also asked them for details,” an official said. “We will go by norms laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research [on COVID-19 death data]. Similar exercises were done in Delhi and Maharashtra too,” he added. But how did the disparity in reporting deaths arise? Official sources said that many factors were at play. “New private hospitals are included in the COVID-19 treatment list, and many of them took time to understand the format of reporting COVID-19 deaths. Some of them did not share the entire information. On one hand, this was done thinking it would not be necessary, while on the other, it was masked purposefully in some hospitals,” an official source said. Secondly, every death certificate should be signed by the doctor responsible or in-charge of the intensive care unit, but in many private hospitals, there were issues after doctors refused to sign, citing that they were only consultants. This delayed the process. Delayed reporting “If a death is reported seven days later, there is no clarity on who will decide whether to declare it or not. Many deaths were not declared on the same day due to want of information such as time and date of admission,” he said. “In the initial stages of the pandemic, there were home deaths,” he said. All these, he said, were accounted for in the burial grounds of the GCC, but did not tally with deaths declared by the Health Department.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 3,645 fresh COVID-19 cases; Chennai’s tally nears the 50,000-mark||Recording another new high, Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 3,645 fresh cases of COVID-19. Of this, Chennai recorded an all-time high of 1,956 cases, with its tally inching closer to the 50,000-mark. With this, Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally stood at 74,622*. The State’s toll increased to 957, with 46 more fatalities, while the total number of persons discharged climbed to 41,357, as another 1,358 persons walked out of hospitals on Friday. A total number of 32,305 persons are undergoing treatment across the State. Of the fresh cases, 122 persons had returned from abroad and other States. Of the 3,523 indigenous cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 45% were reported in 35 districts other than Chennai and Perambalur, which recorded no new cases. The rise in the number of COVID-19 cases continued in a number of districts. Chengalpattu reported 232 cases, taking its tally to 4,651. Madurai reported 190, while Tiruvallur and Vellore recorded 177 and 148 cases, respectively. There were 90 cases in Kancheepuram, 86 in Salem, 68 in Ramanathapuram, 66 in Tiruvannamalai and 53 in Ranipet. Other districts where more than 30 cases were reported included Coimbatore (41), Kallakurichi (48), Theni (40), Thoothukudi (36), Tiruchi (32) and Virudhunagar (33). With a number of districts witnessing an increase in cases, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said, “The districts have been instructed to take up effective containment, aggressive and intensive testing, isolating and treating COVID-19 patients.” Of the 46 persons who died of COVID-19, 44 had co-morbid conditions.  The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stands at 33,675. As on date, Tamil Nadu has tested a total of 10,42,649 samples and 9,92,991 individuals. Testing of 671 samples is under process. A private laboratory — the Microbiology Lab, CSI Scudder Memorial Hospital, Ranipet — was approved for COVID-19 testing, taking the total number of labs in the State to 89.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi seeks NHRC inquiry||Thoothukudi DMK MP Kanimozhi has written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) seeking an inquiry against police personnel and others responsible for the alleged custodial deaths of a father and son, Jayaraj and Benicks, from Sattankulam. “It is alleged that the police assaulted Mr. Jayaraj and Mr. Benicks in the guise of investigation,” she said in her letter. Ms. Kanimozhi said it was alleged that when the police took them to the doctor to obtain fitness certificates, he actually refused. But the inspector of the Sattankulam police station coerced the doctor to provide the fitness certificates by disregarding their health conditions. Even when the two were taken to the Judicial Magistrate’s house for being produced, “it is alleged that they were positioned at least 50 metres away from the Magistrate and were surrounded by policemen when they were taken into judicial custody,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. “As such there is overwhelming direct and corroborative evidence that the police officials, the Magistrate who ordered the remand, the medical officials who should have checked the health and physical fitness of Mr. Jayaraj and Mr. Benicks have collectively failed in discharging their duties,” the MP said. She added that from mere perusal of the facts and circumstances, it can be seen that the police disregarded even the basic human rights including the Right to life and dignity as enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. She said the police violated the guidelines for arrest as laid down by the Supreme Court of India, and it was also in violation of the Police Standing Order issued by the State of Tamil Nadu. Ms. Kanimozhi alleged that there have been 15 incidents of custodial deaths in the State but not a single chargesheet has been filed against officials responsible for it. “Therefore, the NHRC may also take this into consideration and issue necessary directions in this regard so that no further lives are lost under police custody and stringent action is taken against all such officials who have abetted in gross human rights violations,” Ms. Kanimozhi said.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi, Shikar Dhawan express shock||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Indian cricketer Shikar Dhawan on Friday expressed shock over the alleged custodial deaths of a father and son — Jayaraj and Benicks — in Thoothukudi district. “Police brutality is a terrible crime. It’s a tragedy when our protectors turn into oppressors. I offer my condolences to the family of the victims and appeal to the government to ensure #JusticeForJeyarajAndFenix,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Dhawan had also taken to Twitter to express his anguish. “Horrified to hear about the brutality inflicted upon Jeyaraj & Fenix in Tamil Nadu. We must raise our voice and make sure justice is given to the family. #JusticeForJeyarajAndFenix,” he tweeted.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tablighi members kept in unhygienic conditions’||Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) president M.H. Jawahirullah on Friday charged that the State government had not followed the law or Central government-mandated guidelines in the arrest of 129 Tablighi Jamaat members for violating visa conditions and during their continued detention in Chennai. He said that the Tablighi Jamaat members, all foreign nationals, were being held in jail without proper sanitation, ventilation, space and separate kitchens, despite the fact that they were given bail by the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court. “Foreign nationals must be lodged in designated jails. However, 98 persons were lodged in a Borstal school [on the Puzhal prison campus]. They were then transferred to the Saidapet sub-jail, which is not a designated jail to detain foreigners. After they were granted bail, they were re-sent to Borstal school by re-designating it as a special camp,” he told The Hindu . He alleged that the 98 members, including eight women, were cramped in a place which could hold only 30-40 persons.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport has handled 1.4 lakh passengers after services resumed||A month after domestic flight services resumed in the country, Chennai airport has handled about 1.4 lakh passengers. The fourth busiest airport in the country, it would usually see about 14.5-15 lakh domestic passengers a month. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said majority of people who travelled were those stuck here since the lockdown was imposed in March, apart from this others with medical or other family emergencies were the usual passengers. “We used to have nearly 500 departure and arrival flights earlier, but with the current restrictions we operate 60 flights a day, so naturally passenger traffic is going to be less. But we at least have flights connecting most major cities so that those stranded can get back home. That’s the most important part of having flights during these times,” an AAI official said. AAI officials said most passengers departed to Delhi, Guwahati and Kolkata. “We see many workers going to Kolkata and Guwahati; they may have saved up or borrowed money for the tickets,” an official said. Some flights only have a few passengers on board, officials said. For instance, on a flight from Kolkata to Chennai, there were five passengers. Similarly, in another flight from Salem to Chennai, there were eight passengers. “We are expecting the flight numbers to go up next month. If that happens then the number of passengers will rise,” an official said.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Outreach programme showing results: Corpn.||The Greater Chennai Corporation has sent 2,300 outreach workers to contain COVID-19 in slums of the city, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, he said the city has not reported any major spurt of cases in the last 45 days owing to the community intervention programme. Each outreach worker had to cover 300 houses every day. The number of outreach workers was to be doubled, he said. “City’s slums have 26 lakh residents who do not have resources to prevent the spread of the disease. Outreach workers are creating awareness. A total of 92 NGOs have been roped in. The spread will be controlled,” Mr. Prakash added.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow lawyers to move freely for work: PIL||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to respond by Thursday to a public interest litigation petition seeking permission for lawyers to move about freely for official work since courts and judiciary had been exempted from the lockdown. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Krishnan Ramasamy directed State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to obtain instructions from the government, within a week, on a petition filed by advocate R. Kalaiyarasi of Chennai, through her counsel M. Gnanasekar. In her affidavit, the litigant said that advocates were finding it difficult to work during the lockdown since court proceedings were being held through video conferencing but case papers could not be prepared easily from the residences of lawyers. Stating that most times, the lawyers had to go to their offices to prepare case papers and take photocopies, since the High Court Registry, at times, insisted on filing hard copies too, the petitioner also sought a direction to the police not to prevent lawyers from travelling for work.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK will support legal efforts: Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin said the party would support every legal endeavour to bring to justice those who were complicit in the alleged custodial deaths of the father-son duo, Jayaraj and Benicks, and also announced a financial assistance of Rs. 25 lakh to their family. Mr. Stalin alleged that the two were subject to beastly attack and torture by the police personnel. “The medical reports also confirm the torture marks on their bodies and we are expecting the post-mortem report. The DMK will support all legal options to bring to justice every single person who was part of this heinous attack.,” Mr. Stalin said.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City will get 4 additional dialysis centres||The Greater Chennai Corporation will develop dialysis centres to offer free-of-cost service in four locations in a month. Launching a dialysis centre in Valasaravakkam on Friday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the centre had 12 beds. The Corporation has commissioned dialysis centres in Nungambakkam, Perungudi, Retteri and Valasaravakkam so far. Additional centres will be developed in Tiruvottiyur, Injambakkam, Ambattur and Tondiarpet. The civic body has developed the dialysis centres with support from Tanker Foundation and Rotary Club.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seized vehicles will be released after lockdown, say police||The traffic police have said that all vehicles seized for violating prohibitory orders will be released only after the lockdown is lifted. As Chennai and parts of its adjoining districts were under a complete lockdown, the police prohibited gathering of more than five people in public places and implemented restrictions on the movement of vehicles from June 19. They set up vehicle checkpoints with iron barricades at 288 places. As of Thursday, 33,455 seized vehicles were parked at police stations, on the roadside and private parking lots hired by the police. Even parking lots in shopping malls were being used. Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, A. Arun said, “Until now, personnel have booked over 33,000 cases against motorists for being out without passes or valid reasons. We have detained 26,334 vehicles. We will not release any vehicle until the lockdown is over. We have detained more than 1,500 cars as well.”
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT seeks reports on plastic ban||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and the Greater Chennai Corporation to file status reports regarding the implementation of the ban on single-use plastics and details of fines issued and prosecution launched against violators. The directions came on an application filed by Antony Rubin, who moved the Tribunal stating that the manufacture of plastic woven and non-woven carry bags was continuing and perpetuating a wrong impression that these plastic carry bags were the only alternatives to thin film bags. The applicant sought heavy penalties to be imposed on plastic manufacturers who were producing the banned items. He sought penalties under the polluter pays principle and also heavy penalties to be imposed on chain retail stores who continue to violate the government order. Passing directions, the bench said, “The TNPCB is directed to give a status report regarding the implementation of the order.” Directions were also issued to the Corporation to provide details of the number of violators and the actions taken against them. Both the agencies were given two months to respond.
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK disapproves of ‘custodial deaths’||The ruling AIADMK, which on Friday described the recent suspected custodial deaths of a father and son in Sattankulam of Thoothukudi district, as “unfortunate and saddening,” said that it would never tolerate such acts. In a statement issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator and Chief Minister, the party also announced that a financial assistance of Rs. 25 lakh would be paid to the family of the deceased. ‘Will ensure justice’ The leaders added that both the party and the government would function in such a manner to “win the confidence of the public and ensure that justice was done.”
27 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor dies of COVID-19||M.M. Rathinasabapathy, 81, a consultant with the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme, died of COVID-19 infection at a hospital on Friday. He is survived by wife, son and two daughters. He tested positive on June 18 and was admitted to Apollo Hospitals and died on Friday.
27 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Entry to MGR wholesale vegetable market closed||Coimbatore Corporation closed the entry to MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market on Friday after three persons from this market and one from the retail Anna Market tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The step was taken to prevent entry of lorries and small goods carriers that take vegetables to other markets and shops. It also sealed a private two-wheeler parking lot on the market premises for violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines. The Corporation would seal the exit also by 10 a.m. on Saturday. The Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand also would be closed to a section of the vegetable traders who had been shifted from MGR Market to prevent crowding. MGR Market sources said they would have to move out their goods before Saturday 10 a.m., but did not know where to as the civic body had not provided an alternative place. The Corporation sources said the contacts of the COVID-19-positive persons from the markets had been identified, and over 400 swab samples lifted. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath visited the R.S. Puram Uzhavar Sandhai on Friday to check adherence to physical distancing norm. He also inspected the Government College of Technology ground on Thadagam Road to see if it could accommodate the vegetable vendors of Anna Market who were now housed at the Ramalingam Chettiar School on Alagesan Road. With the Corporation asking the traders at the Singanallur farmers’ market to furnish copies of land records to prove they were farmers who sold their produce directly to customers, the number of vegetable sellers at the market came down from around 250 to 50, the Corporation sources said.
27 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Infant undergoes surgery||A 45-day-old girl baby who was COVID-19 positive underwent a surgery for a congenital condition at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday. The baby was admitted after testing positive on Thursday and the doctors diagnosed the baby with congenital pyloric stenosis, wherein the opening from the stomach to the small intestine becomes narrow. Hence, the baby was unable to digest food. “Given that the baby was COVID-19 positive, it was a risky surgery for both the doctors and the baby,” said Dean of ESI Hospital A. Nirmala. The baby’s mother had initially tested negative for COVID-19 and results of the second test are awaited, Dr. Nirmala said.
27 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders look at more precautionary measures||Vegetable traders at the wholesale and retail markets in Coimbatore Corporation limits are looking at ways to reduce the number of people visiting the markets and more precautionary measures needed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The traders say that though they already use disinfectants and wear masks, some people reporting positive at Anna and MGR markets calls for greater efforts. Nearly 150 traders at MGR Market are considering various safety measures for sellers, workers, and the buyers, says a trader at the market. The market will be closed for a day or two, during which the traders will come out with a system to reduce the crowd. “We sell only in bulk and not retail. The persons who tested positive on Thursday have little contact directly with the traders,” the trader said. A trader at Anna market said the traders may have to shift to an alternative location. There are 110 shops at Ramalinga school and the traders occupy the shops on a rotation basis. “We start by 3.30 a.m., and the stocks get over by 7 a.m. We plan to distribute sanitisers, gloves, and disinfectants to all the shops,” the trader said. Thyagi Kumaran Market traders are looking at ways to ensure physical distancing. “We had a discussion with the police on Friday. We have also asked for deployment of police personnel to regulate the crowd. We will close the shops by 2 p.m.,” said M. Rajendran, president of the vegetable traders’ association. At the Ukkadam market, a trader said precautionary measures ensured there was not much crowd.
27 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Miscreants hurl bottles at DMK functionary’s residence||Miscreants allegedly hurled glass bottles at a DMK functionary’s residence at Kovaipudur on Thursday night. Police said that M. Muthusamy, the DMK Coimbatore West District in-charge, found the broken glass pieces in his residence on Friday morning, but no major damages were reported. Kuniyamuthur police are investigating.  Special Correspondent adds: The Coimbatore unit of the DMK has condemned the attack on Mr. Muthusamy’s house. In a statement, Coimbatore east secretary and MLA N. Karthik, said the party suspected that the house was targeted because the party and its leaders in the district continue to expose the misdeeds of the ruling AIADMK government, particularly that of Minister S.P. Velumani. The CCTV footage collected from Mr. Muthusamy’s neighbour’s house in Gokulam Colony, Kovaipudur, showed that persons who were on a motorcycle had flung the bottles. The party had lodged a complaint with the police.
27 June 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 dashboard launched for Dharmapuri||A COVID-19 dashboard was launched for the district by the Principal Secretary and Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 control Santhosh Babu here on Friday. The dashboard was developed to bring in all COVID-19 related data on a single platform, Dr. Babu told The Hindu . The software allows data entry from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. or 9 p.m, with a three-hour window for the line departments to key in data collected during the day. “This is to ensure data update on a daily basis in a coordinated manner. The site would be redundant if such data entry is not done. Within a week, an app will also be launched,” he said. Reviewing the COVID-19 control measures, Dr. Babu lauded the administration for coordinated efforts be they at the checkposts, quarantine, awareness creation to contain the spread. He also underlined the need for “reverse quarantine” of vulnerable groups that included senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. “There are 54,377 people in the district with such conditions and it is important that they are quarantined at home.” According to the COVID-19 dashboard, as of June 25, 12,518 samples were lifted. Of these, there were 47 confirmed cases, 28 active cases and 19 recovered cases. The recovery rate was 40.43 %
27 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||SMO inspects check-post, PHC||Special Monitoring Officer Mangat Ram Sharma appealed to the people here to immediately approach the Government Hospitals or Primary Health Centres in the event of any symptoms of fever, cough or cold. Instead of neglecting the ailment, if people visited the hospitals in time, the diagnosis could be conducted swiftly and in a calm environment. Appealing to the people not to develop any kind of anxiety or concern about the prevailing pandemic, he, however, cautioned them to remain safe and indoors. Only with the support and cooperation of the public, the government and the officials can overcome such a challenge, the officer said and added that the official machinery was fully geared to handle the situation. Inspecting the Vadamadurai PHC, the screening centre installed at Thangammapatti check-post, on the border of the district, accompanied by Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, DD (Health) Dr. Jayanthi, DRO Govindaraj and other officers, Mr. Mangat Ram took stock of the number of patients at the GH and other PHCs. He told the staff at the check-post to screen the travelling public without harassing them and to educate them. The officer said that persons travelling without valid e-passes shall be taken to task as per the laws. He also wanted the health team and frontline staff to be guarded while handling COVID-19 positive patients. The officer is expected to visit a few containment zones and review measures taken by the Corporation in disinfecting the areas in the next two days.
27 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Restriction on vehicle movement affects workers||Restriction on vehicle movement between districts has affected the workers from Namakkal district who were forced to cross the district border at Karungalpalayam check-post on foot and take autorickshaws to reach their work place in Erode district. After the State government imposed restriction on inter-district travel from Thursday, a large number of workers from Pallipalayam, Kumarapalayam and Tiruchengodu areas, who work in powerlooms, workshops, construction sector and in unorganised sectors, face difficulty in reaching their work place in Erode district. In the absence of bus service, many enter the district on two-wheelers while many walk for 2 km from Pallipalayam to Karungalpalayam and board autorickshaws. Many workers said that they have to spend a minimum of Rs. 30 to Rs. 50 a day for autorickshaws in reaching the city and returning to the check-post in the evening. Since two-wheelers were stopped at the check-post and sent back by the police, many prefer to walk and board the available autorickshaws to reach their workplace. The long queue at the check-post in the morning is also delaying vehicle movement as workers said that they are unable to reach their destinations on time. The same situation also prevailed at check-posts at Parisal Thurai Junction on Karur Bypass Road, Noyyal River at Kodumudi and at Lakshmi Nagar in Bhavani.
27 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode market to remain shut today||The wholesale vegetable and fruit market functioning temporarily on the Central Bus Stand premises will remain shut on Saturday for disinfection measures. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that the entire premises would be washed thoroughly and sprinkled with bleaching powder on Saturday.
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||It’s not the end of the road if you test positive: survivors||It was during the first week of April when 55-year-old Salman*, a farmer from Mathur near Alagarkoil, tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Salman, who had diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) for the next three weeks before his complete recovery. Mr. Salman says, during his treatment in the ICU, he even needed ventilator support for four days. “During that time, people in my village assumed I was dead. I sent an audio message on WhatsApp to prove that I was alive,” he recalls. “During those testing times, I remained positive. I kept telling myself that it was just another fever caused by a virus and believed that I would recover completely. The doctors, nurses and the sanitary workers took good care of me and motivated me to keep me in a positive state of mind,” he says. The rising COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai have made the public anxious and scared. But, patients who have recovered from COVID-19 say a positive approach, strict practising of safety precautions and right knowledge about the virus are important to survive the pandemic. Kumar*, 33, who was treated at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur, says, being the first positive case in Alwarpuram, he was filled with anxiety. “I feared that I might have spread the infection to my family or neighbours. I was relieved only when my close contacts tested negative,” he says. The concern about the safety and future of their families was daunting for most of the patients at the hospital, recalls Mr. Kumar. “But we provided the pillar of strength for each other,” he says. Lakshmi* from Mattuthavani says she made a conscious decision to focus only on positive thoughts during the treatment. “My family and friends were also very supportive,” she says. Mr. Kumar adds: unverified messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms lead to needless anxiety for people. “Many people focus on having immunity boosters, but fail to follow safety precautions such as wearing the face mask or avoiding physical contact,” he says. Ms. Lakshmi says there is a stigma associated with the positive patients, which is unwarranted. “This adds additional burden to their families. COVID-19 is just another viral fever which can be contained if safety precautions are followed,” she adds. ( All names have been changed to protect identity )  Many people focus on having immunity boosters, but fail to follow safety precautions A discharged patient
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High-level committee to discuss implementation of SOP, HC told||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday was informed by the State government that a high-level committee comprising the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary and the Law Secretary would convene a meeting with regard to implementing Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed by police personnel, in view of the custodial deaths of two traders, P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. During the course of the hearing of the suo motu proceedings initiated by the court, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi was informed that the Director General of Police had met the Chief Secretary and a circular was issued recently. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian submitted that a comprehensive direction would be issued soon. The State submitted that the post mortem was conducted and the report would be submitted to the court. Due to the lockdown imposed in Madurai, the report could not be sent to the court. Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan submitted a status report and said the situation had returned to normal in Sattankulam and there were no untoward incidents. Taking into account the submissions made, the judges observed that COVID-19 pandemic situation had brought hardship to everyone. People were depressed and counselling was required. Even the police were functioning under stress. Counselling for police personnel and their families could alleviate stress, the court said, and suggested that yoga as an option could be explored. After it was said that judicial officers and court staff in Satthankulam were facing a threat, the court directed the SP to ensure adequate protection for them. It was said that a clerk was assaulted. The SP informed the court that police were already deployed and adequate security was provided. The accused would be apprehended, he said. The court reiterated that it was closely monitoring the case and the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Thoothukudi, was also briefing the judges on the progress. Initially there was resentment in receiving the bodies, but after persuasion by the Judicial Magistrate, Kovilpatti, who is conducting the inquest, the bodies were received. The judges suggested that the JM could visit the family members and conduct the inquest. The JM could visit the police station, Kovilpatti sub-jail and the place of the occurrence of the incident and collect details, reports and take photographs. The CCTV footages, medical records/reports should shall be collected for the purpose and till further orders the case should be dealt with by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kovilpatti. Taking note of the fact that an accused in another case, S. Raja Singh, was found in the sub-jail with multiple injuries, the court directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate to conduct an inquiry and file a report. The case was adjourned till June 30 for further hearing.
27 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||107 frontline workers hit in a week||In a week’s time, between June 19 and 25, as many as 107 frontline workers who had put their life at risk to serve the public tested positive for COVID-19. These workers are not restricted to the medical staff at Government Rajaji Hospital. They belong to the police department, railways, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and health department. To ensure their safety, every department has laid down rules to be followed. Still, the fear of contracting the infection is always there among the frontline workers. K. Senthil, Treatment Coordinator of COVID-19 speciality hospital at the GRH, said 30 doctors and 40 nurses tested positive - 10 doctors in the last two days alone. Apart from enforcing a shift system that ensures doctors and nurses work continuously for only two weeks on a rotation basis, the GRH has also closed down common areas such as canteens to ensure that there is little space for socialising. “While food is delivered to their rooms, even when it is served in a common area, we insist that they maintain personal distancing. Hospital staff have been told to travel individually in separate vehicles from their place of stay to the hospital to prevent spread of infection. We screen mess workers regularly,” he said. Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said 56 police personnel tested positive till date and 10 of them had been discharged. Those who displayed symptoms were expected to visit the police hospital for treatment. If the symptoms persisted even after three days, they must go for the COVID-19 test. The frontline police personnel who tested positive had been admitted to the GRH, Railway Hospital and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur. “Most of them displayed one symptom or the other. For asymptomatic cases, we have arranged beds at a marriage hall on Armed Reserve Ground. We have provided face shields, masks, multivitamins, pulse oximeters, thermometers and sanitisers in every police station. To prevent continuous exposure, front line workers are given only four-hour shifts,” he said. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said only one staff member from the civic body - a clerk- had tested positive till date. “We take tests for conservancy workers, those who fix drains and the office staff. We wipe door handles at the Corporation office. We have provided multivitamin tablets and even conducted a full-body check-up for the staff of all Urban Primary Health Centres,” he said. Those with comorbidities were not allowed to work in the front line so that they do not fall sick, he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said all revenue staff were screened and wearing mask was mandatory for all. Because of heavy footfall, all offices in the Collectorate were regularly disinfected.
27 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Collector takes charge as college secretary||Collector T.G. Vinay took charge as secretary and correspondent of M.S.S. Wakf Board College here on Friday after a long dispute regarding the secretaryship. Regional Director of Collegiate Education R. Baskaran said that only after a government order was issued did the Collector take charge. Prior to this intervention, Mr. Baskaran was made the special officer of the college for a period of four months to ensure that salary was disbursed to teaching and non teaching staff in time. An official from the Education department said though attempts were made to elect a secretary during Mr. Baskaran’s tenure, a faction of the college board approached the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that granted a stay order against election. M. Mumtaz, a professor, said though aided college staff received salaries over the last four months with approval from the regional director, staff from the self-financing stream did not receive pay until the special officer got permission from the Directorate of Collegiate Education.  ‘We will receive salaries’  “With the Collector taking charge, we can rest assured that we will receive our salaries in time, particularly in these hard COVID-19 times,” she said.
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘High-level panel to decide on standard operating procedure’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday was informed by the State government that a high-level committee comprising the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary and the Law Secretary, would convene a meeting with regard to the implementation of a standard operating procedure to be followed by police personnel, in view of the custodial deaths of two traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. During the course of the hearing of the suo motu proceedings initiated by the court, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi were informed that the Director General of Police had met the Chief Secretary in this regard and a circular was also issued recently. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian submitted that a comprehensive direction would be issued soon. The State submitted that the post-mortem was conducted and the report would be submitted to the court in the coming week. Due to the lockdown imposed in Madurai, the report could not be sent. The Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan submitted a status report in the case and said that the situation had returned to normal in Sattankulam and there were no untoward incidents. Taking into account the submissions made, the judges observed that the COVID-19 pandemic situation had brought hardship to everyone. Even the police were functioning under stress. Counselling for police personnel and their families can alleviate stress, court said. After it was said that judicial officers and court staff in Satthankulam were facing threat, the court directed the Thoothukudi SP to ensure that adequate protection was provided. It was said that a clerk was assaulted. The SP informed the court that police personnel were already deployed and adequate security was provided. The situation would be closely monitored and the accused would be apprehended. The court reiterated that it was closely monitoring the case and the Principal District and Sessions Judge of Thoothukudi was also briefing the judges on the progress. Initially, there was resentment in receiving the bodies, but after persuasion by the Judicial Magistrate, Kovilpatti, who is conducting the inquest, that justice will be rendered, the bodies were received and last rites performed. The judges suggested that the Judicial Magistrate could visit the family members and conduct the inquest. The JM can visit the police station, the sub-jail in Kovilpatti and the place of the occurrence of the incident and collect details, reports and also take photographs. The district administration must see to that adequate facilities were provided, the court said. Following widespread criticism of the incident and backlash on social media, the judges urged people to remain calm and not to ignite passions. The case was adjourned till June 30 for further hearing.
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Create required infrastructure expeditiously, says MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has urged the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to provide required infrastructure expeditiously to conduct more tests with additional beds at hospital. In a statement, he said the Union Health Ministry had projected that by July 21, Madurai district would have 7,883 COVID-19 positive cases at a growth rate of 7.9%. “In such a scenario, the number of people tested in the district should be at least 2.40 lakh by July 31, which translates into 9,500 tests a day. If these tests are not done, the number of positive cases will increase manifold in the coming months,” he said. Besides, according to the projections, 4,500 people would require admission either in isolation or COVID care centres. “The district has only 1,200 beds ready. No other isolation centres have been prepared till date,” he said. Stating that Special Monitoring Officer B. Chandramohan had promised to keep ready 2,000 additional beds very soon, he said that even in that case, the district would fall short of 1,300 beds. “The kind of speedy work required to meet the imminent danger does not reflect in the action of the district administration,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The lackadaisical attitude of the administration should not endanger the safety of thousands of people. Asking the authorities to step up testing, he said immediate action should be taken to keep 5,000 beds ready and appoint proportionate doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff. Additional PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test equipment should also be provided. Vacant post He deplored that the post of Chief Health Officer was lying vacant. “How can such an important post in a city with 15 lakh people lie vacant ?” he wondered. “The efforts of officials should be at a pace higher than the speed of infection to protect the people,” he said.
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs govt. to provide safety gear to sanitary workers, police||Taking cognisance of the fact that adequate protective gear were provided to sanitary workers in corporations under the jurisdiction of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, the court on Friday directed the State government to extend the same to sanitary workers in municipalities and panchayats. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi observed that a monitoring mechanism similar to the one implemented by the corporations should be in place to ensure that sanitary workers in municipalities and panchayats used protective gear during work. Compliance must be ensured, the court said. In the case of police personnel, Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian said that over 54,000 police personnel were provided face shields along with other protective gear. They were engaged in sensitive areas like check-posts and market areas. The same would be provided to other policemen, the court was informed. Taking into account the submissions made, the court directed the State government to provide adequate protective gear to police personnel across all cadre and ensure that they wore the shields while on duty. Photographs of the protective gear were submitted to the court. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions. The petitioners had sought a direction to the State government to ensure that non-medical frontline staff like police personnel and sanitary workers were also provided personal protective equipment, like health workers, in view of the spread of COVID-19. With the directions, the petitions were closed.
27 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain in many parts of southern districts||Widespread rainfall was reported in many parts of southern districts during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday. According to PWD officials, Vedasandur in Dindigul district recorded the highest rainfall with 40.8 mm followed by Palani with 32 mm and Kodaikanal with 10 mm of rainfall. Parts of Natham, Dindigul city and interior parts of the upper Kodaikanal too experienced showers since Thursday evening. In Ramanathapuram district, there were showers along the coastal hamlets including Thangachimadam, Pamban and Rameswaram, accompanied by wind. Electricity supply was suspended for a few hours as a precaution and a few low lying areas in the district were inundated. Rain that poured on Wednesday night continued till early hours of Thursday. There was no rain in Sivaganga district, but in some pockets in Karaikudi, Tirupathur and Tirupuvanam there were mild showers on Thursday evening. In Theni district, the weather was not very hot. Pockets in Uthamapalayam, Bodinayakkanur, Veerapandi and Gudalur experienced rain for some time. Periyakulam recorded 18.8 mm, Sothuparai 6 mm, Veerapandi 8 mm and Vaigai dam 6.8 mm of rainfall. The rain in catchment areas resulted in moderate rise in reservoirs in the district. Madurai city experienced heavy rain from 6 p.m. on Thursday and went on till 10 p.m. thus bringing down the temperature in the night. Power disruptions were reported in south and northern side of the city but power resumed at around 11 p.m. In the peripheries, there was good rain in Sholavandan, Melur and Vadipatti. In Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi and peripheries, there were rain on Wednesday night. In Thoothukudi, the sky remained cloudy but there was no rain. It was warm during the day with a little amount of breeze, PWD officials said.
27 June 2020||MADURAI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 194 fresh COVID-19 cases; 3 die at GRH||Madurai district recorded 194 fresh COVID-19 cases – 190 of them indigenous – on Friday, which took its tally to 1,477. Three patients – two from Madurai and one from Virudhunagar – died at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The district’s death toll now stands at 13. According to State medical bulletin, the district has 944 active cases. Ramanathapuram recorded a spike of 72 cases – 68 indigenous and four imported – which saw the case count rise to 546. Officials attributed it to more number of contacts turning positive. The district had intensified testing and the number of cases was likely to increase till the first week of July, an official said. Forty persons tested positive in Theni. They were from Cumbum (10), Periyakulam (10), Theni (7), Andipatti (5), Bodi (5), Myladumparai (2) and Chinnamanur (1). Dindigul’s tally fell from 377 on Thursday to 344 on Friday as 33 persons were cross-notified to other districts. The number of active cases in the district is 113. In Sivaganga, the tally came down from 135 to 130 due to cross-notification of cases. According to Collector J. Jayakanthan, 58 persons were under treatment, while one had died. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi reported 37 new cases, including 36 indigenous cases, which pushed the district’s tally to 789 and the number of active cases to 272. In Tirunelveli, the tally rose to 710 with 19 fresh cases – 18 of them indigenous – and the district now has 215 active cases. Kanniyakumari recorded 28 new cases which took its count of infections to 275 and the active cases to 153. Tenkasi district had 12 more cases to mark a tally of 294. The district has 183 active cases. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar registered 33 new cases which pushed its case count to 314. In the last one week alone, 153 cases were recorded. The district administration attributed the spurt in the number of cases to more people coming from Chennai and their contacts testing positive. The district has 152 active cases and reported four deaths. A head constable attached to Nathampatti police station tested positive on Thursday, as a result of which samples were collected from 42 police personnel and their family members on Friday. ‘Step up testing’ Meanwhile, the CPI (M) has asked the district administration to step up testing. Virudhunagar district party secretary K. Arjunan said the delay in announcing test results caused mental stress to people. Testing facilities should be increased in Sivakasi, Rajapalayam and Aruppukottai. Similarly, the number of beds should be increased at the Government Hospitals at Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Aruppukottai and Rajapalayam, he added.
27 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||MGNREGS workers get a taste of mushroom cultivation||To make sure that paddy straw is utilised after the harvest season, the Department of Agriculture and District Rural Development Agency has joined hands to impart skill training in mushroom cultivation to nearly 300 workers registered under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Since employment opportunities are limited in the post harvest season, the MGNREGS workers are to be trained in cultivation of mushroom, considered ideal for hot weather conditions. According to Agriculture department sources, the district generates 4.5 lakh tonnes of paddy straw. Only a portion gets sold or is used as feed for livestock and cattle. The idea behind the training programme was to source the paddy straw and put it to productive use, according to officials. In the first phase, 53 women were taught construction of mushroom sheds, and the dynamics of temperature. The training programme conducted under the aegis of ATMA (Agriculture Technology management Agency) was inaugurated by District Collector Praveen P. Nair in the presence of senior officials of Agriculture Department and District Rural Development Agency. The participants were provided hands-on exposure to the growth of mushroom in paddy bundles in a controlled environment. Growth of mushroom cultivated inside a plastic film house at a temperature of around 25 -35 ° C and relative humidity of 75-80 % was explained. They were also oriented on technical support and market linkage. The trainers cited studies to drive home the point that mushroom cultivation could ensure more than 60 % returns.
27 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||30 new cases in Puducherry||The Union Territory registered 30 new COVID-19 cases, including three in Karaikal, on Friday. While 27 patients were admitted to IGMCRI, three patients have been were admitted to the GH in Karaikal. Active cases stand at 322, while 203 were treated and discharged. So far, 14,267 samples had been tested in the U.T. and the results of only 261 samples are pending.
27 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Send petitions through e-mail or Whatsapp, Collector tells public||The Pudukottai district administration has asked the general public to send their petitions containing grievances either through WhatsApp or e-mail instead of submitting them in person at the Collectorate. With the weekly public grievances redressal meeting not being convened at the Collectorate due to the spread of COVID-19, the public could send their petitions containing grievances in the WhatsApp number 944500-8146 or send them through e-mail in the addressyseccoll.tnpdk@nic.in Petitions containing grievances relating to COVID-19 could be sent to the email addresspag.pdkt@gmail.comor in the WhatsApp number 9445008146, said Collector P. Uma Maheswari in an official release here.
27 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Two lakh collected as fine||The Thanjavur Corporation has collected Rs. 2 lakh as fine from persons who failed to wear face masks in public places. According to official sources, the district administration has recently directed the civic body to conduct surprise checks at important junctions in the town to see whether the general public wore face masks while moving out of their residences. It has also instructed the civic body to collect a fine of Rs. 100 from the violators and to collect Rs. 500 in case of repeat offence and Rs. 1,000 for the third time violation. A total of 2,000 persons were fined till June 26 in the town, sources said.
27 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Automated RNA extraction machine commissioned||The Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, which has already commissioned RT PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) facility to test the samples drawn from suspected COVID -19 patients, has added one more facility – Automated RNA Extraction Machine, costing about Rs. 22 lakh. Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju formally inaugurated the machine in the presence of Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Dean, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Revathi Balan, Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani and senior doctors on Friday. The machine plays a crucial first stage of the testing process in PCR tests. At present, reagents have to be added manually in the manual method of testing, which consumes more time to give the results.
27 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. keen on averting custodial deaths: Minister||Information Minister ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju on Friday handed over the State Government’s compensation of Rs. 20 lakh to the family of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J Benicks of Sattankulam, who died due to alleged custodial torture. Accompanied by Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Mr. Raju handed over the compensation announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to the distressed family. Mr. Raju told journalists that the government was keen on preventing custodial deaths and had placed under suspension two Sub-Inspectors allegedly involved in this case. Though “some sporadic incidents” (custodial deaths) had happened here and there, impartial actions were being taken against the erring officials. “In fact, the Tamil Nadu police stations have bagged national-level awards for best police stations and other laurels on various occasions. So, an isolated incident cannot be treated as a routine affair,” Mr. Raju claimed. DMK MP meets family Earlier, Thoothukudi MP K. Kanimozhi met the bereaved family members along with Tiruchendur MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan and handed over the cheque for Rs. 25 lakh on behalf of the DMK. She demanded that the custodial deaths be treated as murder.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees yet another spike with 108 fresh cases||The central region saw a total of 108 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of them, 32 hailed from Tiruchi, 25 from Thanjavur, 18 from Tiruvarur, 17 from Nagapattinam, 10 from Pudukottai, four from Ariyalur and one from Karur. In Tiruchi, people from containment areas and relatives of those who had tested positive showed symptoms of the virus. Of the 32 who tested positive on Friday, more than half hailed from within the city limits. The patients came from Karumandapam, Subramaniapuram, Kumaran Nagar, Kattur, Tharanallur, Varaganeri and Manapparai. All have been admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for treatment. Meanwhile, 36 patients from Tiruchi and a patient from Chennai were discharged from Tiruchi GH. They have been asked to self-isolate themselves for a period of 14 days before venturing out. Doctors also gave them instructions and dietary restrictions before they were sent off in ‘108’ ambulances. A total of 80 patients, including 40, who were admitted on Friday are being monitored by a team of health officials at the newly set up COVID Care Centre at the Bharathidasan University Khajamalai Campus. The patients are all asymptomatic, a senior official of Tiruchi GH said. “The Tiruchi district administration is providing nutritious food and other essentials for their care,” he added. In Nagapattinam, seven of the 17 patients who tested positive were contacts of those who previously tested positive. Of the remaining 10 patients, five had returned from Chennai, two from Chengalpattu and one each had returned from Coimbatore, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The total number of persons infected with COVID-19 virus in Tiruvarur district has increased to 295 with 18 new persons testing positive on Friday. With the discharge of 10 patients after treatment, 164 persons were undergoing treatment in the district. In Thanjavur district, 25 fresh cases were reported on Friday taking the tally to 382 positive cases. So far, 225 infected persons have been discharged after treatment from the hospitals in the district. Most of the new cases that were reported in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts were either persons who had arrived from other districts/States or countries. In Pudukottai, 10 patients, including a one-year-old male child and a seven-year-old male child, tested positive for the virus on Friday. Of the 10 patients, five, including the two children had returned from Chennai. Two persons had travelled from Egypt to their home town in the district when they tested positive. The patients have all been admitted to the Ranee's Government Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Seven patients were discharged in the district on Friday. In Karur two patients tested positive for the virus. They have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Five patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday. In Ariyalur, four patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Of the four, two returned from Chennai while two were contacts of those who tested positive earlier. Two have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital while two have been sent to Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. As many as 282 throat swabs were lifted from people in the district who were suffering from cold and fever symptoms, and also from contacts of those who had tested positive.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure being created to reduce post-harvest loss: CM||A supply chain management scheme aimed at creating necessary infrastructure to reduce post-harvest loss in vegetables, fruits and other perishables would be implemented in 10 districts on an outlay of Rs. 482.36 crore, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. The scheme also aimed at creating better marketing avenues for farmers and increasing their income. The scheme would be implemented in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruchi, Dindigul, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts, Mr. Palaniswami said while addressing representatives of farmers associations in Tiruchi. The Chief Minister said that over the past nine years, the State had stepped up financial allocation to agriculture sector and had implemented various schemes. Over the past four years, 6,278 ponds and tanks had been desilted with an allotment of Rs. 1,433 crore. There were about 24,000 tanks under the Public Works Department and every year a certain number of tanks had been taken up for renovation. Mr. Palaniswami also assured that check dams would be built across rivers and streams based on the report of a committee, comprising retired PWD engineers, constituted to identify suitable places for building such structures. Farmers representatives including Puliyur A. Nagarajan, president,Farmers Wing of Tamil Maanilla Congress, P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Innaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, P.Viswanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Eri Mattrum Attru Pasana Vivasayigal Sangam, Koundampatti R. Subramanian, Deputy Secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, N. Veerasekaran of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, and others presented representations to the Chief Minister. Waiver of crop loans, sanction of compensation for farmers affected by fall in prices of produce due to the lockdown and steps to get Tamil Nadu’s due share of water in Cauvery from Karnataka were some of the key demands put forth by the farmers associations. They also thanked the Chief Minister for executing the kudimaramathu works on a rapid pace this year. Food Park Later speaking to reporters, the Chief Minister disclosed that 6,128 MSMEs have been extended credit to the tune of Rs. 263.82 crore in Tiruchi district in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and another Rs. 200 crore would be advanced to them soon. An industrial park would be established by SIPCOT in Manapparai and the first phase of work would begin soon. This apart, a Food Park would be established on 150 acres at the same site at an investment of Rs. 100 crore. This park would generate employment for about 15,000 persons. The government would consider the suggestions and demands put forth by farmers and industry representatives, he said. New buildings Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami formally declared open new buildings of various government departments constructed at a total cost of Rs. 25.53 crore in the district. These include school buildings and laboratories, a library building at the Tiruchi Government Law College, a sub-registrar office at Manachanallur, a hostel for women students of Tiruchi K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital, a primary health centre building at Samayapuram and the office of the Deputy Director of Family Welfare.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Make textbook distribution less cumbersome, say headmasters||The School Education Department in the district is in the process of supplying textbooks meant for free distribution to government and government-aided schools amid apprehensions expressed by headmasters about what they perceive to be shortcomings in compliance with the latest government directive that only ministerial staff should be engaged for the activity. The directive states that ministerial staff at the offices of Chief Educational Officer, District Education Officers, Block Education Officers and the schools must be deployed for supplying the books to the institutions, and that the transport expenses will be met by the department. However, school heads complain that their presence has been necessitated at the common collection points by the authorities in the district. However, official sources said the school heads had come on their own to verify the books. The school heads also complained that they had to spend substantial amount to hire vehicles to transport the books to their respective institutions from two collection points – The Boys Higher Secondary School, Srirangam, and the Corporation High School at Moolathoppu in Melur, about four kilometres away. A headmaster of a school in Tiruchi educational district said that he had to spend more than Rs. 1,000 for transport as he had to collect textbooks from both the locations. Seeking to allay their apprehensions, an official said the expenses will be reimbursed. A decision to store some of the books at the Corporation High School at Moolathoppu was also taken. Meanwhile, department officials expressed certainty that all textbooks unloaded at the common collection points in Tiruchi, Musiri and Lalgudi educational districts would be delivered by June 30, the deadline fixed by School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw collateral security required for MSME units under CORUS’||The Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association (TIDITSSIA) has urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to withdraw the requirement of collateral security for MSME units availing utility of the COVID Relief and Upliftment Scheme (CORUS) implemented by Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation with an allocation of Rs. 200 crore. In a representation to the Chief Minister, TIDITSSIA president R. Ilango said the emphasis on collateral security defies the very rationale behind the announcement of the scheme in the backdrop of a critical financial situation faced by the MSME units. While not asking for additional collateral, the charges on existing primary and collateral security has been extended for units availing the utility of the scheme announced during April by the Chief Minister to meet out capital expenses as well as working capital needs. The government has specified that the unit availing the loan ranging from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh must be in standard category as on March 1. While the Prime Lending Rate is 11.95 %, the effective rate of interest for micro and small enterprises is 5.95 % as they are eligible for 6 % interest subvention. For medium enterprises, the effective rate of interest is 8.95 % after deduction of the 3 % interest subvention. Likewise, the State government must withdraw the pre-condition that only those who do not avail the utility of the Central Government's COVID-19 credit facility, Emergency Credit Line Guarantee (ECLG), will be covered under CORUS. Under the ECLG scheme the applying unit will get a capital finance of 20 % of the outstanding credit as on February 29, 2020, Mr. Ilango pointed. The State Government must come forward to exempt the MSME units from paying the MODT (Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deed) charges for availing the utility of the ECLG scheme, he said. The MSME sector in the region, Mr. Ilango said, expects the State Government to bring in large industries to the upcoming 1,050-acre SIPCOT Industrial Estate near Manapparai along the Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway for ensuring a lifeline to ancillary units.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Livelihood is at stake as inter-district bus services are suspended: residents||Tiruchi residents say the sudden discontinuation of public and private bus services within zones has caused them much inconvenience. Many from the city travel to other districts like Pudukottai and Karur for work while workers from areas in Ariyalur, Perambalur come to Tiruchi for work. After over 40 days of lockdown and with resumption of operations by public and private companies, these employees were able to go to work within the districts. Tiruchi, which was in zone 4 also had Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai in the cluster. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that public and private transport services in various zones would be suspended from June 25 to 30. R. Manoj, who works at a shop in Pudukottai said that he was unable to go to work until the service resumes. “I cannot afford a bike. I am the sole breadwinner for my family and we have been struggling from April. I am unsure of what I will be able to do,” he said. Meanwhile, P. Muthu who had travelled to Thanjavur to meet his ailing mother said, “I came here on Monday and hoped to return to Tiruchi with her on Friday. She is old and is unable to take care of herself. However, now we are both stuck here and our passes are getting rejected.” Small business owners too rued as transportation of goods and services took a hit. “We had just begun sending orders to other districts. What are we to do for the next month?” said S. Arumugham, a weaver.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||CCTV cameras at select TASMAC outlets||Select Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) liquor outlets in Tiruchi region would soon be equipped with closed circuit television cameras. The TASMAC officials in Tiruchi region, encompassing nine districts, have compiled a list of liquor outlets where cameras need to be installed. The list has been forwarded to the TASMAC authorities in Chennai. As per the plan, each shop would have two cameras. The TASMAC officials say they have selected 695 liquor outlets across Tiruchi region where cameras needed to be equipped – 105 liquor outlets in Tiruchi district; 80 in Pudukottai district; 50 in Karur district; 90 in Thanjavur district; 55 in Nagapattinam district; 60 in Tiruvarur district and 50 in Perambalur. A slew of factors were taken into consideration while identifying the outlets requiring installation of surveillance cameras. Shops in remote locations with steady sales; those outlets where theft had been reported, shops recording high sales and previous instances of law and order problem having occurred in any of the shops were factors that were kept in mind. The work was expected to be done soon as the State had already accorded permission for installation of the gadgets in retail outlets, say officials. Recurring instances of theft from TASMAC outlets had prompted the authorities to shift liquor bottles from all outlets in Tiruchi district to safer locations during the lockdown period.
27 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Traders strike call evokes mixed response||The State-wide strike called by the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu to condemn the recent custodial deaths of the two traders, at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district evoked a mixed response on Friday. Many shops and business establishments in Tiruchi city as well as in neighbouring Perambalur and Ariyalur districts remained open, police sources said. However, traders downed shutters in Pudukottai district heeding the call. The traders association in a press release issued here has urged the State government to take steps to register a murder case against the police personnel concerned and render justice. It also wanted the government to hike the relief amount to the family of the victims to Rs. 1crore.
27 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vital components for Kudankulam reactors coming from Russia||Construction of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project’s third and fourth reactors is progressing well. A ship with vital components for these reactors has left the port of St. Petersburg and started its journey to KKNPP site. This is the 17th ship load arriving here after construction of the third and fourth reactors of the KKNPP began in February 2016. “In the context of restrictions imposed in Russia and India in the wake of the pandemic, Rosatom State Corporation Engineering Division, the Indian customer (Nuclear Power Corporation of India), Russian manufacturers and the port of St.Petersburg have kept on working and meeting all the measures prescribed for construction of the second phase of KKNPP,” said director for projects in India, Vladimir Angelov, in a statement. Significant equipment as airlocks of the passive heat removal system for reactor 3, condensate de-mineraliser filters for reactors 3 and 4, core catcher materials, control and protection system drives, transfer cask, surge tanks outside the containment, blow down de-aerator for reactor 4 were shipped to the KKNPP site. The ship load included filters, pipelines, valves, stationary penetration sand pumps. “It is necessary to make a specific mention on the well-coordinated work of the employees responsible for the cargo handling and execution,” Mr. Angelov noted. Total volume of equipment amounts to over 4,200 m3. The scheduled arrival of the shipload to the Kudankulam construction site is expected to be in the second week of July 2020. The NPCIL is operating 2 x 1,000 MWe VVER reactors at Kudankulam with Russian assistance on an outlay of Rs. 17,270 crore and the first reactor is generating power since July 2013 even as the construction of 3rd and the 4th reactors of the KKNPP is under way at a cost of Rs. 39,747 crore. Excavation for construction of 5th and the 6th reactors is progressing ahead of schedule and the ‘first pouring of concrete’ for these last two reactors, to be built at an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore, is likely to happen at any time as decided by the NPCIL, the project proponent.
27 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cash assistance for persons with disabilities||Cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 sanctioned by the government for persons with disabilities as COVID-19 relief will be distributed at their doorsteps. In a press release, Collector T. Anand said that the money would be distributed to beneficiaries after making an entry in the National Identity Card and passbook with Disability Certificate. The cash assistance would be either handed over directly to the beneficiaries or the caretaker depending on the nature of the disability. Stating that beneficiaries should submit details sought by the officials, the Collector added that in case of any difficulty they could contact the District Differently-abled Persons Welfare Officer (DPWO) over phone: 9499933494 or (4366)290153. If assistance was denied or they were unable to avail the assistance, the State toll-free number: 18004250111 could also be contacted to get the grievances redressed. The distribution of cash assistance would be carried out from June 27 to July 2 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Details of those with disabilities who are residents of other areas or districts but held up in Tiruvarur district in view of the pandemic will be collected and forwarded to the concerned officials in Tiruvarur district or to the District DPWO of the concerned districts.
27 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Shops sealed||Six shops in Tiruvarur municipal area were sealed on Thursday night by civic officials. According to a press release, a team led by Commissioner (in-charge) R. Jagadeeshwari found some shops functioning on Gandhi Road, Nethaji Salai, Javulikara Street and Sivam Nagar beyond the stipulated time. Subsequently, these shops were sealed and customers who had failed to wear face masks and maintain social distancing were fined. The shop owners were also fined for not providing sanitiser and allowing customers to stand in groups.
27 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture grievance meeting on June 30||The agriculture grievance meeting for June will be held at the Revenue Divisional Offices at Tiruvarur and Mannargudi on June 30. Collector T. Anand requested the farmers to air their grievances at the meetings to be held at the offices of the Tiruvarur and Mannargudi RDOs.      Farmers taking up kuruvai cultivation have been advised to insure their crop by remitting Rs. 651 per acre as premium on or before July 31. Collector T. Anand said those interested in insuring their crop could do so by remitting the insurance premium at the financial institution where they had availed the crop loan. Those who had not taken any loan could also insure their crop by remitting the premium in any of these institutions by presenting the necessary documents or through the e-service centres, he added.
27 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Special ward set up at Ooty GH to treat asymptomatic patients||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients from the Nilgiris will no longer have to go to Coimbatore for treatment, as a special Coronavirus ward with facilities to treat 100 patients has been set up at the Government Headquarters Hospital in Udhagamandalam.  Officials from the Health Department said that previously all people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris were sent to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore. However, as beds at the hospital in Coimbatore were quickly being filled up, the health department recently set up a ward to treat COVID-19 patients at the Government Headquarters Hospital here. “It is a 100-bed facility with ventilators and qualified doctors, where asymptomatic COVID-19 patients can be treated,” said S. Palanisami, Joint Director of Health Services, Nilgiris district.  The Sait Memorial Hospital, which is under renovation, has been made partially functional to accommodate people who were waiting for their test results for COVID-19, but that isolation ward too will be shifted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, officials said. So far, a total of 50 people have tested positive for COVID-19 till Thursday evening. Of the 50 people, 29 cases are active, officials said. While most of the patients have been admitted to the ESI hospital for treatment, four people are being treated at the Government Headquarters Hospital in Udhagamandalam.
27 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kolacombai policemen test negative||Nine police personnel attached to the Kolacombai police station, which was closed down as part of COVID-19 precautionary measures on Thursday, tested negative for COVID-19. Swab samples from 21 persons, including people who visited the police station, were taken and sent for testing after a resident of Thuthurmattam, who lived near the houses of a few police personnel, tested positive, police sources said. The policemen who were placed under institutional quarantine were sent home after they tested negative. They will be allowed to resume duty. The Kolacombai police station will resume functioning as it was disinfected on Thursday and Friday.
27 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||CPI seeks inquiry into death in police custody||Communist Party of India has sought setting up of an enquiry commission into the death of a 57-year-old man S. Sheik Abdullah of Sivakasi in police custody on June 18. In a memorandum addressed to the Collector R. Kannan, the district secretary P. Lingam has asked why the man was taken for remand at 10.20 p.m. While he was produced before the Judicial Magistrate – I by the Sivakasi Town police, the man had collapsed and rushed to the Government Hospital at 10.45 p.m. where he was declared brought dead. Mr. Lingam said that it was the duty of the district administration to make it clear whether Abdullah’s death was natural or due to assault by police.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More positive cases across districts, Salem alone reports 111||Districts across western region continued to see a spike in COVID-19 positive cases, with Salem district alone reporting 111 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Officials in Salem said 52 of these were indigenous cases from different parts of Salem, 25 had returned from Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and New Delhi, five had returned from foreign countries and 29 had come from Chennai and other districts in the State. Among the fresh cases is a conservancy worker with the Salem Corporation. City health officials said efforts were on to find out from whom the patient contracted the infection. About 20 contacts of the patient, including family members, were quarantined, but their test results were negative. Three hospital workers at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, aged about 50 tested positive. Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan said the workers had been on duty in the COVID-19 ward of the hospital. Health officials said that a woman doctor who was about to join duty at a primary health centre here also tested positive. Meanwhile, 24 persons who underwent treatment at GMKMCH were discharged on Friday. Accused tests positive A man who was arrested on Thursday by the Shevapet police in connection with a motorcycle theft has tested positive. “The police station premises has been disinfected. About six personnel who came in contact with the accused have been quarantined,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) P. Thangadurai. Strict vigil Vigil was up along Salem city border to screen vehicles from other districts, Mr. Thangadurai said. An additional checkpost was put up at Valasiyur near Ayodhiyapattinam and there were 10 check-posts in the city limits. Persons without e-passes were not being allowed into the city. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said there were about 20 check-posts in the district borders, where checking had been made stringent. Motorists, especially those coming from hotspots, were being directed to quarantine centres. Coimbatore district had 34 new cases on Friday. Sixteen of them were reported from clusters at R.S. Puram, Kaliyappan Street and Kamarajar Street at K.K. Pudur and Telugu Street near Selvapuram. Three of them were men aged 48, 49 and 51 who reached Coimbatore by train and tested positive, Health Department sources said. The fresh cases comprised 16 men, 16 women and two boys, aged two and 10. According to the media bulletin issued by the State government, Coimbatore district has seen 393 total positive cases so far, of whom 215 are active cases. On Friday, 15 patients were discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital after recovery. Twenty-four fresh cases were reported in Krishnagiri district, with 23 of them from Hosur. And, five of the new cases are relatives of already infected persons. Tiruppur district saw 14 new positive cases on Friday, taking the district's tally so far to 141. Four of them, including a 34-year-old pregnant woman, had travel history. Four more employees at the Dharapuram Municipality office tested positive on Friday. They are colleagues of four employees who tested positive earlier. The other fresh cases included three children – two boys aged seven and four and a 11-year-old girl. In the Nilgiris, seven persons tested positive for COVID-19, raising the total number of infections in the district till date to 56. The total number of active cases in the district is 35. Officials said six of the seven new infections were primary and secondary contacts of an infected person, who worked as a Public Relations Officer in a private firm in Yellanalli. The seventh case is a person who is suspected to have contracted the infection from another district. Erode district saw six new positive cases on Friday, taking the district's tally so far to 100. Officials said three of the new cases were reported from Chithode, two from Erode Corporation limits and one from Nambiyur. In Namakkal district, six persons, including a 75-year-old man, tested positive on Friday. C
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s fiscal deficit could touch Rs. 85,000 crore: Chief Minister||The Chief Minister was on a visit to the city to review the measures taken to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus and the progress in executing kudimaramathu works in Tiruchi district. He said the government would extend whatever assistance possible to the people, taking into consideration the financial position, he said, while answering a query on the feasibility of reducing the tuition fee in educational institutions.   The Chief Minister did not see any need for convening an all-party meeting to discuss the issue, reiterating that it was essentially a medical issue and the government was acting as per the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, the Union Ministry of Health and the Indian Council of Medical Research. “It is not an inter-State issue for political parties to discuss and decide,” he said. He also observed that until a drug was found to cure the disease, people would have to adhere to the WHO norms, such as wearing face masks, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene. Cooperative banks Mr. Palaniswami said that more details were awaited on the Centre’s decision to bring urban cooperative banks under the Reserve Bank of India. “However, we have already written to the Centre seeking continuation of status quo," he said. Answering another query, he said the Public Works Department would gradually step up the quantum of release from the Mettur Dam for irrigation, depending on the requirement for farmers in the delta. This year, water has been released as the level stood at 100 feet and above for a sustained period, he pointed out. Hoping for a bountiful monsoon, he observed that the monsoon was yet to turn active over Karnataka. Steps would be taken to get Tamil Nadu’s share of water through the Cauvery Water Management Authority.  Govt. will extend whatever assistance possible to the people Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protests staged in districts against custodial deaths||Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration in Tiruppur and Coimbatore on Friday, condemning the custodial deaths in Sattankulam. Slogans raised In Tiruppur, the members raised slogans demanding action against those involved in the deaths and adequate compensation along with employment for the deceased’s kin during the demonstration. Members of Makkal Adhikaram organisation also staged a demonstration condemning the State government. In Coimbatore, several shops and hotels were closed down at least till noon. CPI (M) staged a protest in front of the party office and raised slogans against the police.  Staff Reporter adds from Salem: Members of CPI (M) protested in front of the Collectorate here on Friday demanding action against police personnel involved in the custodial deaths of a father and son. The protesters demanded that the police personnel involved in the incident must be charged with murder. They demanded that the State government should offer a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the family of the deceased. Condemning the deaths, trade associations called for downing of shutters here on Friday and most shops remained closed in the district during the day. Pharmacies remained closed till 11 a.m. in solidarity with the protests. Shops at Shevapet market remained closed during the day.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 432 cr. loan disbursed to MSMEs in Tiruppur district’||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Friday that loans totalling Rs. 432 crore have been dispersed to 2,881 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Tiruppur district. In May, the Central government announced the Rs. 3 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs to mitigate the economic distress due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Under this scheme, borrowers can avail an additional 20% of the loan from financial institutions. The Collector presided over a meeting with representatives of MSMEs, banks and district administration officials to discuss the practical difficulties in the MSME units receiving these loans from banks and how to rectify these issues, a release said. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the rest of the MSME units in the district will receive the 20% loan. The representatives were asked to increase production, improve the product quality and reduce the expenses to compete in the global market. They were also encouraged to usewww.tnprivatejob.tn.gov.in, the recently-launched website by the State government, to recruit new employees, the release added.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found unconscious in Mettur||District forest officials on Friday found a young elephant lying unconscious near a water channel in Mettur Forest range here. The elephant is being treated by wildlife veterinarians. According to forest officials, a six-year-old male elephant which entered Mettur forest range from Thenampatti forest range has been roaming in the region for the past few days and was found lying unconscious near a water channel in Naykantanda. Villagers alerted forest officials and a team led by Mettur Forest Range Officer Prakasham reached the spot. Wildlife veterinarian Prakash examined the animal and forest officials said that in preliminary investigation, the elephant was found to have an infection in its intestine and hence, it could not consume food for the past few days. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that the elephant is being provided with preliminary treatment and further decision on rehabilitation would be taken once its health condition improves.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead, after filing complaint against son||A man and his wife were found dead in their house at Samayanallur on Friday. Police said they could have committed suicide. The deceased - K. Machakalai, 67, and Pasupathi, 61, had three sons - one in Coimbatore, another abroad and the third son, Karthik, whom they were living with at Poonga Nagar in Samayanallur. On Thursday, Machakalai had lodged a complaint with the Samayanallur police that Karthik was forcing them to leave the house and go to Coimbatore. But after Karthik gave an assurance that he would take care of them, the police issued a community service register receipt. The police took Machakalai to the house and left him there. However, on Friday morning, the couple was found dead in the first floor of the house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It’s raining roses||
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meat to be sold only in packets in Erode district||To prevent gathering of people at meat shops, meat will be sold to the customers only in packets while fish will be sold without cleaning, said Collector C. Kathiravan here on Friday. Chairing a review meeting with department heads on the measures to be taken against COVID-19 at the Collectorate, he said that spread of virus could be controlled only if people cooperate with the government’s effort in combating the virus. On Sunday, fish stalls will not function while on weekdays, it will be sold without cleaning, he said. Meat will be sold only in packets, he said and asked the workers to clean the shops thrice a day with disinfectants. The Collector said that vehicles with e-pass will only be allowed to enter the district. “If there is a visitor from other States or countries, officials should be immediately alerted at the toll free number 1077 or WhatsApp number 96773-97600”, he added.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe ordered into violation of guidelines regarding auctioned vehicle||The District Collector has ordered an inquiry into the violation of government guidelines vis-a-vis auctioned government vehicle owned by a Hosur Block Development Officer without re-registration to a private party following a viral video. Earlier, a video of a government vehicle ferrying a wedding party with a newly-wed couple went viral raising questions of propriety of use of a government vehicle for a private wedding party in addition to throwing to winds physical distancing norms. However, upon verification, the vehicle was found to have belonged to the BDO of Hosur, before it was auctioned out to a private party without re-registration. Taking cognisance of the video, Collector S. Prabhakar had ordered an inquiry into the vehicle that was shown in the video bearing a vehicle plate stating Government of Tamil Nadu. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Prabhakar said, the vehicle had belonged to the BDO(village panchayat), Hosur. The vehicle was condemned and auctioned two years ago, but without removing the government logo. The private party that had purchased the vehicle had conveniently used the vehicle with the government logo.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till June 26||Persons tested +ve so far: 393 Domestic cases: 378 Imported cases: 15 Persons recovered: 176 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 215    House quarantined: 2,771 Positive: 141 (14 fresh cases on Friday) Discharged: 117 Active cases: 23 Death: 1 (Yet to be officially declared)
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Consider allowing online classes for limited period till panel submits report||Observing that prima facie schools should not have been prevented from conducting online classes by way of a blanket ban, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to consider providing online classes for limited hours till the expert committee submits its report and the authorities take a decision based on it. The government’s action is like putting the cart before the horse as the blanket ban on conducting online classes was imposed first and then the committee on “technology enabled education” was set up, the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order during hearing of a series of PIL petitions filed by parents of school-going children and the petitions filed by some of the educational institutions questioning the June 15 order of the government banning online classes. No recommendation yet Since the committee has not made any recommendation so far, the Bench said the government, till the committee’s report is received and decision is taken on its recommendations, would have to consider allowing schools to provide online education for limited hours. Observing that it had expected that the government would come out with some solutions on Friday as indicated by the court on Monday, the Bench said it was adjourning the hearing till June 29 only because the Advocate-General is not in station. During the hearing, the Bench asked how the government can shut education completely when it is not possible to open regular schools. Is the government of the impression that children, who are at home since March, are not using the Internet otherwise, the Bench wondered. How can the government stop if some schools want to offer online classes to their students and parents and children are agreeable to such an arrangement without making it as compulsion, asked the Bench. Earlier, advocates for the petitioners pointed out that the government had only banned regular schools from conducing online classes but several private educational companies were conducting online classes on a large scale. It was also alleged on behalf of some of the petitioners that the government had been misleading the court that the expert committee was looking into the issue as the committee was not looking into the issue of online classes up to class V but only class VI onwards.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA withdraws draft Revised Master Plan - 2031, to review and rewrite||The Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) has withdrawn the draft Revised Master Plan (RMP) - 2031, which was stuck in a legal quagmire, with the aim of reviewing and rewriting it. “It will be reviewed to integrate the Transit Oriented Development policy and a few other changes. A new draft of the RMP will be put out in the public domain for consultation soon,” said Rakesh Singh, additional chief secretary, Urban Development Department. He also said that the process would not start from scratch. “It will be done at the earliest.” The Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy put out by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) in May 2019 was at odds with the Draft RMP - 2031. “The government is of the opinion that TOD is the need of the hour for the city. The Draft RMP has been withdrawn to incorporate and integrate the BMRCL’s TOD policy,” said a senior BDA official. The ‘TOD approach’, adopted in several global cities, opts for dense, mixed land use, development along transit corridors, in this case Namma Metro, bus hubs and the proposed suburban rail corridors. It calls for the integration of transit and land use patterns. The integration of TOD in the Draft RMP is expected to have a huge impact on zoning regulations especially along metro corridors. The BMRCL policy defines TOD as the development of concentrated nodes of moderate to high mixed land use density within five to 10 minutes of walking distance from mass transit corridors. The policy calls for a premium Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of 5 and mixed land use to allow commercial and other uses along transit corridors. The new draft will provide for a Premium FAR of 5 in the city, senior officials said. “The Draft RMP - 2031 has large buffer zones around lakes (75 m) and drains (up to 30 m) as per the NGT order that was eventually struck down by the Supreme Court. So that also has a big impact on land use patterns,” a senior official explained why the draft has now been withdrawn. Meanwhile, a decision is yet to be taken as to whether to include the contentious elevated corridors (102 km) project in the new draft or not, sources said. The ruling BJP had opposed the network of elevated corridors while in the opposition. However, several ministers in the incumbent government have maintained “they are keeping an open mind” on the project. ‘BMPC must spearhead’ The Citizen Action Forum (CAF) has challenged the now withdrawn Draft RMP - 2031 in the Karnataka High Court on the grounds that the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee (BMPC) is constitutionally mandated to prepare the Master Plan for the city, not the BDA. The Draft RMP - 2031 has to date not even been discussed in the BMPC. “We will follow the due procedure and get the new draft ratified by the BMPC following public consultation,” a senior BDA official said. However, N.S. Mukunda, founder president of CAF and one of the petitioners before the High Court, said ideally BMPC must not remain a ratifying body, but it must spearhead the process of planning. “Not even the parastatals like the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company and BMRCL are involved in the planning process and in turn they are not statutorily bound by the Master Plan for the coming term as well.” He argued that this defeats the purpose of planning. “The BMPC, led by the Chief Minister, has the political authority to make planning for the city a collective effort from the ground with inputs from parastatals and the public. The new dedicated law for governing Bengaluru needs to make adherence to the Master Plan a legal binding as well,” Mr. Mukunda added.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Patient found dead in washroom of ward||A 60-year-old COVID-19 patient was found dead in the washroom of the dedicated ward in K.C. General hospital in Bengaluru early on Friday morning. The woman, along with her daughter-in-law and granddaughter, had been shifted from a quarantine centre to the hospital on June 18 after they tested positive for the virus. Good response Confirming this to The Hindu, the medical superintendent of the hospital Venkateshaiah B.R. said the woman had been responding well and doctors were waiting for her swab to test negative. “She ended her life in the washroom at around 2.40 am on Friday. Her daughter-in-law noticed she was not on her bed and informed doctors,” he said. Sources in the hospital said the woman, originally from Kunigal who was residing in Rajagopal Nagar in the city, was stressed out after she contracted the infection. Second case This is the second such instance of a COVID-19 patient ending their life in a COVID-19 ward in Bengaluru.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Work on Vrishabhavathi river retaining wall to begin soon||Mayor M. Goutham Kumar, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar and other senior officials on Friday visited Mylasandra on Mysuru road, where a portion of the retaining wall along the Vrishabhavathi river collapsed after heavy rain on Thursday, resulting in caving in of the road. The Mayor and the Commissioner directed officials to take up the restoration work immediately and ensure that there is no further damage. Speaking after inspecting the area, the Mayor said the retaining wall was built around 20 years ago by the city municipal corporation administration. “The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had built a safety wall on top of the retaining wall. Owing to heavy rain and increased inflow of water, the retaining wall collapsed,” he said and added that restoration work of the retaining wall would commence as soon as possible. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said to prevent the road from caving in further, the BBMP has for the time being placed sandbags and built temporary diversion bunds. “We will also make sure that it does not affect the road and water from the river does not overflow onto the road,” he said. Mr. Kumar said the BBMP crew carried out draining out of water on the Nayandahalli flyover and other areas. The design team and other experts of the BMRCL visited the spot to inspect whether the elevated metro pillars were in any danger. A BMRCL official told The Hindu , “As the pillars are around 20 meters from the spot, it is safe for now.” He also said they would monitor the situation closely and also see what can be done to prevent the pillars from being affected. The BBMP Commissioner said a meeting of officials of the NHAI and BMRCL would be convened soon.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee does not favour blanket ban on online classes||The expert committee set up by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to look into modalities of offering online classes for students is not in favour of a blanket ban on such classes. Committee members, which include department officials and mental health experts, plan to come up with guidelines in a week. Two meetings So far, they have held two meetings and members have been asked to submit their opinions and specify the duration of screen time that can be allowed for students across classes. They were also asked to weigh in on the frequency of online classes, the technological platform best suited for everyone’s needs, and whether parental presence is necessary. Members have also been asked to specify if classes should be synchronous or asynchronous. Although no decision has been taken in this regard, sources in the committee said they were looking at various national and international guidelines before deciding on the duration for these classes. A majority of the members have stated that online learning sessions cannot be a substitute for in-person classes. “We want to make it clear that the school management cannot simply replicate their regular timetable and conduct that many classes for students during this time,” a source in the committee said. A set of guidelines based on the Switzerland model that many International Baccalaureate schools are emulating states that for kindergarten students, the maximum duration should be 8 to 12 minutes and they can have two sessions. The number of sessions and time per class differ from one grade to another. For students in class nine, a maximum of 30 minutes per session should be allowed. The Department of Public Instruction is also studying the extensive guidelines on online education released by the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). Screen time According to these guidelines, screen time for pre-primary students should be restricted to 30 minutes on alternative days, two sessions of 20 to 45 minutes per day for elementary classes. For higher secondary and secondary school students, the cap on screen time is between 30 to 45 minutes and four sessions can be allowed in the day. Committee members have also been asked to submit their ideas on how students can be engaged or involved in learning besides online classes. Sources in the committee said that for government and aided school students, they are planning to conduct classes through either radio or television as it is the medium that is most accessible to students of these schools.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 new COVID-19 deaths||Karnataka saw 10 more COVID-19 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 180. Although the number of non-COVID deaths increased to five, including the death of a 60-year-old woman at K.C. General hospital, the Health Department is yet to take note of it in the update. While three of the deaths are from Bengaluru [they occurred on June 11, 12, and 25], one each has been reported from Kolar, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Bagalkot, Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Ballari. As many as 445 new cases were reported taking the total number of positive patients to 11,005.  Chamarajanagar, an erstwhile green district, which had just 10 cases till Thursday, saw a sudden spike on Friday with 10 new ones. While 80 of the total 445 new cases had no contact or travel history, 144 are Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) cases. Bengaluru Urban again reported the highest number of cases with 144. The coastal district of Udupi, which has so far recorded 1,125 cases, has seen a 91% recovery rate with 1,028 patients discharged. The case fatality rate (CFR) here is a mere 0.17%, the lowest in the State. Meanwhile, following complaints of a lack of hygiene and poor quality food supplied to patients in some hospitals, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar appointed senior officer Somanna Kadakola to supervise it. The Minister’s brother-in-law also tested positive on Thursday. His father, wife and daughter, apart from his cook, had earlier tested positive and are undergoing treatment.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotel association files plaint over fake messages||Popular eateries and bakeries in Bengaluru, that are limping back to normalcy after easing of lockdown restrictions, have now had to contend with fake messages doing the rounds on social media urging people not to visit them. These falsely claimed that one of their employees is COVID-19 positive. The Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association has clarified that all standard operating procedures as per the advisories issued by the government and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are being followed. “Spreading of false information is dangerous and puts doubts in the minds of people about utilising any services from restaurants,” the association noted in a release. On Friday, representatives from the association met with Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao to discuss the issue. Later, a complaint was also filed by association president P.C. Rao with the Cyber Crime Unit. “The initial fake message had listed out some 10 prominent restaurants and bakeries. However, ever since it started circulating, the number of establishments has increased to over 50. This is nothing but malicious propaganda by vested interests to malign the reputation of these popular eating joints,” Mr. Rao said. Several appeals have been made since the spread of the pandemic to citizens to not give in to such fake news and messages. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar had also taken to social media to appeal to people. On Thursday, he tweeted: “Dear citizens, there is no need to panic as the govt. is constantly monitoring the situation & any plans to enforce a lockdown or seal down will be communicated officially. Please do not believe any news reports that are not issued officially. Request all not to spread rumours.”
27 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Foundation laying for statue of Kempe Gowda today||A 108-feet statue of Bengaluru founder Kempe Gowda will be installed at the Kempegowda International Airport in about a year from now, and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will lay the foundation for it on Saturday, which also marks his birth anniversary. According to Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan, the Rs. 78-crore project will also have a 23-acre park. The statue will be designed by Ram V. Sutar, who sculpted the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel statue in Gujarat. Mr. Yediyurappa will also unveil a miniature model of the statue on Saturday. The programme will be webcast on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. One can watch IT here: http://bit.ly/kdbkar.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assessment of SWD works||The Urban Development Department (UDD) wants an assessment of all major SWD works undertaken recently. This comes in the wake of the collapse of a portion of the retaining wall along the Vrishabhavathi river after heavy rain on Thursday. Rakesh Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department, on Friday wrote to the BBMP to form a team to undertake the assessment. The letter also stated, “An inquiry may be held into the incident to ascertain what went wrong. Also the details of the work executed, the amount spent by the BBMP on the said stretch of SWD etc may also be provided to the government in the form of a report, right away.” In the last week of May, the UDD had written to the BBMP asking it to take pre-emptive and preparatory measures to mitigate adverse effects of monsoon.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Letter seeks expunging comments||A host of women’s rights organisations and citizens, led by historian Ramachandra Guha, have written an open letter to Justice Krishna S. Dixit of the High Court of Karnataka taking objection to the articulation of a recent bail order he authored in a rape case. The letter notes that while granting bail, the order mentions the complainant’s claim of having slept “after the perpetration of the act” because she was tired and that it was “unbecoming of an Indian woman”. “That is not the way our women react when they are ravished,” the order states. The letter calls upon the judge to expunge these comments. The letter also takes objection to the use of the word “ravished” instead of the legal term “sexual assault”. In a separate press statement, the Janawadi Mahila Sanghatane too has taken exception to the articulation of the order.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tribute to soldiers||The Karnataka Congress, on Friday, held a peace meeting at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Benglauru, besides district headquarters, to pay tributes to soldiers who were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops during a face-off in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh. The party on June 29 will hold a protest opposing hike in fuel prices.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Home isolation for asymptomatic but positive health workers||With several doctors, nurses and other paramedical workers who have tested positive being asymptomatic, the Health Department has now permitted them to be in home isolation. “They should be given pulse oximeter and personal protective equipment to be used during isolation. Also they should report to their Health Supervisor about their health status every day,” said a on Friday. On completion of seven days of home isolation, if they remain asymptomatic, a swab should be taken and if found negative, they will be permitted to go out of isolation, it added.
27 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIRs against those violating home quarantine||FIRs will be lodged against those violating home quarantine, said Secretary of Animal Husbandry Department Captain P. Manivannan, who heads the home quarantine taskforce. Those guilty will be shifted to institutional quarantine at their own cost. “We have issued 987 warnings so far. From Saturday, we will file FIRs and not issue any warnings,” he said. Over 1,000 teams, including Civil Defence personnel, have been formed at the booth level, and Citizen Quarantine and flying squads at the Assembly segment level. Call 080-45451111 or send a WhatsApp message to 9777777684 for assistance.
27 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Forgotten police quarters occupied unauthorisedly comes to light||In an interesting case, a casual perusal of documents has revealed unauthorised occupation of residential quarters meant for policemen in a village in Dharwad district. Now, after several decades, the police have initiated a process to reclaim the property. The Police Department has around one acre of land in Mugad village of Dharwad taluk and there existed a police station on the land in the 1970s. There is also a Sub-Inspector quarters and 12 residential quarters for police staff on the land. However, this issue had faded off the memory of the department and with none to take care, these residential quarters are now being inhabited by unauthorised occupants for the last 15 years. Recently, while leafing through the documents, Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar came across this issue and after further scrutiny, she has taken steps to reclaim the property. On Friday, accompanied by officials from the Survey department, Ms. Vartika Katiyar visited the village, spoke to the inhabitants of the residential quarters and conveyed to them that they have to ultimately find out an alternative accommodation for themselves.    She said that while the station building was not in existence now, all residential quarters had been occupied by unauthorised persons. “However, there will not be any immediate eviction considering the pandemic,” she said. Interestingly, an Anganwadi building has come up on the land belonging to the Police Department. “The Anganwadi building will remain. We are now contemplating taking additional land in lieu of the land used for the Anganwadi building,” she said.
27 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three test positive||Three people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Friday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district has gone up to 315. So far, 237 have recovered. Among the three patients who tested positive, one is a native of Channarayapatna. The 72-year-old woman is suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Another 30-year-old person from Alur is also suffering from SARI. It is not clear how they contracted the infection. Besides them, a 24-year-old person from Belur tested positive. These patients have been shifted to the designated hospital in Hassan.
27 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Centre urged not to allow mining in Kappata Gudda||Stating that elected representatives were attempting to free a few blocks of the conservation reserve Kappata Gudda for mining and quarrying, the National Committee for Protection of Natural Resources (NCPNR), the Janandolanagala Maha Maitri, the Citizens for Democracy and other organisations have urged the Union government not to allow any such exclusion which, in turn, may result in mining and quarrying. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, president of NCPNR and Samaj Parivartana Samudaya S.R. Hiremath said that some elected representatives were making efforts to allow mining and quarrying in a few blocks of Kappata Gudda and released copies of their letters to the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar seeking permission for such commission. Mr. Hiremath said that what these politicians had not understood was that the declaration of Kappata Gudda as a conservation reserve was based on a series of scientific reports submitted by scientists to the Western Ghats Task Force over the years and an effective people’s movement led by Kappata Gudda Horata Samiti led by seers of various mutt heads, particularly Sri Tontada Siddalinga Swamiji, and other organisations, including Samaj Parivartana Samudaya. He said that an effective legal battle had facilitated the declaration of the biodiversity-rich Kappata Gudda as conservation reserve. Following the letters from the elected representatives to the Union Minister, already the seer of Tontadarya Mutt Sri Siddarama Swami and the Samaj Parivartana Samudaya had held a joint press conference in Gadag opposing the move. “And, we will continue to keep a close watch on the issue and will oppose any move to free any block of the conservation reserve for mining or quarrying,” he said. Campaign Mr. Hiremath said that the Citizens for Democracy along with various organisations had decided to launch a sustained campaign to get justice to Anand Teltumbe and other activists who had been imprisoned under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The details of the campaign would be discussed at the annual general body meeting of the Citizens for Democracy to be held in Dharwad on Saturday, he said.
27 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DCC Bank Board to be superseded||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar has said that the State government will soon supersede the board of the Kalaburagi District Cooperative Central (DCC) Bank. Speaking to presspersons here on Friday, Mr. Somashekar said that the government has taken the decision on the grounds that there were rampant irregularities and misappropriation of funds in the cooperative bank. “Once the government gets approval from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), we will supersede and appoint an administrative officer for providing fresh agricultural loans to farmers,” he added. To monitor transactions in banks and cooperative societies across the State, a software will be introduced for the Apex Bank and Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Societies, Mr. Somashekar said. Replying to a question, the Minister exuded the confidence that the former Minister A.H. Vishwanath and R. Roshan Baig will get their due, as both had played a vital role in the formation of the BJP government in the State. The Minister also distributed cheques for Rs. 3,000 each among 1,840 ASHAs in the district. He said that the State government had allocated Rs. 12,67,50,000 for providing a one-time incentive of Rs. 3,000 for ASHAs for their efforts in containing the spread of COVID-19.
27 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stretch of NH 73 closed to enable civil work||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on Friday ordered the closure of Bantwal-Mudigere National Highway 73 (earlier NH 234) between BC Road and Jakribettu in Bantwal to facilitate concreting a carriageway as a part of four-laning work. Consequently, light vehicles, including route buses, would have to operate via Bantwal Town while very heavy vehicles have to run via Uppinangady and Guruvayanakere. The closure became effective on Friday and it would be in place till July 18, said a notification. Ms. Rupesh said that the closure of the portion of the highway was necessary to allow concreting as well as curing. The National Highways division of the Public Works Department has taken up the work of road widening from km 20 to km 40. Residents and road users in the area had been complaining of that the stretch of the road had become slushy ever since it started raining. Several goods vehicles got stuck in the mud during the period forcing the administration to close the stretch for vehicular traffic.
27 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railway underbridge commissioned||MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday inaugurated the reconstructed old railway underbridge on National Highway 75 at Padil. The underbridge had been under construction for three years. The construction of the underbridge to replace the old one on BC Road-Mangaluru carriageway of NH 75 commenced in December 2017 by diverting inbound traffic on the newly constructed railway underbridge on the Mangaluru-BC Road carriageway. The railway underbridge on Mangaluru-BC Road carriageway too has been prone to flooding during heavy rain due to the absence of proper drainage facility. Initially, it was the Southern Railway that delayed erecting the superstructure of the second railway underbridge that involved the construction of concrete boxes in-situ and the removal of some trees and electric installations in the location. Even after Southern Railway completed the process and allowed NHAI to asphalt the carriageway and build shoulder drains in December 2019, the NHAI did not take up construction work till about March this year. The railway underbridges are part of work to four-lane NH 75 between BC Road and Nanthoor and NH 66 between Nanthoor and Surathkal under the Port Connectivity Project. While NHAI has completed most part of the work and is collecting hefty toll at BC Road and Surathkal, some missing links are yet to be completed.  No street lights Meanwhile, Harniish Raj, an entrepreneur having his office at Padil, regretted that the entire stretch around the two underbridges lacks street lighting. It would be difficult for riders and drivers to negotiate the stretch. Lighting was required inside the underbridge on Mangaluru-BC Road carriageway too as it was pitch dark inside because of its low height, Mr. Raj said.
27 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank launches COVID-19 health insurance policy||Karnataka Bank recently launched a special health insurance policy to cover the uncertainties posed by COVID-19. A release quoted bank managing director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara as saying, “With the objective of providing insurance cover for individuals for COVID-19-related health expenses, the bank, in association with Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd., has launched this health policy. At a nominal premium of Rs. 399, inclusive of all taxes, one can avail oneself of health cover for COVID-19 under this policy.” The policy will cover in-patient hospital expenses up to Rs. 3 lakh, out-patient treatment expenses of Rs. 3,000 and will also provide Rs. 1,000 per day towards expenses incurred on 14 days of quarantine at a government or military hospital. The policy will be valid for 120 days.
27 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold ornaments, silver articles, cash taken away||A gang of four persons took away gold ornaments, silver articles and cash from the house of an arecanut trader in Kalmanja village of Dharmasthala Police limits in the early hours of Friday. According to the police, the four men entered the house of Achuth Bhat at 3 a.m. when he opened the door after hearing dogs barking. They tied Bhat, his mother and his brother’s wife to chairs and assaulted them. They snatched the gold chain from the wife of Bhat’s brother and also two gold bangles from Bhat’s mother. They then searched the house and took away 280 grams of gold ornaments, one kilogram of silver articles and Rs. 25,000 in cash. While leaving the house, the gang damaged three mobile phones and threatened the family members against informing the police. The Dharmasthala Police have registered a case.
27 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Over Rs. 12 cr. incentive to be distributed among health activists across State||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar has said that considering the services being rendered by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) as Corona Warriors during the time of a pandemic, the Ministry of Cooperation has decided to distribute Rs. 12 crore incentive among them. Speaking at a programme to distribute incentive cheques organised by the DCC Bank here on Friday, he said that the health activists are rendering a great service to the people during a time of health crisis. He said that Chief Minster B.S. Yediyurappa has asked cooperative banks to help these women financially and encourage them to work for society. He said that the Cooperation Department has given Rs. 52 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, and the cooperative banks have given Rs. 12.7 crore to these women. The Vijayapura DCC Bank has also spent Rs. 15 lakh as financial aid to health activists. The Minister said that each worker is being given Rs. 3,000 as incentive for putting their life in risk and working during the pandemic. “Already, funds have been released to 19 districts, including Vijayapura,” he said. Stating that the State has 41,500 ASHAs who are now being given incentive, he said that the government has advised ASHAs to form a cooperative association for their economic empowerment. “At the same time, the government has decoded to lend them up to Rs. 50, 000 at zero % interest,” he added. He told ASHAs to focus on their health also while working to prevent the spread of the virus. In his address, DCC Bank president and MLA Shivanand Patil said that the bank was giving incentive to 1,795 ASHAs in the district. He added that the bank has also given Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to tackle the pandemic.
27 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Lightning strikes temple roof||A portion of the roof of a temple at Haranagera village in Shahapur taluk is said to have been damaged after lightning struck it on Thursday night during a thunderstorm. Shahapur Tahsildar Jagannath Reddy said that the lightning strike, however, did not damage the Kalasa of the temple.
27 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||SSLC student tests positive in Yadgir||An SSLC student was confirmed positive for COVID-19, just a few days before the start of the examination and he has not been allowed to take the exam this year. The 16-year-old student belongs to Yaddalli village in Yadgir taluk. After receiving a report, officials of the Revenue, Health and Education departments rushed to the government school where he was kept under institutional quarantine after he returned from Maharashtra a week ago and shifted him to hospital for treatment. Education Department officials told The Hindu that he will be given an opportunity to write the supplementary examination as a fresh candidate. At present, the student is getting treatment at the COVID-19 hospital in Yadgir.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Estimated 40% of garment workers have lost jobs: unions||For three weeks, over 1,300 garment workers have been protesting every single day in front of their factory in Srirangapatna. Earlier in June, they were informed that they no longer had their jobs as the factory was not getting orders from a foreign clothing brand they were catering to. No sector appears to have escaped the impact of COVID-19. But for the nearly six lakh strong garment and textile workforce in Karnataka, of which a majority are women, a prolonged battle involving wages, workload and other labour benefits is now compounded by newer problems due to the pandemic. Jayaram K.R., legal advisor, Garment and Textile Workers Union (GATWU), said the case in Srirangapatna is not a one-off. “Some big companies have paid 70% of the workers, others only 50%. Some are paying staff only for the number of days they work, a few are not allowing people inside as they don’t want their services any more. Around 40% of six lakh garment and textile workers have lost jobs,” he alleged. The union says though factories resumed work on May 4, no transport was available for workers. In June, around 50% of garment workers started reporting to work. “Some companies have kept tailors but let go of helpers. One big company has merged three of its smaller companies, leading to job losses,” Mr. Jayaram said. Akkamma, who was working in a garment factory on Mysuru Road for 15 years, is now unemployed as the factory has closed down. “Company representatives told us that they were closing by March-end as they were incurring a loss. They didn't cheat us; they have given us our salaries. But I'm yet to get my PF.” According to Akkama, their factory employed around 800 people. “I’m from a village in Tumakuru. I have five children. How do we survive in a city like Bengaluru without work? No one is willing to give us work, even as domestic help. We are planning to return to our village because we cannot afford to live here,” she said. Rukmini V.P., president, Garment Labour Union, said workers are being told that companies expect to get orders after August. “Right now, there are layoffs, or employees are being given work in batches. We estimate that 40% of employees have lost work.” She also said that the Labour Department had categorically told them that they had received no directions from the government about relief for garment workers and that the unions would have to take it up with the Labour Minister. Labour Department officials were unavailable for comments.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone laid||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday laid the foundation stone for NIMHANS north campus in Kyalasanahalli near Byrathi in K.R. Puram hobli on Friday. He also launched e-Manas software, a web-based platform developed by NIMHANS and International Institute of Information Technology, Bengaluru. This software will be accessible to all mental health professionals and establishments in Karnataka.
27 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||21 more test positive in Alappuzha||There was no let-up in COVID-19 cases in the district with 21 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. According to officials, all the fresh cases are imported — 14 from abroad and seven from other States. This is the biggest single-day spike since the first case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on February 2. 11 from Kuwait Among the foreign returnees, 11 people reached the district from Kuwait. Two young men hailing from Venmony and Muhamma came on June 11. Another four persons — a 57-year-old native of Nooranad and three young men from Palamel, Mavelikara, and Cherthala — reached the district on June 13. The seventh patient, a 48-year-old man from Kayamkulam, had flown in on June 15. Another, a 48-year-old man hailing from Karuvatta, reached the district from the Gulf nation on June 18. A young man, native of Chennithala, came on June 19. Two men, a 46-year-old hailing from Kayamkulam and a youth from Kumarapuram, reached the district on June 24. The 12th patient, a young man from Arookutty, had come from Saudi Arabia on June 14. A young woman of Puliyoor came from Saudi Arabia on June 20. Another young man, native of Chettikulangara, reached the district from Qatar on June 8. Of the cases from other States, a 63-year-old man and his son from Chennithala came by train from Mumbai on June 7. A mother-daughter duo hailing from Aroor reached the district by train from Mumbai on June 12. A young man from Thalavady came by a private vehicle from Mumbai on June 25. A 47-year-old man, native of Arookutty, reached the district by a private vehicle from Tamil Nadu on June 3. A young woman from Chengannur had come by flight from Hyderabad on May 31. Twenty people have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and one person to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. 157 active cases The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 157. Meanwhile, the Elemecs hospital at Kayamkulam has been converted as the district’s first COVID-19 first-line treatment centre. It was inaugurated by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Friday.
27 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Mahesan’s death: probe begins||The police team probing the death of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K.K. Mahesan on Friday recorded the statements of his family members. The investigation is led by Mararikulam Circle Inspector S. Rajesh.  Forensic analysis The police said the letters and documents written by Mahesan before his death had been sent for forensic examination. Mahesan, a former aide to SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, allegedly ended his life on Wednesday. Probe demand His family reiterated their demand for a probe into the role of Yogam leaders and others that forced him to take the drastic step. Mahesan was the State coordinator of the Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme. He was questioned many times by investigators in connection with cases related to misappropriation of microfinance funds.
27 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two more in Idukki||Two more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. A 37-year-old Karinkunnam resident came from Tamil Nadu to Thiruvananthapuram on June 11, from there to Kottayam by train, and by road to Karinkunnam. A 44-year-old resident of Vandiperiyar came from Muscat on June 23. He was under observation at the District Hospital, Thodupuzha. The number of active cases in the district was 50, the District Collector said.
27 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Excess water released from 7 irrigation dams||Excess water is being released from seven irrigation dams in the State, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has said. Excess water (in cumecs) was being released on Friday in a restricted manner from the Neyyar dam (6.33) in Thiruvananthapuram, Bhoothathankettu (83.33) in Ernakulam, Malankara (37.25) in Idukki, Moolathara in Palakkad (all shutters open), Karapuzha (0.95) in Wayanad, Kuttiyady (23.62) in Kozhikode, and Pazhassi (168.82) in Kannur. However, in almost all dams, including Idukki, maintained by the Kerala State Electricity Board, the water level was below the rule curve level on Friday. A KSEB official said the rule curve level helped in reducing chances of a flood-like situation in case of opening of the shutters following heavy rainfall. In the Idukki hydroelectric project, the water level has not shown an increasing trend since June 1 following a poor monsoon and above average power generation at the Moolamattom power house. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, said the present water level in the Idukki dam was 48.44% of the maximum reservoir level. The water level on Friday was 2,329.8 ft compared to 2,306.6 ft last year.
27 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Gap Road widening may be delayed||The widening works of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway have to wait with Public Works Minister G.Sudhakaran rejecting a report submitted by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Muvattupuzha division, regarding a landslip on the Gap Road stretch last Wednesday. Nearly 200 metres of the road was destroyed in the landslip and a team of experts from the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), is scheduled to visit the area on June 30. Rex Felix, Assistant Executive Engineer, NHAI, said a detailed report would be submitted to the Minister. The road-widening works would be taken up considering the difficult terrain and with minimal rock blasting. There were objections from various departments, including the Forest Department, he said adding the works were being done as per the guidelines of the Central government. Had there been no objections, the works would have been over six months ago, he added. There were 15 major landslips on the Munnar stretch since the works started. It was alleged that unscientific road-widening works and rock-blasting had led to the landslips. An official at the Munnar forest division said the repeated landslips had affected the Kanan Deven Hill Reserve and a report would be submitted to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fate of Palarivattom flyover uncertain||Even after a year of its closure to traffic, the fate of the damaged Palarivattom flyover on the NH Bypass remains uncertain. Fear is rife that traffic bottleneck at Palarivattom will worsen when the six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannur are commissioned in July or August as there will be additional inflow of vehicles into the bypass. Neither the Public Works Department (PWD) nor the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK), which constructed the four-lane flyover, is sure of the way forward. Traffic hold-ups are still the order of the day at the Palarivattom Bypass Junction although most passenger buses, autorickshaws, taxi cars, and educational institution vehicles are keeping away from the road owing to COVID-19 curbs. “We are helpless since the case is pending before the Supreme Court,” said sources in the two agencies. A non-starter The State government went in appeal before the apex court, after the Kerala High Court ordered a load test to assess the strength of the structure. The litigation resulted in the execution of the government’s proposal to knock off the girders of the structure and rebuild them becoming a non-starter. According to the plan, the work was to begin in October 2019 and end in August 2020. Fed up with traffic snarls and even ambulances getting stuck in the chaos, Girijan K.V., a former BSNL employee and secretary of the CPI(M)’s Padivattom branch, sent a petition to the Chief Minister. “It was then forwarded to the police, who said an electronic signal system would be installed at the junction to streamline traffic flow. This alone will not do. Free left turns also must be cleared. The police must set up barricades so that one lane on all sides is set apart for free left turn. Vehicles that block the turn must be penalised,” Mr. Girijan said. He demanded that the PWD widen the Civil Line Road that crisscrosses the junction. Bus stops too must be relocated away from the junction. The long-pending Mamangalam-Goshree Road project too must be revived, he said.  Call to widen Civil Line Road crisscrossing Palarivattom Junction and relocate bus stops
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Relief for police as arrested person tests negative||There was slight relief for police personnel at the Perumbavoor station after swab samples of one of the two arrested persons returned negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. But the air of anxiety is yet to be completely blown over, as the test results of the other arrested, who is suspected to have come into contact with an infected person, is still awaited. His samples, which were collected on Thursday, were rejected following which fresh samples were sent, and the results are expected by Saturday. The person who was tested negative had been with him for some time and were arrested together from a lodge on Wednesday evening. “The public has been allowed restricted access to the station, and five personnel who were present at the time of the arrest have been sent into quarantine at a paid facility,” said an officer attached to the Perumbavoor station The duo with criminal antecedents were arrested on preventive grounds following which they were made to undergo the mandatory medical examination. “One of them told the doctor that he had come into contact with a lorry driver who had tested positive at Mananthavady in Wayanad around 45 days ago. Subsequently, the doctor advised quarantine for them,” said the officer. They were shifted to the lodge from where they were arrested, and they remain quarantined there. The police station and the jeep in which they were taken for examination too were disinfected.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD makes fare chart mandatory for autos||All autorickshaws in the city must have digital meters and also prominently display fare chart by month-end, the Motor Vehicles Department has ordered. The drive to ensure compliance will begin on July 1. Copies of the fare chart can be downloaded from the MVD website. Stern action will be taken against those violating the order. The decision was taken following complaints from commuters that drivers were fleecing them.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Many migrant workers keen to return home||For the first time in his life, Ekbal Hussain from Assam is thinking of a flight journey. Not for fulfilling any long-cherished dream but out of compulsion though he still has no clue where to find the money for it. Thanks to the ever-decreasing frequency of special Shramik trains, the likes of Ekbal, rendered jobless and stranded here, are forced to opt between the improbable, and equally unaffordable, flights or backbreaking bus journeys to get back home. A bus journey to West Bengal, which is quite frequent from locations like Aluva and Perumbavoor, costs in excess of Rs. 8,000, while a similar ride to Assam may further impoverish the crisis-hit migrants by well over Rs. 10,000. Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development executive director Benoy Peter felt the dearth of reliable sources of information in their native languages had added to their anxiety. “The calls lay bare the fact that there are migrants still stranded here even after the expiry of the deadline set by the apex court on June 9 for arranging free transportation for them. Besides, there is still no uniformity in the registration process for migrants looking to travel by trains,” Mr. Peter said. Even as migrants stranded here are mulling over taking flights back home, which they can ill afford, there is the dichotomy of desperate employers willing to splurge on flight tickets to bring back those who have already left.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NPOL develops baggage disinfecting conveyor||A virus-neutralising conveyor for disinfecting baggage has been developed by the Kochi-based Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), Kerala’s only DRDO lab. This is an automated standalone system that uses UV baths for sanitisation and is able to disinfect baggage within seconds, said a release. The product was released by DRDO Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy at an online function on Friday. “The disinfector is based on a roller-based conveyor carriage system that carries the baggage through a chamber equipped with accurately calibrated and optimally placed UVC sources. The sensing mechanism of the system automatically detects the entry of bags and powers on the UV illumination. The system has been designed to irradiate the body of the luggage in all directions and disinfects the entire surface at the required intensity levels and exposure time. It can be easily installed at airports, railway stations, metro stations, bus stations, and institutional gates,” the release said.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) suspends Zakir Hussain for 6 months||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has suspended its Kalamassery area secretary V.A. Zakir Hussain from the party for six months after an inquiry commission appointed by it found Mr. Hussain guilty of amassing wealth through improper means and of having travelled abroad without the party’s permission. A press release by the Ernakulam district committee said Mr. Hussain had not remained honest to the party or the people. His acts as a party leader had given rise to adverse public opinion against the party. The party had instituted an inquiry commission led by State committee member C.M. Dinesh Mani. District secretary C.N. Mohanan said a decision on the new area secretary would be taken by the area committee without delay.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Attack on reporters||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists has registered its protest against the attack on reporters, including women, of Reporter channel. Three reporters have filed a complaint with the Kalamassery police against their landlord. The union also lodged a complaint with the CM and Women’s Commission.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster arrested with ganja||The Vadakkekara police arrested a youngster with over two kilograms of ganja on International Day Against Drug Abuse on Friday. The arrested is Govind Venugopal alias Bablu, 22, of Chendamangalam. He was nabbed during a special combing operation. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. Motorcycle theft The Nedumbassery police arrested a youngster who was allegedly into stealing high-end bikes before modifying and selling them. The arrested is Aaromal, 18, of Vadakkekara. The accused used to fit the stolen vehicles with fake number plates before selling them. Chain snatcher held The Puthencruz police on Friday arrested a person on the charge of snatching a gold chain from an elderly woman. The arrested is Sujith Kocheriyil, 39.
27 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses plea for removal of Josephine||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed a plea for a directive to the State government to remove M.C. Josephine, chairperson, Kerala State Commission for Women, from the post for making a controversial statement that her party, the CPI(M), functioned as court and police station for many party workers. She had reportedly made the statement when asked by mediapersons why the commission had not inquired into the allegation of sexual harassment levelled by a party worker against CPI(M) MLA P.K. Sasi. Court observation Dismissing the petition filed by Lathika Subhash, president, Kerala Pradesh Mahila Congress, Justice Anu Sivaraman observed that the pleadings in the petition would not justify the issuance of a declaration that Ms. Josephine was not fit to occupy the post of chairperson. In case the petitioner had any complaint about the functioning of the chairperson, it was for her to take it up with the competent authority in accordance with the law.  The court observed that the petition did not contain the allegation that any complaint was preferred by the aggrieved woman in the alleged incident involving a member of the political party.
27 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||16 fresh cases in Kollam||Sixteen persons from Kollam, including two members of a family, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Among the patients are 11 expatriates, three from other States, and two contacts. While four persons are from Kuwait, others include three from Saudi Arabia, two from Qatar, and one each from Oman and Dubai. A 26-year-old Thalavur resident and a 28-year-old Puthanchanda resident who had travelled from Delhi and a 58-year-old Elamadu resident from Haryana are the others. The contact cases, a 51-year-old woman and her 22-year-old daughter, are the mother and sister of a Thevalakkara resident from Muscat who had tested positive on June 19. 10 recoveries The other patients are the residents of Karunagapally, Melila, Vettikavala, Edamulakkal, Edappallikotta, Oachira, and Kottarakara. The district also reported 10 recoveries on Friday and currently Kollam has 189 active cases, 198 persons in medical isolation, 877 in institutional quarantine, and 12,542 in home quarantine. While the 42-year-old Karunagapally resident is undergoing treatment at Thiruvananthapuram after arriving from Saudi Arabia on June 20, the Melila resident and Edamulakakkal resident had reached Kerala on June 19 from Qatar. The Elamadu resident was in home quarantine after reaching Kollam on June 11 from Haryana. The Thalavur resident from Delhi, Melila resident from Kuwait, and Edamulakkal resident from Qatar were in home quarantine after reaching the district on June 17, June 13, and June 19 respectively. The Edappallikotta resident had completed nine days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine after reaching the district on June 10 from Dubai. The Oachira resident who arrived on June 16 from Kuwait, the Puthanchanda resident who arrived on June 10 from Delhi, and two others who arrived on June 22 from Saudi Arabia were in home quarantine.
27 June 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Applications invited for admission to MBA course||The TKM Institute of Management (TKMIM) has invited applications for admissions to the 26th full-time (accredited) MBA batch. Online applications can be submitted through the official website of the institute. For more details, contact 9656659152.
27 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||2 POCSO courts to open in Kozhikode district||Two new courts for exclusively handling cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) will start functioning in Kozhikode district. One of the them, with the status of a district court, will function on the first floor of a recently constructed building inside the Koyilandy court complex from July 1. The second POCSO court will start functioning in the Kozhikode district court complex. The deployment of the required judges and other staff has been completed. Seven new posts, including the posts of Additional District Judge and special public prosecutor, have been created to ensure the speedy trial of cases.
27 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ministry begins process to appoint new NIT-C director||The Ministry of Human Resource Development has begun the process of appointment of a new director for the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C). The five-year tenure of incumbent director Sivaji Chakravorti will end in mid-August. It is learnt that Mr. Chakravorti has applied for the post again as he is eligible, with the upper age limit for appointment at 65 years. The Ministry has also invited applications for filling up the post of director at NIT-Delhi. The Ministry has considered applications from employed persons in government departments, autonomous organisations, public sector undertakings and universities for the post on contract basis. Sources said a committee appointed by the Ministry would shortlist names and send them to a selection committee constituted under the provisions of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act. After an interview, the committee will recommend a name to be ratified by the President for the post. NIT-C has improved its rank in the recently announced National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020. It has been ranked 23rd in engineering and third in architecture categories.
27 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Probe into pro-Maoist posters||The Elathur police have started investigation into an incident in which unidentified persons pasted pro-Maoist posters near the KSRTC depot at Kandamkulangara. Local residents came across the posters on Friday morning. The posters reportedly called for a fight against those targeting people who raise their voice against the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The posters also claimed that the outbreak of COVID-19 was a result of capitalist economy. The posters and banners were removed from the spot by the police. As part of the investigation, the police collected visuals from various closed-circuit television cameras from the spot.
27 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Held on sexual abuse charge||The Chevayur police on Friday arrested a 33-year-old man who was accused of sexually abusing a minor girl with visual impairment. Athul Raj, a native of Kakkodi, who left the country after the incident which took place in 2019, was arrested.
27 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CPO candidates stage stir||Candidates who have been selected for civil police officer posts staged a protest here on Friday demanding that the government extend the validity of the rank list at least by eight months. The protesters said that they had lost eight months in two stages – four months by way of freezing of the rank list following the detection of cheating in the civil police officer test by two SFI leaders and another four months in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The rank list that came into force on July 1, 2019, is set to expire on June 30. None was appointed after a few postings made in the first phase of the rank list. The protesters said that political issues, natural calamities and the pandemic had badly affected the appointments to be made in seven police battalions in the State. The lockdown prevented the candidates from going to the respective offices and enquiring about the number of vacancies. They said the police force had more vacancies than could be filled by all the recruits in the rank list.
27 June 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Palakkad records 23 cases||Twenty-three people, including two children and a health worker, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Friday, said District Collector D. Balamurali. While the health worker at Parli community health centre was found to have contracted the disease through contact, all other new cases were returnees from other States and abroad. The number of patients under treatment in the district has risen to 237. In Kannur The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kannur district with 13 more people testing positive on Friday. According to the Health Department, two patients came from abroad, while 10 arrived from other States. One person was infected through contact with a COVID-19 patient. Those who returned from other States include five members of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and three members of the Defence Security Corps in Kannur. Another CISF official contracted the disease while staying in a building where CISF personnel were quarantined. The district currently has 19,035 people under observation. In Kasaragod Two persons who returned from abroad tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said a 54-year-old who arrived from Dubai on June 9 and a 62-year-old who arrived from Dubai on June 1 had tested positive. The total number of people undergoing treatment in the district is 116. In Kozhikode The District Medical Office on Friday said seven more persons in Kozhikode were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Officials said all the seven persons, including a 26-year-old woman and her four-year-old daughter, had arrived from abroad and were in quarantine. Ten persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district. The total number of persons in quarantine is 16,806. In Thrissur With many parts of Thrissur city being declared containment zones, private buses were denied entry to Swaraj Round on Friday. The city wore a deserted look as shops and business firms remained closed. There are seven containment zones within the Corporation limits. The Mayor, Deputy Mayor, standing committee chairpersons and other workers are in quarantine after a few employees of the civic body were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Seven more case were reported in the district on Friday. While three of them returned from the Gulf, four people arrived from others States. A total of 17,058 people are under observation. In Wayanad The district on Friday reported five COVID-19 cases. According to officials, four members of a family, including a 10-year-old child, at Mele Arapetta near Meppadi who came from Mumbai on June 14, and a 62-year-old man at Payyampally near Mananthavady who returned from Delhi on June 22 have tested positive.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Wayanad bureaus)
27 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||4 test positive in Pathanamthitta||Four more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 185. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district has been put at 267, with 88 of them cured of the disease and one death as on Friday, an official bulletin here said. 194 in hospitals A total of 194 persons, both infected and those with symptoms, are in isolation wards at hospitals in the district. As per the bulletin, 75 persons are at Pathanamthitta General Hospital, eight at the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, one at the General Hospital, Adoor, 74 at the First-line Treatment Centre at Menamthottom Hospital, Ranni, 26 at the First-line Treatment Centre at Archana Hospital, Pandalam, and 10 at private hospitals. New cases A 28-year-old youth who came to Podiyady, near Thiruvalla, from Kuwait, a 61-year-old man who came to Aruvappulam in Konni from Saudi Arabia, a 45-year-old man who came to Ezhumattoor from Saudi Arabia, and a 51-year-old man who came to Kottanad, near Ranni, from Delhi are the new cases in the district. As per the bulletin, 5,647 people are in quarantine at Corona Care Centres and houses in the district. As many as 3,020 people among them have come from other States and 2,210 from abroad while 417 are contacts of infected persons. The bulletin said 209 samples tested negative for the infection on Friday and results of 692 samples were awaited.
27 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Samiti seeks changes in Silver Line alignment||Workers of the Samskarika Paithruka Samiti (SPS) staged a dharna at Eraviperoor, near Thiruvalla, on Friday, demanding an environment-friendly and people-friendly alignment for the Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high speed rail corridor Silver Line. Inaugurating the protest, district panchayat vice-president George Mammen Kondoor said the existing alignment of the proposed high-speed rail project passed through the highly flood-prone areas of Arattupuzha, Koipram, and Eraviperoor on the river basins of Pampa and Manimala. Mr. Kondoor said the planners should take serious note of the fact that these areas had been flooded to a depth of more than 9.5 m in the deluge of August, 2018. The existing alignment of the proposed rail project would invite huge flood threat to these heavily populated areas of Pathanamthitta district, he said. Ironically, as per the present plan, Pathanamthitta was the only district that did not have any stop for trains, he alleged. Mr. Kondoor said the alignment should be made parallel to the existing rail line passing through Thiruvalla town, besides allotting stop to all trains at the Thiruvalla railway station. Addressing the protesters, Anto Antony, MP, said there was no question of permitting land acquisition for the project without obtaining prior permission from the affected parties.
27 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Chamber hails Sabari airport project||The Central Travancore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CTCCI) has welcomed the State government’s initiative to establish the proposed Sabari International Greenfield Airport at Erumely. In a statement here recently, CTCCI president Fr. Abraham Mulamoottil said a videoconference of association members held recently had extended full support for the airport project. The CTCCI urged the government to develop 20 towns in Central Travancore as business centres.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State well on road safety target||Kerala is well within the target of 10% annual reduction in road deaths set by the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety if the statistics on accidents and fatalities on its roads for the five months from November 2019 to March 2020 is any indication. The statistics has been submitted to the committee. Road accidents and fatalities in the State came down by 2.2% and 15.2% respectively during the five months from November 2019 to March 2020 because of stern enforcement of law. The number of road accidents during the period came down from 18,010 in 2019 to 17,605 in 2020, a decrease of 2.2%. The number of fatalities dipped from 2,050 to 1,738, a fall of 15.2%. The Motor Vehicles Department’s Safe Kerala project for strict enforcement of road discipline and the steep increase in penalty for offences, effected by an amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act, 2019, led to the dip, N. Shanker Reddy, Road Safety Commissioner, Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA), told The Hindu . Use of headgear A noticeable change is the 85% compliance with the rules for use of headgear and seat belt by motorists and 50% use of headgear by pillion riders, says KRSA executive director T. Elangovan. In absolute terms, 66 lives were saved in January, 25 in February, and 124 in March, compared to the figures of the same period in 2019. A reduction of 215 road fatalities was reported during the first three months of 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. On an average, the first quarter of 2020 saw 17% reduction in road fatalities and 3.9% in accidents. During the 68 days of the COVID-19-induced lockdown from March 25 to May 31, there was a considerable decrease in road accidents, fatalities, and injuries. During this time, 193 deaths and 1,686 injuries were reported in 1,592 accidents compared to 926 deaths and 8,679 injuries in 7,703 accidents recorded in the corresponding period last year. Altogether, there is a decrease of 6,111 accidents, thereby saving 733 lives and hospitalisation of 7,023 injured persons. “The reduction in accident severity was helpful in sparing the medical facilities and health personnel for fighting COVID-19. This, in turn, resulted in savings to the GDP, especially during the pandemic. When many sectors suffered owing to the lockdown, road safety helped save the lives of citizens,” Mr. Elangovan said.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seven test positive in capital||Seven people, including an employee of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the capital district on Friday. That five of the patients contracted the infection through contact in the State capital assumes significance as it comes at a time when the district administration has enforced curbs in various parts of the city to thwart potential community transmission. A 41-year-old Manacaud native, who works as a technician in the electrical section of VSSC, is among those who was diagnosed with COVID-19. A resident of Thrikannapuram, he used to frequently travel to his own house at Manacaud and his wife’s house at Chala. Having developed symptoms on June 15, he sought treatment from two private hospitals in Thirumala and Killipalam between June 16 and 23, following which he was admitted in the latter on June 24. He used to work in the Veli research complex of the VSSC where over 10 people have been directed to go into quarantine. A 60-year-old man, hailing from Puthenpalam near Vallakkadavu, who retired from the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), Valiamala, as a technical officer on May 31, has also tested positive. He is known to have visited Valiathura recently to buy fish, a private clinic, and a pharmacy at West Fort after developing fever and cough. He also attended a function at his brother’s house in Kulathoor on June 23. He was also treated in the isolation ward of a private hospital at Chakka since June 25 until his swab sample returned positive. Both patients do not have any history of travel, official sources said. Three in a family Three persons, aged 50, 42, and 15 years, of a family that hails from Konchiravila, were also diagnosed with the disease. The 42-year-old woman’s brother, an autorickshaw driver who hails from Manacaud, his wife, and two daughters, tested positive for the infection last week. The 50-year-old man runs a stationery shop at the Manacaud market junction. The other patients include a 28-year-old Tamil Nadu native, who came from Sivaganga by car for treatment on June 17 and a 68-year-old Chirayinkeezhu native, who came from Maharashtra on a train on June 22. Meanwhile, the City police have recommended the closure of 17 shops for violating the protocol set by Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Cases were also registered against 93 people for violating other lockdown norms. Moreover, 262 people were fined for not wearing masks outdoors.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Virus sparks a political slugfest||The COVID-19 management strategy of the State has yet again become a contentious political issue with Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan punching holes in its containment initiatives and accusing the government of not enhancing the random tests for averting community spread. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had been staving off a controversy over Mr. Muraleedharan’s repeated attempts to put the government in the dock. He had been reiterating that the State was not on a collision course with the Centre. The diatribe that began with the State deciding to open places of worship scaled a new peak on Friday with Mr. Muraleedharan accusing the State of using a Union External Affairs Ministry note that complimented the government’s “pragmatic approach in trying to contain the spread of virus” for its image-building exercise. Mr. Muraleedharan’s provocation appeared to be the Chief Minister’s observation that the Union Minister was not privy to most of the decisions of the Centre. ‘Centre’s endorsement’ The remarks drew instant retorts from Law Minister A.K. Balan who reiterated that it was not a left-handed compliment but was the Centre’s endorsement of the State’s effort in fighting the virus spread. The United Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party were almost on the same page in targeting the State on the repatriation of Keralites from abroad. Right from the setting up of quarantine facilities for the Non-Resident Keralites to the government decision making virus test certificate mandatory, the UDF and the BJP did not spare any chance to target the government. They chose to overlook the conduct of the SSLC and Plus Two examinations in a flawless manner, prompting the government to state that the Opposition was trying to politicise the virus spread. Mr. Muraleedharan’s remarks are also being construed as a move to divert public ire at the Centre over the steep hike in oil prices.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||As COVID cases mount, police told to log daily activities||The steady rise in the number of new COVID-19 cases has prompted State Police Chief Loknath Behera to ask law enforcers to maintain a detailed log of their daily activities. In a circular issued on June 25, Mr. Behera asked them to record their daily perambulations and particulars of persons they had contacted or interacted with. The police were in the front line of pandemic control activities and hence risked exposure. They had repurposed their social role as enforcers of the COVID-19 health protocol and behaviour code. The government has tasked the law enforcement to seal containment zones, enforce wearing of masks, curb crowds in public places, and ensure citizens complied with physical distancing norms. The State’s containment strategy would be jeopardised if officers were exposed to the virus. Airport delay Mr. Behera also felt that the delay in processing expatriates at airports had caused anxiety among passengers. The District Collector should expedite the procedure at airports by deploying additional officers for data entry and other allied work. In some places in north Kerala, some persons appeared disposed against COVID-19 patients and their families. The police should act against those who stigmatise patients and their families and attempt to ostracise them socially. Releasing bodies The SPC also noted the delay in releasing bodies to relatives after the mandatory COVID-19 test. The hold-up had caused law and order situation in some places. A high-level meeting chaired by Mr. Behera on Thursday also noted that Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses ferrying passengers from airports to their homes or quarantine centres took avoidable detours. The meet decided to commandeer more KSRTC buses and taxis for ferrying expatriates. Mr. Behera said the police should not turn back migrant workers returning to Kerala. Instead, they should be sent to institutional quarantine centres. Wedding passes District Collectors would issue passes to those seeking to go to other States for attending weddings. However, applicants should produce a no-objection certificate from the State they proposed to visit. Persons coming here for attending weddings should go into quarantine for 14 days. The rule also applied to couples who entered Kerala after marriage in another State. People who accompany newlyweds from other States should also go into quarantine.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Retests for students missing exams||State universities have clarified that special examinations will be conducted at a later stage for those unable to appear for the ongoing round of examinations. The recent spurt in COVID-19 cases in the State has led to an increase in the number of containment zones, prompting authorities to restrict public mobility in such areas. While the government has maintained that students appearing for exams will be permitted to travel outside the containment zones, several logistical issues, including arranging separate rooms for such students and the anxiety that is bound to be felt among other examinees, are among factors causing distress for the students and teachers alike. Many appeals Shashi Tharoor, MP, wrote twice to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to highlight the woes of students, including those of Kerala University, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU), and Mahatma Gandhi University, and demanded a review of the exam schedule. Adoor Prakash, MP, sought postponement of the final-year examinations of the KTU that are set to begin on July 1. The universities, many of which are halfway through with the pending exams, have identified centres in each district outside their respective jurisdiction and in Lakshadweep to enable students to appear for the papers at places of their convenience. Distance-education too According to Kerala University Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, all efforts are being made to ensure maximum possible attendance for the examinations. “In the case of students who found it difficult to attend the examinations owing to reasons pertaining to the pandemic, they will be allowed to appear for special exams that will be considered as equivalent to the original exams and not supplementary,” he said, adding that the option was applicable for students pursuing distance-education programmes also. According to official sources, the KTU has tentatively planned on conducting special exams in October for the final-year students who are unable to appear for the exams beginning July 1. Mahatma Gandhi University too has decided to organise exams for those who face hardships in attending them now.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An air of inevitability over CBSE, ICSE move||The cancellation of the pending examinations by the CBSE and ICSE board and the Supreme Court’s approval of the assessment scheme have evoked a mixed reaction from students and parents. A Class 12 CBSE Humanities student supports the decision “since health of the students is a priority.” However, she is not comfortable with the assessment scheme. Unlike Science stream students, Humanities students had appeared only for three papers. “Students may not perform well in all subjects. I do not agree with calculating the average on the basis of the exams we have taken.” She agrees that there is no other option now. “Even if the pre-board examination marks had been considered, many students would not have fared well, their sole focus being on the boards.” She, like many others, is hopeful of the examinations being conducted at a later date to improve her marks. A Science student who has her Computer Science paper pending says those who were counting on it for better marks would be disappointed. Also students in the ‘Bio’ stream had completed all their exams and stood a better chance of scoring even if they found Physics and Chemistry tougher. But Computer Science students would be graded for the paper on the average of the tougher papers, putting them at a disadvantage, she feels. Principal’s view A CBSE school Principal says cancellation of the pending examinations seems the only option. Though the examinations could be conducted here, the situation in other States rules that out. Since all of the papers of Class 10 students have been conducted, their results would be based on that, leaving no cause for concern. “Class 12 students across streams have papers pending, depending on subject combinations. They too are unlikely to be at a disadvantage as they had appeared for at least three papers. Even Science students whose Physics exam did not go well are unlikely to suffer if the average of best three subjects is considered,” he adds. Parent’s take Mary George, parent of a Class 10 ICSE student who has three pending papers, says cancellation of the examinations at this stage is welcome as also the option to appear for the examinations at a later date, provided it is not too late in the year. It would especially help students who had not done well in the pre-boards and wanted to improve their score in the boards.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dramatic scenes at Neyyattinkara municipality||The Neyyattinkara municipal council on Friday witnessed dramatic scenes after a protest march by councillors of the Opposition Congress to the meeting hall turned unruly. Municipal chairperson W.R. Heeba of the ruling CPI(M) and Opposition leader Lalitha of the Congress fainted during the confrontation between the two parties and were hospitalised. The Youth Congress has been for the past three days holding a fast in front of the municipality raising corruption allegations against the ruling party. The Congress councillors did not participate in the council meeting on Friday. As the meeting was about to conclude within half an hour, the Congress councillors marched in, raising slogans. After dissolving the meeting, Ms.Heeba attempted to leave the hall, when the Congress councillors blocked the doorway. In the melee that followed, she fainted and fell on Ms.Lalitha, and both of them fell to the ground. Both were first shifted to the taluk hospital. Since Ms.Heeba had recently had an eye operation and was suspected to have sustained injuries to the eye during the fall, she was shifted to the Government Eye Hospital in the capital, while Ms. Lalitha was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. Corruption charges “We had raised serious allegations of corruption against the ruling party, regarding the LIFE housing project and other issues, over which a Vigilance investigation has begun. One of their councillors also got a house under the LIFE project. The Youth Congress protest was set to conclude today. The chairperson's attempt was to quickly finish off the meeting today in our absence. When we marched to the council hall, she attempted to leave and pushed Ms.Lalitha,” said Congress councillor A.Salim. According to CPI(M) councillor P.Murukan, the Vigilance investigation is against Independent councillor C.Saju, based on a complaint by a CPI(M) local committee secretary over alleged corruption in road works and over a LIFE project house in his ward, which had area much above the permissible limits. “This Independent councillor used to be a supporter of the ruling party and was a standing committee chairman for two and a half years. He was later removed when he gravitated towards the Congress. The corruption allegation against him has been portrayed as something against the CPI(M) by the Opposition and a section of the media. The councillor Soumya got a house under the LIFE project using legitimate documents. Since her husband is a mason, he was able to save a lot of money and build a house larger than the one possible with the LIFE funds,” said Mr.Murukan. Removed The Neyyatinkara police arrested and removed the Youth Congress workers who were protesting in front of the municipality.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus fares likely to go up by 25%||The fares of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private buses in the State are tipped to go up by 25% to 30%. The M. Ramachandran Fare Revision Committee has proposed increasing the minimum bus fare for ordinary buses from the existing Rs. 8 to Rs. 10 and a hike of Rs. 2 for every subsequent stage. Another proposal recommended by the committee, in its interim report submitted on Thursday, is to retain the minimum bus fare at the existing Rs. 8 by curtailing the distance covered in that fare. The existing 5 km covered in minimum fare will be brought down to 2.5 km. For the second stage, the fare will be Rs. 10. The committee has also suggested that bus fare for students be made 50% of the revised fare. Sources in the Transport Department said the report prepared by the committee comprising transport expert T. Elangovan, finance expert N. Niyathi and State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar as member secretary was forwarded to Transport Minister A. K. Saseendran on Friday. Onus on CM “Since the bus fare revision is related to COVID-19-induced lockdown, the Chief Minister has to take a call on notifying it immediately or placing it in the next weekly Cabinet,” the official said. The committee had recommended the hike in bus fares taking into account the loss suffered by the KSRTC due to physical-distancing norms and poor patronage following the pandemic, the hike in price of high speed diesel, and increase in tax and insurance for buses.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘State under-reporting cases’||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Friday said the number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala could be much higher than officially reported given the State’s ‘dismal’ record in random population testing. Mr. Muraleedharan said in a Facebook post that the number of random tests in the State (372 per lakh of the population) was much lower than the national average (553 per lakh). If the number of tests was any yardstick of effective pandemic control, Kerala ranked 28th among States. The low number of tests belied the Kerala government’s claim that it had successfully controlled community spread. He said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had belatedly woken up to the need to increase testing among the general populace. He had said that by July, the government would increase the number to 15,000. The Chief Minister knew that increased examination would reveal the actual spread of the disease. Hence, to lessen the blame for the State’s flawed containment strategy, Mr. Vijayan had made the allowance for the inevitable increase in cases by predicting a spike in new infections in August.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSDMA prepares database of boats||Among the most enduring images from the devastating Kerala floods of 2018 and 2019 were those of fishing boats racing across the floodwaters in a frantic search for stranded families. Acknowledging the importance of boats in flood-time search-and-rescue operations, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has now made an inventory of vessels available in all 14 districts. Efforts have been taken to compile data on all privately owned craft, ranging from small wooden canoes to houseboats to mechanised and non-mechanised fishing boats from the coast, KSDMA officials said on Friday. “The inventory was taken with the help of the Police Department. We are not claiming that it is a complete list, but now we have an idea of what type of boats are available under each police station limits,” Sekhar L. Kuriakose, member secretary, KSDMA, said. The extensive use of boats in the rescue operations in 2018 and 2019 had prompted the KSDMA to prepare the inventory. The advantage being that these valuable resources can be quickly mobilised by agencies involved in rescue operations during an emergency. Further, the Monsoon Preparedness and Emergency Response Plan brought out by the KSDMA after the 2018 floods requires government agencies to maintain a database on boats available locally along with the mobile phone numbers of their owners. Earlier this week, the KSDMA had published an inventory of various types of buildings that can be put to good use during emergencies. A consolidated inventory of schools (government and aided), ITIs, hostels, auditoriums, hotels and stadiums across the State were recently uploaded on sdma.kerala.gov.in, the officials website of the KSDMA. It features the databases of the structures accompanied by maps. The Public Works Department (PWD) has examined the majority of these buildings and validated them for various uses during an emergency, according to the authority.  Data compiled on all privately owned craft, ranging from small wooden canoes to houseboats to mechanised and non-mechanised fishing boats
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Land Act amendment only after talks: CPI||A proposal for diverting a part of plantations for fruit and vegetable cultivation by amending the Land Reforms Act will be implemented only after thorough discussions within the party and the Left Democratic Front, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran has said. Mr. Rajendran told reporters after the CPI State executive here on Friday that there would not be any deviation or dilution in the basic tenets of the Land Reforms Act and plantations would be protected. The executive is understood to have had a thorough discussion on the environmental impact in diverting plantations for cultivating fruits and vegetables. Document The party is said to decided to prepare a document in consultation with stakeholders for an exhaustive discussion within the party and has entrusted Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan and Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar for the task. The party executive is also known to have discussed the plight of plantation workers.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Goat specialty centre to come up at Parassala||The Animal Husbandry Department has decided to establish the State’s first Centre of Excellence in Goat at the goat farm at Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram district. The centre was aimed at the conservation of the Malabari goat and supply of Malabari goat kids to farmers, Minister for Animal Husbandry K. Raju said here on Friday. The department also issued orders for establishing the centre at a cost of Rs. 3.20 crore under the National Livestock Mission. As per the order dated March 21, Rs. 70 lakh was earmarked for the purchase of 700 goats under the programme. A sum of Rs. 2.25 crore was earmarked for civil construction and Rs. 10 lakh for fodder development. The government also set apart Rs. 15 lakh for development of IT infrastructure.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Insurance claim paid to kin of health worker||The dependents of a health worker who died in an accident while on COVID-19 duty have received Rs. 50 lakh as insurance payment, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said here today. Ms. Shylaja handed over the insurance certificate for Rs. 50 lakh to the son and daughter of S. Kumari, 46, who was an HMC staff attender (Grade-2) at the District Hospital, Nedumangad. Ms. Kumari was killed in an accident on May 27 while she was on her way to the hospital for night duty at the isolation ward. A staffer at the District Hospital since 2013, she had been assigned to the COVID OP and isolation ward in March.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Promote safe use of masks: SHRC||Taking note of the health and environment hazards caused by careless disposal of non-biodegradable masks, the SHRC has urged the government to issue standard procedures for the use of masks. Commission chairman Antony Dominic has directed the Chief Secretary and Health Secretary to file a report on the possibility of banning masks made of non-biodegradable substances. Stray dogs were often found chewing on carelessly discarded masks. This, it said, could create conditions conducive to the spread of COVID-19.
27 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC flays Modi’s foreign policy||The abandonment of the country’s time-tested foreign policy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought the nation into conflict with its neighbours and resulted in the loss of live of soldiers due to Chinese aggression, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has said.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Netherlands national found dead||A Netherlands national was found dead in her flat at Vazhuthacaud on Friday. The Museum police identified her as Sarojini Gepken, hailing from Amsterdam. She has been living in Tthe capital for some years now, according to the police. The body has been shifted to the Medical College Hospital for COVID-19-related tests. The Netherlands Embassy in New Delhi had been informed, the Museum police said.
27 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman found dead||A 45-year-old woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances in her house in Marayamuttom on Friday. The deceased was identified as Ajitha of Malayilthottathil in Manchavilakom. She was found hanging in her bedroom. Her husband Raju alerted their neighbours after seeing the body around 5 a.m. According to the Marayamuttom police, the couple used to reside separately for a long time until they reunited two months ago. However, they were known to have had altercations in the recent past.
27 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Fall in SIB annual profit||The South Indian Bank (SIB) has reported a net profit of Rs. 105 crore for the financial year 2020 vis-a-vis Rs. 248 crore for the previous year. The decline came as a result of MTM (market-to-market) provisions of Rs. 255 crore for security receipts and COVID-19-related provisions of Rs. 76 crore, which saw Q4 position slipping into the red, despite an all-time high operating profit of Rs. 533 crore. The bank registered a net loss of Rs. 144 crore during Q4 as against the net profit of Rs. 71 crore in Q4 last year. V.G. Mathew, MD & CEO, said that but for the above one-off provision, the bank would have registered a net profit of Rs. 104 crore for the quarter and Rs. 351 crore for the year.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||United they stand||
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering bravehearts||
27 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja concerned over steep rise in coronavirus cases||Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja on Friday expressed serious concern regarding the steady rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Nagari Assembly constituency, which has a porous border with neighboring Tamil Nadu. As the number of cases inched close to 200, Ms. Roja held a meeting with officials of Health, Revenue and Police departments at Puttur. Officials told Ms. Roja that while the virus initially started with a couple of cases who had returned from Delhi, the numbers began to shoot up from May due to a large number of people visiting the Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu, apart from several persons who returned from Mumbai. A single woman, who had come to Puttur a few weeks ago from a neighboring village in Tamil Nadu, had become the primary contact for over two dozen cases in Puttur, Nagari and Nindra mandals. Similarly, residents of Gate Puttur locality in Puttur municipality were found to be frequently travelling to Chennai in spite of the ongoing lockdown and restrictions on the inter-State border by taking advantage of the porous borders in rural areas. COVID-19 special officer (Nagari) Dr. P. Ravi Raju informed Ms. Roja that only a single ambulance was being used to shift the suspected cases to quarantine, posing a serious risk for the spread of virus. He requested the APIIC chairperson to arrange N-95 masks, sanitisers and other paraphernalia for medical and paramedical staff on COVID-19 duties at both the area hospitals at Nagari and Puttur, and also at the Primary Health Centers in Nagari constituency.
27 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||White Paper sought||Former Union Minister P. Chinta Mohan on Friday demanded that the Centre immediately convene an emergency Parliament session to discuss the Chinese aggression in Ladakh, and also release a White Paper to inform the nation as to how much land had been occupied by the Chinese troops during the last two months. Mr. Chinta Mohan, who observed a protest at his residence in Tirupati against the Chinese intrusion into Indian territory, said that it was unfortunate that though the people of Ladakh had knowledge about the Chinese intrusions two months ago, intelligence agencies were unaware of the development in the region. He further claimed that the COVID-19 pandemic was also raging there.
27 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||62 new COVID cases in Chittoor district||Chittoor district on Friday registered 62 fresh COVID-19 positive cases, which included Srikalahasti with 20 cases, followed by Vijayapuram with 10, Tirupati Urban with nine, and Puttur with 11 cases. Palamaner and Peddapanjani mandals in the west, which witnessed some respite in recent weeks, also registered fresh cases on Friday. The total number of cases in the district crossed the 1,100 mark, including six deaths reported during the last two months. The District COVID-19 Hospital at Chittoor has been receiving a steady inflow of patients during the last one week from all over the western mandals. Chief administrator Naresh Kumar Reddy told The Hindu that in view of the fresh cases emerging in large numbers, the hospital is fully geared up to tackle the situation by putting in place all facilities, including beds and medical equipment. He said that the recovery rate among the COVID-19 patients is also improving. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said to tackle the rapid rise in cases, surveillance had been mounted at the border checkposts with CCTV cameras. He said that a majority of the cases reported in the district had a travel history to Chennai or other hotspots. The SP said that police were instructed to enforce the face-mask norm and social distancing at marketplaces.
27 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for ‘smuggling’ red sanders||The Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force officials on Friday nabbed two people wanted in many red sanders smuggling cases from their hideouts on outskirts of Tirupati. Acting on a tip-off, the task force officials conducted raids and nabbed the accused, task force SP Ravi Shankar told the media here. The accused have been identified as Venubakkam Sudarshan and Gundala Shankar. In 2016, the Kadapa police booked Sudharshan uner the PD Act, after he was found to have links with several smuggling networks in India and abroad. Gundala Shankar was wanted in 13 cases of red sanders smuggling reported from Rayalaseema districts. “Patrolling in the forest fringe villages will be intensified,” the SP said.
27 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opening of red light areas may lead to spike in COVID cases: study||The district may witness a significant surge in COVID-19 cases, hospitalisations, and fatalities if the red light zones at Chilakaluripeta and other areas open up, says a study by medical experts at Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School. The study further says that extended closure of the red light areas may reduce the COVID-19 cumulative deaths by 75% and cumulative cases by 73% at the peak of the pandemic, which can also be delayed by an additional 23 days. Sentinel surveillance study had once shown Guntur in the top place in the country in the HIV-AIDS infection rate. Over the years, the rate of infection dropped gradually due to some aggressive drive against prostitution and campaign against unprotected sex. Transmission rate “If the red light areas start operating, the disease will spread quickly and infect a large percentage of sex workers and customers. The high transmission rate is because there will be no social distancing. The infected customers will spread the disease throughout the city. Therefore, the red light areas have a combination of factors that can make them the largest hotspot in Andhra Pradesh,” says the study. The study, ‘Modelling the Effect of Continued Closure of Red-Light Areas on COVID-19 Transmission in India’, was conducted by Abhishek Pandey, Pratha Sah, Chad Wells, Alison P. Galvani at the Center for Infectious Disease Modeling and Analysis, Yale University, and Sudhakar V. Nuti at the Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and Jeffrey P. Townsend, Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health. The coalition, Code Red COVID, comprises doctors and researchers from 14 countries, who are advising the governments on the threat of high-risk hotspots, which include the red light areas. Japan’s experience The model for the study was applied by the coalition to the red light areas across India, including those in Guntur district. In a comparative study of various models, it was found that Japan did not close down the red light areas in time and saw an “explosion” in the cases that left local hospitals “overwhelmed.” India would need 70% more hospital beds by the peak if the red light areas reopened instead of staying closed. If the Chilakaluripet red light area was reopened, it could put Guntur in a tight spot sooner than later. Fewer sick people would be able to receive treatment causing an increase in preventable deaths. “It should be obvious that prostitutes can become epidemiological super spreaders — sexual activities are, as a rule, not compatible with social distancing measures,” said the study talking about the German model. Sahayakan, member of Code Red Coalition, said, “None of the protection measures like distancing, masks, or sanitising can effectively stop COVID-19 transmission during sex work, which cannot be safely practised in the red light areas in India given their nature. It can result in many cases and deaths in sex workers and citizens.”
27 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ESI scam: ACB grills Atchan for second day||For the second day, sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, led by DSP TSRK Prasad, grilled the former Minister K. Atchannaidu in the presence of advocates, at the Government General Hospital here on Friday. The questioning continued with the consent of the Minister in the minutes regarding the purchases made for the ESI Hospitals and over the possibility of any external pressure on Mr. Naidu to sign on the file. Sources said the questioning continued for close to five and a half hours at a stretch. Doctors advised Mr. Naidu rest in the afternoon. On Thursday, the former Minister reportedly said that he had no role and was not even a Minister when he signed the file. The file was only related to minutes of the proposal to procure medicines. Sizeable crowds were present at the GGH.
27 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K releases Ph.D merit list||JNTU-Kakinada Vice-Chancellor M. Ramalinga Raju on Friday released the merit list of candidates seeking admission to research (Ph.D) programmes in engineering and other streams. In February, the JNTU-K conducted interviews for the candidates who qualified the AP Research Common Entrance Test-2019. “The merit list of the candidates has been released and available on the university’s official website www.jntuk.edu.in. The reservation list of the candidates and Ph.D admission schedule will soon be announced,” a release quoted Mr. Ramalinga Raju as saying.
27 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of ‘murder victim’ exhumed||The Sakhinetipalli police on Friday exhumed the body of a 45-year-old man, who was allegedly killed by his wife and her suspected boyfriend on June 1 at Vuyyuruvari Meraka village in East Godavari district. The police, led by Amalapuram DSP Masoon Basha and revenue officials, exhumed the body based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s daughter. According to the police, Uppu Prasanthi allegedly with the help of Choppalla Siva reportedly strangled Uppu Prasad to death while he was sleeping, On June 1. However, Ms. Prasanthi reportedly made people believe that her husband had died of heart attack. On June 2, the family and the villagers buried the body without suspecting any foul play. Prasad used to run a soft drinks shop in the village. A team of doctors from Rajole Area Hospital performed post-mortem on the body.
27 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judicial staff undergo COVID-19 test||As many as 230 personnel, including judicial officials and their staff members, underwent the test for coronavirus voluntarily at the district court complex here on Friday. Krishna District and Sessions Judge Y. Lakshmana Rao appealed to all the judicial officials and their supporting staff to get the test done voluntarily. One person has been tested positive for the virus recently, said Mr. Lakshmana Rao. He advised all the judicial officials to take adequate precautions to prevent infection. The district medical and health authorities are conducting the COVID-19 tests through the Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine (iMASQ), a mobile facility which was launched recently by the State government.
27 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relentless rise in Nellore, Prakasam||Coronavirus cases continued to be on the rise in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh as 79 more persons — 47 in Prakasam district and 32 in Nellore district — tested positive in the last 24 hours. Health officials are now worried about a spread of the disease at the community-level. Nellore city accounted for 12 fresh cases, followed by Kovur with 11. Dagadarthi, Kavali, Duttalur, Kalavai, Marripadu, Vinjamur and Doravarisatra reported one case each. One person each from Prakasam district and Chittoor district also tested positive, taking the total number of active cases to 236 in Nellore distict, a health bulletin compiled by the Medical and Health Department said. In Prakasam district, a stringent lockdown was implemented in Ongole which registered nine new cases. The infected persons were from, among other places, Revenue Colony, Nirmalnagar, Pernamitta, Indiramma Colony, and Bhagyanagar. Markapur saw eight new cases and Kandukur five cases. In Chirala, police shifted people found moving outside without a valid reason to quarantine centres. No travel history Twenty patients in Prakasam district had no travel history to COVID-19 hotspots either within the State or outside. While 19 persons were primary contacts of already infected persons, three others were secondary contacts of patients under treatment. A 36-year-old person who died on his return from Hyderabad to Parchur, tested positive. The virus spread to remote areas as Ramabhadrapuram village reported three new cases. Raviguntlapalli, Singarayakonda, Inkollu and Mangamuru accounted for two fresh cases each. E. Gangavaram, T.B.V.Palem, V.V. Palem, Polinenichervu, Nuthalapadu and Yerragondapalem saw a case each.
27 June 2020||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT to promote 15,000 students of four campuses to next class||The management of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) will promote the PUC-1 and E-1 to E-3 students of Nuzvid, R.K. Valley, Srikakulam and Ongole campuses, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, online examinations will be conducted for Pre-University Course-2 (PUC-2) and Engineering-4 (E-4) students in multiple choice question paper mode. Students have been requested not to believe false news and information being spread through various social media groups, said RGUKT Chancellor K.C. Reddy. About 20,000 students are pursuing six-year integrated course in six streams — Computer Science, Electronics and Communication, Mechanical, Metallurgy, Civil and Chemical Engineering — in four campuses in Andhra Pradesh. In wake of the global health emergency, RGUKT suspended classes and declared holidays. Recently, the management started conducting online classes for the students. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh reviewed the situation with the university officials and discussed about promoting students, conducting online classes and on the next academic year. Governing council meet Nuzvid IIIT Director S.S.S.V. Gopala Raju said the issued would be discussed in the governing council and academic council, which are likely to meet on July 8. “There are about 1,000 E-4 and 2,000 PUC-2 students on Nuzvid campus, and an equal number in R.K. Valley. The modalities for conducting online and practical examinations will be worked out in the governing council,” Prof. Raju said. Prof. Reddy said that online examinations for other classes (E-1 to E-3) would be conducted on their respective campuses after the situation returned to normal. Laptops have been given to all the RGUKT students and students could appear for online exams from home.
27 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Politicos remain indoors after MLA tests positive for virus||People’s representatives in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts are exercising caution when it comes to meeting people, after YSRCP MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao representing Sringavarapukota in Vizianagaram district was tested positive for coronavirus on June 22. Many leaders are avoiding public meetings and meeting people who approach their offices with grievances. They have urged people to send their pleas through WhatsApp or email. The ruling party leaders had been actively moving during the lockdown period and participating in programmes pertaining to various welfare schemes . Things changed after Mr. Srinivasa Rao became the first people’s representative in the State to have contracted the infection. The MLA had participated in several programmes and ensured safe transportation of migrant workers. He was even tested negative after his return from the U.S.A. recently. No public meeting People’s representatives are undergoing COVID-19 test voluntarily. YSRCP leader Majji Srinivasa Rao, Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani have been tested negative. It is learnt that Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram, who addressed a series of meetings in Amadalavalasa, Ponduru, Srikakulam and other places recently, is now avoiding meeting people. His office staff have urged people to meet him only if there is an emergency. People with urgent grievances have been advised to approach Speaker’s OSD K. Hemasundar (9959991435) or pesonal assistant T. Venugopal (9381033433) during the office hours. Recently, Roads and Buildings Minister Dharmana Krishnadas did not address the meeting held to mark the foundation day of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University at Etcherla. Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao has also urged people to send petititons through WhatsApp or email. Srikakulam MP K. Rammohan Naidu’s office has requested people not to come directly to the office on the 80 feet Road. The TDP leaders even limited their protests condemning the arrest of Tekkali MLA K. Atchannaidu. Dy. Tehsildar tests positive Meanwhile, the officials are worried after Deputy Tehsildar of Bobbili was tested positive for the virus. Rigorous sanitation drives are continuing unabated in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has been releasing videos conveying guidelines pertaining to lockdown norms. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal is opting for virtual conferences instead of face-to-face interaction with the officials.
27 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress pays tributes to soldiers killed at LAC||Congress leaders, led by State general secretary Doddareddy Rambhupal Reddy, paid tributes to the soldiers who laid down their lives at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) defending the country’s territory against Chinese intrusion. Congress leaders gathered at the Martyr’s Memorial in Tirupati on Friday and stood in silence for two minutes, praying for the peace of the departed souls. They recalled the excesses of the Chinese military and the unprovoked attacks on Indian soldiers in Galwan valley. “The Union Government was unaware of the Chinese incursion into Indian soil and the attack on our soldiers,” Mr. Rambhupal Reddy said, recalling a statement reportedly made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that all was well on the frontier. The party also demanded the Centre to reveal what had transpired at the border that led to the loss of lives. Senior leaders M. Gopal Reddy and Penubala Chandrasekhar took part.
27 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spitting in public will attract penalty||Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy warned the public that police will swoop down on those smoking, chewing gutka or spitting in public places. “Anyone can take pictures or videos of people smoking and spitting in public places and send them on WhatsApp to 8099999977. Their details will be kept confidential and the perpetrators will be punished with a hefty fine,” he said on the occasion of ‘International Day Against Drug Abuse’.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor for establishment of junior, youth red cross units||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has appealed to the School and Higher Education Department officials to establish junior and youth red cross units in the State to inculcate voluntary participation in service activities among the youngsters. He launched a mobile app for enrolment of volunteers brought out by Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), AP branch, at Raj Bhavan on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harichandan said: “Volunteers are playing a vital role in IRCS in supporting the frontline staff and in conducting awareness and relief camps on COVID-19.” Praising the IRCS Andhra Pradesh branch for organising sensitisation and distribution programmes as part of a fight against the pandemic, the Governor asked AP branch chairman A. Sridhar Reddy to focus on voluntary blood donation and tree plantation activities. IRCS State branch Chief Executive Officer and general secretary A.K. Parida explained that the newly launched app was the first of its kind in the country. It would help the AP branch take up more activities with better coordination. “The app will help IRCS enrol volunteers, maintain centralised data, send SMSes to volunteers, maintain communication between IRCS members and volunteers,” Mr. Parida explained to the Governor. Secretary to Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena, Special Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Satish Chandra, AP State Council of Higher Education Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy, NTRUHS Vice-Chancellor P. Shyam Prasad, Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education M.M. Naik, Commissioner of School Education Vadrevu Chinna Veerabhadrudu and other officials were present.
27 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work apace on Polavaram project as migrant workers begin to return||The bridge casting of the Polavaram multi-purpose project has been initiated and installation of crest gates will begin by November. Water can be released from the spillway by June next, and the entire project will be completed by December 2021, according to a top official. Speaking to The Hindu , General Manager of Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) A. Satish Babu said the company would continue the work even during rainy season and be able to meet the target within the stipulated time. “We can release and divert water from the spillway by June next, and the entire project will be completed by December 2021. We will begin erecting crest gates soon after the rainy season, say by November,” Mr. Satish Babu said. The floodwater from upstream was a major challenge at the construction site, but the company could overcome it by pumping out water using high-capacity motors, he said. The issues concerning the migrant workers, who had left for their respective places in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, have been fixed, according to the company sources. “Workers have been arriving by buses at the project site every day since the last few days,” the sources said. “Right now, there are about 2,550 workers at the dam site. Another 500 are on their way, and they will reach the site soon. We have no issues with the workers at all. Work on the project is in full swing,” Mr. Satish Babu said. CM sets deadline Incidentally, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the project’s progress on June 25 and set December 2021 as the deadline for its completion. The project in West Godavari district is being viewed as a lifeline for the State, as it is expected to irrigate over 2.91 hectares of agricultural land and generate 960 MW power. Besides, it will help promote the industry ecosystem. Initially conceived in 1946-47, the project had witnessed many upheavals. There was some progress post bifurcation of the State. And now, it is expected to be completed by next year.
27 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus fear grips High Court staff||Lawyers practising in the High Court and the judicial officers associated with it are in jitters after suspension of the court proceedings till Sunday fearing 'COVID-19 outbreak'. All the High Court judges, even those who are out of station (in Hyderabad) have been asked to undergo COVID-19 test. Tests were conducted for all judicial staff in front of the High Court premises on Friday. According to sources, death of High Court Registrar General B. Rajasekhar was the trigger for rumours of COVID-19 outbreak on the court premises. While 'cardiac arrest' was said to be the reason for the death of the Registrar General, his relatives have confirmed that he was found to be COVID positive. “We went to attend his last rites, but the authorities did not hand over the body because his blood sample taken after he was admitted to a private hospital here was found to be positive,” said a relative. A lawyer of the High Court said, on the condition of anonymity, that when compared to the Telangana High Court, the AP counterpart was lagging in safety precautions. Social distancing was a casualty during the swearing-in of the judges that were recently appointed. Several VIPs and the families of the Judges being sworn in were allowed to attend the function and social distancing went for a toss. In Telangana, not more than a handful of judges were allowed in the hall where the swearing-in took place and the others were allowed to witness the event online. Logistics support A member of the High Court lawyers' community said that the Telangana High Court was using teleconferencing extensively. All the judges worked through the summer holidays from home. In AP, however, a rotation system in which only 50% of the judges attend court, is in place. Since the Telangana Judges have access to all scanned documents they are doubly protected. The logistics support needed for digitisation and scanning of documents was being extended to the Telangana High Court by the Andhra Pradesh Judicial Academy (which is still in Hyderabad), they said. “People go to the residence of the judges to merely deliver a flash drive and all dictations are made to the stenos over telephone,” said the lawyers. The High Court lawyers feel that AP should follow the model of its Telangana counterpart. The lawyers said unless the Andhra Pradesh government extended the logistic support in terms of equipment and connectivity, the litigant public would suffer.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help police curb drug menace: Gautam Sawang||Students of various educational institutions, film actors, sports personalities, and police personnel discussed prevention of production, transportation and consumption of drugs, narcotics and psychotropic substances in the State. Officials of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) organised a webinar at AP Police Headquarters, Mangalagiri, on Friday, against use of drugs in connection with the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said that drug abuse was not a health hazard and it was a social hazard. He appealed to the people of various sectors to cooperate with the police and the line departments to curb the menace. Persons having information on production, manufacturers, peddlers and consumers of narcotics, ganja and other banned drugs can alert the CID Narcotic Cell by sending a message to Whatsapp No.7382296118, he said. Mr. Sawang said AP stood second with 47 lakh alcohol addicts, fourth with 1.4 lakh sedative users, seventh with 3.6 lakh opioid users. There were about 0.2 % of ganja (cannabis) users in the State, he said. Registration of cases “Police registered 802 cases in 2019 for illegal cultivation, manufacture, transportation and consumption of cannabis and other narcotics. In 2020, we booked 223 cases till March 31. Use of drugs by students and youth is a very serious matter in the State,” Mr. Sawang said. Film actors K. Chiranjeevi, Nani and Sai Dharam Tej, international badminton player P.V. Sindhu, students of various colleges across the State, Director General-Railways Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Additional DGs Ravi Shankar Ayyannar, P.V. Sunil Kumar, Harish Kumar Gupta, Sridhar Rao and other officers discussed ways to prevent drug production and smuggling.  Inspector Generals of Police (IGPs), Deputy Inspector Generals (DIGs), Commissioners of Police, Superintendents of Police (SPs) of all districts participated in the webinar.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State will pay farmers’ crop insurance’||In a farmer-friendly initiative, the State will implement the YSR Crop Insurance scheme by collecting just one rupee from the farmer for this year. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has cleared the insurance amount kept pending by the previous government. For the rabi season (2018-19), the State’s share of Rs. 122.61 crore, due by the previous government, was released along with the total claim, working out to Rs. 596.36 crore, benefiting 5.94 lakh farmers. From this season, the crop insurance will be paid by the government by collecting a nominal Rs. 1 from the farmer. Dues cleared In a video-conference before interacting with farmers, the Chief Minister said that e-cropping would be in force at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras and the government would pay the premium immediately. He said the previous government did not pay the insurance premium for rabi 2018-19 and neglected the agriculture sector. Normally, one month before the agriculture season, the premium amount would be paid but for the rabi season 2018-19, the farmers and the Centre had paid their share but the State had failed to pay its contribution of Rs. 122.61 crore, he said. The State had been giving Rythu Bharosa amount, setting up RBKs, facilitating e-cropping, crop insurance and crop loans. Quality inputs like seeds, fertilisers and pesticides were being distributed through RBKs, besides providing MSP to farmers, he said. The Collectors had been told to talk to bankers to ensure that the amount deposited by the government was not adjusted towards other loans taken by the farmers. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah and Agriculture Commissioner Arun Kumar were among those present.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks audit of deaths in Krishna||The CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao has demanded an audit of the COVID -19 deaths occurred in Krishna district. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Babu Rao said that the number of deaths in Krishna district was higher than the national and State average deaths. “While it is 3.18% at the national level, the death rate stands at 1.24% at the State level. Of the total deaths in the State, 34% are from Krishna district. It is a worrisome fact that 59% positive cases and 60% deaths were registered in June alone. While the recovery rate is 56% at the national level, it is only 44% in Krishna district. The youth are also succumbing to the virus,” he pointed out. “Given these circumstances, the government should constitute a high-level medical team to examine the deaths vis-a-vis coronavirus,” he said. Contact tracing The identification of primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases has slowed down. Also, the sanitation works in places where the positive cases reported were not taking place at the required pace. The government was requested to extend financial assistance to the kin of those who died of the virus. Additional doctors, staff and funds should be allocated apart from increasing the number of hospitals, he said. The data and information relating to the positive cases and deaths should be placed before the public in a transparent manner. The government has to see to it there was coordination among all the departments. The official machinery should be given free hand in controlling the, he coronavirus, he added.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway officials order probe into derailment of goods train||The railways has ordered a probe into the derailment of goods train loaded with fuel of HPCL, on the Ongole-Gudur section in Vijayawada division on Thursday. Five tankers (wagons) of the train derailed on Wednesday night, of which three caught fire and were completely burnt and one tanker was partially damaged. Vijayawada DRM P. Srinivas said the probe team consisted of officials from safety, track maintenance, mechanical, workshop and other wings. Compensation They would inquire whether the accident occurred due to wagon defect, high speed, track problem or any other reason. The railways will pay compensation to the HPCL. The railway management will follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in the regard, Mr. Srinivas said. Meanwhile, tracks were restored after 18-hour repair works and trains were resumed. Officials of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services took extinguished the fire.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to sign MoU with Amul to give a boost to dairy sector||The State government will sign an MoU with Amul for the development of the dairy sector in the State. The MoU is likely to be signed by July 15. It is expected to help the dairy farmers in getting a better price for the produce. Better marketing facilities and modern technology will be within their reach. During a review meeting on dairy development and sugar factories in the cooperative sector on Friday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said all modalities for signing the MoU with Amul should be ready by July 15. “Prepare guidelines for the MoU with the cooperative giant, Amul. Also, take steps for the well- being of livestock and strengthening the cooperative sector to benefit the dairy farmers,” the Chief Minister said. The officials apprised the Chief Minister of the prevailing conditions in the cooperative sector. Sugar factories During the review meeting on cooperative sugar factories, the Chief Minister said units should be revived at the earliest. Prepare a draft a plan and proposals for healthy sugar factories in the cooperative sector, he said. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, K. Kannababu, and M. Goutham Reddy, Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy and other officials participated in the meeting.
27 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revisiting the days of Emergency||Forty five years ago, they sat at the feet of Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) at a meeting he was addressing in Vijayawada. They did not have the slightest inkling that they would all become Members of Parliament. Yalamanchili Sivaji and Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad became Rajya Sabha members and Kambhampati Hari Babu became a member of the Lok Sabha. The three attended the meeting addressed by Jayaprakash Narayan a few days before the Emergency was declared. The Allahabad Court had already declared the election of the Congress leader and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from the Rae Bareli Lok Sabha Constituency null and void. In the audience or somewhere on the dais was another youth M. Venkaiah Naidu who is the Vice-President of India today.  ‘Sampoorna Kranti’ Sharing the well preserved black and white photo that lasted 45 years, Mr. Sivaji said that the Vice-President in a telephonic conversation with him recalled the ‘Sampoorna Kranti’ (total revolution) call given by Jayaprakash Narayan and about the meeting he addressed in Vijayawada that they two had attended as students. “We all sat at his (JP’s) feet and from there rose to become Members of Parliaments,” Mr. Sivaji said.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries stalling of Kuppam canal works||Expressing concern over the stalling of works on Kuppam branch canal, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday said that the government was causing irreparable damage to farmers at a time when severe water crisis was prevailing in the western region of Chittoor district. “Farmers in Kuppam and Palamaner constituencies are bearing the brunt of the government policies. The government has allocated meager funds to the irrigation sector,” he said in a letter addressed to Principal Secretary of Irrigation Department. The delay in the works of Kuppam branch canal has resulted in irrigation and drinking water problems in the western mandals of Chittoor district, he said, claiming that 90 % of the works were completed during the TDP regime. “Only 10 % of the works of Kuppam branch canal have been pending since the last 13 months. The canal digging was completed in a stretch of 121 kms. About 221 of the total 324 structures were completed. Works pertaining to another 59 structures are yet to begin. About 1.43 lakh cubic metres of earth work and 23,000 cubic metres concrete works are also pending. About Rs. 30-crore bills are yet to be paid,” he said. The TDP chief alleged that irrigation projects undertaken in all 13 districts had been stopped. Mr. Naidu asserted that during the TDP regime, Rs. 14,000 crore was spent per year on irrigation projects, while the same for the YSRCP government was just Rs. 4,700 crore. ‘Political vengeance’ Mr. Naidu also deplored that all borewells were drying up and people were not getting adequate supply of drinking water through tankers. “The government is not even paying tankers bills in time,” he alleged. “Stalling Neeru-Prajathi works is a thoughtless act. It is nothing but political vengeance to stop payment of bills pending from the previous government,” he added.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State’s development hit in last 6 years’||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman took objection to the cancellation and violation of international agreements with institutions such as the World Bank, hinting at the attempts by the State government to review the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and adoption of reverse tendering mechanism. She observed that development of the State suffered a major setback in the last six years due to corruption as the TDP and the YSRCP failed to stem the rot. ‘Illegal sand mining’ Addressing the party’s virtual rally from New Delhi on Friday, Ms. Sitharaman said, “Large-scale corruption took place in Amaravati, Polavaram, Swachch Bharat and irrigation projects during the TDP regime while illegal sand mining and supply has become a hallmark of the present dispensation.” The government appeared to have compromised on achieving its goal of eradicating corruption, she said. Ms. Sitharaman said family and dynastic politics were rampant in the State, and the Deputy CMs in the present government had nominal powers.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDF MLCs take up teachers’ cause||Members of the Legislative Council belonging to the Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) have urged the higher officials of the School Education Department to invite teachers’ associations and discuss with them the key academic issues in the wake of the coronavirus that has forced shutdown of educational institutions. MLCs R. Suryarao, P. Raghu Varma and I. Venkateswara Rao met School Education Principal Secretary B. Rajasekhar and Commissioner Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu and drew their attention to the issues being faced by teachers and other academic problems. They said that teachers were being asked to regularly visit their schools which did not have any students. Either they should be given an action plan to work or be exempted from regular school visits, the MLCs said.  Biometric attendance The MLCs said in the pandemic times, the authorities should not insist on biometric attendance and also consider exemption at least to the ‘elderly’ lot among the teaching community, the physically disabled and those who had health issues.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||App on RBK services launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched YSR app to monitor the services of the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) from time to time. The app will give updates on the government policies and schemes related to agriculture and its allied sectors. It will also provide information on the schemes being implemented, the facilities available at RBKs and their utilities. It will also help in giving feedback to the government on its programmes. The data of all the activities of RBKs will be stored in the app and will be monitored at a high level. It will oversee the functioning of RBKs, draw a comparison and suggest measures of better performance.
27 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||7.8 lakh tonnes of farm produce procured during pandemic||Despite transport restrictions due to COVID-19 and the social distancing norm in place, the AP State Cooperative Marketing Federation (MARKFED) has created history by procuring 7,83,246 MT of crops worth Rs. 2,571 crore during the rabi season that benefited over 2.35 lakh farmers in the State. The MARKFED formulated an innovative decentralisation strategy by setting up more than 1,000 procurement centres across the State, which enabled quick procurement and reduced transportation cost for farmers. “MARKFED has done the highest quantity of procurement in its history in rabi season despite the lockdown conditions. We have initiated the decentralised procurement process to enable easy procurement for farmers while maintaining social distance and curtailing transportation cost,” said Special Commissioner of Agricultural Marketing P.S. Pradyumna, adding that more than 1,000 procurement centres had been registered. “At a time when other States are facing issues, we at MARKFED have successfully supplied fertilisers to farmers for kharif as well as rabi seasons,” he said. Out of the total procurement, maize procurement stood on top with 3,97,123 MT worth Rs. 699 crore followed by Bengal gram at 1,78,013 MT (Rs. 868 crore), jower at 1,09,424 MT (Rs. 279 crore), red gram at 60,020 MT (Rs. 348 crore), turmeric at 24,842 MT (Rs. 170 crore) and onion at 957 MT (Rs. 74 lakh).
27 June 2020||VISAKAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTA extends last date for various services||The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has extended the last date for renewal of Fitness Certificate (FC), all types of vehicle permits, registration and driving licences till September 30, 2020, in view of the lockdown due to COVID-19. The permits and licences, which lapse on February 1, 2020 or later will remain valid till September 30, 2020. The validity of Learner’s Licence (LLR), which expired during the above period, would be extended without any additional renewal fee. Such LLR holders would be eligible to go for the driving test immediately, without waiting for the mandatory waiting period, according to Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. The Transport Department and the police personnel should consider the extended validity during the checking of vehicles and abstain from booking of cases on such vehicles. He called upon people to avoid visiting the RTA office, in view of COVID-19, unless it was absolutely necessary. Those have issues relating to Aadhaar card entries can send a message giving details of their problems to Administrative Officer Anjaneyulu on the WhatsApp No. 9848528493, for tax-related issues to AO K. Venkatalakhsmi on 9652516725, for correction of VCR (Vehicle Check Report) AO G. Kotewara Rao on 9848528321 and for corrections at the RTO-level to RTO Poornachandra Rao on 9848528366. Applicants coming for the LLR test would be allowed into the RTA office only if they wear masks. They would also have to sanitise their hands near the entry gate and observe social distancing norms. Returned cards like RC and DL would not be given by hand till September 30, 2020. Visakhapatnam district had secured the top position in the disbursal of financial assistance to auto, taxi drivers and owner-cum-drivers of cabs under the ‘Vahana Mitra’ scheme last year. “This year also, the district is poised to take the top slot under Vahana Mitra,” Mr. Raja Ratnam told The Hindu on Friday.  In the first phase, so far, this year, 4,679 new members had registered under the scheme.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Putting on a brave face amid pandemic||Firoz Mohammed, a PG student from Andhra Medical College was a bundle of nerves when he was tested positive for coronavirus in May. The 26-year-old was on duty in a designated nodal hospital for COVID-19 in the city, which was believed to be reason of him contracting the infection. After undergoing treatment for nine days in GITAM hospital, Mr. Firoz was tested negative and was shifted to the VIMS wherwe he was put under quarantine for 14 days. His quarantine ended on June 2, Dr Firoz joined and he was back on duty the next day. Junior Doctors and interns at the Andhra Medical College have been putting a fight against COVID-19. In the last one and a half months, as many as 13 PG students and some staff on duty have been tested positive. Many junior doctors have also put under quarantine, being the close contacts of patients. When duty calls “I was worried after being tested positive. I did not even inform my parents about it for some days. I am aware of the risks involved in working closely with the COVID-19 patients. Yes, I was scared, but you have to put all your inhibitions aside when duty calls. All doctors and frontline workers face this situation. Given our profession, we should be ready to face the consequences. It is all about putting a brave face,” says Mr. Firoz. Be it taking care of patients, persons at isolation wards at King George Hospital (KGH), quarantine centres or collecting swab samples in containment zones, the healthcare professionals are discharging their duties. Enduring stress “There is pressure from parents and we feel stressed. Some parents even say it is better to leave the job or take a long leave at least. But, we cannot do so when thousands of people are suffering,” says N. Deepchand, president of A.P. Junior Doctors’ Association (JUDA), who also underwent quarantine for 14 days before he was tested negative. He is back on duty now. Mr. Deepchand says there are many cases when people test negative and found to have contracted the infection after some days. “News of the death of several doctors while performing COVID-19 duties across the country also disturbs us. Yet, we choose take it as a challenge,” he says.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 care centres to be set up in rural areas in the district||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that COVID-19 care centres will set up at Araku Valley, Paderu, Narsipatnam and Anakapalle divisions. He said that already the city has 10 centres. He was speaking to officials in a review meet on COVID-19 here on Friday. Mr. Chand said that Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs) will act as nodal officers for all the centres being set up in divisional level and all the centres will be monitored by Joint Collectors. He said that nearly 5,000 beds are being created in the district. He asked the officials to conduct 2,000 tests in the GVMC limits itself on a daily basis. The Collector also asked the officials to conduct tests to the elderly persons and people with health issues in the containment zones. He reviewed the measures being taken for the prevention of COVID-19. Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy, Arun Kumar and R. Govinda Rao, GVMC Chief Medical & Officer for Health K.S.L.G. Sastry, Special Officer for COVID-19, Principal, Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, and a few others were present.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alcoholism is a major problem in Vizag: expert||More than drugs, alcoholism is a major problem in the district, as over 15% are in the border line of addiction and may land in health and family problems, and 5% are addicts, said N.N. Raju, noted psychiatrist and former Superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care. He was speaking at a meet on the occasion of International Day Against Drug abuse and Illicit Trafficking organised by De-addiction Centre of King George Hospital. According to him, after alcohol, ganja is the second menace in the district, as 1.3 to 2% of people, especially from the youth segment, is addicted to this weed. In the Agency areas of the district, the percentage of addiction is close to 15 to 20%, he said. Dr. Raju in his presentation pointed out that people who are addicts should shun the taboo and approach the de-addiction centre and seek help. G. Arjuna, Superintendent of King George Hospital, informed the gathering that a special de-addiction centre was established as a part of Navaratnas to eradicate alcohol consumption, as promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said that efforts were made to motivate the staff of King George Hospital and Andhra Medical College to give up the bad habit and thus many families could be saved. Shirin Rahman, president, Chaitanya Sravanthi, explained about efforts made by her NGO over the years in fight against the drug abuse. She hailed the policies of the State government in restricting alcohol consumption.She suggested that the buyers should be asked to provide age proof so that children and teenagers would not be able to buy alcohol. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, congratulated Superintendent and staff of de-addiction centre, KGH, for observing International Day Against Drug abuse and Illicit Trafficking. MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, promised all help to the centre and assured to provide a 25-seater transport vehicle to KGH for use by the centre.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth arrested on charge of assault||The IV Town police on Friday arrested two youth for their alleged involvement in a case of assault on another person at Ramachandra Nagar area. The arrested were identified as Rakesh alias Rakhi and Murali Krishna. Police said that four more persons in the case are yet to be nabbed. On June 23, Rakesh alias Rakhi from Dondaparthy, Murali Krishna, Mahesh, Kishore and two others chased P. Rupesh, a suspect-sheet holder in IV Town PS with weapons on bikes. When Rupesh barged into a house in order to escape from them, the youth attacked him with iron rods. While Rupesh escaped, three children in the house were injured. Noticing the incident, a few locals informed the police by calling dial 100. Based on the evidence collected from CCTV footage, the police registered a case.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||49 new cases take the tally to 664||Forty-nine new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Friday. Eight more persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged after testing negative. With this, the total number of cases in the district stands at 664. The number of active patients are 379, while 280 persons were discharged. Five persons had died due to COVID-19. Out of the five, two hail from Srikakulam district. Among the cases reported, five are from Arilova, four from MVP Colony, two each from Thatichetlapalem and Gnanapuram. Rest of the cases have been reported from Jendachettu, Wireless Colony, Venkateswara Metta, Sarada Colony, CHB Agraharam, Nanyam Colony, Ganesh Nagar, K3 Colony, Bowdara Road and a few other areas in the last 24 hours.  72 very active clusters According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V.Sudhakar, there are 72 very active clusters, while 40 active and 40 dormant clusters. Twenty-eight clusters have been denotified, he said.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Widespread rain likely in next three days||Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P., south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on June 27, 28 and 29. Heavy rainfall is also likely at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam on June 29 and at isolated places in Rayalaseema on June 28 and 29. Fairly widespread rain is expected over Rayalaseema and scattered rain over north and south coastal A.P. during the next three days, according to the IMD. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday are: Tenali (Guntur) 3, Cumbum (Prakasam) 3, Bestavaripeta (Prakasam) 3, Amarapuram (Anantapur) 7, Rayadurg (Anantapur) 5, Pakala (Chittoor) 4, Madanapalle (Chittoor) 3, Arogyavaram (Chittoor) 3, Gorantla (Anantapur) 3, Dharmavaram (Anantapur) 3 and Obuladevaracheruvu (Anantapur) 3.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paderu opts for voluntary lockdown||Residents of Paderu on Friday joined the voluntary lockdown a day after Girijan Sangham and other tribal associations in Araku launched the initiative to check the spread of coronavirus in Visakha Agency. The Agency comprising 11 mandals remained free of COVID-19 till June first week. Five positives cases have been reported from the villages in the mandals of Koyyuru, Munchingput, Chintapalli and G.K. Veedhi in the last few days. “The decision of partial lockdown was taken with the consent of the panchayats and other tribal bodies including the merchant associations. Akin to Araku, all shops in Paderu will remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.,” said Killo Surendra of Girijan Joint Action Committee. Fearing that the shandies could be the potential place for contracting the infection, the tribal people have decided not to open the weekly markets till things improve, said ITDA Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamala. “All the 42 shandies will remain closed till further decision is taken by people,” said Uma Maheshwara Rao of Girijan Sangam. With the relaxation of lockdown norms, the tourism activities resumed from June 8. “We have requested the authorities concerned not to allow tourists to the Agency for some more time,” said Mr. Surendra.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO distributes critical daily supplies||The Ability People (TAP), with the support from Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives, provided critical daily supplies like adult diapers, male external catheters, uro bags and leg bags to 100 beneficiaries at the Ability Rehabilitation Centre here on Friday. VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas, the chief guest, handed over the supplies to some of the beneficiaries.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t allow LG plant officials to leave India’||Taking strong exception to the High Court giving permission to the LG Chem officials from South Korea to leave India, the CITU on Friday demanded that the LG Polymer plant officials responsible for the gas leak be arrested. “All the directors and officials of LG Polymers are responsible for the styrene monomer leak in Visakhapatnam on May 7. They must be arrested,” said CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao. Styrene monomer vapour leaked from a storage tank in the plant at RR Venkatapuram, killing 12 people and hospitalising hundreds. “The LG polymers management is responsible for the incident and they should be prosecuted. Now, the High Court has allowed them to leave the country. They will never come back,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. “The High Court should review its decision and advise the government to arrest the directors of LG Ploymers,” he said.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP organises virtual rally||A virtual rally was organised by the BJP to mark the completion of one year by the Modi government in its second term, on Friday. Former MP K. Haribabu, MLC P.V.N. Madhav and BJP Parliamentary Party district president M. Ravindra participated. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the chief guest, explained about the decisions taken by the Centre in the last one year.
27 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF observes International Day Against Drug Abuse||International Day Against Drug Abuse was observed by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in association with the station staff, Civil Defence personnel, Government Railway Police (GRP) etc. The global observance aims at raising awareness among people of the major problem that illicit drugs pose to society. Pledge was administered at the railway stations over Waltair Division, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar.
27 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP: create awareness on drug abuse among students||Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao appealed to the managements of various educational institutions to create awareness among their students on the harmful effects of drug usage. He was interacting with a few college heads, students in a programme which was organised on the occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking 2020, at his office on Friday. The SP asked the managements to cooperate with the police and take part in the awareness programmes conducted by the district police against drugs. He also appealed to the students to come forward and inform police in case they find any anti-social activities in their localities. Heads of a few managements said that police, teachers, parents and friends play a crucial role in the society in weaning away the youth from drug abuse. Parental counselling They also stressed the need of parental counselling and interactions. Earlier, Director General of Police, Gautam Sawang had interacted with all the SPs and the college managements to explain about the ill-effects of drug abuse.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A lean patch||
27 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Adilabad farmers worried over dry spell||The deficit in rainfall so far in the season has the farmers in Adilabad district worrying as a few more days of the dry spell can ruin the germinating seeds and nascent crops. Villagers have started appeasing gods by performing special prayers for rainfall so that the seeds can be saved. The district has so far recorded a 37% deficit rainfall. Gudihatnoor and Ichoda were the driest of the mandals recording scanty rainfall at 69 % and 62 % less than normal. The villagers of Dhanora (B) in Indervelli mandal took out a procession with women singing bhajans and carrying pots full of water to the hillock near neighbouring Devapur village for performing the Goverdhan puja. The puja is also called Krishna puja according to Arjune Balakrishna, a villager. The villagers were hopeful that performing the Goverdhan puja will appease gods and result in the much needed spell of rainfall.
27 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||New PHC building in Agency area||A new Primary Health Centre (PHC) building built at Koyyuru in the remote tribal mandal of Charla at an estimated cost of Rs. 68 lakh under the Special Central Assistance (SCA) for the Left-Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas was inaugurated by Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Friday. A 10-bed ward and staff quarters were constructed on the premises of the new PHC building at a cost Rs. 51 lakh under the SCA as part of efforts to bolster primary health infrastructure in the LWE affected tribal pockets of the district, sources said. Mr. Ajay inaugurated a slew of development works including two- bedroom (2BHK) housing colonies during his whirlwind tour of Charla and Dummugudem mandals, bordering Chhattisgarh on Friday.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Loan waiver at a snail’s pace||The waiver of loans borrowed by farmers in the previous term of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) rule, an election promise of the party before it started its second innings, has met with hurdles after its implementation began a month ago. The government had firmed up plans to waive loans in the first phase of such farmers whose borrowings did not exceed Rs. 25,000 with an outlay of Rs. 1,210 crore. But, so far only about Rs. 500 crore was deposited in the bank accounts of 3.50 lakh farmers out of a targeted 6.10 lakh farmers. Official sources said the delay was on account of some reasons for failure of direct benefit transfer (DBT) through the National Payment Corporation of India. They included closure of accounts, no such accounts, account description not tallying, invalid account type, account blocked and invalid IFS code. In addition, there were related reasons for delay in processing the benefits due to absence of Aadhaar numbers or improper numbers. Data de-duplication It was argued that the de-duplication and identification of multiple loan accounts at various banks was possible only by 100 % authentic Aadhaar numbers. The numbers should also be mapped with ePublic Distribution System (ePDS) data for identifying family members who availed crop loans since the benefit was extended to a family as unit with a cap of Rs. one lakh. In the post-reorganisation of districts and mandals, the names of some of them were missing which led to inability in mapping the bank branches that delivered the service. There were no IFS codes given for some bank accounts which was mandatory, the date of sanction of loan was not between April 1, 2014, when the scheme became operational with the cut off date of December 11, 2018, invalid or no loan account numbers and principal amount entered as zero. The data for waiving loans was received from 42 banks and 3,351 branches. The total number of loan accounts received from the banks was 42.56 lakh, including 39.18 lakh crop loans and 3.37 lakh gold loans. The total outlay of the scheme was fixed at Rs. 30,723 crore. After outstanding up to Rs. 25,000 was paid in the first phase, the balance up to Rs. one lakh was to be paid in four phases in four years with a budget of Rs. 24,738 crore. The government had earmarked Rs. 6,225 crore for the scheme in this year’s budget but it has to shell down interest due to delay in implementation.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shops down shutters in GHMC commercial clusters||A major portion of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is gradually heading towards the next phase of lockdown, with traders of various commercial clusters in the city planning to voluntarily down their shutters. Though the government has ruled out imposing another phase of lockdown, traders’ bodies decided to close their shops and establishments as part of efforts to contain the spread of the virus. The lockdown announced by the traders’ bodies ranges from seven days starting Friday to 10 days as several commercial centres in the city like Begum Bazaar are worst-affected. Around a dozen traders in and around Begum Bazaar were tested COVID-19 positive ever since the lockdown was lifted and a couple of them succumbed, raising concerns among the business community about their health. According to Hyderabad Kirana Merchants’ Association president Lakshmi Narayan Rathi, a decision on opening the shops would be taken after observing the developments. The recent move follows steep spike in coronavirus cases in the State and Hyderabad becoming a hotspot. The number of positive cases across the State crossed 10,000 with over 60% from GHMC limits. Textile traders of General Bazaar at Secunderabad decided to follow the voluntary lockdown from Friday (June 26) to July 5. Gold and silver jewellery association members too decided to follow suit. As a result, jewellery shops at General Bazaar, Surya Towers, Paradise and other areas, would remain closed. Troop Bazaar, the largest market for electrical goods, would also remain closed for a week from June 28. Traders in areas such as Laad Bazaar and Pattarghatti had downed their shutters since Thursday, while Begum Bazaar, one of the largest commercial clusters that attract people from within the city and outside, would remain closed from Sunday. Traders there had already cut down their business hours for the last few days between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. Secunderabad Cloth Merchants’ Association president Prakash Ammanabolu said that members have taken a unanimous decision to close their shops from June 27 to July 5, in view of the rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in GHMC limits. The association will meet on July 5 and depending on the prevailing situation will take a call on reopening of shops. The present decision to voluntarily shut down the shops has been taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19, he said. Safety of our staff as well as customers is our top priority and therefore, it was decided to take precaution as and when needed, the association heads said.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC refuses to close PIL plea on migrant workers||The Telangana High Court on Friday declined to close a PIL plea on migrant workers as requested by the South Central Railway (SCR). SCR counsel Pushpinder Kaur assured the High Court that it had provided berths for migrant workers to reach far off places such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, as requested by State government. Assuring to continue to help the outstation workers reach their destinations in the coming days, the counsel requested the court to close the plea. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, however, declined to close the plea stating that the HC was exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution in the plea relating to migrant labourers. The SCR counsel said that the petition was hanging on the heads of the authorities as the sword of Damocles. The Bench said it had the responsibility to come to the rescue of workers under that Article. Secunderabad DRM Anand Bhatia had already assured the court to extend cooperation in helping workers reach their destinations. Earlier, lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, who was appointed amicus curiae in the plea by the HC, informed the Bench that the endeavours of the State government and the SCR helped many outstation workers get back to their villages in far-off states. There were not many workers left out. As on Friday, only 20 migrants were waiting for their turn to go to their home states at Secunderabad railway station. However, the likelihood of possible surge of migrant workers with requests to get back to their states cannot be ruled out in the coming days. “Hence, it would be better for the government and SCR to continue the present arrangement of allotting berths to workers under emergency quota,” Ms. Nagaraj told the Bench. Advocate General B.S. Prasad agreed with her contentions and requested the Bench to pass an order accordingly. The SCR counsel informed the court that over 100 berths in Secunderabad-Thanapur train and 21 berths in Secunderabad-Howrah train were allotted to non-local workers under emergency quota. The CJ said it would be premature to accept it at the present stage. He however, said the PIL petition relating to brick kiln workers would be closed as the journey of all those working there were taken care of by the government.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, baggage disinfecting conveyor to battle virus||The Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO)’s Kochi-based Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), in association with city firm Apollo Microsystems Limited, unveiled a virus obliterating conveyor to disinfect baggage on Friday. DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy launched the latest device to combat COVID-19 digitally. It is an automated standalone system using UV bath for disinfecting luggage and other such items within seconds. The disinfector is placed on a roller-based conveyor carriage that handles baggage through a chamber equipped with accurately calibrated and optimally placed UVC sources. The sensing mechanism of the system automatically detects the entry of bags and powers on UV illumination. The system has been specifically designed to irradiate the body of the luggage in all directions and disinfects the entire surface of the baggage, as per required intensity level and exposure time. It has inbuilt features for ensuring prevention of direct UV exposure outside. This baggage disinfector can be installed at airports, railway stations, Metro stations, bus stations and institutional gates, informed an official spokesperson.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traders treasure their health over wealth||Major city markets went into voluntary shutdown from Friday due to surge of COVID cases in the city. The voluntary lockdown is tentatively scheduled to end by July 8, said a businessman, while another said that shops would reopen within a week. “Two of the traders in the market have been affected. We are getting reports of rise in the number of cases. That’s why we decided to shut down. There is no pressure for us to shut shops,” said Zaheer Bhai of Jameel Bin Jameel Ramzan Traders’ at Laad Bazaar. There were conflicting reports about the number of traders who have got infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Charminar area after lockdown was lifted on June 8. The bustling area was empty with a few traders loitering around. Cloth shops at Pathergatti area too remained shut on Friday. “We have heard that the next two weeks will be crucial for controlling the disease that’s why many of us agreed to the lockdown. Customers are also fearful of shopping. Our business is down to 20-30% of the daily average,” said Sandeep Kumar of Sapna Bangles. Telangana has seen double digit percentage growth of COVID cases over the past 10 days as the number of samples being tested has also been increased. The voluntary lockdown turned the Charminar precinct into a haven for selfie-takers and TikTok video makers as hawkers and tourists avoided the vast open space of the national monument. The impact of the lockdown was not limited to commercial districts as shops on many arterial roads too remained shut. “We are no longer thinking in terms of loss and profit. This disease is affecting entire families. We have to survive. If a lockdown is going to help us see through it, so be it,” says Mohanlal Jain, who also downed the shutters of his jewellery store in Pot Market area of Secunderabad.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||41 old age homes in 3 dists. not registered, State tells HC||Forty-one old age homes being run in the districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri are not registered with the State government. Informing the Telangana High Court of this in a report filed in response to a PIL petition over the plight of inmates of old age homes, the State government said already notices were issued to them. If these homes were not registered within 15 days of receipt of the notices, action would be initiated against them. A website was developed to furnish information about the old age homes inspected by the District Welfare Officers and Child Development Protection Officers. A letter was sent to the DGP to survey such homes under the jurisdiction of each police station in the State to cross-check facts. The government said managements of the homes had agreed to send care givers for a special training on helping the bed-ridden, paraplegic and elderly persons. Two homes, one in Karimnagar and another in Rangareddy and two more in Hyderabad were being run by the State government. Orders were issued to establish three homes, one each in Khammam, Kamareddy and Nizamabad districts in association with Indian Red Cross Society. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh or 50% of construction cost, whichever is less, for each home would be borne by the State government. The remaining sum would be contributed by the Indian Red Cross Society, the report said. There are 17 such homes in the State run by NGOs with the grants-in-aid from the Union Ministry of Justice and Empowerment. A helpline no 14567 for the physically challenged and senior citizens was created by the government.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 36.36 cr commission released to fair price shop dealers||Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation has released Rs. 36.36 crore towards payment of commission to the fair price shop dealers in the State for supply of free rice and processed redgram to the below poverty line (BPL) ration cardholders in April and May. Chairman of the Corporation Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said on Friday that the commission would be credited into the bank accounts of ration shop dealers by the District Managers of Civil Supplies Corporation in a couple of days. The commission would be paid at the rate of 70 paise per kg of rice and 55 paise per kg of processed redgram. The government, through fair price shops, has supplied 3.18 lakh tonnes of rice in April and 3.26 lakh tonnes in May. Similarly, 4,276 tonnes of processed redgram was also supplied during the two months. The government has already released Rs. 44.76 crore commission to the ration shop dealers for supplying additional quantity of rice per head during the COVID-19 lockdown period. In addition to the issuance of 6 kg rice per person, the government has supplied an additional 6 kg per head during the lockdown period during April, May and June.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TS produced 1.3 crore tonnes of foodgrains in 2019-20’||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has stated that a record 1.3 crore tonnes of foodgrains were produced in Telangana during the 2019-20 agriculture year and it had become possible with several proactive measures taken by the State government to improve the irrigation facilities, extending support in the form of Rythu Bandhu and ensuring availability of other inputs in time. Speaking after laying foundation stone for the construction of Rythu Vedika buildings in Gopalpet and Revalli mandals in Wanaparthy district on Friday, he said the turnaround of Telangana becoming a model State had come in the matter of just six years after formation of the State in 2014. He noted that Telangana had emerged as the new rice bowl of the country with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) getting paddy levy of 52.23 lakh tonnes from the State alone from out of a total of 83.01 lakh tonnes of levy collected in the country during the 2019-20 agriculture year. The government had taken up the construction of Rythu Vedikas to mobilise the farming community into an organised force and reach a position of dictating the market and commanding the price for their produce, the Minister said. On the disbursement of Rythu Bandhu support, the Minister for Agriculture said Rs. 6,888.43 crore was credited into the accounts of 54.22 lakh farmers across the State for their landholding of about 1,33,77,000 acres land in three days.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Congress Salaam’ for slain soldiers||The Telangana Congress leaders paid homage to the martyrs of the Galwan Valley observing two-hour silence at Gandhi Bhavan and various other places as a part of the ‘SpeakUPfortheJawans’ call given by the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The programme ‘Congress Salaam’ saw senior Congress leaders choosing different methods to pay their respects to the soldiers as some sat on a silent protest accusing the Central government of failing the soldiers. At the Gandhi Bhavan, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy led the protest that was attended by working president Ponnam Prabhakar, vice president Mallu Ravi, AICC secretary G. Chinna Reddy, City Congress president Anjan Kumr Yadav and Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav among others. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy observed silent deeksha at their homes. Similar programmes were held across the city. Telangana Youth Congress vice president Ravikumar Yadav paid homage at a programme ‘Shaheed Ko Salaam’ at Sherilingampally. Speaking to the reporters at Gandhi Bhavan, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy paid rich tributes to Col. Santosh Babu and said his heroic deeds will never be forgotten. Blaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the tension at the border, he said 20 soldiers lost their lives due to the government’s inefficiency at a place where not a single casualty was seen for 45 years. He said due to the inefficiency of Mr. Modi even friendly countries of India for long have turned hostile and it shows how poor he was at international diplomacy. Prime Minister should explain to the nation on what did he achieve from his extensive foreign travel. Mr. Reddy, who himself is a former IAF pilot, said the Centre has failed to protect the borders and it should put pressure on China to force to its earlier position. He said the party would celebrate the birth centenary of late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao on June 28.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to shift isolation ward from OGH||Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) has requested the State government to shift the isolation ward from Osmania General Hospital (OGH) as it poses a threat of cross infection to patients of the out patient, acute medical care and casualty wards located adjacent to it. Led by association president K.U.N. Vishnu, a delegation of TJUDA called on Minister for Health Eatala Rajender here on Friday and submitted a representation with the demand to shift the isolation ward from OGH, also as the staff of the only tertiary care hospital were overburdened with patients with Gandhi Hospital being converted into an exclusive COVID facility. They also brought to the Minister’s notice an urgent need to recruit speciality doctors on a permanent basis through the Medial & Health Services Recruitment Board (MHSRB), recruitment of senior residents (Srs) and to issue orders for admission of any doctor, PG doctor or intern at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), if they get infected. Further, they also urged the government to maintain proper supply of PPE kits, N-95 masks and other protective gear as there was deficiency at ground level, accommodation for day scholars as they were in apprehensive of their family members getting infected, if they go home and also increase in stipend by 15%.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unemployed youth stage protest, demands recruitment||The Telangana Unemployed Youth Joint Action Committee has staged day-long fasting protest here on Friday demanding that the State government fill about 2.5 lakh vacancies in various departments and payment of unemployment allowance to about 16 lakh unemployed youth at Rs. 3,000 per month. Several unemployed youth led by chairman of the JAC N. Venkatesh participated in the protest and Communist Party of India State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy, president of Telangana Jana Samithi M. Kodandaram, president of National Backward Classes Welfare Association R. Krishnaiah and others expressed solidarity with the protest. Speaking at the protest, Mr. Krishnaiah alleged that the State government was neglecting the filling of vacancies and sought to know how the administration was being run with about 2.5 lakh vacancies, including over 40,000 retirements. He pointed out that against the promise of a job to every family, the government had failed to give even a job per village during the last six years. Apart from the existing vacancies, another 40,000 posts were created with the creation of 23 new district, 131 mandal, 30 revenue divisions, 76 municipalities, 7 corporations, 4,383 gram panchayats, 103 police stations, 25 police sub-divisions, 31 police circles and 7 police commissionerates. As against the need to fill about 2.8 lakh posts, the State government could fill only 45,000 jobs during the last six years, mostly with police constables, sub-inspectors of police, teachers, panchayat secretaries, assistant engineers, hostel welfare officers and some Group-II posts. Stating that the scenes of empty chairs in every government office due to lack of recruitment in spite of retirements every year had become a common scene, TJS president Kodandaram said filling of vacancies, sanctioned posts, would not require any fresh budget allocation since it would be made automatically every year. Due to vacancies, the government was able to save huge funds every year and divert it for other needs. Mr. Venkat Reddy said the executive would get weakened with every retirement and every vacancy. He observed that the government would not be in a position to fill posts even with promotions after a few years, if it fails to fill vacancies now.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC unions flay discrimination against ‘spare’ bus crew||The TSRTC Employee Union has alleged that workers who are reporting to duty, and are being treated as either ‘spare’ drivers or conductors on account of a reduced fleet being pressed into service, are being marked as on leave. According to K Raji Reddy from the TSRTC EU, since the resumption of inter-district and intra-district bus services on May 19, the transport juggernaut has been making use of fewer buses and personnel across depots. “We are saying that those who are reporting as spare should not be marked as on leave. They should be treated on par with others. We condemn this. We have written a letter to the Managing Director and have asked for him to intervene,” Mr Reddy said. Meanwhile, trade unions such as the Staff and Workers Federation as well as the TSRTC EU have reiterated their demand that diesel be brought within the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax. They said that the unabated rise of fuel prices in the country, especially diesel, would deal a body blow to the TSRTC. “The TSRTC would clock 36 lakh km per day. This has gone down by half due to the pandemic. The revenue would be Rs. 12 crore per day. Were are losing revenue and the diesel prices are adding an additional, heavy burden,” V S Rao from the SWF said.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||260 nurseries along NHs soon||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) R. Shoba has issued instructions towards establishing nurseries along the highways and State roads as per the directives of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Through a video conference with the officials from Forest, National Highways, and Roads & Buildings Department from Karimnagar on Friday, Ms.Shoba asked the officials to implement the instructions immediately and finalise the number of nurseries and the locations to establish them. Field survey For this, the district forest officer should conduct a field survey along with officials from National Highways Authority and Roads & Buildings Department, she said. It has been decided in the meeting to start 50 nurseries along National Highways, 69 along State highways, and 141 along the roads coming in the purview of R&B wing. Power and water availability, aside of safety, are the criteria to identify locations to establish these nurseries, Ms.Shoba said.  R&B Engineer-in-Chief Ganapathi Reddy, Director, National Highways, Krishna Prasad, apart from other officials attended the video conference.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead, husband booked||A 33-year-old techie was found dead in her villa at Rallaguda in Shamshabad here on Thursday night. The victim, Lavanya Lahari, who had worked in an IT company until last year, had fallen in love with Venkateshwar Rao, a commercial pilot. In July 2012, the couple got married and were living in Hyderabad. She haileds from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh. Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said Lavanya committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling, minutes after she posted a ‘suicide’ note on Facebook. "For the past few years, the couple had some issues with their marriage. On Thursday night too, they had an argument, following which she locked herself in her bedroom on the first floor of CSK Villas,” he said. Later she posted a message on Facebook, alleging mental and physical harassment by her husband as she was unable to conceive, Mr. Reddy said. In her post, Lavanya also charged that Rao had an extramarital affair with a woman based in Chennai and mentioned her decision to commit suicide. A few minutes after her post, the victim's friends informed her husband of it. "He rushed to the bedroom and found it was locked from inside. He opened the door with a duplicate key only to see his wife in a shocking state. With the help of neighbours, Rao rushed her to a hospital where she was declared brought dead," the DCP said. Following a complaint by Lavanya's father, a case was booked and Rao was taken into custody by RGIA police. (Suicide prevention centre, Roshni: +914066202000 or 6666 1117)
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seven held, 81 kg. of ganja seized||With the arrest of seven people, Rachakonda police busted an inter-State drug peddling racket and seized 81 kg. of ganja and nine mobile phones worth Rs. 30 lakh. They also recovered Rs. 1.45 lakh in cash from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the Special Operations Team (LB Nagar Zone) along with Abdullapurmet police intercepted two SUVs which were transporting the contraband from Dharakonda of Visakhapatnam Agency area to Rajasthan. The accused were identified as Nunavath Jagan, Kethavath Murali, Vankudothu Sai, Maloth Vinodh, Nunavath Sudhakar, Vankudoth Jithendar and Anup Kumar. Meanwhile, Rachakonda police said that in the past four years, local police, with the help of SOT, booked 53 cases and arrested 129 people, including seven foreign nationals.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Course on robotics at CMRTC||CMR Technical Campus, recognised by the University Grants Commission (UGC) as an Autonomous Institute, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Automation Anywhere for setting up of Centre of Excellence in “Software BOT Lab.” This will help students of third and final year of CSE, IT, ECE, and Mechanical streams in getting trained and certified in Robotic Process Automation (RPA), which is a globally recognised certification programme of Automation Anywhere. Through this association CMRTC will be offering the benefits of Robotic Process Automation and Development of Digital Workforce and bring mass access to future technology, said chairman C. Gopal Reddy and director of CMRTC A. Raji Reddy.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genomics based health tests on anvil||Apollo Clinic has joined hands with Mapmygenome to launch genomics-based healthcare at its centres across the country. DNA-based tests are available at a discount of 60%. Genomepatri is a master health test and offers the most comprehensive genetic assessment available for preventive screening, including genetic risk assessment. The tests can be done on buccal swab (non-invasive) or blood samples of patients. These products enable early intervention, risk mitigation and better prevention, by identifying risks and providing customised action plans. “Power of genomics increases when it is utilised by doctors for enhanced patient care. This unique partnership comes at a crucial time when personalised medicine is the need of the hour,” said CEO Mapmygenome Anu Acharya.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 12 TSSP personnel test COVID positive||More than a dozen police personnel with the Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) battalion at Yousufguda tested COVID positive on Friday. These officers are mostly asymptomatic and are under home quarantine. “Our men are deployed on a shift basis at various check-posts, pickets, government hospitals and quarantine centres, and are exposed to virus,” said Additional DGP, TSSP Battalions, Abhilasha Bisht. She said that ‘by and large’, all the officers who tested positive for the virus in various battalions across the State were under home quarantine or isolated in the special facilities at battalions. “Only one or two people were hospitalised and now even they are doing well,” Ms. Bisht said. The TSSP is taking special care of the diet of their men at Gandhi Hospital, Nature Cure, Government Hospital, King Koti, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Niloufer Hospital and other medical facilities in the city. Apart from providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to their personnel, other necessary measures were also taken up for their safety. They are trained in controlling mob, and were deployed at Gandhi Hospital. Eventually, they were roped in at different hospitals.
27 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six RTC employees test positive||Days after a senior officer of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) tested positive for coronavirus, six other staffers fell victim to the COVID infection on Friday. TSRTC sources said that the six members work on the second floor of Bus Bhavan. They have been asked to home quarantine themselves. “One of the affected persons is an officer. We have sanitised the floor and it is off limits,” a source said. Soon after the development came to light, RTC trade unions demanded that the floor be thoroughly sanitised. Speaking to The Hindu , V.S. Rao from Staff and Workers’ Federation said, “We are requesting the management to sanitise the entire building. The staff should not be made to work from Bus Bhavan for the next 15 days.”
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mock EAMCET||Marri Laxman Reddy Institute of Technology (MLRIT) is conducting an online mock EAMCET for engineering aspirants on July 2. All engineering aspirants can take the test free of cost and test their potential before the original test and prepare accordingly, said Marri Rajashekar Reddy, secretary of MLRIT. Details can be had onwww.mlrinstitutions.ac.inor on 7981339064 and 7893974728.
27 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||APHB employee convicted in ACB case||The Special Court for ACB cases on Friday convicted and awarded two years’ rigorous imprisonment to BJ Prem Prakash, Assistant Engineer, AP Housing Board, Central division in Nampally. The court also ordered him to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000 fine and in default of the payment of fine amount, he has to undergo simple imprisonment for two months. The convicted officer was trapped by the ACB officials in January 2011 when he had demanded and accepted a bribe of Rs. 15,000 from complainant K Aravinda Rao as reward for not causing any disturbance for his parking business at AP Housing Board, Manoranjan Complex, in Nampally.
27 June 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Double murder in Kamareddy||The murder of Koyala Laxmaiah (60) and Vadla Sudhakar (45) in an open place under Devunpally police on Thursday night created a sensation in the district. Milk vendors who found them murdered in the morning informed the police. Superintendent of Police N. Swetha and other officials rushed to the spot and sent the bodies for postmortem. Clues teams and snifter dogs were pressed into service. The bodies bore deep injuries, believed to have been caused with a sharp weapon, on the head. The deceased were not related to each other but were neighbours, according to sources in the colony. Laxmaiah, an asthmatic, belonging to Lingampet mandal headquarters, used to get treated by Sudhakar, a registered medical practitioner. Sudhakar was constructing a new house in the colony and came into contact with Laxmaiah who used to supervise the construction work. A liquor bottle found at the spot suggest that they had consumed alcohol at that time.
27 June 2020||YDERABAD,TELANGANA||TIHCL keen on offering more services to MSEs||Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Ltd (TIHCL), a State government initiative to address stress in micro and small manufacturing enterprises (MSEs), plans to emerge a one-stop solution for such enterprises, be it by way of providing guidance or coordinating with banks and financial institutions. Banks dealing with high volumes of micro, small and medium enterprises’ loan accounts and other responsibilities may not always be able to devote adequate time for small and micro businesses. TIHCL intends to fill this gap, a release on Friday by the office of Minister K.T.Rama Rao on the clinic completing three years said. Also, the TIHCL seeks to focus on making MSEs aware of the various indicators of incipient sickness. Meanwhile, retired CGM of the State Bank of India D.V. Suresh Kumar took over as new MD and CEO of TIHCL.
27 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Selja flays BJP govt. for petrol, diesel price hike||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Friday hit out at the BJP government at the Centre for the sharp rise in petrol and diesel prices and blamed its policies to be the key reason behind increasing unemployment in the State.  ‘Public suffering’ “Prices of petrol and diesel have been increasing in the country for the last 20 days. At many places, diesel prices have outpaced prices of petrol. People who faced financial losses during the lockdown hoped that the Central and State governments would provide some relief. But far from it, this government is adding to their woes. The government has broken the backbone of farmers, transporters and the general public by increasing the prices of petrol and diesel,” Ms. Selja said at a press conference in Narnaul. ‘Industries destroyed’ “The industries set-up in Haryana during the Congress rule has been completely destroyed by this government. Mass layoffs are taking place in the private sector. At the same time, this government is not providing government jobs. Far from giving new jobs, it is bent on snatching them. In a latest decision, the government has decided that after joining Group-D posts, the applicant will not be allowed to apply in any other recruitment for the next five years,” she said. Ms. Selja said the law and order situation in Haryana has been deteriorating.
27 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Vini Mahajan new Punjab Chief Secretary||Vini Mahajan on Friday took over as the first woman Chief Secretary of Punjab. Ms. Mahajan replaced Karan Avtar Singh, who had a stand off with some State Ministers last month. He has been posted as Special Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms and Public Grievances. Ms. Mahajan is the wife of State’s Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta.
27 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana fixes price caps for COVID-19 treatment; malls to reopen in a week||Categorising the sickness due to COVID-19 as ‘moderate’, ‘severe’ and ‘very severe’, the Haryana government has fixed the maximum charges for the treatment under the three categories in the State’s private hospitals and medical colleges with a cap of Rs. 18,000 per day for treatment in ICUs with ventilator in JCI/NABH-accredited hospitals. The district administration on Friday issued a list of eight large outbreak regions (LORs) for carrying out intensive health campaigns to contain the spread of the virus. The LORs include Heera Nagar, Hari Nagar, Baldev Nagar, Nathupur abadi, and Dundahera, among others. The administration said that there will be reasonable restrictions on the movement in these regions and minimum adverse impact on socio-economic activities with the permission for in-situ industries to work. Besides, the shopping malls in the Millennium City will also open in a week’s time with Standard Operating Procedures to be announced by the State soon. As per the State government directions, a JCI/NABH-accredited hospital can charge a maximum of Rs. 15,000 per day for ICU treatment without ventilator care, categorised as ‘severe’ sickness. For the non-NABH hospital, the maximum charges for the category have been fixed at Rs. 13,000 per day. For ‘moderate’ sickness, the charges for the NABH and non-NABH hospitals have been capped at Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 8,000 per day respectively. However, the non-NABH-accredited hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs. 15,000 per day for the treatment in ICU with ventilator. The rates will include charges, such as lab investigations, radiological diagnostics, monitoring charges, drugs, consumables, including PPE, doctor’s consultation, nursing care, physiotherapy, procedural charges and transfusion of blood, among others. The rates will also include the costs of underlying co-morbid conditions, including supportive care and cost of medications for the duration of the care for COVID-19. These rates will apply to paediatric patients For pregnant women, costs of delivery and newborn package are not included. Also, the rates will not include the cost of COVID-19 diagnostic tests as well as IL-6 Levels. All beds for the COVID-19 treatment will be at fixed package rates, subject to an upper limit of 60 % of the total hospital bed capacity. Containment zones The administration has also issued a fresh list of containment zones, reducing the number from 107 to 106.
27 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana issues advisory on possible locust attack||Haryana Agriculture Department on Friday issued an advisory asking residents of Gurugram to keep doors and windows of their houses shut in view of a possible locust attack on Saturday. The swarms have reached a few villages in neigbouring Rewari, around 50 km from here. Deputy Director, Agriculture, Gurugram, Atmaram Godara, said the swarms flew from Mahendragarh to settle in four-five villages of Rewari near Kosli on Friday and are expected to hit parts of Gurugram on Saturday. “Their movement depends on the wind direction in the morning. It may go towards Jhajjar or Gurugram. In Gurugram, it is likely to hit parts of Pataudi,” the official said. He claimed that the department was prepared to deal with the situation.
27 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Lakhs hit as Assam flood fury continues||Floods in Assam have claimed the 16th human life since May 22 as the rising water level displaced more than 2.52 lakh people across 16 districts on Friday. Incessant heavy rain for almost a week also hit operations to cap the blowout well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said a person drowned in Tengakhat area of Dibrugarh early on Friday morning, taking the death toll to 37. Of these, 16 died by drowning while landslips buried 21. “The number of flood-hit districts almost doubled from nine to 16 overnight. So far, 2,52,661 people have been displaced and 18,234 of them have taken refuge in relief camps across five districts,” an ASDMA spokesperson said, adding that social distancing was being maintained in these camps due to COVID-19 restrictions. Dhemaji continued to be the worst affected district followed by Tinsukia, Majuli and Dibrugarh. The other flood-hit districts are Baksa, Barpeta, Biswanath, Darrang, Golaghat, Jorhat, Kokrajhar, Lakhimpur, Nagaon, Nalbari, Sivasagar and Udalguri. Eight rivers including the Brahmaputra have been flowing above the danger level, threatening to inundate more areas, officials said. “Crops on 11,765.27 hectares across 704 villages have been affected. More than 1.62 lakh livestock and fowls have been affected too,” the spokesperson said. Landslip in Guwahati Heavy rain also caused landslip in Guwahati. Two persons were injured after two houses collapsed in the city’s Kahilipara area. In Tinsukia’s Baghjan area, where one of OIL’s wells had a blowout, operations for capping it had to be virtually abandoned.  Bridge collapse “A large part of the area is inundated and the levels of all the rivers are rising. And while a bridge on one of the access roads collapsed on June 24, the condition of another bridge on an alternative road is deteriorating,” an OIL spokesperson said. “We are in touch with the Army for constructing a Bailey bridge for transporting men and material to and from the Baghjan site,” he added. Heavy rain has affected the survey for assessing the damage toward compensating the people affected by the blowout, Tinsukia district officials said. Assessment of 530 families has been completed so far.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Antibody testing: expect knock on the door for blood sample||A serological survey to understand the spread of COVID-19 and immunity developed against the virus, by drawing blood samples of 20,000 random people across the city, will be carried out starting Saturday. People can expect a knock on their doors by officials for collection of blood samples till July 6. “A team will visit houses selected randomly and explain the survey to the people and if they agree, then their blood samples will be collected,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . People are free to say no and written consents from them are needed before drawing blood samples, the official said. The blood samples will be tested in a lab using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies against it. “A positive result would mean that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. A positive result is a good sign as it means that she was infected at some point by the virus and developed immunity [antibodies] against it,” the official said. The official added that if more people have developed antibodies, then the chain of the infection will get broken and the spread of the virus will decrease. The move comes even as the city recorded 3,460 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 77,240. Delhi remains the city with the most number of cases after it surpassed Mumbai on Wednesday. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday also stated that 63 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,492. Of the total cases, 47,091 people have recovered and there are 27,657 active cases. As many as 21,144 tests were conducted in Delhi per day, taking the total number of tests to 4,59,156. Antibody testing is an indirect test and it cannot find the virus, but it can determine if the immune system has encountered it. Before stepping out to collect the samples, the authorities will decide on the number of blood samples to be collected from a particular area and the different age groups from which the sample will be taken. Mapping the virus The team will consist of at least two persons — a lab technician to collect the blood samples and another official to explain the survey. “To make the survey fair, we will not ask the person whether she had any symptom of COVID-19. If we test more people who had symptoms, then more people will be positive and that would give us the correct picture about the spread of the disease,” the official said. A report will be submitted to the government by July 6 after the serological survey is completed. The survey is part of a ‘Revised COVID-19 Response Plan’ chalked out by the Delhi government on Monday, based on directions from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. In May-end, the Central government had done a similar study in Delhi and tested about 500 people using antibody testing kits and many had tested positive.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Why scheme only for Yes Bank, asks HC||The Delhi High Court has directed the Reserve Bank of India and the Centre to explain why they decided to secure the interest of the depositors of scam-hit Yes Bank with a ‘Reconstruction Scheme’ as opposed to Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC), another scam-hit bank. “What has emerged upon perusal of the (Centre’s) notification is that, both, the RBI as well as the UOI (Union of India) had a crucial role to play in the decision taken to: permit, firstly, the Reconstruction Scheme being brought into play and, secondly, to have it funded,” Justice Rajiv Shakdher said. “The RBI will file an affidavit as to what propelled it to take action in the ‘public interest’ to secure the interest of the depositors of Yes Bank and the reason why the Union of India accorded sanction to the Reconstruction Scheme,” the High Court remarked. “The affidavits will delve into the aspect as to how the depositors of PMC Bank are differently circumstanced in comparison to the depositors of Yes Bank,” the court observed.  Centre’s affidavit While the Centre, in its affidavit, stated that it has not invested any funds in Yes Bank, the High Court was informed that the investors, which includes the State Bank of India (SBI), had invested in the share capital of Yes Bank, upon sanction being accorded to it by the Centre to the Reconstruction Scheme. “The affidavit of UOI will indicate as to the shares it holds in SBI and the representation it has on the SBI’s Board of Directors,” the High Court ordered.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Chief Minister says situation in Delhi under control despite spike in cases||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital was high, but the situation was under control. Patients under home isolation, he said, had been sent pulse oximeters and despite a three-fold increase in testing, positive cases increased only by around 3,000 per day. He said that Delhi had been getting mild cases over the past week. Out of 13,500 total beds in hospitals, around 6,000 were being used as most patients have mild symptoms and are recovering at their houses. “As of today, there are 74,000 COVID-19 cases in Delhi, but if we try to comprehend these cases, I would say that the situation is under control. It is worrisome but there is no need to panic. A few days back, we used to conduct around 5,000-6,000 tests daily, out of which in 2,000-2,500 cases reports were positive. We have increased the testing three times, and now, instead of 5,000 tests per day, we are conducting 18,000-20,000 tests per day,” he said. “We have seen that even if the testing has increased threefold in the last few days, the COVID-19-positive cases have only increased to 3,000-3,5000 from 2,000. If in the coming days, we conduct 1-2 lakh tests daily it is natural to observe a spike in the number of cases. A favorable thing is that out of 74,000 cases, around 45,000 have recovered that shows that people are recovering swiftly,” he also said. For the last one week, he said, the number of hospital beds occupied by COVID-19 patients had remained stagnant. In the last week, Mr. Kejriwal said, the number of beds occupied had remained around 6,000. Even if there had been a spike in cases daily, the new cases did not require beds. At a cabinet meeting on Friday, Mr. Kejriwal said, the Delhi Cabinet had sanctioned an increase in the capacity of beds by 450 at a newly constructed hospital in Burari. A banquet hall opposite to Loki Nayak Hospital has also been converted into a COVID-19 care facility with 100 beds.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Hire nurses, paramedics registered with DSSSB, expert tells govt.||An expert appointed by the Delhi government for deploying final-year nursing and MD, MS, DNB students at COVID-19 hospitals for six months has recommended hiring nurses and paramedics from a “large pool” registered for jobs with the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) and final-year MS, MD, DNB students only after their examination. Last week, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had appointed Mahesh Verma, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), for “immediate deployment” of both nurses and doctors due to “surge in positive cases”. “I have submitted my recommendation to the government to hire final-year students after their exams. Also, I have suggested hiring nurses and paramedical personnel from the large pool registered with the DSSSB and BSe and MSe students, if still needed. The government will now take a decision on it,” Mr. Verma told The Hindu.  ‘At least 20 more days’ If the government goes by the recommendation, then the hiring of doctors will take at least 20 more days as the examination of students in GGSIPU will end by July 14 and Delhi University examinations, scheduled to start from July 10, will end by the last week of July. Mr. Verma has also recommended hiring doctors, who are already working in other areas, for COVID-19 duty through advertisements followed by interviews. “Initially there was a lot of confusion regarding whether the students will be hired before or after their exams. Their exam is already delayed by two months and hiring them for six months before their exams will result in delaying the start of their career by six months. The government should stick to the recommendation and hire students only after their exams,” said Parv Mittal, President of Resident Doctors’ Association of Maulana Azad Medical College. “Immediate deployment of all final-year MD/MS/DNB graduate doctors at various PG medical institutions of Delhi to be engaged for a period of six months in Delhi government COVID-19 Hospitals. Similarly, final year PG [Nursing] and UG [Nursing] students also be deployed for ICU duty for a period of six months,” a Delhi government order on Friday said. It also appointed an official for recruitment and deployment of students.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Teachers on duty are COVID-19 warriors: HC||The High Court on Friday observed that teachers carrying out their duty during the virus outbreak can be equated to COVID-19 warriors, while lamenting that North Corporation schoolteachers have not received their salaries since March. The court converted a plea by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh on non-payment of salaries into a “suo moto petition”. “Teachers belong to one of the noble professions and as they are made to do COVID-19 duty also, they can be equated to COVID-19 warriors,” the Bench said. During the previous hearing, the HC had asked the civic body to pay arrears to the teachers. The North body said that various categories of employees had not been paid as the Delhi government had not released funds.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Staffers protest at Hindu Rao||Nurses, paramedical staffers and health employees union of the Hindu Rao Hospital protested against the working conditions and non-payment of salaries on Friday. The hospital, under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, has been under the lens for non-payment of salaries of staffers. This time, nurses said that they had not been paid for the last two months. Earlier this month, Hindu Rao was also designated a COVID-19 hospital. Staffers said that they were also demanding protocols laid down by the Union government be followed and that at present, there were deficiencies in terms of donning and doffing station for PPE kits, AC and accommodation. Spokesperson for the civic body said that measures were being taken to improve infrastructure at the hospital.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||DPCC chief detained while paying homage||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar was detained by Delhi Police on Friday morning from India Gate while he was paying homage to Indian soldiers killed in Galwan Valley. Mr. Kumar was participating in a “Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas”, a silent protest, organised by the party. While Mr. Kumar was speaking to the media, the police picked him up and put him in a bus and detained him. Delhi Police in a statement said: “A few people had gathered near national stadium without any permission. They were told to disperse in view of the governments’ directives. When they refused to pay heed, they were detained.”
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE scheme will affect city students||Students in north-east Delhi may be the worst affected by the CBSE’s alternative assessment scheme to replace pending board exams which have now been cancelled. They make up the majority of the 2,400 students who have only completed one or two papers, as their exam schedule was disrupted by riots in February. “Of the 12.6 lakh students who appeared for the Class 12 board exams, about a third have completed their exams,” a CBSE official said. “There are 30,000 students who have completed just three exams, while 2,400 students, mostly in north-east Delhi, have completed only one or two.” For the 30,000 students, average of the marks from their best two subjects will be awarded for the remaining subjects. For those who have only written one or two papers, the results will be declared based on those marks as well as their internal assessments, practical exams and projects.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre’s stand sought on EIA notification||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre to clarify any ambiguity on the extension of time granted to the public for giving opinion on the 2020 draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification due to the COVID-19 crisis. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Environment Ministry to reply by June 29 whether there was any ambiguity in the Centre’s May 8 notification extending the period for receiving objections and suggestions regarding the draft EIA 2020. The High Court's direction came on petition by environmental Vikrant Tongad stating that the May 8 notification extended the period for inviting objections by another 60 days, but it was not clear as to when the initial period of 60 days commenced.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines petition on incoming calls||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined a petition seeking directions to Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and the Department of Telecommunications to ensure that operators do not block incoming services of subscribers during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that courts cannot do charity at the cost of others as telecom companies also need money.  The plea had contended that telecom companies’ action of blocking incoming calls and messages on account of failure to recharge subscription is causing grave hardship to people who cannot afford to spend money on it in the prevailing circumstances.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||DDA to re-open Nagrik Suvidha Kendra from June 29||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday said that the “Nagrik Suvidha Kendra” will be reopened from June 29 to facilitate execution of lease deeds and submission of land conversion applications.
27 June 2020||new delhi,||10,000-bed facility begins operations||About 2,000 beds of the 10,000-bed COVID-19 facility in south Delhi became operational on Friday. The rest will be ready in a week’s time, said B.M. Mishra, District Magistrate (South). A large tent has been set up on the campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Satyendar Jain discharged after testing negative||Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain, who was admitted to a city hospital and had tested positive for COVID-19 last week, was discharged on Friday evening after he tested negative for the virus, said sources in AAP. “He will be under home isolation for the next few days,” the source said.
27 June 2020||Dehradun,||Paid-quarantines, chaos at airport: for fliers into Dehradun, the nightmares don’t end||“Ma’am, your bill works out to Rs. 14,660. Would you like to pay by cash or card?” I was asked, a day before I was due to check out of a city hotel that was now a COVID-19 quarantine facility. I stayed here for a week after I landed in Dehradun. I had arrived in the city from ‘high-risk’ Mumbai, which had, and still has, the highest number of novel coronavirus cases in the country. Like the other passengers on my flight, I would be carted off to quarantine straight from the airport. I was told I would need to pay Rs. 1,500 per day for the room, with extra charges for meals, water bottles and taxes. These were the average rates at mid-range hotel quarantines; prices started at Rs. 950 and went up to Rs. 3,000 a night. The authorities had no clue about testing protocols and the basis on which fliers would be allowed to go home from these facilities, which were underprepared for the influx. Those of us staying in a hotel on Rajpur Road had to bear with power cuts in the searing summer heat for the first two days. The hotel staff said there had been a power outage across town due to a windstorm, and a new generator had to be set up as their old one had stopped working. Local media reported that those sent to a lower-priced facility at Niranjanpur had complained of poor hygiene. To compound fliers’ troubles, the resources they had access to were inadequate. A woman sitting on a chair outside the hotel said she could not afford the charges; she had simply been allocated this facility on her arrival as the lower-priced ones were full, and was now being asked to pay almost Rs. 12,000 upfront. Helpless staff Her relatives stood at the gate and requested the authorities to allow them to take her home. The staff told them they were helpless, and couldn’t let her out as per government directives. The family managed to hand her some food through the gate. What happened after, the rest of us would never know, as we were promptly sent to our rooms and directed not to leave at any cost for the next week. On several occasions, hotel authorities ‘advised’ us not to post details of our quarantine on social media “for our own safety,” claiming they were carrying out what health department officials had told them to do. About the time our hotel quarantine came to an end, there was news of some relief from the Uttarakhand High Court (HC). The court had asked the State and other parties to respond to a public interest litigation filed by one Umesh Kumar, who sought to know why people travelling by air were being sent to compulsory paid quarantine for a week. By the next hearing, the State had amended its inter-State travel policies, enforcing a 21-day quarantine (seven days institutional isolation and 14 days at home) for those returning from 75 ‘high-load’ COVID-19 cities. It also allowed those arriving in the State to choose between a free government facility and hotels, whose bill the passengers would have to foot. “We direct the respondents to obtain in writing, from each air passenger, indicating their option to either stay at the quarantine centres established by the State government free of cost or to stay in hotels at their own cost,” the HC said, while disposing of the PIL. Then on, things appear to have eased up considerably. People in quarantine facilities are undergoing a rapid test before being allowed to go home, and those arriving from the 75 cities are being allowed in any form of transport. The niggles persist, though. Sweta Akundi, a passenger who landed in the city from Chennai on June 14 said almost three weeks down the line, the scenario at Jolly Grant airport continues to be mismanaged, with “just some six people sitting behind tables trying to do their best.” ‘No crowd control’ Ms. Akundi saw no trace of crowd management, queues, or cues for physical distancing. “The people filling forms have given up on masks. I felt safer throughout the journey than I do here,” she said. Ms. Akundi, who finished her institutional quarantine on June 21 said, “While my experience at the facility was pleasant, no tests were conducted before we were allowed to go home. We were only asked to sign an undertaking that we wouldn't leave our house for 14 days.”  Officials in the Chief Minister's Office and district magistrate’s office were not available for comment.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC directs State, BMC to file replies on disposing of COVID-19 victims’ bodies||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the State government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file their replies on the disposal and management of bodies of COVID-19 victims. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar. The PIL deals with a number of issues, including non-removal of bodies from active wards at Sion hospital. The petition mentions that every hospital, including Sion, has to set aside considerably large areas as mortuary halls and post-mortem halls. The retention of bodies in active wards in Sion Hospital, as recently reported, is a matter of serious concern, the plea said. It added that the situation gives rise to several medical as well as humanitarian issues. “No civilised society can afford to repeatedly witness such incidents,” the PIL said. ‘Form special panel’ The PIL sought the formation of a special committee by the State government to look into the matter and to ensure that such occurrences are not repeated during the pandemic. The court heard the matter and extended the scope of the PIL to all hospitals owned by the State and the BMC. Widening scope of plea The Bench said, “Instead of confining the petitioner’s concern regarding the management of bodies at Sion Hospital, which is under the administration and control of the BMC, such concern may be extended to cover all the government hospitals as well as the hospitals run by municipal corporations in Maharashtra with regard to disposal and management of bodies of the COVID-19 victims.” The court directed the State and the BMC to file their replies by June 29 and adjourned the matter to be heard on July 3.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||What is digital epidemiology?||With the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, contact tracing apps have emerged as the best examples of digital epidemiology, a nascent field where digital data is used to understand patterns of disease, and chart out interventions to prevent it. The story so far Aarogya Setu, the Indian government’s COVID-19 contract tracing mobile application, is being used by over 13 crore people. On the app’s home page, a quote by Prime Minister Narendra Modi appears, where he insists that “as more and more people use it, its effectiveness will increase”. The app tracks the interaction of its users through Bluetooth and a location-generated social graph. If a user tests positive for COVID-19, other app users who may have been in his/her close proximity, knowingly or unknowingly, are alerted and guided on self-isolation and steps to be taken if they develop symptoms. While government employees have been asked to use the app, it was also made mandatory for rail and air travellers. Cybersecurity experts and activists have dubbed Aarogya Setu a government surveillance tool. In response to one such petition, highlighting the violation of the right to privacy, the Centre has told the Karnataka High Court that it is not mandatory for rail and air travellers to download the app. Multiple COVID-19 trackers like Aarogya Setu have been launched across the world. What has led to the growth of digital epidemiology? The traditional form of epidemiology, considered a basis of public health, consists of studying various factors (age, gender, location and other determinants) of the general population to study disease patterns, spread, incidence, and prevalence. Traditional epidemiologists say it is a field founded on the pillars of science and is thus extremely robust. Data is mostly collected by field staff through house-to-house surveys and from hospital records. Digital epidemiology, as the term suggests, uses digital data to study the same factors. Swiss epidemiologist Marcel Salathé, director of the Digital Epidemiology Lab in Lausanne, defines the field in a more nuanced manner. He says, “Epidemiology that uses data that was generated outside the public health system, i.e. with data that was not generated with the primary purpose of doing epidemiology.” In an article published in a peer-reviewed journal in January 2018, Mr. Salathé says that the field of digital epidemiology is new, but has been growing rapidly owing to the increasing amounts of data generated on the internet, especially on social media. What are good examples of digital epidemiology? In an email response to The Hindu , Mr. Salathé said Twitter data mining has been one of the best uses of digital epidemiology in his view. Also, systems like Healthmap are good examples. “In 2020, the digital contact tracing apps will certainly become the best examples of digital epidemiology,” he says. An article published in October 2018 in a Korean journal, Healthcare Informatics Research, listed Google Flu Trends as one of the early examples of digital epidemiology, wherein researchers from Google and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published a method to estimate flu activity by region using search engine queries. The article also cites the use of Twitter to track level of disease activity and concern about the influenza H1N1 pandemic in 2011, and an attempt by the Boston Children’s Hospital to estimate the level of influenza-like illnesses, “in near-real-time, in the U.S. by monitoring the rate of influenza-related Wikipedia article views on a daily basis”. What are the privacy issues involved? According to Mr. Salathé, digital epidemiology has an important role to play in preventing disease outbreaks. He says one of the big advantages of digital speed is it is fast and will be a key contributor in keeping outbreaks under control. But, data privacy is an element of huge concern. COVID-19 trackers like Aarogya Setu, which collect contact network information and location information, can be privacy-intrusive, he says. N.S. Nappinai, Supreme Court advocate, says the privacy mandate under the law as it stands today, is specific to body corporates. “Having said that, the Puttaswamy judgement makes it clear that data principles of privacy and consent are equally applicable for the government,” she says, adding that for the use of Aarogya Setu, the government should be transparent about where the data is going, what are they using it for and how one can be assured that it will be deleted when all this is over. “The app should be consent-based. But it seems that a lot of organisations have made it mandatory. Then how is it consent?”
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bringing back safe, contactless travel||What are the ground realities? What kind of innovation will be needed to create consumer confidence? Is safe travel a possibility? These, and other similar issues, were among some of the questions discussed at a webinar on Future of Travel on Wednesday. Organised against the backdrop of COVID-19 and its effects on the travel industry, the webinar was moderated by Cecilia Oldne of Sweden-India Business Council.The discussions revolved around what airlines, hotels, travel agents and other hospitality stakeholders need to do to re-energise the sector, both in India and Sweden. Sanjoo Malhotra, country project manager, Visit Sweden, said the hospitality industry in Sweden and India would have to meet the future in new and innovative ways post-COVID. “Sweden can influence Indians to immerse in nature and use natures wellness in creating stress-free lives, which every Swede practices. Fresh air, fresh water, beautiful safe nature where only 3% of its area is habited, will make Sweden an even more attractive place to travel in the future, when the time is right,” Mr. Malhotra said. Rural tourism Mr. Malhotra’s presentation highlighted some post-COVID-19 trends in the making, including a focus on nature and rural tourism where people could holiday in isolation, thus taking care of physical distancing norms automatically. Contactless and touchless facilities and services were being sought after in Sweden, Mr. Malhotra said. He gave the example of One Table, One Chair, which is offering the experience of a pre-ordered meal that is served to a single person seated in the middle of a field by a pulley and mini ropeway. The experience has been sold out for the summer months, he said. Malini Agarwal, co-founder, Miss Malini and Malini’s Girl Tribe, said Indians were looking for reassurance of safety. “They want visible signs of that. The feeling should not be that of a clinic, but safe. Customisation of messaging and experience is important,” she said. Ms. Agarwal pointed out that communication was very clear in Sweden. “In India we have different strata of society and explaining to them will be key. The government for instance speaks of opening up, while doctors say don’t,” she said. Michael Lyngdoh, founder, Tripoto, a social media platform where people get to share and discover travel experiences, said domestic tourism will have to be the first to improve. “There is a need to be cautiously optimistic. State tourism boards need to give out information in the right manner,” he said. India beyond focus Mr. Lyngdoh felt it will be an India beyond focus that will bring back travel. “Everyone will definitely travel. People today want more content; more user-generated content. We have a large Hindi speaking population,” he said. Björn Ekengren, country manager Sweden and Finland, Emirates, said that COVID-19 pandemic has made the 2008 economic slowdown look like a walk in the park. Fighting the pandemic was most likely going to be a slow combat. “Insurance cover will be all the more important with the choice of destination being on top of the consumers’ mind. The recovery (of the travel industry) will be seen in destinations that offer the most safety (in terms of COVID-19),” he said.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Enough ambulances running, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the Bombay High Court on Friday that nearly 700 of the 780 ambulances in the city are in operation during the COVID-19 pandemic, and the situation is well under control. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by former Bharatiya Janata Party MP Kirit Somaiya claiming shortage of ambulances for COVID-19 patients. The PIL said, “The city had 3,000 ambulances, including private ones, until March 20, which reduced to 100 amid the COVID-19 outbreak. The number of COVID-19 cases in the city was steadily increasing, and during the lockdown, when there was restricted movement of public transport vehicles and private cars, there was a dearth of ambulances for needy persons.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had told the court on June 9 that authorities have introduced several measures for patients to track ambulances when needed. The court noted, true to the assurance, at the click of the mouse, a patient would get to know the registration number of private ambulance services available in the vicinity, the particulars of its owners, the rates at which they could be hired, and the cell to which a complaint can be addressed if they refuse service. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare told the court that out of 780 ambulances, nearly 700 are in operation. The court disposed of the PIL by saying if any particular patient has been deprived of ambulance services, he/she is at liberty to pursue his/her remedy before the appropriate forum.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Kin of deceased policemen can stay in quarters||Families of the policemen who died while discharging their duty in the fight against COVID-19 can continue to stay in government accommodation till the respective employee’s retirement date, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Friday.PTI
27 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man files cheating case against daughter-in-law||What began as a missing case in January, has resulted in the Vashi police filing an FIR against a woman for allgedly cheating her family of Rs. 4.5 lakh. The complainant, a 64-year-old from Sector 29, Vashi, has accused his daughter-in-law and family driver of withdrawing Rs. 4.5 lakh from his deceased wife’s account and eloping. Suresh Verma (name changed), a businessman, lived with his wife, younger son, and a daughter-in-law in their house. Mr. Verma’s wife died in January 2019. While his wife was unwell, his daughter-in-law Pooja (name changed) handled all her bank transactions and had her passbook and cheque book. On September 30 last year, their driver messaged the family that he was going to Kuwait for a job, and wouldn’t be coming for work from October 1. On January 10, 2020, Pooja went missing from home following which a missing person’s complaint was registered with the police on January 11. During the course of investigations, the police found evidence of Pooja’s affair with the driver. In February, while cleaning the house, the family found a photocopy of a withdrawal receipt, dated October 1, 2019, for Rs. 4.5 lakh from the account of the complainant’s wife. Upon enquiring with the bank, the family learnt that Pooja had withdrawn the amount. “The family learnt later that the daughter-in-law had started a meat cold storage business with the money,” an officer from Vashi police station said. After learning of this, Mr. Verma filed a case against her and the driver on June 22 under Sections 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
27 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC to seal 10 places for seven days||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Friday reported 224 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total tally to 5,853. With five more deaths, its toll is now 194, while discharge of 106 people pushed total recoveries to 3,294. The NMMC has decided to declare a complete lockdown from June 29 to July 5 in 10 areas of Navi Mumbai that reported a rise in the last fortnight. Close to 70,712 households would be under lockdown during this period. “Due to mass screening, more and more cases were revealed. These 10 areas are mostly densely populated,” Municipal Commisisoner Annasaheb Misal said. Panvel Municipal Corporation reported 87 new cases, taking the total to 1,699. The highest was on June 24 with 95 cases. With one more death, the toll is 67. While Panvel rural reported 35 new cases, taking its tally to 761. Two more deaths took the toll to 18.
27 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Four booked for hosting wedding, birthday events||The Panvel Taluka police have booked a 62-year-old man and his two sons, from Nere village in Panvel, and a 60-year-old man from Narpoli in Raigad for violating lockdown norms by hosting a haldi ceremony, a wedding and a birthday celebration in Nere. The wedding was of the younger son of the Nere senior citizen and the daughter of the Narpoli man. The groom’s older brother tested positive for COVID-19 after all the ceremonies, and died at MGM Hospital in Kamothe on June 23. On June 14, the Nere family held the haldi ceremony, while the wedding took place on June 15. On June 17, the families gathered to celebrate the birthday of the groom’s brother. “The family invited people from the village without following any physical distancing norms. They did not take permission from any authority. Around 35 people had gathered for the haldi ceremony, and around 100 for the wedding. We are tracing all contacts from the functions and making them undergo swab tests. We fear the infection may have spread to the villagers,” senior police inspector Ashok Rajput from Nerul police station said. The police have not made any arrests as the COVID-19 test reports of the family are awaited.
27 June 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports record single-day high of 5,024 cases||With a record single-day high of 5,024 fresh COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra’s total tally surged to 1,52,765 on Friday. The toll went up to 7,106 with 175 deaths. Of these, 91 deaths were reported in the last 48 hours and 84 were from an earlier period, Health Department officials said. The total number of recovered patients went up to 79,815, with the discharge of 2,362 people. The number of active cases stood at 65,829. With 1,297 new cases, Mumbai’s tally reached 72,175, including 28,244 active ones. With 44 deaths, the toll reached 4,179. Pune and Aurangabad districts reported 14 deaths each, pushing their toll to 675 and 226. State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stood at 52.25% and the case fatality rate at 4.65%. Pune reported an alarming surge of over 1,000 cases, the district’s highest single-day increase, as the tally soared to 19,031, according to the Health Department. Of these, 8,331 were active cases and 10,025 people had so far been discharged. Most areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported a record increase in cases. Thane district reported a record surge of 500 cases for the second consecutive day. The district’s tally soared to 12,261. Navi Mumbai reported 236 cases, its total reaching 6,899. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 343 cases to take its total to 5,577. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar, too, witnessed a sharp increase of 116 and 203 cases to take their total to 2,999 and 3,627, respectively. Mr Thackeray on Friday held a meeting with senior bureaucrats from the MMR and key political leaders. “All municipal corporations in Thane district need to concentrate on track and tracing mechanism adopted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation,” he said. He said the three-layer set-up of COVID-19 care centres is extremely effective. Three days ago, the government transferred municipal commissioners from Mira-Bhayander and Thane, while an IAS-level official was posted for Bhiwandi. Nashik district reported another 157 cases while Jalgaon reported 154 cases.  (With inputs from Alok Deshpande)
27 June 2020||Pune,||Tope refutes claims by Fadnavis of under-reporting||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday categorically refuted allegations made by former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis that the State government had not reported around 1,000 COVID-19 related deaths. “Transparency and honesty is the dharma of the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition, and we conduct ourselves in that manner. To say that we are conducting fewer tests or are under-reporting deaths is completely wrong,” Mr. Tope said. He said cases were expected to rise during July and August, but the State government was working to ensure that the fatality rate did not go up. Mr. Tope, along with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, was part of a meeting chaired by Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to review the COVID-19 situation in Pune district and the division. “It has always been the disposition of the Chief Minister [Uddhav Thackeray] and Deputy Chief Minister [Ajit Pawar] to disclose every COVID-19 related information to the public and lay facts before them. There is no politics involved while giving information to citizens,” Mr. Tope said, in a pointed jibe at Mr. Fadnavis’s recent allegations. He further said Mumbai and Pune were among the cities which were carrying out the highest sample tests in India. “As a result of this, more cases in these two cities are being detected unlike other States and cities. Authorities in both these cities are doing commendable work,” the minister said. Nevertheless, he said, while rising cases are not particularly worrying due to increased testing, the fatalities in both cities must come down. “We are increasing the number of doctors and ICU beds in the State to cope with the surge in cases,” Mr. Tope said. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, Mr. Fadnavis had claimed that the State government had failed to report around 1000 COVID-19 deaths, and had urged Mr. Thackeray to order a probe into their alleged non-reporting. Earlier, on June 15, he had written a similar letter to the Chief Minister about COVID-19 fatalities not being reported in Mumbai.
27 June 2020||Pune,||Pune adds 600 cases as tally nears 19,000||The upsurge in COVID-19 cases continued across Pune district, with a staggering 600 new cases recorded till Friday evening. The district’s total case tally surged to 18,840, while its death toll has risen to 657. Of the total cases, 7,294 are active, while 10,889 people have been discharged thus far, Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said. The district’s recovery rate, which stood at 62% last week, has come down to 57.8%. At the same time, the case fatality rate, too, has climbed down from 3.73% last week to currently stand at 3.49%. As many as 373 of the active patients are critical. The district has been reporting more than 500 cases every day in the last week. On Thursday, its tally rose by 725, of which 560 cases were from Pune city. Despite the case doubling rate standing at 20.77 days — the highest since March — and the recovery rate at 60%, there appear to be no signs of the curve flattening in the district thus far. Meanwhile, six more deaths were reported from Solapur district in Pune division for the second consecutive day as the district’s death toll climbed to 242. The total death toll in the division, which includes Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts along with Pune, is now 959. The division’s total case tally has reached 23,159, of which 8,283 are active, while 13,917 patients have been discharged till date. Aurangabad district in Marathwada, too, reported another massive spike of 193 cases to take the district’s total tally to 4,492. Authorities said 102 of these were from Aurangabad city, and the remaining 91 from the rural areas of the district. As many as 232 people have succumbed to the virus thus far.
27 June 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||‘Centre has failed to protect borders’||Launching a State-wide agitation against the central government’s alleged failure in dealing with China, the Maharashtra Congress Committee president Balasaheb Thorat on Friday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre has failed to protect the country’s borders. Addressing a press conference along with Mr. Thorat, former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan attacked the Centre saying China’s incursion into Ladakh is a matter of deep concern. “The Congress will support any decision by the government in view of the safety of the country, but the Prime Minister’s statement that China has not infiltrated into India has proved beneficial to that country which has been telling the world that it did not encroach on the Indian territory. This statement by the Prime Minister is not acceptable to the Congress,” said Mr. Chavan, adding that the justification by the Prime Minister’s Office, after the uproar, was not enough. Pointing out that Mr. Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping have met 19 times in the last six years, Mr. Chavan said these meetings did not benefit India at all. Mr. Chavan, who was Minister of State with the PMO in the UPA government, said, “It is clear from the satellite images that China has not retreated from Galwan valley. There are Chinese military outposts, and military vehicles are moving around. About 10,000 troops are stationed in the area, including large stocks of ammunition. Construction is also underway in the Galwan valley.” Peaceful agitation Earlier, Mr. Thorat along with some members of the State Cabinet and senior party leaders staged a peaceful agitation in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue near Mantralaya. Similar protests were held across the State.  It is clear from the satellite images that China has not retreated from Galwan valley Prithviraj Chavan Congress leader
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 effect: CM urges PM to back State on cancelling final exams||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct relevant apex bodies to cancel final year/semester exams of professional courses in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. In a letter dated June 25, the Chief Minister said, “Considering the current COVID-19 situation, the State Disaster Management Authority, in a meeting on June 18, decided not to conduct final year/semester examinations of non-professional as well as professional courses, and award degrees to students based on a formula to be decided by universities.” “Further, an option would be given to students who want to take examinations whenever they are held,” he said. Mr. Thackeray told Mr. Modi that it was also decided to get the decision on professional courses endorsed by the respective apex authorities as these are regulated by national level apex bodies like All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council for Architecture (COA), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Bar Council of India (BCI), National Council For Teachers Education (NCTE), and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology (NCHMCT). “I request you to instruct the national-level apex authorities to endorse the decision of the State government regarding cancellation of final year/final semester examinations of professional courses and to issue necessary guidelines to universities in this regard,” Mr. Thackeray said in the letter. He added that students and parents are concerned about the final year/semester examinations of the academic year 2019-20 and commencement of the next academic year in view of the prevailing crisis. “The present atmosphere caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is not conducive to conduct examinations or classes in educational institutes,” the Chief Minister said in the letter. ‘Need uniform guidelines’ Requesting Mr. Modi to issue uniform guidelines, the CM tweeted that Maharashtra Government has taken a decision to not conduct the final year/final semester examination of non-professional courses as well as professional courses as the present atmosphere is not yet conducive to conduct any examination or classes.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||1,414 inmates above the age of 60, State tells HC||The State government has informed the Bombay High Court that as of Friday, 1,414 inmates lodged in prisons across the State are above the age of 60, while 425 of them have co-morbidities. Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik that as on May 11, there were 1,340 inmates, and as of June 26, the number was 1,414. The court expressed surprised over the numbers, to which the AG replied crime rate has not decreased. Mr. Kumbhakoni also said the current prison staff members will go to temporary prisons too, and that they have not been able to recruit more staff for the 36 locations identified as temporary prisons. The Bench was hearing three separate public interest litigations. It had sought information on the health status of convicts and undertrials in the prisons, especially Arthur Road jail, which is the worst-affected among the six prisons which have reported COVID-19 cases among inmates. The other five are Yerwada, Taloja, Dhule, Satara and Byculla prisons. Some of the details sought include the capacity of temporary prisons, the number of beds available, total square foot area available per inmate, list of inmates kept in temporary prisons, number of rooms, prisoners per room, and number of bathrooms. In the last hearing, senior advocate Mihir Desai and advocate Isha Khandelwal had submitted a 19-page document with various demands related to prisoners’ health in the pandemic. The court reserved the matter for orders.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||Awhad questions silence of actors on rising fuel prices||With fuel prices being hiked again, State’s Housing Minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Jitendra Awhad decided to question the silence of superstars Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar on the issue. Mr. Awhad commented on the tweets put out by the actors highlighting the sky-rocketing petrol and diesel prices in 2012. “Was that because the Dr. Manmohan Singh-led government was in power? I want to ask a few questions to superstars like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar. You were hurt by the fuel price hike then. But you seem to be quiet about it now. Isn’t that strange? Was your outrage reserved only for the then government?” he said. The minister said he hoped the actors were not acting as workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party, but were only voicing the concerns of citizens when they spoke against fuel hike in 2012. “I wonder why can’t they do that now? Doesn’t it hurt them now?” he said. ‘Prices too steep’ Referring to Mr. Bachchan’s tweet on a person purchasing petrol to spray on his car and burn it as he cannot afford the costly fuel, Mr. Awhad said, “The costs have gone up so much that even just enough petrol to spray on a car is unaffordable.” Mr. Kumar has deleted his old tweet saying it is time to clean his bicycle and hit the road owing to the fuel hike.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||CBI opposes Indrani Mukerjea’s bail plea||The CBI on Friday opposed the interim bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, accused of killing her daughter Sheena Bora, and said she doesn’t have health issues that put her at risk of contracting COVID-19 in prison. Ms. Mukerjea, lodged in Byculla jail since August, 2015, had sought temporary bail in the wake of the outbreak. The CBI said jail authorities were taking proper care of all prisoners and Ms. Mukerjea, if released on bail, might influence witnesses who are yet to be examined. The CBI said she was a foreign national and not entitled to interim bail, adding that the accused might abscond if released. A special court also denied temporary bail to Sanjeev Khanna, an accused in the murder case, who sought relief citing the risk of contracting COVID-19 in Arthur Road jail. Mr. Khanna was arrested in August 2015 for his involvement in Sheena’s killing. While rejecting the accused’s interim bail plea on Wednesday, special CBI judge J.C. Jagdale said, “Undoubtedly, some of the inmates of Arthur Road jail have been affected by COVID-19, but at present the situation is far better.” According to the authorities, of the 181 COVID-19 cases detected in the jail so far, 151 patients had recovered and only 30 were in treatment. The judge pointed out that no one had died of the deadly infection at Arthur Road jail, indicating that the recovery rate there was better than other parts of Mumbai. The judge also noted that Mr. Khanna had tested negative for the infection. The accused, a resident of Kolkata, had told the court that he would stay with a relative in Bandra if he gets bail.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||1993 blasts case convict Yusuf Memon dead||Yusuf Memon, a 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case convict and brother of absconding accused Tiger Memon, died on Friday at Nashik Road Central Jail in Nashik district, police said. Memon (57) complained of chest pain and breathing problem on Friday and was taken to the district civil hospital, where he died during treatment around 10.45 a.m., an official said. “The cause of death was yet to be ascertained and the body would be sent to a hospital in Dhule for autopsy,” the official said. Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangre-Patil confirmed the death.
27 June 2020||Pune,||Case filed against Marathi preacher over ‘odd-even’ remark for girl-boy child||A case has been lodged under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act against popular Marathi kirtankar (preacher) Nivrutti Maharaj Indurikar at a local court in Sangamner in Ahmednagar district over controversial remarks made by him at a sermon this year. Dr. Bhaskar Bhavar, the medical superintendent of Sangamner, said the case against Mr. Indurikar was registered in a Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) court under relevant sections of the PCPNDT Act. He said a Mumbai-based journalist, a Sangamner-based activist and advocate Ranjana Gawande approached authorities with a complaint against Indurikar and a case was registered in the JMFC court on June 19. Ms. Gawande said, “We were pressing for a case to be lodged against Indurikar as early as February 14, after we had approached the medical authorities in Sangamner with our complaint. However, the issue had been dragging on since then.” Centre of controversy In February, Mr. Indurikar became the centre of a controversy following his alleged remarks during a sermon in Ahmednagar that intercourse by a couple on an even date would beget a male child, while on an odd date would result in the birth of a girl. “If the intercourse is done at an inauspicious time, the child that is born would bring a bad name to the family,” the preacher allegedly said. Since then, several activists and rationalist outfits like the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS) had been clamouring for a police case to be lodged against Mr. Indurikar on grounds that his comments violated provisions of the PCPNDT Act. However, while criticising his remarks, the political establishment, whether leaders in the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) or the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had been ambivalent over prosecuting the kirtankar . ‘Taken out of context’ Indurikar, who is known for addressing social issues through his sermons by deploying witty, hard-edged satire, apologised in a hand-written note following the furore. The preacher, who has a large following in the State, claimed his remarks were taken out of context. Minister of State for Women and Child Welfare Bacchu Kadu said the State government would not be filing a case against Mr. Indurikar as he was working to enlighten people. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil, while admonishing the preacher, said his party stood by him and his work. However, gender rights activist and Bhumata Brigade leader Trupti Desai had been insistent on a case being lodged against the preacher. She said, “The case finally lodged against him is an instance of ‘better late than never’. He had received great sympathy from the warkaris, while the BJP, too, had supported him. His derogatory remarks against women must not be allowed to go unpunished.”
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden builds lead in battleground States||President Donald Trump has lost significant ground in the six battleground states that clinched his Electoral College victory in 2016, according to New York Times /Siena College surveys, with Joe Biden opening double-digit leads in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Mr. Trump’s once-commanding advantage among white voters has nearly vanished, a development that would all but preclude the president’s reelection. Mr. Biden now has a 21-point lead among white college graduates, and the President is losing among white voters in the three Northern battleground States — not by much, but he won them by nearly 10 points in 2016. Four years ago, Mr. Trump’s strength in the disproportionately white working-class battleground states allowed him to win the Electoral College while losing the popular vote. The surveys indicate that the President continues to fare better in these relatively white battleground states than he does nationwide. A separate Times /Siena survey that was released on Wednesday found Mr. Biden leading by 14 points nationwide, 50% to 36%. Mr. Biden would win the presidency with at least 333 electoral votes, far more than the 270 needed, if he won all six of the states surveyed and held those won by Hillary Clinton four years ago. Most combinations of any three of the six states — which include Florida, Arizona and North Carolina — would suffice. Lead on economy With a little more than four months to go until the election, there is still time for the President’s political standing to recover, just as it did on so many occasions four years ago. He maintains a substantial advantage on the economy, which could become an even more central issue in what has already been a volatile election cycle. And many of the undecided voters in these States lean Republican, and may end up returning to their party’s nominee. But for now, the findings confirm that the President’s political standing has deteriorated sharply since October, when Times /Siena polls found Mr. Biden ahead by just 2 percentage points across the same six states (the gap is now nine points). Since then, the nation has faced a series of crises that would pose a grave political challenge to any president seeking reelection. Overall, 42% of voters in the battleground states approve of how Trump is handling his job as president, while 54% disapprove.NY Times
27 June 2020||SEOUL,||Virus taking stronger hold in U.S., other populous nations||While China moved closer to containing a fresh outbreak in Beijing, the COVID-19 pandemic took a stronger hold elsewhere, including the U.S., where surging infections across southern states have highlighted the risks of reopening economies without effective treatment or vaccines. Another record daily increase in India on Friday pushed the country’s case load toward half a million, and other countries with big populations like Indonesia, Pakistan and Mexico grappled with large case loads and strained health care systems. South Africa, which accounts for about half of the infections on the African continent with 1,18,375, reported a record 6,579 new cases, as transmissions increase after it loosened what had been one of the world’s strictest lockdowns earlier this month. Mexico reported some of its highest 24-hour counts so far with 6,104 new cases and 736 additional deaths, as its treasury secretary began isolating at home after a positive test. Mass testing in Beijing In China, where the pandemic originated in December, authorities have mobilised resources for mass testing and locked down parts of Beijing this month due to an outbreak that has infected 260 people. The 11 new cases reported in the capital on Friday continued a downward trend that suggests transmissions have been largely brought under control. The U.S., which counts the most infections in the world, is seeing daily jumps in COVID-19 cases nearing the peak reached in late April. Arizona’s 3,056 additional infections reported Thursday was the fourth day in a week with a increase over 3,000. Transmissions have spiked following Republican Governor Doug Ducey’s decision to lift stay-home restrictions in May. The numbers “continue to go in the wrong direction,” said Mr. Ducey, who confirmed that the State has postponed further efforts to reopen. The U.S. reported 34,500 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, slightly fewer than the day before but still near the high of 36,400 reached April 24, according to a count kept by Johns Hopkins University. Deaths tolls have dropped even as the number of infections have increased, possibly reflecting better medical treatments and better efforts to prevent infections among the most vulnerable, like nursing home residents. Japan’s capital, Tokyo, confirmed 54 new cases, continuing a steady rise in cases. Governor Yuriko Koike has downplayed fears about a major surge that would overwhelm the city’s hospitals.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||UN-75 declaration delayed||In a battle of and for words, a commemorative declaration marking the 75th anniversary of the signing of the UN Charter was delayed as member states could not reach an agreement on phraseology. The Five Eyes — the U.S., the U.K., Australia, New Zealand and Canada — along with India, objected to the use of a phrase “shared vision of a common future”, associated with China. The document still stands a chance of passing on the June 26th anniversary if no objections are raised to an alternatively worded statement before 6 pm New York time. The phrase, “community with a shared future for mankind” is closely associated with the Chinese Communist Party (CPC) and especially Chinese President Xi Jinping as an articulation of the country’s vision for the world. While objecting to the language that is apparently inspired by the CPC ideology is not new, the current impasse comes at a time when China’s relationships with a number of democracies, including India, Australia and the U.S., are strained. The language and theme in question, while associated with the Chinese government, has been used outside China by other countries, including at the 2019 Commonwealth Summit, UNA-UK, a non-profit that promotes U.K. action at the UN, said on its website. The ‘silence’ process (a procedure by which a resolution passes if no formal objections are raised within a stipulated time) was broken at the request of the U.K.’s UN Ambassador Jonathan Allen, who wrote a letter dated June 24 on behalf of the six countries to the President of the 74th General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, suggesting alternative wording. The Hindu was able to access a copy of this letter. Alternative wording The objecting countries wanted the resolution to read, “We will work together with partners to strengthen coordination and global governance for the common good of present and future generations and to realize our shared vision for a better future as envisaged in the preamble of the UN Charter.” The Hindu has learned that China, on behalf of itself and Russia, Syria and Pakistan raised objections to the silence being broken. Given the impasse, General Assembly President Muhammad-Bande had suggested, on June 25, an alternatively phrased declaration, which he placed under the silence procedure (i.e., it passes if no official objections are raised) until midnight New York time on June 25. The proposed change, available on the UN website, read: “We will work together with partners to strengthen coordination and global governance for the common future of present and coming generations.” This latest silence period has been extended to 6 pm New York time on June 26, well after celebrations to mark the day had kicked off in the morning. Taking a position against UN resolutions and statements, including issues around the provenance of language (and Chinese phraseology) are neither new nor specific to India and the U.S. Negotiations at the UN happen in groups or individually. Countries are known to allow text to go through due to group dynamics or in the interest of a larger goal, while at other times they may object.
27 June 2020||Ankara,||Turkey court sentences 121 to life for coup bid||A Turkish court on Friday handed down life sentences to 121 people for taking part in the 2016 attempted overthrow of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, state media reported. The court in Ankara sentenced 86 suspects to “aggravated” life imprisonment for “attempting to violate the Constitution” while 35 individuals were given life sentences for the same crime, the official Anadolu news agency said. An aggravated life sentence has tougher terms of detention. It was brought in to replace the death penalty which Turkey abolished in 2004 as part of its drive to join the EU. A total of 245 suspects were on trial in the case related to events at the Gendarmerie General Command on the night of July 15, 2016 in the Turkish capital. Another suspect, former Colonel Erkan Oktem, was given nine aggravated life sentences for “wilful murder”, Anadolu reported. The failed coup left 248 people dead, excluding 24 putschists killed that night. Turkish Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gul last week said 15 coup-related trials continued out of a total of 289. That trial began in 2017 and is expected to be completed soon. Turkey says U.S.-based preacher Fethullah Gulen ordered the failed coup, a claim he strongly denies. Tens of thousands of people were arrested.
27 June 2020||London,||U.K. teen who threw French boy off balcony jailed for life||An autistic British teenager who threw a six-year-old French boy from a 10th-floor viewing platform at the Tate Modern art gallery in London with the intention of killing him was jailed for 15 years on Friday and told he might never be freed. Jonty Bravery, who was 17 at the time of the incident and told police he carried out the act because he wanted to be on the television news, pleaded guilty to one count of attempted murder last December. The unnamed victim, who was visiting Britain with his family, fell 30 m after he was targeted by Bravery and was found on a fifth-floor roof. His mother was heard by witnesses screaming: “Where’s my son? Where’s my son?” The boy survived but suffered a bleed to his brain and several fractured bones. Judge Maura McGowan said the boy’s life would never be the same again and his parents had been forced to give up their lives to care for him. “You had intended to kill someone that day. You almost killed that 6-year-old boy,” she told Bravery. Bravery, now 18, told police he had planned to hurt someone at the museum to be on television. He had researched how to kill people on the internet the previous day. The teenager, who has autistic spectrum disorder and a personality disorder, was being held at the high security Broadmoor Hospital but the judge decided he should be jailed for a minimum of 15 years. “You may never be released,” she said.
27 June 2020||Islamabad,||U.S. martyred bin Laden, says Imran Khan||Pakistan’s Prime Minister said on Thursday the U.S. “martyred” the al-Qaeda leader and mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, Osama bin Laden, a term that reflected a subtle jab at Washington as it’s mainly used for honourable figures slain in battle. Imran Khan delivered the jab in a rambling budget speech in Parliament, attacking his predecessors’ foreign policies and saying Pakistan’s partnership with the U.S. in the war on terror was a mistake. Mr. Khan also said Washington used abusive language against Pakistan, blaming Islamabad for its failures in neighbouring Afghanistan. Most of all, the U.S. refused to tell Islamabad of its operation against bin Laden in 2011 before carrying out the Navy SEALs nighttime raid. The special operations force swooped into Pakistan’s military garrison town of Abbottabad in the middle of the night on May 2, 2011, killing Laden and several of his operatives. “We sided with the U.S. in the War on Terror but they came here and killed him, martyred him and... used abusive language against us (and) did not inform us (of the raid), despite the fact that we lost 70,000 people in the war on terror,” Mr. Khan told Parliament. Washington has repeatedly accused Pakistan of harbouring the Afghan Taliban and giving safe haven to Haqqani network, a Taliban affiliate that has been blamed for some major attacks in Afghanistan.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Living on the margins, but central to the economy||Until the novel coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown imposed by the government to curb its spread, migrant workers lived hidden from the public gaze in the Garden City of India. The workers who had built the fast-growing city’s houses, apartment complexes, workplaces, and other imposing and immediately visible structures, and others who had worked in them, were largely “invisible” themselves. They lived in structures held up flimsily by tin sheets; these were the boxes that these builders called home. Like the Indian community in London in Salman Rushdie’s Satanic Verses , migrant labourers in Bengaluru were a “city visible but unseen”. But when the lockdown was imposed and economic activity came to a grinding halt, these workers emerged on the streets, demanding that they be allowed to go home. With no public transport to take them anywhere, and as they were abruptly left unemployed and hungry, many decided to do what was unthinkable until then — walk to their towns and villages situated as far as in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Seeing the humanitarian crisis unfold before its eyes, the Karnataka government then organised Shramik special trains to take the workers home. Since the beginning of May till June 24, around 4.6 lakh migrants, the majority of them working in Bengaluru, boarded 284 Shramik special trains to leave Karnataka. (The data does not include those who hitched rides or attempted to leave the city on foot.) Bengaluru is no longer under lockdown, but with a large section of its labour having left, the city finds itself crippled. Feeling the pinch During the lockdown, apartments and residential townships did not allow domestic workers into their premises. Many families chose not to pay their domestic workers their monthly salaries. Now, with no signs of the pandemic abating, they have flung their gates open, but few are trickling in. WhatsApp groups of gated communities are flooded with messages seeking domestic workers. “Our domestic help was from West Bengal and has returned home. There is no guarantee she will return. The search for a new help has been unsuccessful till now,” said Sapna Gowda, a resident of an apartment complex. Gayathri Vasudevan, CEO and co-founder of LabourNet, a Bengaluru-based social enterprise working in the unorganised sector, said there has been a deluge of requests after the restrictions were eased. “Every day, we receive demands for at least 1,000 labourers, both skilled and unskilled. Employers have never approached us like this before,” she said. The requests LabourNet have received over the last few days give a glimpse of the impact of this loss of labour. “A baker called me asking for four people who could handle ovens. Most of those who handle ovens in the city’s bakeries are from Tamil Nadu,” said Vasudevan. “APMC [Agricultural Produce Market Committees] and warehouses in the city are facing an acute shortage of loaders. If you buy a geyser, it will take nearly a week for it to be installed as electricians are hard to come by. These instances only show how dependent we are on migrant workers.” It is not just residents, but small- and large-scale industries too that are feeling the pinch. Infrastructure projects such as the construction of a second terminal at the Kempegowda International Airport, road work, and the construction and hospitality sectors seem to be the worst hit by the crisis. “Nearly 40% of the labourers have left the city. This has crippled the hotel industry,” said P. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, President of the Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association. While most construction project sites have resumed work, they are working with limited numbers. Other cities too are in a similar situation. India’s engineering and construction behemoth Larsen and Toubro (L&T) said it is facing an acute shortage of labour as over one lakh workers, almost half its labour, have left their place of work. S.N. Subrahmanyan, MD and CEO, L&T, toldThe Hinduearlier : “We had 2.25 lakh labourers working with us pre-COVID-19; now we have 1.2 lakh people. We need to get back one lakh people to resume operations.” More than a thousand project sites of L&T across the country await the return of labourers. Life under lockdown The journey of the migrant workers back home from Karnataka was a long-drawn episode characterised by uncertainty, chaos and confusion. Neither the government nor the builders wanted to let the labourers return home. In early May, several Ministers led by the Chief Minister appealed to the workers to stay back in the State, assuring them that they would get work as the economy was reopening. However, the workers were desperate to leave. They recounted bitter experiences of life under lockdown. Several said that they were not receiving any of the promised food and other rations. Ravindra Ram, 32, from Jharkhand, who was working at a construction site of a large apartment in south-east Bengaluru, pointed to a 31-storey apartment complex he had helped build. In the first week of May he told The Hindu : “We have built so many houses. Can’t we just go back to our own home?” On May 6, the Karnataka government decided to cancel all the Shramik special trains that it had scheduled to take the migrant workers back home. The fact that it made this decision soon after meeting the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI)’s Bengaluru chapter sparked anger among trade organisations, workers unions and activists. Faced with a massive backlash, the government hastened to re-introduce the trains on May 8. Thousands boarded these trains and left the city. But others did not wait for the government to change its decision on train services and began walking back thousands of kilometres to U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand and other States. Carrying less than Rs. 1,000 in their pockets, they began their long journey home, sometimes aided by trucks on the highway. “We want to go home at any cost. We have had enough of the city,” said Anis Khan, a carpenter walking back home to U.P., on May 8. Many labourers, forcefully evicted from their accommodations for non-payment of rent, said they had been rendered homeless by the lockdown. Even when the government re-introduced train services, many chose to walk home. This was because the process to secure a berth on a train involved registering online on the Seva Sindhu portal and waiting for an SMS for confirmation, all of which was in English and ill-suited for the people it sought to serve. Thousands gathered outside police stations and camped there for several days, as police officers are the nodal officers in charge of putting migrants on trains. Now the city’s civic body runs a transit centre where migrant labourers who want to return home can enroll and stay at till they catch a train home. The number of workers who want to return home has come down to a few hundred everyday. The State government is now bearing the cost of their journey home, unlike earlier. The question of coming back With the lockdown lifted and the economy re-opening slowly and cautiously, CREDAI is now mulling running chartered trains from U.P. and Bihar to bring migrants back to Bengaluru to kick-start work. “We are confident that they will return. We are ready to run chartered trains to bring them back,” said Suresh Hari, Chairman, CREDAI, Bengaluru. But will the labourers return? Many vowed never to come back, but they may not have that luxury. Already some workers from the northern parts of Karnataka are returning to Bengaluru as they have been promised work. Industry remains optimistic of their return, at least after the ongoing monsoon sowing season, or once the COVID-19 curve is flattened. Meanwhile, labour organisations hope that the crisis will serve as a wake-up call for the government, industry and citizens. “We see this as an opportunity to push for better living conditions for workers and better contracts. The crisis we face today is because the sector works under the informal sub-contract system. Employers desperately seeking labour seem to be willing to listen, at least for now. I hope this is not temporary and will translate into a behavioural change,” Vasudevan said. Exodus from Mumbai The workers’ longing to go back home and industry’s hope that they will return is no different in Mumbai. Late last month, Jayram Raut and 30 others walked along the coast of Mumbai at Haji Ali in the scorching heat. “ Majboori hai, isiliye ja rahe hain (We’re helpless, that’s why we are leaving),” Raut said. “In all my time in Mumbai, I never thought I would be leaving the city under such circumstances and that too in such a manner.” Home for him and his fellow workers is Ganjam district in Odisha. Their work involved renovating buildings. Raut, a painter by profession, said they had been working at a high-rise apartment at a tony neighbourhood at Kemps Corner when the lockdown was imposed. “We had received Rs. 2,000 each [from the contractor] last month [April] to get bare essentials, but now even that is over,” he said as the group halted at a bus stop surrounded by high-rise buildings in Worli. With very few trains going to Odisha, Raut and his group had grown fed up of waiting. They had engaged a truck to pick them up from Thane. When they got no transport to Thane, they decided to walk. “I have worked in so many buildings here,” he said pointing to the skyline of high-rise buildings opposite the Nehru Planetarium. With migrant workers like Raut fleeing the city, the construction sector is among the worst hit, said Sunil Rana, a contractor and supervisor working in Mumbai for nearly a decade. “The chances of new projects starting are low. Even current projects may find it hard to get additional labour if required,” he said. Rana also left Mumbai to return to his home in Jharkhand. “There was no work. Everything had stopped. It didn’t make sense to stay. When work resumes, I will have to go back. There is nothing here for us,” he said. Construction workers were particularly hit during the lockdown due to the seasonal nature of their work. All construction activity comes to a halt when monsoons arrive in the city. During the four rainy months, no construction is possible, and many workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and U.P. go back home. Workers typically start coming back to the city after Diwali and work until May the next year. “Under this lockdown we have lost two full months. Even our contractors started going back home because they were also not getting any income,” said Gopal Das, who has been working in the construction sector for nearly two decades. The wait for trains made the workers even more desperate as neither was there any sign of any income in the near future nor were the workers getting a seat on any of the Shramik special trains. “For six days I came to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in the hope of boarding a train. I was finally successful,” said Naseer Haq, a migrant worker from Bihar, over the phone as his train was crossing Madhya Pradesh. Naseer was repairing a building in Churchgate and said that he had left all his belongings at the construction site. “I wanted to get back home and I will come back once things settle,” he said. Rana felt that even within the construction sector, the most neglected would be exterior building work. It is very labour-intensive compared to interior work, he said, and also cannot be done during the monsoons. “Interior work can continue even during the monsoon season, but getting labour for that will be a challenge too. People will come back only once they feel things are back to normal in the city. Even in villages there is fear of COVID-19. Many people like me have faced some form of social boycott in our villages after returning home,” he said. Most workers said that there was nothing for them in their villages. They said they would return to the city in search of better economic prospects when things improved. “Majboori ” as Raut said, was the common sentiment amongst them. “We know there is nothing back home in terms of work. But at least we will be with our families and we won’t get infected,” he said. When asked if he and his group got any help from the residents of the high-rise buildings they were working in, Raut laughed. “Who thinks of the poor in this country,” he asked. The exodus of migrant workers peaked in the final days of May as both Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal traded barbs over the running of the Shramik special trains. Central Railway (CR), which caters to the bulk of the trains coming into the city from different parts of the country and especially those coming from States like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, witnessed a peak on May 25 and May 26 when 75 Shramik special trains were run, each carrying around 1,400 passengers. Due to the labour crunch, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is building a slew of public infrastructure projects including several metro corridors, advertised for jobs on behalf of its contractors. An MMRDA spokesperson said that out of around 12,000 workers, about 6,000 had left the city, slowing down work across projects. “Many workers with small land holdings leave the city during the monsoon season. This time they left around 15-20 days earlier. We hope by the end of the monsoon season the situation in the city improves and they come back,” MMRDA’s spokesperson, B.G. Pawar, said. Workers who had left before Holi were already returning to the city in batches, he said. Return to the city The number of Shramik special trains run by the Indian Railways also reduced in June. Railway officials said that since June 1 they have seen a steady increase in the number of passengers coming into the city on the scheduled trains being run by the Railways. “Many of the passengers, we have noticed, are daily-wage workers. Over the last week, we have seen all the trains that terminated in the city return full of passengers,” a senior CR official said. Until June 24, 1.8 lakh passengers came into Mumbai using these trains, mostly from Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Varanasi. The three cities accounted for nearly half of all the passengers coming into the city, with other key centres being Howrah and Darbhanga. The State government also started a special drive to screen migrant workers returning to Maharashtra. According to its estimates, around 13 lakh migrant workers who left the State during the extended lockdown are expected to return in July. The Maharashtra Police have been directed to conduct thermal screenings at border checkpoints, which are witnessing the entry of around 15,000 workers daily. As the rain-gathering clouds gather over Mumbai, the question that remains is, when will all the workers return to the city that turned its back on them?  In all my time in Mumbai, I never thought I would be leaving the city under such circumstances and that too in such a manner. Jayram Raut Construction worker   A baker called me asking for four people who could handle ovens. Most of those who handle ovens in the city’s bakeries are from Tamil Nadu. APMCs and warehouses are facing an acute shortage of loaders. These instances only show how dependent we are on migrant workers. Gayathri Vasudevan CEO and co-founder, LabourNet
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting out of the ‘guns, germs and steel’ crisis||India faces a “guns, germs and steel” crisis, to borrow from the title of Jared Diamond’s classic book on the evolution of societies and nations, Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies . There are Chinese “guns” on the borders. There are coronavirus “germs” in our bodies. There are “steel” makers and other businesses on the verge of bankruptcy. Arguably, this is the gravest confluence of military, health and economic crises threatening our nation in more than a generation. Each of these would qualify as an independent, large crisis by itself, warranting a specific resolution. The Chinese military threat calls for immediate and strategic action by our defence and foreign affairs establishments. The COVID-19 health epidemic is here to stay and needs constant monitoring by the Health Ministry and local administration. The economic collapse is an enormous challenge that needs to be overcome with prudent policy. Stand-off and Kargil parallel The common thread across these is that its resolution requires significant financial resources. Standing up to a military threat by a superpower neighbour will pose an inevitable drain on the finances of the government. India’s war against Pakistan in Kargil in May 1999 provides hints of the financial burden of a military threat. India’s defence expenditure in the war year shot up by nearly 20% from the previous year. It also forced the then government to increase India’s defence budget for the next financial year to 2.7% of nominal GDP, the highest in decades. China is a far mightier power than Pakistan. In this face-off, 20 Indian soldiers have been brutally killed and many more injured by the Chinese Army. A portion of India’s land in Ladakh has been grabbed by China. Surely, India is bound to assert its rights, which will necessitate higher expenditure. India’s defence budget has been whittled down to just 2% of GDP for the financial year 2021. China’s defence budget is nearly four times larger. In all likelihood, the Chinese conflict will stretch central government finances by an additional one to two percentage points of GDP, as India staves off the current threat and shores up its defence preparedness. Health care and economy The health pandemic has exposed India’s woefully inadequate health infrastructure. The combined public health expenditure of States and the central government in India is a mere 1.5% of GDP, compared to China’s at 3% and America’s at 9%. The COVID-19 epidemic is expected to linger on for another two years until a suitable vaccine is available at large. There is no option other than to significantly ramp up India’s health expenditure. Many public health experts are of the opinion that the central government will need additional funds of the equivalent of at least one percentage point of GDP to continue the fight against COVID-19. It is no secret that the extreme national lockdown has thrown India’s economy into utter disarray. India’s economy has four major drivers — people’s spending on consumption, government spending, investment and external trade. Spending by people is the largest contributor to India’s economic growth every year. For every Rs. 100 in incremental GDP, Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 comes from people’s consumption spending. The lockdown shut off people from spending for two full months, which will contract India’s economy for the first time in nearly five decades, regardless of a strong agriculture performance. Even prior to COVID-19 when the global economy was robust, India’s trade levels had fallen from 55% of nominal GDP in 2014 to 40% in 2020. Now, with the global economy in tatters, trade is not a viable alternative to offset the loss from consumption. Investment is also not a viable option at this stage since the demand for goods and services has fallen dramatically. Incremental funds needed The only options then are to either put money in the hands of the needy to stimulate immediate consumption or for the government to embark on a massive spending spree, akin to the “New Deal” which was a series of programmes and projects instituted by U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt during the Great Depression of the 1930s. Based on estimates of loss of consumption, incomes and its multiplier impact, my estimate is that the government will need to inject incremental funds of five percentage points of GDP to absorb the economic shock and kick start the spending cycle again. Thus, India’s “guns, germs and steel” crisis will impose a total financial burden of an additional eight percentage points of GDP on the central government exchequer. Where will the government get such a large sum of money from? The government had expected a nominal GDP growth of 10% this year. It is clear now that GDP will not grow but shrink. There is much hullabaloo about a ‘V’ shaped economic recovery, which is a mere illusion. A 5% fall now and a 10% growth next year will be hailed as a sharp ‘V’ shaped recovery by economists and the International Monetary Fund. But as your local grocery store-keeper will elucidate, it only means that his total sales is a tad higher than two years ago. Central government revenues for this year were budgeted at 10% of GDP which will not be achieved. Revenues will likely fall short by two percentage points of GDP. In sum, the government needs to spend an additional eight percentage points of GDP while revenues will be lower by two percentage points of GDP, a combined gap of 10% of GDP. Potential new sources of revenue such as a wealth tax or a large capital gains tax are ideas worth exploring for the medium term but will not be of much immediate help. The ‘junk rating’ risk The only option for the government to finance its needs is to borrow copiously, which will obviously push up debt to ominous levels. When government debt rises dramatically, there will be a fourth dimension to the “guns, germs and steel crisis”; a “junk” crisis. With rising debt levels, international ratings agencies will likely downgrade India’s investment rating to “junk”, which will then trigger panic among foreign investors. India thus faces a tough “Dasharatha” dilemma — save the country’s borders, citizens and economy or prevent a “junk” rating. Some economists argue that there is a magical third choice – to simply print how much ever money the government needs to overcome these crises. Economic theory states that if money is printed at will, it can lead to a massive spike in prices and inflation. This theory has fallen flat in the past decade in developed nations such as America where the creation of phantom money has not led to inflation. Hence, the Reserve Bank of India can just create money at will and transfer them to government coffers electronically, is the argument. There are multiple problems with this argument but the most important one is that regardless of whether money is printed or borrowed from others, it will still be counted as government debt and not escape a potential downgrade to a “junk” rating. The U.S dollar, by virtue of being the world’s reserve currency, has an in-built protection against a currency crisis that can be triggered by at-will printing of money, that other developing nations such as India do not possess. If there were indeed no costs to printing money whenever governments need, then why tax citizens at all? Countries could just print money for all their expenses every year. The magical third choice is not a magic wand that can give the Indian government the money it needs and, also prevent a ratings downgrade. The nation is at the precipice of an extremely challenging moment in her history. How India emerges from this crisis will shape not just India’s destiny but the world’s. The government’s choices are either to be bold and embark on a rescue mission, or do nothing and hope the situation resolves itself. On balance, it seems that the best course of action is to borrow unabashedly to pull India out of the “guns, germs and steel” crisis and deal with the consequences of a potential “junk” nation label. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office-bearer of the Congress party
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The pandemic imposes a steep learning curve||Across the world, education has been drastically affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Most instruction has moved online; across the country, schools, colleges, universities and research establishments have been shut with no idea of when it will be possible to safely reopen. Higher education has gone digital where possible; or else it has simply been put on hold. In the wake of the pandemic, other countries have embraced online education with mixed enthusiasm. Many universities in the United Kingdom and the United States have announced that the coming academic year will be held mainly online. At the same time, educationists and policy makers advise caution. Online education has not lived up to its potential. Given our diversity in institutions of higher education — private and governmental colleges and universities, research institutes, professional colleges, State and central universities and so on — the Indian education system has had a very heterogeneous response to the pandemic. The reactions also reflect the contrast in rural versus urban infrastructure, the variable quality of staff, and the diverse types of subjects that are taught. There will surely be serious long-term effects, considering the scale of the social, political and economic changes that have been occurring these past several months. Subject-specific From a purely pedagogic point of view, it is clear that technology will play a bigger role in education in the coming years. However, it will be highly subject-specific. Courses that traditionally need a laboratory or practical component are an obvious example where online classes cannot offer an alternative. The adoption or integration of technology in education also depends on the specific institution and its location: there is a huge digital divide in the country in terms of bandwidth and reliable connectivity, as well as very unequal access to funding. Beyond classroom lectures and courses, there has been a serious impact on academic research in all disciplines. There is need for close personal interaction and discussion in research supervision, and it is not clear when and how doctoral research and supervision can resume. In addition, the related economic crisis has consequences for funding, both of research as well as for the maintenance of research infrastructure. These are very long-term effects. About a month ago we asked teachers and students across India to share their experiences of education during the crisis and to discuss their personal view of the future, keeping their institutions and subjects in mind. (These thoughtful articles can be read at  Indian Academy of Sciences; https://bit.ly/3eCRSRh) The hard truths Some things are self-evident. Not all students have equal access to the Internet, and more than half in any class in any institution are simply not able to attend lectures in real time for want of the required combination of hardware and electrical connectivity in their homes. This is more pronounced in rural areas and non-metro cities, and for lower income groups as well. Most teachers in India view online instruction with caution. The shift online is in response to a crisis and was poorly planned. Online teaching is a separate didactic genre in itself — one that requires investment of time and resources that very few teachers could come up with in a hurry. Many online classes are poorly executed video versions of regular classroom lectures. Across the board, teachers recognise this as unsatisfactory. Online higher education using MOOCs, or massive open online classrooms, has been encouraged by the Ministry of Human Resource Development for some time now via the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) and SWAYAM platforms. (SWAYAM is a Hindi acronym for “Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds”.) If this is to make a serious difference, both the quality and quantity of online courses need to be enhanced. These are presently used to augment classroom instruction but if these can be taken for credit, it may help address the question of access to quality education. There is a positive aspect of even a partial move to online education: making lectures available online in public and open websites accelerates democratisation of knowledge and the wide distribution of learning opportunities. An opportunity for change This is a chance to re-imagine higher education in India. For long this has been elitist and exclusionary; education has been less about learning and more about acquiring degrees. The pandemic can change that if we let it. Our higher education system can be more inclusive. If going online loses the human touch, the advantage of becoming available to many many more people who aspire to learn is worth the trade. If giving proctored examinations in a socially distanced world is more difficult, what needs to change is the idea of proctored examinations. There are simpler ways to validate pedagogy, some of which can be found in our own traditions. Gandhiji’s “Nai Talim” put a high premium on self study and experiential learning, for instance. Significant qualitative changes can come about if we plan now. Digital tools such as artificial intelligence (AI) — already used in teaching language — can be adapted to deliver personalised instruction based on the learning needs for each student. The use of AI can improve learning outcomes; in particular, this can be a boon for teaching students who are differently-abled. The adoption of online education needs to be done with sensitivity. What is needed at this time is imagination and a commitment to decentralisation in education. Pedagogic material must be made available in our other national languages; this will extend access, and can help overcome staff shortages that plague remote institutions. The state will have to bear much of the responsibility, both to improve digital infrastructure and to ensure that every needy student has access to a laptop or smartphone. Campuses across India are desolate now, empty and inactive. Estimates are that COVID-19 will be seasonal, recurring every so often till 2022 or maybe 2024. So when these institutions reopen, they must do so with extreme caution. Blended modes of education will be unavoidable: online instruction where possible, and limited contact for laboratory instruction and individual mentoring. If this can lead to the emergence of a new pedagogic paradigm, we would have made the sweetest use of this adversity. Sujin Babu is a research scholar in the Department of History, Madras Christian College, Chennai. Ram Ramaswamy is Visiting Professor, Department of Chemistry, IIT-Delhi. The views expressed are personal
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Science vs nonsense||The unrelenting spread of COVID-19 has set off both mass anxiety and a clamour for a panacea. Fear paves the way for profiteers. Patanjali Ayurved’s recent claim of having discovered a “cure” and the publicity that this garnered, bypassing every regulatory requirement without any serious consequence so far, shows that India’s regulatory checks and balances are wanting. The company said in Haridwar that its product, ‘Coronil’, had cured everyone in a clinical trial. While quackery and the potency of ‘magic drugs’ are a part of life in India, its declarations could not be ignored because of the tremendous influence its products wield and its claim to have proved the product through a clinical trial, which makes it open to evaluation by the standards of modern medicine. As it now emerges, the company has probably misrepresented the drug’s efficacy. The clinical trial tested the drug on 45 and another 50 were administered a placebo. All of the participants had tested positive for the virus. On the third day, 31 who were given the drug recovered and 25 of those on the placebo recovered. That is not a measurable improvement considering the small number enrolled in the trial. Moreover, they were mildly symptomatic. Ramdev claimed that by the seventh day, all had recovered. If this also included all those on the placebo, then it further weakens the claim that it was the drug alone that worked. The doctors in the trial have spelt out on the clinical trials registry the process they would employ to test the drug but said they had neither published their results nor submitted it for peer-review. Therefore, the company’s claim of a cure by all accounts was a clear subversion of the scientific process. When hydroxychloroquine was being touted as a potential wonder drug for COVID-19, some of India’s scientists were quick to join a global opprobrium that raised methodological issues with a study in The Lancet , that claimed no effect — and even harm — from HCQ. The study was retracted as it relied on a spurious database. But its overall finding that HCQ does not work has been borne out by other validated studies. Thus, more than the outcome, it is the method deployed that ought to be scrutinised by scientists to reinforce public trust in scientific assessment. There has always been a tension between traditional Indian systems of medicine and pharmaceutical drugs but there is now consensus in India’s regulatory system that claims by both systems of developing safe efficacious drugs must pass clinical trials. It is well within the domain of institutions of the ICMR or the CSIR or national science academies to call out a breach of due process in the appraisal of any drug, whether allopathic, ayurvedic or homeopathic. To not do so would amount to criminal negligence.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Mischief managed||After winning the sole seat in the Rajya Sabha elections in Manipur by a slender margin on June 19, and through dubious means, and following the return of the NPP’s legislators to the ruling coalition’s fold, the BJP-led government has managed to stave off the crisis that threatened its survival. But fresh rumblings from other legislators, from both the BJP and its coalition partner, the NPF over the NPP’s legislators retaining cabinet berths, suggest that a smooth sailing for the N. Biren Singh-led regime is far from guaranteed. This was not unexpected. The government in Manipur came to power despite the BJP winning only 21 of the 60 Assembly seats, seven short of the Congress’s 28. It managed to manufacture a majority by orchestrating a defection of a Congress MLA who escaped any disciplinary action by the Speaker for three years before the Supreme Court weighed in on the matter. The MLA has, since March 2020, been disqualified but there were seven more defections from the Congress-fold too from earlier before the NPP suddenly withdrew support and three MLAs from the BJP crossed over. The Speaker saw it fit only to take selective action against the defectors in a way that did not upset the ruling coalition’s apple cart during the Rajya Sabha polls. These Machiavellian manoeuvres, besides the BJP’s other advantages — power at the Centre and control over most States in the North-east — have helped it stave off the attempt by the Congress to push for a no-confidence motion. But these episodes only shine further light on the whimsical nature of political allegiance in the northeastern State. It is always difficult for disparate political forces to come together in the case of hung Assemblies or Parliament. Forming a post-poll coalition that is not based simply on a division of the loaves of power requires parties to come to a programmatic understanding on governance priorities. The “common minimum programme” method which sometimes results in parties resorting to brinkmanship on issues has been criticised in the past for rendering coalitions unwieldy. But this allows for a battle of wits between different outfits in the same alliance while reflecting the electoral mandate more truly, and is therefore a principled form of coalition building. Alliances such as the one in Manipur now are built less on principle and more on accommodating various interests with carrots such as ministerial berths. The BJP, the NPP, the NPF, besides independents who have constituted the ruling coalition have not relied upon any programmatic understanding. The unseemly to-and-fro movement of legislators from both the ruling coalition and the Opposition is just an outcome of this form of alliance building. Disgruntlement over ministerial positions when cabinet strength is limited to a maximum of 12 berths is inevitable. When power is the only glue, mass defections that can change governments will be commonplace.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Economy in deep trouble, to shrink 5%’||S&P Global Ratings on Friday said the Indian economy is in deep trouble with growth expected to contract by 5% this fiscal. “India’s economy is in deep trouble. Difficulties in containing the virus, an anaemic policy response, and underlying vulnerabilities, especially across the financial sector, are leading us to expect growth to fall by 5% this fiscal year before rebounding in 2021,” S&P said in a report. In its report titled ‘Asia-Pacific losses near $3 trillion as balance sheet recession looms,’ S&P projected the region’s economy to shrink by 1.3% in 2020, but grow by 6.9% in 2021. This implies a loss nearing $3 trillion in output over these two years. “Asia-Pacific has shown some success in containing COVID-19 and, by and large, responded with effective macroeconomic policies,” said Shaun Roache, chief economist for Asia-Pacific at S&P Global Ratings. Cushioning the blow “This can help cushion the blow and provide a bridge to the recovery. The recovery looks set to be weighed down by indebted balance sheets, however.” One risk now looming larger is yet another ‘balance sheet recession’ in which at least one important sector of the economy — the government, firms, or households — tries to bolster its weak financial position by saving more, paying down debt and spending less, S&P said. “The downturn caused by COVID-19 did not start as a balance-sheet recession but may end up as one,” Mr. Roache said. “This means less investment, slower recovery, and a permanent hit to the economy that will last even after a vaccine is found.” The pandemic caused a sudden stop in activity and to prevent a collapse, policymakers, helped by banks, have provided extraordinary financial support to firms and households. Banks may lend less than they normally would in a recovery to focus on the overhang from the pandemic. Private firms may prefer to stabilise debt rather than ramp up spending on new investments, even though demand is improving. S&P kept its forecasts for growth in the Chinese economy at 1.2% and 7.4% for 2020 and 2021, respectively.
27 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Apparel retailers may see revenue fall 30-35%: Crisil||The revenue of the organised apparel retail sector is expected to plummet 30-35% this fiscal due to temporary store closures, restricted mobility due to the lockdown and low income visibility for consumers, Crisil Ratings said. “While operating profitability is expected to be impacted by 200 basis points (bps), the absolute fall in operating profits will be much sharper, necessitating additional funding, mainly debt, by firms to make up for cash flow shortfalls. This will affect credit metrics,” it said. The analysis is based on a sample of 60 Crisil-rated apparel retailers (representing a third of the sector’s revenue). “Pent up demand, as well as the behaviour of consumers post lifting of lockdown, will have a bearing on the pace of recovery,” it said. According to Crisil, sales at departmental stores will be hit harder with a 40% decline in revenue, as half of these stores are located mainly in malls and Tier 1 cities. For value fashion retailers, the impact will be lower at 30%, as these have higher presence in Tier 2 and 3 cities. Apparel retailers are also likely to see higher contribution from online channels this fiscal, driven by changing buying pattern of consumers amid the pandemic, the ratings agency said.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Mobile, electronics firms facing targeted attacks’||The India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) on Friday said its member companies “of a country of a certain origin” are facing targeted vandalism of signboards, unlawful demonstrations at factories and retail stores, and threats to employees by “fringe elements” armed with iron rods and sticks. In an advisory, the industry association asked its members not to overlook such incidents and to immediately report such incidents to the local police and senior officials for appropriate legal action and prosecution. The advisory follows a recent protest outside the factory of Chinese smartphone maker Oppo by a fringe group, whose members forcibly put locks on the factory’s gates and did not allow any movement. Amid continuing border tensions between India and China, there has been an increase in anti-Chinese goods sentiment in the country.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IRCTC expects business to normalise by October||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), whose operations have been hit due to the suspension of passenger train services due to COVID-19, is hopeful that the business would normalise October onwards. In a communique to the stock exchange, the state-owned firm said that it was a debt-free company and had no liquidity-related concerns. “Due to the lockdown, the revenue and profitability are likely to be adversely impacted for the April-June, 2020 quarter. As the situation is very dynamic, the company is closely monitoring it. The company expects that the business situation could normalise during the third and fourth quarter,” it said in the document. The statement comes amid the Indian Railways’ announcement cancelling all regular passenger trains till August 12, barring the 230 special trains. IRCTC’s shares declined 2.8% on the BSE to close at Rs. 1,381.60 per share on Friday.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Focus on revival, not debt, says Finance panel||The government need not, at present, focus on fiscal consolidation and increased public debt, rather it should concentrate on the fastest possible revival of the economy, 15th Finance Commission Chairman N. K. Singh, said on Friday. He said there was acute pressure on the finances of both the Central and State governments given the much lower growth number and revenue receipts. Speaking to reporters after the meeting of the Commission with the Economic Advisory Council, Mr. Singh said this year, the fiscal numbers look to be way out of what they have been considered, and the Finance Ministry itself has increased their borrowings from the Reserve Bank and the State governments are also going to borrow more. He further said, “This is not the time to talk of fiscal consolidation. “This is the time in which the world believes, I think, that what needs to be protected is the expenditure over fiscal deficit and this is exactly what the Central government has done,” Mr. Singh added.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||RBI board reviews state of economy||The board of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which met for the first time on Friday since the nationwide lockdown, discussed the current economic situation and the challenges posed by COVID-19. The meeting was held via video-conference. “The board deliberated on the current economic situation and the evolving challenges posed by the pandemic,” the RBI said in a statement. “Among others, the board also discussed the Reserve Bank’s activities during the period [July 2019-June 2020], the budget for the next accounting year July 2020 to March 2021 [aligned with the government’s financial year], other policy and operational matters,” the RBI said.
27 June 2020||Mumbai,||S&P cuts Axis Bank rating on risks to banks||S&P Global Ratings on Friday downgraded Axis Bank’s rating to BBB- from BB+ saying the rating action reflected its view that economic risks had increased for banks operating in India. “We have lowered our ratings on Axis to reflect our expectation that heightened economic risks facing India’s banking system will affect the bank’s asset quality and financial performance,” it said. S&P said while Axis’s asset quality was superior to the Indian banking sector average, its level of non-performing assets (NPAs) will likely remain high compared with the international peers.  S&P expects the Indian economy to slip into recession in the current fiscal.
27 June 2020||LONDON,||Liverpool’s 30-year wait for league glory finally ends||Liverpool’s 30-year English title drought ended on Thursday as it was confirmed as Premier League champion courtesy of second-placed Manchester City’s 2-1 loss at Chelsea. The result at Stamford Bridge means Liverpool has an unassailable 23-point lead over City with seven games left. Liverpool was last champion of England when it won the old First Division title in 1989-90 after which a decline in fortunes saw Manchester United and Arsenal, then Chelsea and Manchester City seize power. Manager Jurgen Klopp has rekindled the Anfield flame though and delivered the club’s 19th title, one behind arch-rival United’s record of 20, after finishing runner-up to City in a thrilling title race last season. Setting new mark Despite the pandemic forcing a three-month suspension and delaying the coronation, Liverpool has won the title with a record seven games to spare. It eclipses the record jointly held by United (2000-01) and City (2017-18), who sealed their titles with five games left. City was the first team to breach the 100-point barrier in the Premier League two seasons ago but Liverpool is on course to shatter that mark, as well as records for most points at home (55) and most wins in a season (32). Super solo goal Meanwhile on the field, a superb solo goal by Christian Pulisic and a Willian penalty gave Chelsea the win over City. Pulisic exploited a communication breakdown between Benjamin Mendy and Ilkay Guendogan after a City set piece, running from the halfway line before confidently slotting the ball past Ederson to open the scoring in the 36th minute. Kevin de Bruyne put City level with a brilliant dipping free kick ten minutes into the second half, but Chelsea took the lead again through Willian’s 78th-minute penalty after Fernandinho was sent off for handling the ball on the goal-line. City manager Pep Guardiola paid tribute to Liverpool. “Big congratulations for Liverpool,” said the Spaniard, whose title-winning side finished 25 points ahead of Klopp's team two seasons ago and pipped them by a point last term. Incredible focus “After 30 years without the title they played every game this season like it was their last with incredible focus. We were not consistent enough,” he added. Leading the charge has been Mohamed Salah, the Egyptian forward who is the first Liverpool player to score at least 20 goals in all competitions in three consecutive seasons since Michael Owen at the start of the millennium.  The results:   Burnley 1 (Rodriguez 73) bt Watford 0.   Chelsea 2 (Pulisic 36, Willian 78-pen) bt Manchester City 1 (De Bruyne 55).   Southampton 0 lost to Arsenal 2 (Nketiah 20, Willock 87).
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||BAI to have camps from July 1||Top Indian shuttlers, including P.V. Sindhu, will be able to hit the courts from July 1 if the Telangana government allows the Badminton Association of India (BAI) to organise a national camp in Hyderabad. While a bunch of Indian players have started practising at the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA) in Bengaluru after SAI laid down rules for resumption of training late last month, the elite players in Hyderabad had no such luck. With COVID-19 cases surging in Hyderabad, the Telangana government, as a precautionary measure, extended the lockdown till June 30 but it meant the resumption of the sport got further delayed. “The pandemic has put a break on our training but after weighing the situation, we have decided to start the training camps in Hyderabad from July 1, subject to state government’s permission and approval,” BAI secretary Ajay Singhania said. In March, BAI had postponed the senior Nationals, scheduled from April 27 to May 3 and it has now decided not to resume the domestic circuit till September.
27 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Vaishali bows out||R. Vaishali went down to Anna Ushenina of Ukraine 5.5-4.5 in the semifinals of the first leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess on Friday. The Chennai girl needed a win in the last game in the last segment of the match (one minute plus one second per move), but could only get a draw. She remains in contention in the tournament though, after her creditable show. She will be playing in the next two more legs. The second leg will commence on July 1. In Sunday’s final of the first leg, Ushenina will take on Valentina Gunina, who made short work of Alexandra Kosteniuk 9-3 in an all-Russian semifinal.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NRAI names core group for Olympics||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has announced a 32-member core group of shooters to train for the Tokyo Olympics, to be staged next year. The 15 shooters who had won the Olympic quota have been clubbed with two additional shooters in each event. Two rapid fire shooters have also been selected for training even though India has not yet won a berth in the event. However, there is still scope of getting in on world ranking. Anjum Moudgil and Manu Bhaker figure in two events, as both have won the quota in one and are top-class in the other. Apurvi Chandela and Mairaj Ahmad Khan have stayed on course for Tokyo after competing in the Rio Olympics. Sanjeev Rajput had competed in the Beijing and London Olympics, but was unlucky to miss the Rio Games despite having won the Olympic quota. Rahi Sarnobat and Annu Raj Singh had participated in the London Games. Mehuli Ghosh in women’s air rifle narrowly missed out on getting into the core group, behind the three global leaders in the event — Anjum Moudgil, Apurvi Chandela and Elavenil Valarivan. The National federation, which formed the core group in consultation with coaches, is scheduled to release the training scheme soon.  The core group: Men: 50m rifle 3-position: Aishwar Pratap Singh Tomar, Sanjeev Rajput, Parul Kumar, Swapnil Kusale.   10m air rifle: Deepak Kumar, Divyansh Singh Panwar, Pankaj Singh, Sandeep Singh. 25m rapid fire pistol: Anish Bhanwala, Vijayveer Singh Sidhu.   10m air pistol: Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma, Om Prakash Mitharwal, Shahzar Rizvi.   Skeet: Angad Vir Singh Bajwa, Mairaj Ahmad Khan, Gurjoat Singh, Sheeraz Sheikh.   Women: 50m rifle 3-position: Anjum Moudgil, Tejaswini Sawant, Gaayathri Nithyanandam, Sunidhi Chauhan.   10m air rifle: Anjum Moudgil, Apurvi Chandela, Elavenil Valarivan, Shreya Agarwal.   25m sports pistol: Rahi Sarnobat, Chinki Yadav, Manu Bhaker, Abhidnya Patil.   10m air pistol: Manu Bhaker, Yashaswini Singh Deswal, Annu Raj Singh, Esha Singh.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Liren holds Nakamura||Ding Liren came up with brilliant defensive skills to hold Hikaru Nakamura in 94 moves in their first game of the four-game opening set of best-of-three quarterfinals in the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Friday. Earlier, the other quarterfinal, involving Anish Giri and Alexander Grischuk also ended in a draw. On Thursday, World champion Magnus Carlsen and Ian Nepomniachtchi defeated World No. 2 Fabiano Caruana and Vladislav Artemiev, respectively, with an identical score-line of 2.5-0.5 to clinch the first set of best-of-three match.  The results: Quarterfinals 2 and 4 (Game One): Ding Liren (Chn) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Alexander Grischuk (Rus).   Quarterfinals 1 and 3 (after Game Three): Magnus Carslen (Nor) bt Fabiano Caruana (USA) 2.5-0.5; Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) 2.5-0.5 .
27 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Davis Cup and Fed Cup postponed by a year||The Davis Cup Finals, scheduled for November this year in Madrid, and the inaugural Fed Cup Finals, which was due in April in Budapest, have been postponed to 2021 because of COVID-19. The two competitions will retain the same playing fields, time slots and venues in 2021. In addition, the 24 home-and-away Davis Cup World Group I and World Group II ties scheduled for this September will be played in either March or September 2021. India, following its loss to Croatia in the Cup qualifier in March, had drawn Finland for an away match. In Fed Cup, India had drawn Latvia after finishing runner-up in the Asia-Oceania Group-I women’s tournament in Dubai in March.
27 June 2020||Geneva,||Australia, NZ to host 2023 women’s football WC||Australia and New Zealand will co-host the women’s football World Cup in 2023, with the following edition possibly set to take place just two years later. The joint bid beat Colombia 22-13 in a vote on Thursday by FIFA’s ruling council. FIFA president Gianni Infantino was one of the members who voted in favour of Australia and New Zealand staging the first 32-team Women’s World Cup, and then revived a suggestion aired at last year’s tournament in France to conduct it every two years instead of every four years. The 2023 tournament will be the first time a World Cup for men or women will be shared across two countries from different FIFA confederations.
27 June 2020||LONDON,||Klopp hungry for more||Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp says his team is hungry for more silverware and called on his players to remain “humble” in the quest for more success. “The consistency the boys showed is so exceptional. We really have to and will stay focused because we see the opportunity. Will not stop doesn’t mean we will win everything, we just want to improve,” and we will not stop,” Klopp said in a videoconference. “The consistency comes from the mix of determination, buying into the idea, character, attitude and personality that makes this group special,” Klopp added. “They are still humble. As long as we stay humble we have a good chance to stay successful in the future too.” The 53-year-old is delighted to bring some joy at a difficult time for many and offer hope and expectation when fans can return to watching games live. “I think at this time all cities in the world need a lift, Liverpool as well, and I am really happy about that. “This title is a sign that we played a good season but is also a sign for the future.” No statue, please Klopp dismissed the idea of having a statue made in his honour, like former managers Bill Shankly and Bob Paisley, outside Anfield. “I don't want a statue that’s not my motivation.” Last season, Liverpool lost one game and earned 97 points but could finish only second to Pep Guardiola's City and Klopp said that showed there was little room for error. “We knew, if you want to win the league it is pretty much not allowed to lose any game because City are usually not losing games. They never stop since Pep is there,” the German said.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Srinivas shows his class||K. Srinivas, an officer with the Indian Oil Corporation, topped the chart in style on the opening day of the World online carrom challenge on Facebook. A former World Cup and national champion, Srinivas was the only player to execute an Ultimate slam, as he cleaned the board from start to finish in one go. Sufiyan Chicktey of the UAE was fourth with 23 net points, and executed the only white slam. Among the women, Debajani Tamuly was the only player who had a black slam to her credit, which she recorded on the fifth board. Two-time World champion Rashmi Kumari of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) topped the women’s table with 38 net points. Naga Jothi (50) and Aisha Sajid (52) were second and third respectively, while Suvarna Avadoota (54) of the US climbed to the fourth spot among the 14.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harendra bids adieu to Air India||For 30 years he has been synonymous with Indian Airlines (later Air India) both on and off the field. At long last, though, Harendra Singh has finally decided to move on to other roles. The former chief coach of Indian hockey has joined RoundGlass Sports as Technical Head for their hockey programme and would operate out of Chandigarh for the same. RoundGlass Sports is a not-for-profit organisation set up by USA-based Gurpreet Singh that aims to develop football and hockey at the grassroots in Punjab. Interestingly, they own Punjab FC, having completed the takeover earlier this year after picking up 50% stake in the erstwhile Minerva FC last year. “This is something I am really looking forward to. All my discussions with the owners so far have been extremely positive and I am impressed by both their vision for sports and their commitment to grassroots development,” Harendra told The Hindu . Harendra had been in talks with a few other academies across the country but said the level of comfort and compatibility in terms of both the target and the way forward towards it with the Round Glass owners convinced him. “I have always had a vision of creating an ecosystem for sports at par with the best in the world,” said Harendra.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Krishna gets contract extension||Star Fijian striker Roy Krishna on Friday extended his contract with ISL side ATK till next year ahead of the upcoming seventh edition of the tournament. The 32-year-old Krishna was in magnificent form during ISL 2019-20, scoring 15 goals and providing six assists for ATK as it went on to clinch its third title.PTI
27 June 2020||BENGALURU,||KSCA calls off conditioning camp||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) has called off the conditioning camp for senior and junior State cricketers, which was underway at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here. The KSCA made the decision keeping in mind the sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State in recent days. The likes of Devdutt Padikkal, R. Samarth and Prasidh Krishna, and the junior State cricketers were part of the yoga and fitness camp, which began a couple of days ago.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Way of the devout||Suka explains to Parikshit that Vidura proceeds to meet Sage Maitreya on the banks of the Ganga, to receive instruction on the highest knowledge. Vidura begins the conversation with a series of questions about the Supreme Lord, His creation, His Maya, and so on. Maitreya notices Vidura’s enlightened state of mind and is very much impressed that he wishes to get further immersed in the glories of the Lord and to know more about esoteric truths about the Lord’s creation etc., pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. It is held that Vyasa too had felt an inexplicable sense of depression even after compiling the four Vedas, the Puranas and the Mahabharata. In fact, the Mahabharata holds up a mirror to many nuances in human life and shows the path of dharma that is to be followed while also highlighting the Lord’s transcendent glories. Narada had then advised Vyasa to compose the Bhagavata Purana with the specific intention of describing the ineffable glories of the Lord. For, this awareness can inspire bhakti in people and lead them away from the world of senses towards mukti. Vidura now wants to hear the greatness of the Lord through the words of Maitreya. Devotees always find much fulfilment in the company of like-minded bhaktas and consider it a boon. One can imagine how getting into such company can be really beneficial to those who are bound to the world and its attractions and are not inclined to think of God. Ultimately, they neither attain happiness nor succeed in ending their sorrow. They are born repeatedly and suffer. But when their attention is directed to God, they begin to understand His glories and their own selves in the light of sastras. This instills bhakti and by seeking God’s grace they can be freed from sorrow.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 07:28 IST,||Sudoku - June 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#VanLife for India||Sometime in early 2018, I began researching the camper lifestyle for this newspaper, a trend that was picking up speed in the West. Social media was flooded with stories of millennials leaving well-paying jobs to live off the grid, embracing the #VanLife way: a “one-word lifestyle”, as The New Yorker put it, “denoting a renewed interest in road trips, a culture of hippie-inflected outdoorsiness, and a life free from the tyranny of a nine-to-five office job”. Many early adopters have also made money from product placements and partnerships. But back home it seemed travel junkies were not in step with their peers; it was barely even a trend. Just not the right time, perhaps? Two years on, however, things could be changing. While Indians might not be ready to move into a caravan full-time or even try to monetise a new lifestyle, the pandemic is making them rethink how they holiday. And renting campers could be one of the options.  Call of the road  At a time when lockdown is lifting, travel, either on work or for pleasure, which had come to a screeching halt is stuttering back to life. Maldives, a popular luxury destination for the one-percenters, recently announced the reopening of its borders post July 15, and it is just a matter of time before others follow suit. With the Indian hospitality sector reportedly taking a beating of close to Rs. 90,000 crore in revenues in 2020 (with a corresponding loss of an expected 20 million jobs), it is also heartening to hear that homestays and hotels, especially those promising isolation and high standards of hygiene, are seeing a spike in bookings. Soneva, the luxury resort chain in the Maldives and Thailand, has seen inquiries picking up by 135% this month. “We have more bookings for August this year than we had for the same time last year. And October has 50% more,” reveals Sonu Shivdasani, the CEO, over a webinar on luxury travel. “I think people who were planning to travel for Easter are now doing so later in the year. [The fact that] we are ‘one island one resort’ also helps.” But not everyone wants to go through the hassle of flying, especially with inflated costs and the hours of checking and sanitisation. Instead, driving holidays are becoming the post-Covid answer. And everyone from start-ups to state governments are looking to cash in. “We think people will want to travel closer to home and we see a great opportunity for road trips,” says Valsa Nair Singh, Principal Secretary of Tourism of the Maharashtra government. “We plan to identify existing amenities on popular routes and help them become Covid-19 compliant. We are working on upgrading infrastructure and identifying spots where people can set up camps on beaches along the Konkan coast. We are also looking into the feasibility of promoting RVs.” Have wheels, will travel Close on the heels of the Madhya Pradesh tourism ministry’s launch of luxury caravans in early June, the Karnataka government has now announced a Caravan Tourism initiative in collaboration with Campervan Camps. According to Tiger Ramesh, founder of the Bengaluru-based start-up, the caravan ecosystem is set to change for the better. “People might reluctantly fly for work, but not for holidays,” he says, adding that families are showing the most interest in his LuxeCamper motorhomes (assembled on an Ashok Leyland chassis with a 4,200mm wheelbase). Three thousand kilometres away, Guwahati-based Harsh Sharma, co-founder of Camping Co, has been seeing traffic on his website surge, thanks to ongoing social media campaigns, discounts and advance booking offers. Known for promoting #VanLife with his own spin on the traditional campervan — with roof top tents mounted on a Tata Xenon — he says, “Our product is optimal for social distancing as we travel to remote areas and avoid crowds.” Others like Captain (retired) Suresh Sharma, of Chandigarh-based Green Room Expeditions, are also addressing the global challenge of lack of access to stores (which are either closed, offering reduced services, or pose a high-risk of exposure), by creating additional storage. He is adding a trailer to his overland camping truck, to stock groceries and act as “extra seating”. Continued on page 3   Continued from page 1   Money matters  While #VanLife originally meant hopping on a caravan and roughing it out, the culture mushrooming in India offers a range of experiences. The LuxeCamper — complete with facilities such as queen size beds and imported toilets with waste incinerators — will take you to lesser-known places in Kabini, Bandipur and Hampi in association with the Karnataka government (which is providing exclusive campsites and amenities). Packages are between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 90,000 for two, and they currently have two RVs, with plans to add another 10. Yes, costs can be a challenge. Travel influencer Ankita Kumar (@monkey.inc), who was part of the first documented #VanLife trip in the country back in 2018, says that apart from renting or buying a vehicle, other wallet-lightening factors include fuel and the enormous amount of paperwork (for owners) — from procuring a fitness certificate (issued by the Regional Transport Office annually) to show that your caravan is in working condition, to insurance and tax papers (which can costanywhere between Rs. 25,000 andRs. 30,000).“Itis doable, but it takes a longer time. We’ve sometimes got permissions to visit a certain place just a day before our actual departure!,” says Kumar, who went on a month-long caravan trip across Sikkim with fellow blogger Sharanya Iyer last year. “Government officials, tour operators and van designers need to get in sync otherwise you can’t guarantee clear-cut policies for caravan travel,” adds Captain Sharma. Another bump on the road is the lack of camping sites. The lifestyle relies on finding places to park and sleep, to stock up on water and food, to shower, to name a few. While the pandemic has amplified these inconveniences globally, it is especially tough in India, where we lack demarcated caravan parks. “Things like contactless accommodation at BnBs, making your own meals, and carrying your groceries must be favoured,” says Iyer. Operators like Ramesh are trying to sort out the logistics. Most of them have collaborated with campsites and properties at all the locations listed on their itinerary (a boon for first-timers). Trippy Wheels has partnered with homestays and youth hostels in locations such as Coorg, Chikmagalur, Gokarna and Hampi. And Sharma is updating his fleet of refurbished Tata Xenons and Force Tempo Travellers, which already come with a fridge and a shower, with solar panels to power the appliances. Meanwhile, rental requests for private vans are spiking too. Next week, Sanjna Hangal of Bengaluru-based rental service, Trippy Wheels, will launch her ‘Build your own caravan’ campaign. Assembling your own camper on a Mahindra Imperio or Force Tempo Traveller could cost you anywhere between Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 22 lakh respectively; Hangal hopes to use their experience to keep the prices affordable.  Safety first  Even on the open road, discussions about sanitisation can’t be ignored. Along with handing out safety kits to guests, Ramesh ensures all surfaces in the LuxeCamper are sterilised, and the upholstery and linen steamed (100°C). “The driver and tour leader sit in a cabin up front, isolated from the rear. Initially it was to ensure privacy but now it is working with the new norms,” he says. Travellers can also use an Android tablet to control operations, such as indoor temperature and heating water. Sharma has covered all the seats with single-use plastic sheets, though he admits that “this is a double-edged sword for a pro-conservation company like ours and will only be a necessary short-term decision”. Will travellers be putting others at risk by stepping out? “We believe our guests are responsible adults and won’t [unnecessarily] visit stores, cafes and public places. They will limit interactions to around our LuxeCamper, in safe halting spots,” Ramesh concludes.  With inputs fromPrasad Ramamurthy
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Real heroes, in focus||The Los Angeles-based filmmaker Sweta Rai, from Madhya Pradesh, has three Masters degrees but nothing prepared her for the trials and tribulations of pulling together an emotive documentary on the millions of doctors risking their lives to save others. The documentary follows the personal lives of five Indian doctors who are on the frontline of the COVID-19 battle. One of them is Sweta’s friend, Dr Ankit Bharat, chief of thoracic surgery and surgical director of Northwestern’s lung transplant programme, who recently made headlines for performing the United States’ first double-lung transplant surgery on a COVID-19 patient. Sweta wanted to go deeper into what these doctors — the other four being Dr Pooja Malhotra (nephrologist), who contracted COVID-19, recovered, and got back to work; and Dr Uma Madhusudana (internal medicine), Dr Shreedhar Kulkarni (internal medicine), and Dr Shantanu Singh (critical care and pulmonary diseases) — go through each day, risking their lives and wondering when they would next be able to see their family. “I wanted to start a conversation of empathy,” she says. “I focussed on the doctors’ journeys. Two of them have parents back in India who worry about them greatly.” At the time of writing this, the United States has 2.43 million confirmed cases out of the global 9.39 million. “These stories, especially those of the frontline workers, have to come out because they do not see their families. We also interviewed their families in India and got to know that the struggle is the same everywhere because we are united by a common cause.” While on the topic of empathy — in a time of physical distancing — Sweta explains she has learned a lot. “In the beginning, when the first cases came up, no one knew what this was. This is addressed heavily in the documentary as we have been filming for three months. Plus, the shortages of masks and PPE and gowns happened. And we lost a lot of Indian doctors to COVID-19. In fact, I was supposed to interview someone in the United Kingdom but, sadly, before we could, we lost him.,” she says. Sweta adds that support for Indian doctors is widespread. “Dr Madhusudana, who received a ‘Drive of Honour’ where several police vehicles, fire brigade trucks and private cars passed her home in Connecticut, said it completely changed her mood. Before she was feeling so down.” Was it difficult to get the doctors to share their fear and exhaustion? Yes, responds Sweta, who infers that trust was paramount to the storytelling. She adds, “It took a while to reach a point of that intimacy. They would break down after particularly stressful points, and we would go back and forth on a lot of what they were able to share.” The filmmaker reveals that there is a special moment in the documentary when Dr Malhotra finally tests negative for COVID-19 on Mothers’ Day, which she is looking forward to share with audiences. Sweta and her team had to remotely coach the doctors to film themselves, too. “My cinematographer, David Bouza, who has shot 60 Hollywood documentaries so far, and I came up with the idea of guiding the doctors about a mobile app for shooting professional videos. Dr Kulkarni and Dr Singh became pros at the app and self-taped their interviews while I directed them through Skype, Zoom, and WhatsApp. I shot in different US cities, and also shot in the smallest towns of India, all remotely under lockdown.” Different takes That said, one cannot expect the cinematography through the film to be uniform, agrees Sweta. But she says that is the beauty of it. The documentary is supposed to be personal to these doctors while representing the efforts of the medical community. The film is currently in its final stages of editing. “Though Dr Bharat and I have been friends for a while, I did not know this side of him. The minute they step into the hospitals and put on their masks and PPE, they become these heroes.”
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A memorable Vietnamese meal!||In these terrible times, food memories keep us sane. I had been, for quite a while, thinking of a great Vietnamese meal that a young visitor had prepared for us several years ago. She had come armed with a packet of rice paper, with which she wanted to make some crepes for us. For this, I took her shopping to INA market, where we had an enjoyable time buying shrimps, ripe mangoes, fresh cucumbers and other veggies. The shrimp (boiled), mango and cucumber (sliced) went into the rice paper, which she rolled up in such a way that the colours of the three ingredients looked like a dazzling palette. But along with this she prepared another great dish. She added veggies to a broth of chicken that was bubbling away on the stove. Into this she added some rice noodles – and I had my first bowl of pho! The Pho (pronounced phuh, as in duh) was sublime — and it came to my mind last week when I was looking at the menu of Yum Yum Cha. Yum Yum Cha is a restaurant in Khan Market run by Varun Tuli, the man behind Noshi, which has on the menu various kinds of pan-Asian dishes. In the good old days, we had eaten at Yum Yum Cha, and greatly enjoyed the meal. So we thought we would order food from the restaurant (Ph. 9810002994). We had been sorely missing pork, so we asked for a plate of braised pork belly from the wok. We had also been missing eating lamb, so we asked for a dish of meat with basil and chilli. Two-thirds of the family loves prawns, so we asked for prawn har gaos (a kind of dim sum). And then, to make it a balanced meal, we asked for a vegetarian pho. We started with the Har Gao (Rs. 385 for four pieces), and it was simply superb. The casing was light and thin, and the juicy stuffing — of chopped prawn, dill leaves and asparagus — was delicious. After that we had the Pho (Rs. 685), which was a slurpy dish of noodles in a light broth peppered with tofu, smooth mushrooms and other veggies. I loved it, and was transported back to the time when our Vietnamese friend had cooked it for us —and a roomful of friends. I moved to the lamb (Rs. 685), which was, again, memorable. The tender pieces were thinly sliced, and the chillies and basil gave the lamb a flavour that lingered on. What was disappointing was the pork (Rs. 685). I though the meat was a bit too chewy, and just too sweet. I know that pork works well with sweet ingredients (apple, pineapple, brown sugar, molasses etc), and I love it with a sweet sauce (though, right now, my favourite is the Coorgi Pandi curry). But the sweetness has to be balanced with other flavours; and I think in this case, it just overpowered every other taste. A great thing about Yum Yum Cha is that they take full precautions in cooking and delivering food. All hygiene norms are maintained, and the food is delivered in tight plastic containers. The sweetness of the pork notwithstanding, it was a happy meal that we greatly enjoyed. Yum Yum, I said, as I licked my platter clean. The writer is a seasoned food critic
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Are we there yet?||Earlier this week, for the first time since the arrival of the pandemic, I decided to sit with someone (other than family), relax and have a drink. She came over and, at first, we lingered by the door. Where earlier we would’ve hugged, now we were maintaining a physical distance. There was the joy of finally being able to meet, but also the realisation that Covid-19 had affected the way we were behaving around each other. How would we cope, we wondered, if say, we decided to drive to Goa tomorrow? The thought of escaping our four walls has been on all our minds. But would we be putting ourselves, or others, at risk? Is it selfish to think about travelling for pleasure when so many are struggling to get by? As the contents of a bottle of red emptied, the questions eased and the world became a little rosier. Ultimately, we realised we’re not there yet, in our minds. To pack our bags and leave the relative safety of our homes. Safety checks in place Mind you, as a journalist who reports on travel and tourism, getting out of the house is a required act. And I know the travel industry is doing everything it can to assure us and entice us back. Airports, airlines and car rental companies are showing us the sanitised way forward. Hotels and home rental companies have developed exhaustive routines to keep us safe. The Oberoi, Hyatt, The Park, Accor, ITC, The Lalit and the Hilton: they’re all delivering food home (yes, they also badly need the revenue) and using social media to broadcast both cooking lessons and the resident DJ spinning tracks. Marriott is using its sheer size to create a new model of conferencing across cities. Smaller boutiques like RAAS and Suryagarh are leasing organic farms to better control the food chain to their kitchens. And operators like Jehan Numa Expeditions and Kipling Camp are taking us on Insta-Live safaris to see dhol e (Asian wild dog) packs gorging on a kill. Airbnb is also offering virtual experiences (say, bee-keeping in Portugal) and partnering with local governments and NGOs to showcase local experiences. They’re all reminders that millions of jobs, and a fair chunk of the economy, depends on our willingness to travel again. Tourism, after all, does have a massive multiplier effect that goes far beyond airlines and hotels. You visit Jaipur, you buy a pair of juttis . That money gets paid down all the way to the family that cures the leather. It finds its way into the hands of the local community, benefiting many more than the industry directly employs. And tourism has not received any direct aid to help it tide over the ill-effects of the pandemic.  Common sense over fear  More importantly, I know I’m not ready to give up on the many trips I want to take. To Manipur and Tel Aviv. To Dudhwa and Rwanda. Across Chhattisgarh and the Stans. And, yes, Antarctica. No virtual medium can match the adrenaline rush of seeing hippos spar in the flesh, or convey the aroma wafting out of a dum biryani on a Hyderabad street. The key, I’ve rationalised, lies in trusting again. You step out of the door and you’re immediately placing your safety in the hands of a taxi driver, an airline pilot, housekeeping staff, sous chefs, bartenders and everyone else who is there to ensure your trip is a success. To travel then is to trust. And to be logical, not hypochondriacal. We know how the virus spreads and we know the precautions we ought to take. I’ll wear my mask, a pair of gloves and even a face shield when I step out. If I do need to take the gloves off, I’ll remember to wash my hands. If I take the mask off, it’ll only be when I’m at some distance from other people. I should then get into my own clean car and make a road trip of it. Drive to a hotel I trust and stay there. Feel the sand under my feet, the wind in my hair. Yes, I think I can do that. Though I’ve just heard about a luxury camper van being launched in Bengaluru. Oh, the possibilities! But, baby steps.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I’ll be the filter’||Fashion’s creative directors, stars even before their appointment at a legacy brand, have to deal with too many expectations these days. How well can they communicate with millennials (or now, Gen Z), and mastermind unexpected collaborations? Are they comfortable addressing gender, identity and other issues? How soon can they turn a sluggish label’s fortunes around? Virgil Abloh, artistic designer of Louis Vuitton menswear, set the tone for the above. Five years after being appointed as Gucci’s head, Alessandro Michele is relentless with his high-concept ideas. So while one cannot compare Satya Paul, the 35-year-old Indian sari brand with a print heritage, these global fashion houses, it is fair to say that one is curious and hopeful about the plans of its new creative director, Rajesh Pratap Singh. Post-Covid relevance For well over two decades, Singh, 51, with his eponymous label, has built a reputation for innovative fabrics and often architectural or stark silhouettes. For his white shirt, indigo-dyed denim and R&D with khadi, ikat, wool, even aluminium and steel in his fabrics. His research for his first collaborative collection with The Woolmark Company back in 2013 gave him a fine understanding of yarns and weaves across the country. And this will come into play at a time when the coronavirus impact on Indian crafts and handlooms calls for many saviours. In The Voice of Fashion ’s recent Rebuilding Report, Dastkar’s Laila Tyabji writes that designers will have to “move out of their comfort zones and work with craftspeople in distant clusters all over India, rather than just piggyback onto familiar master craftspeople already in the market”. Singh has been doing just that for a while now, acquainting himself with “different looms and addas ”. But the NIFT graduate with a high-profile clientele that goes well beyond Bollywood, prefers to let his work speak for itself. Often reluctant to be interviewed, he tells me over the phone from Delhi, “I’m not a very articulate man and I am not very good at expressing myself”. But he admits that there have been a few changes at Satya Paul, some “decluttering”. “Mr Satya Paul had initially done a lot with Indian textiles. I want to visit that again and make it more relevant to the times,” he says. Happier with the term ‘modern’ rather than ‘minimalist’, Singh has begun with a capsule collection of linen shirts for men (Rs. 4,995) onwards. Jungle themed, they have names like Happy Hummers featuring hummingbirds or the Mangal Shirt with tropical leaves and monkeys. The thing about sustainability “These shirts are a taste of things to come,” he allows, adding that saris are next. “When we started talking about the collection, the fires were raging in the Amazon and Australia. We had few episodes in India as well. From that point of view, there were discussions in the studio: on nature, our relationship with it and how irresponsible and ungrateful we are.” Which brings us to the designer’s uneasiness with the term ‘sustainability’, even when his own company has been lauded for its environment-friendly practices. When receiving GQ magazine’s Fashion Sustainability Award in 2018, his short acceptance speech was about sustainability not being a fashion or a trend. I ask him about this. “It’s when you start using these labels that you start restricting yourself. We can’t be the messiahs of sustainability,” is his reply, and he adds, “To sustain the business we have to be commercially sustainable. There are balances which we have to make. I don’t have perfect answers, and that’s why I don’t like to use these words.” On the job We talk about him leading the two labels and how challenging he expects it to be. “The process and the core remains the same, and it is just the visual language that will change. There will be a lot of experimentation.” Will we see signature details like motorbike sleeves on kurtas? "It is a different language in that sense. I have to respect the DNA of Satya Paul. The brand is much more than who I am. Luckily for me, the (Satya Paul) team is fairly large. It is more guidance, and I will act as a filter. It is a more holistic approach at Satya Paul,” he explains. It helps that RPS is known for creating fabrics that are tailoring worthy. “Probably that is one knowledge I can bring to the table with Satya Paul. We want to work with the finest weavers, the finest printers, craftsmen and the process has already started,” says Singh, whose network includes the Bhutti weavers in Kullu and craftspeople in Maheshwar and Kumaon. It is why Shefalee Vasudev of VOF says she is looking forward to Singh’s synergy with “the completely different, almost contradictory DNA of Satya Paul as imagined by its founder and creative directors so far”. I couldn’t agree more.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Wings on paper||Michelle Poonawalla juggles many hats: wife, mother, businesswoman, philanthropist, artist. It is as the latter that she has showcased at galleries across the country (solo exhibitions such as What If You Fly? and Born Free ), the Kochi-Muziris Biennale 2018 and Dubai Art Week 2019 (multi-media installation, Introspection ). Her canvases, her unique ruler technique — which she learnt from her grandfather, artist Jehangir Vazifdar — and explorations with digital video mapping have made her a recognised name in the field. Through it all, she has taken her signature motif, the butterfly, with her. “It is synonymous with me and my style, from my very first art piece. To me the butterfly can depict multiple meanings. It reminds us of the fragility of life, freedom, the feeling of hope and love, and a metamorphosis,” says Poonawalla. So when she collaborated with Italian furnishings company, Inkiostro Bianco, in one of the few global interior design collaborations with an Indian name during the pandemic, the butterfly once again took centre stage.  Flights of fancy  Poonawalla has created two expressions, Flutter and Misty Flutter, as part of the Turin-based brand’s Goldenwall 2020 wallpaper collection. The former uses a ‘stamping method’ of acrylic paint, while the latter is softer, with a more dreamy quality, done with acrylic spray painting. “I did my art keeping in mind its usage as wallpaper. So the design needed to have an infinite feel,” she says. The Pune artist began working with Inkiostro Bianco early this year, exchanging ideas and artwork files over the internet, and did the actual art on white paper so that it could be superimposed on gold foil, one of several metal-effect base materials they’ve used. Though there isn’t a direct inspiration from her video mapping, she says she wanted to create the feeling of an immersive experience and a contemplative space through both mediums. “While works like Introspection forces you to question the world, Goldenwall is intended to be a more calming presence. But they are both intended to take you to a new space, in part through their scale and volume of imagery,” she shares.  Message in a rose  The Italian team met Poonawalla through a common friend during a business trip to India last year. “We were fascinated by her artwork and immediately thought our gold foil wallpaper perfectly matched the aesthetics of her works,” says Elena Grazioli, Marketing & Communication Manager, adding that the range was to have been launched in April, at the Salone del Mobile. It was finally unveiled a few weeks ago. Goldenwall may be the artist’s first time working with an interior brand, but having dipped her toes, she is now looking forward to collaborating on more projects. Meanwhile, the lockdown afforded her time to reflect and explore her practice further. “I’ve been working on a few pieces, such as From Dust to Dust , a stop-motion video work with a single dying rose that is a reflection on nature's ability to humble humanity — something I see as an important message we need to take away from the Covid-19 pandemic. And more traditional works, including 21 Migrants , a sketch that portrays the human tragedy of the impact of Coronavirus in India.”  Gold wallpaper from 96€ (approximately Rs. 8,200) per sq mt. Available at select dealers in cities including New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Details: info@InkiostroBianco.com
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Three dogs, a baby and a route map||It has been over 100 days of staying at home in Delhi with three dogs, a newborn baby and a working-from-home husband who is data-crunching as a researcher. As someone who has travelled quite a lot — both for work, as a journalist, and as a lifestyle, train-hopping across the country with my pets — it has been tough staying indoors. Travel is a way of life for us as a family. Something that Covid-19 and the lockdown has put a hard pause to recently. In the past, we were what you’d call impulsive travellers. During a month-long stay in Landour, Uttarakhand, last year, we hitch-hiked almost every day with our dogs, from market runs and discovering hiking trails to visiting the Jabarkhet Nature Reserve. We’d get rides from milkmen in their mini trucks or from a stranger driving a Maruti car (he let us all squeeze into the back seat). But in the current situation, I know such social interactions, and small generosities, will change. While I dare not dream too big, a simple train journey or road trip to a place with clean air and open spaces is what my mental health needs. Be it by rail or road, I’d pick a familiar route because with the level of uncertainty out there, exploring the unknown, as exciting as it used to be earlier, would be nerve-wracking now.  Rentals and routes  With most travel restricted to roads (the Indian Railways may resume normal operations only by mid-August), I will miss the little shared joys of enjoying a cup of chai at the railway station, chatting with co-passengers, and my dogs’ excitement when attenders drop by with extra packets of soup sticks or a cup of vanilla ice cream. Instead, we must hit the road, packing not only bags full of wipes and sanitisers, but also treats, home cooked meals, baby purees, flasks of hot water and packets of chips for the husband. Road trips will be a new challenge because we don’t own a car and we haven’t got behind the wheel since the baby was born. However, there are plenty of rental services to pick from for a self-driven expedition. After my extensive research, we plan to toss a coin to choose between Avis India and Zoomcar (both have good sanitisation protocols in place, a large network, and a wide range of cars to suit our ‘large’ family). And for our first trip, the choice is between familiar routes such as Rajasthan, with its fantastic roadways (so, less motion sickness for the dogs and an easy initiation for my baby boy) and Madhya Pradesh (to my hometown in Shekhawati).  Conscious travel  As parents, the narrative of how we travel has evolved over time to make it inclusive, local and community driven. On our last trip to Pranpur, in Madhya Pradesh, I remember a village walk in the late afternoon, to meet the local weavers. At each house, the families welcomed us, offering us tea, showing off their family albums, and bringing out piles of handwoven Chanderi saris. Even the dogs were greeted with freshly-made roti and buttermilk. These simple interactions will be a thing of the past. Villagers (or people in general) may not look kindly at strangers coming into their midst. So we will have to adapt — a tough proposition because the whole meaning of travel for us is to have these unexpected adventures and encounters — and enjoy small walks instead, and stick close to our homestay/resort/hotel. Travel goals will no longer be about ticking places off a list, but more about going slow and being sustainable, enjoying a patch of green and the proximity to nature. The future of travel is unmapped, but what is certain is that we will hit the road soon, hopefully as more responsible, conscious and mindful travellers.  The writer is on Instagram, @dugardd
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘honestly’ quiz||Now that we’re all equally fed up of hiding our anxieties under sunny, positive messages, let’s be diplomatically incorrect instead. Hint: do this quiz in front of the mirror, not a cell phone in selfie mode. 1. You stocked up toilet rolls only because everyone else did? You’ve got five points. You’ve also got enough toilet rolls now to audition for The Mummy Returns (whenever it returns, given that time travel may also be banned). 2. Five points if you told your kids to get off their phones. Five more if you sent them messages on their phones to get off their phones. 3. If you’ve subjected your colleagues on any Zoom call to any embarrassing noise, by forgetting to unmute, add five points. If you pretended to scrape the chair to cover the embarrassing noise, another five points. No one was fooled, by the way. 4. Your online life kept you alive. Five points if your status said ‘Busy’ but you were actually scrolling through random posts. Five points if you liked videos you didn’t look through. Five more if you put LOL emojis on jokes you didn’t get. 5. What did you honestly complain loudest about? Five points each if you said virus, the economy, the lockdown and cyclones. And 20 points for protests in America. 6. Innerwear sales dropped. Why do you need innerwear not when you’re in but only when you’re out? Five points if you don’t know what the answer is, 10 points if you don’t know what the question is. 7. No sports happened. Yet, fans stayed glued to sports channels, watching each old game again and again. That was the corner shot just before the opponents scored. You know they scored. You know you felt miserable. Will watching the opponents’ goal again or not watching it make you more miserable? No points, to make you even more miserable. 8. How many such quizzes did you do? Did you follow dots jumping around screens to check your eyesight, memory, mental age, to find your lockdown name, which live celeb you’re a twin of, which dead celeb you’re reborn as? No? Liar! Deduct 20 points. Add up your points: if you scored less than 40, you’re not honest enough and we can’t believe you. If you scored 40 or over, you’re claiming to be so honest that it’s probably a lie. If you didn’t bother counting, congratulations, you’ve passed. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#VanLife for India||Sometime in early 2018, I began researching the camper lifestyle for this newspaper, a trend that was picking up speed in the West. Social media was flooded with stories of millennials leaving well-paying jobs to live off the grid, embracing the #VanLife way: a “one-word lifestyle”, as The New Yorker put it, “denoting a renewed interest in road trips, a culture of hippie-inflected outdoorsiness, and a life free from the tyranny of a nine-to-five office job”. Many early adopters have also made money from product placements and partnerships. But back home it seemed travel junkies were not in step with their peers; it was barely even a trend. Just not the right time, perhaps? Two years on, however, things could be changing. While Indians might not be ready to move into a caravan full-time or even try to monetise a new lifestyle, the pandemic is making them rethink how they holiday. And renting campers could be one of the options.  Call of the road  At a time when lockdown is lifting, travel, either on work or for pleasure, which had come to a screeching halt is stuttering back to life. Maldives, a popular luxury destination for the one-percenters, recently announced the reopening of its borders post July 15, and it is just a matter of time before others follow suit. With the Indian hospitality sector reportedly taking a beating of close to Rs. 90,000 crore in revenues in 2020 (with a corresponding loss of an expected 20 million jobs), it is also heartening to hear that homestays and hotels, especially those promising isolation and high standards of hygiene, are seeing a spike in bookings. Soneva, the luxury resort chain in the Maldives and Thailand, has seen inquiries picking up by 135% this month. “We have more bookings for August this year than we had for the same time last year. And October has 50% more,” reveals Sonu Shivdasani, the CEO, over a webinar on luxury travel. “I think people who were planning to travel for Easter are now doing so later in the year. [The fact that] we are ‘one island one resort’ also helps.” But not everyone wants to go through the hassle of flying, especially with inflated costs and the hours of checking and sanitisation. Instead, driving holidays are becoming the post-Covid answer. And everyone from start-ups to state governments are looking to cash in. “We think people will want to travel closer to home and we see a great opportunity for road trips,” says Valsa Nair Singh, Principal Secretary of Tourism of the Maharashtra government. “We plan to identify existing amenities on popular routes and help them become Covid-19 compliant. We are working on upgrading infrastructure and identifying spots where people can set up camps on beaches along the Konkan coast. We are also looking into the feasibility of promoting RVs.” Have wheels, will travel Close on the heels of the Madhya Pradesh tourism ministry’s launch of luxury caravans in early June, the Karnataka government has now announced a Caravan Tourism initiative in collaboration with Campervan Camps. According to Tiger Ramesh, founder of the Bengaluru-based start-up, the caravan ecosystem is set to change for the better. “People might reluctantly fly for work, but not for holidays,” he says, adding that families are showing the most interest in his LuxeCamper motorhomes (assembled on an Ashok Leyland chassis with a 4,200mm wheelbase). Three thousand kilometres away, Guwahati-based Harsh Sharma, co-founder of Camping Co, has been seeing traffic on his website surge, thanks to ongoing social media campaigns, discounts and advance booking offers. Known for promoting #VanLife with his own spin on the traditional campervan — with roof top tents mounted on a Tata Xenon — he says, “Our product is optimal for social distancing as we travel to remote areas and avoid crowds.” Others like Captain (retired) Suresh Sharma, of Chandigarh-based Green Room Expeditions, are also addressing the global challenge of lack of access to stores (which are either closed, offering reduced services, or pose a high-risk of exposure), by creating additional storage. He is adding a trailer to his overland camping truck, to stock groceries and act as “extra seating”. Continued on page 3   Continued from page 1   Money matters  While #VanLife originally meant hopping on a caravan and roughing it out, the culture mushrooming in India offers a range of experiences. The LuxeCamper — complete with facilities such as queen size beds and imported toilets with waste incinerators — will take you to lesser-known places in Kabini, Bandipur and Hampi in association with the Karnataka government (which is providing exclusive campsites and amenities). Packages are between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 90,000 for two, and they currently have two RVs, with plans to add another 10. Yes, costs can be a challenge. Travel influencer Ankita Kumar (@monkey.inc), who was part of the first documented #VanLife trip in the country back in 2018, says that apart from renting or buying a vehicle, other wallet-lightening factors include fuel and the enormous amount of paperwork (for owners) — from procuring a fitness certificate (issued by the Regional Transport Office annually) to show that your caravan is in working condition, to insurance and tax papers (which can costanywhere between Rs. 25,000 andRs. 30,000).“Itis doable, but it takes a longer time. We’ve sometimes got permissions to visit a certain place just a day before our actual departure!,” says Kumar, who went on a month-long caravan trip across Sikkim with fellow blogger Sharanya Iyer last year. “Government officials, tour operators and van designers need to get in sync otherwise you can’t guarantee clear-cut policies for caravan travel,” adds Captain Sharma. Another bump on the road is the lack of camping sites. The lifestyle relies on finding places to park and sleep, to stock up on water and food, to shower, to name a few. While the pandemic has amplified these inconveniences globally, it is especially tough in India, where we lack demarcated caravan parks. “Things like contactless accommodation at BnBs, making your own meals, and carrying your groceries must be favoured,” says Iyer. Operators like Ramesh are trying to sort out the logistics. Most of them have collaborated with campsites and properties at all the locations listed on their itinerary (a boon for first-timers). Trippy Wheels has partnered with homestays and youth hostels in locations such as Coorg, Chikmagalur, Gokarna and Hampi. And Sharma is updating his fleet of refurbished Tata Xenons and Force Tempo Travellers, which already come with a fridge and a shower, with solar panels to power the appliances. Meanwhile, rental requests for private vans are spiking too. Next week, Sanjna Hangal of Bengaluru-based rental service, Trippy Wheels, will launch her ‘Build your own caravan’ campaign. Assembling your own camper on a Mahindra Imperio or Force Tempo Traveller could cost you anywhere between Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 22 lakh respectively; Hangal hopes to use their experience to keep the prices affordable.  Safety first  Even on the open road, discussions about sanitisation can’t be ignored. Along with handing out safety kits to guests, Ramesh ensures all surfaces in the LuxeCamper are sterilised, and the upholstery and linen steamed (100°C). “The driver and tour leader sit in a cabin up front, isolated from the rear. Initially it was to ensure privacy but now it is working with the new norms,” he says. Travellers can also use an Android tablet to control operations, such as indoor temperature and heating water. Sharma has covered all the seats with single-use plastic sheets, though he admits that “this is a double-edged sword for a pro-conservation company like ours and will only be a necessary short-term decision”. Will travellers be putting others at risk by stepping out? “We believe our guests are responsible adults and won’t [unnecessarily] visit stores, cafes and public places. They will limit interactions to around our LuxeCamper, in safe halting spots,” Ramesh concludes.  With inputs fromPrasad Ramamurthy
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion goes to AI school||“Fake free. Couture curious” reads Nila’s Instagram bio. India’s first virtual model, represented by talent management agency, Inega, just might replace Bollywood showstoppers as the fashion industry goes virtual in the aftermath of the pandemic. With many designers forgoing models — thank social distancing and cancelled events — she could play a big role (along with older CGI models such as the US’ Lil Miquela and the UK’s Shudu Gram) in helping clothes do the talking. In other news, on May 22, Congolese designer Anifa Mvuemba debuted her Pink Label capsule collection on Instagram, with 3D renderings of her clothes moving down the runway. Except, there were no models! The eerie, ghost-like effect aside, the focus was entirely on the outfits. This went well beyond virtual runways, like the one hosted by YouTube in May, where names like Winnie Harlow and Ashley Graham modelled clothes from Fendi, Dior, Oscar de la Renta and others, from their homes.  Tech in the background With design houses looking for new ways to showcase their work in the post Covid-19 scenario, AI tech companies like Bigthinx are offering solutions. The Bengaluru-based outfit works on visualisation solutions for fashion and retail using a software called Lyfsize, which uses two smartphone pictures to determine 44 precise body measurements. “An additional software, Lyflike, uses a selfie to create a lifelike 3D virtual avatar and can recreate clothing in 3D from normal photos,” explains co-founder Chandralika Hazarika,who caters to clients in the US, Europe and India. But when compared to Mvuemba’sshow, the result looks more animated, which can distract from the clothes. However, Shivang Desai,the CEO of Bigthinx,believes the digital effects will only improve as creators “look at pushing boundaries” using technology. “This requires environments and backgrounds that are engaging, interactive and personalised to offer user experiences tailored to the viewer’s moods or personality,” he adds. The Fabricant, an Amsterdam-based digital platform, also creates solutions using both fashion and VFX industries. Clients include Japanese streetwear brand AAPE, for whom they translated physical craftsmanship into digital for their 2019 Spring-Summer collection. “The foundational knowledge of patterns and garment construction applies to these tools as much as they do in the real world. The technology should be in the background so they don’t have to worry about technicalities,” says founder Kerry Murphy. They’re working with American brand Tommy Hilfiger too, in their ongoing transition towards full digital design by Spring 2022.  Time over money For designers who want to get involved directly in the process, Murphy suggests tools like CLO3D, which are fairly easy to learn (with plenty of free online resources). He believes that investing in hardware is critical because professional tools will differentiate the novice from the pros. “I see the investment being less than it is for physical tools and materials. The whole fashion value chain can exist in one PC,” he explains. Desai adds that staying up-to-date does not need a big budget either. A yearly subscription for CLO3D, for instance, starts at around Rs. 35,000. “It does require time, effort and patience to catch up and stay informed of all new developments. Designers should spend a few hours a week on learning how to navigate it.” After creating a virtual show for New York-based networking platform, Fashinnovation, in early June, Bigthinx will be part of Lineapelle, the international leather fair in Italy, later this year. In earlier interviews, Murphy predicted that designer virtual clothing is something that consumers will soon be willing to invest in. To encourage a move in this direction, The Fabricant has launched the beta version of Leela, a platform that allows users to try on digital fashion in a 3D avatar. If the pandemic continues to keep us indoors and isolated for the near future, retail therapy for our digital avatars just might be the way to go.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinemas: a cautious reopening||Earlier this week, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that cinemas could reopen from July 4. Cineworld and Vue, both global chains with hundreds of screens worldwide, announced plans of reopening UK cinemas from July 10, with adequate safety precautions in place. I am using the UK as a microcosm for scenarios that could play out worldwide, in case you were wondering. There was immediate controversy as Cineworld CEO Mooky Greidinger said that while his staff will be required to wear masks, the audience wouldn’t. This understandably irked Cineworld staff, who would be risking their lives by inadvertently inhaling the coronavirus from an unmasked customer, and they promptly began a petition to fight this. In the US, where some people feel that wearing masks is an affront to their personal liberty, the AMC chain initially said that it was not mandatory for audience members to wear masks, then did a U-turn and said that it was. Regal, owned by Cineworld, did a similar flip-flop. Wherever it is, including India, it will boil down to the specific cinema on the day, and the audience and staff. I’m sure the hapless cinema workers in India aren’t looking forward to a belligerent unmasked audience member bellowing the equivalent of “Do you know who I am?” But enough of masks (no, not really, do wear them). What will we get to see when cinema screens reopen, and we muster up enough courage to enter them? There are three keenly anticipated big Hollywood films due in the July/August box-office frame – Christopher Nolan’s Tenet , the live-action version of Disney’s Mulan and the return of Gal Gadot in Wonder Woman 1984 . Before that, distributors will test the waters with a wealth of repertory titles including a 4K release of Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back ; the best of Nolan including Dunkirk , Inception , Batman , and Batman Begins ; various franchises including The Fast and the Furious , Harry Potter , The Matrix , Twilight and Mad Max ; re-releases — of recent titles like 1917 , Little Women and Parasite . We must also take a moment to bless the cinemas that are planning to bring back classics like 2001: A Space Odyssey and Lawrence of Arabia . Last week, speaking at annual global cinema conference CineEurope, held virtually this year for obvious reasons, Steven O’Dell, president of Sony Pictures, said, “What you can feel is that you can have the biggest television that can be in the house, and people are pulling out their hair to get outside.” Unless you are filthy rich and have a state-of-the-art home cinema, there is just no way to replicate the theatrical experience. There’s also the question of whether I am ready to go back to theatres. The disease no amount of social distancing can cure in cinemas around the world is the annoying people who continually play with their phones — the glare of which destroys the moments that have taken filmmakers years to create. If Thor’s hammer can be deployed instantly on such idiots, I’ll be first in line when cinemas reopen.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Piano’s meditative rockstar||Sahil Vasudeva’s hair is ringed in a halo of light. His fingers caress the Yamaha grand as his sneakers hold down the pedal. Only the truly gifted can make the piano sound like a booming drum and still seek out lyrical filigrees. Onstage, the 33-year-old is a flamboyant rockstar; the music bubbling and flowing. Offstage, he is austere and meditative. And both times, all he asks is that we listen — as he navigates his musical journey to the shore in his debut album, Qinara . The Delhi-based pianist has been playing since the age of eight, but not until he was 25 did he pursue music full time. By then his life had followed an unusual trajectory, from his childhood in the Capital to a banker’s job in New York. But the music of the piano was to be his calling. “I quit my job and returned to India to work in the development sector. Three years later it was the piano that won,” says Vasudeva in a phone interview. In the beginning, he threw in theatre, mixed media and film photography. “Playing the piano is the happiest part of my life, but I had no clue how to convert it into a career. So I decided to take it beyond the rigidity of concert halls, beyond suits and ties and questions as to when to clap and when not to. Beyond the trope of a white man at the keys.” Vasudeva also realised that there was so much to offer his audience in terms of original piano music from India. After reimagining the works of influential composers like the American Philip Glass, he decided to launch Qinara . The album was to be recorded after it saw a well-received run at the Oddbird Theatre late last year. But with the Covid-19 pandemic playing spoilsport, he is now releasing the live concerts as a series on YouTube. The music is minimalistic in terms of how Vasudeva caresses the keys, but extravagant in terms of sound. With an average length of eight minutes, each piece tumbles gently like autumn leaves, charging like cavaliers on a battlefield in some sections. The melodies leap over a chasm, letting Indian and western tunes meet in a manner that is pleasing to the ear. He explores the dense complexities of modern sound with airy oscillations and repetitions. The music is rightly aimed at 20 to 40-year-olds who live in a digital landscape, and its narrative decided by light, floral notes and verses that rise and fall gently like a personal message. Available on YouTube.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Open Prison Voices: Along the lines of Humans of New York, this photo project by Prison Aid + Action Research brings to light stories from the open prisons of Rajasthan. In these facilities, inmates serve their sentences with minimal supervision and perimeter security. From Sanganer, Pooja Chhabra tells us why she chose to grow flowers, Samay Singh Gurjar talks about living with his family, while Abdul Karim tells us about the inmate friends he has made. Follow @openprisonvoices on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing for plants||The Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona played for the first time since mid-March: the seats were filled with 2,292 plants. The Concert for the Biocene came the day after Spain finally lifted the emergency order put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. On their FB page, watch a string quartet aptly play Giacomo Puccini's ‘Chrysanthemums’ for their leafy audience. Meanwhile, Kaushik Ramachandran has launched a new song, ‘Akele’, as part of Terribly Tiny Tales' Songs from Home series. @ttt_official on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-care sessions||In Prakriti Foundation's workshop, facilitated by Sisters Living Works, learn how to reach out to those around you struggling with their mental health and how you can help. Today at 4 pm. Register for free on bit.ly/SPWS04. If you’re looking for some lighter ways to deal with the pandemic, try kawaii doodling, cooking Indian curries or learn how pleasure can be a form of self-care for women and non-binary people. As part of The Talking Market's virtual weekend edit, today and tomorrow. @thebackyardclan on Instagram.7358458117
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playdates and comics||The GSP Skill Building workshops for kids will help them hone skills in photography, news writing, storytelling and comic making through online sessions. On June 29 and 30. From Rs. 300 per head for both days. Details on cseindia.org. Expand your child's friends circle with Playdates. The online platform connects kids with similar interests in themed sessions that engage four- to eight-year-olds in sensory and observation skills, among others. From Rs. 499 per month. Details on play-dates.com.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Covid-19 vaccine: Novak Djokovic was in the news for all the wrong reasons earlier this week. The top-seeded tennis player has apologised for backing the ill-advised Adria Tour as he and wife Jelena, among others, have tested positive for Covid-19. Despite this, it looks like UFC's Fight Island matches will continue in Abu Dhabi as planned for July. And talks are on to host cricket's Asia Cup in either UAE or Sri Lanka in September or October. Wherever the sporting event, best tune in via TV.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pride watch||Chaka Khan, Laverne Cox and Peppermint lead a special Netflix Pride show that includes Queer Eye’s Fab Five, Tituss Burgess, Monet X Change and Alice Wu, among others. On YouTube at 4.30 am IST on July 1. Take a pop culture quiz hosted by Vivek Tejuja, author ofSo Now You Know: A Memoir of Growing Up Gay in India. On June 28 at 3.45 pm. Or join the Queer Carnival, with performances by Lush Monsoon, Durga Gawde, Rahul Manhas and more. On June 28. Tickets at Rs. 99 and Rs. 500 respectively on insider.in.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Skill up your hospitality||Rémy Cointreau has partnered with Flow Hospitality Training to offer free accredited online training to hospitality workers. This includes bartending, food, health and safety, management and leadership. Email remy-cointreau@ flowhospitalitytraining.co.uk for details. For those who love to entertain at home, learn how to shake and stir up some iconic gin cocktails with bartenders Madhu and Susan. Today, from 6 pm to 7 pm on Zoom. Register for free at tulleeho.com. Only 20 places available.7011702081
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrity stories||Kevin Hart’s new bookThe Decisionis now available as an Audible Original audiobook. The stand-up comic and actor takes on a new role as life coach in this follow-up to hisNew York Timesbest-selling memoir,I Can't Make This Up. Learn about the practical steps you’ll need to track and reach your goals. Sarah, Duchess of York's, YouTube channel has amassed over three lakh views. The 60-year-old has been dressing up and reading popular books likeThe Wonky DonkeyandLittle Red Riding Hoodto entertain kids.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, join chef Eeshaan Kashyap to learn how to make your kitchen a zero-waste space. Plus easy ways to make exciting dishes from vegetable peels and what to do with coffee powder, old banana peels, eggshells, fruit pulp or tea bags. In conversation with columnist Vasudha Rai at 5 pm @thehinduweekend. From earlier this week, influencer Anupriya Kapur's session on social media brand building, Astad Deboo on dance and social change and Shoojit Sircar's #DirectorsOnDirectors chat are now on IGTV.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Are we there yet?||Earlier this week, for the first time since the arrival of the pandemic, I decided to sit with someone (other than family), relax and have a drink. She came over and, at first, we lingered by the door. Where earlier we would’ve hugged, now we were maintaining a physical distance. There was the joy of finally being able to meet, but also the realisation that Covid-19 had affected the way we were behaving around each other. How would we cope, we wondered, if say, we decided to drive to Goa tomorrow? The thought of escaping our four walls has been on all our minds. But would we be putting ourselves, or others, at risk? Is it selfish to think about travelling for pleasure when so many are struggling to get by? As the contents of a bottle of red emptied, the questions eased and the world became a little rosier. Ultimately, we realised we’re not there yet, in our minds. To pack our bags and leave the relative safety of our homes. Safety checks in place Mind you, as a journalist who reports on travel and tourism, getting out of the house is a required act. And I know the travel industry is doing everything it can to assure us and entice us back. Airports, airlines and car rental companies are showing us the sanitised way forward. Hotels and home rental companies have developed exhaustive routines to keep us safe. The Oberoi, Hyatt, The Park, Accor, ITC, The Lalit and the Hilton: they’re all delivering food home (yes, they also badly need the revenue) and using social media to broadcast both cooking lessons and the resident DJ spinning tracks. Marriott is using its sheer size to create a new model of conferencing across cities. Smaller boutiques like RAAS and Suryagarh are leasing organic farms to better control the food chain to their kitchens. And operators like Jehan Numa Expeditions and Kipling Camp are taking us on Insta-Live safaris to see dhol e (Asian wild dog) packs gorging on a kill. Airbnb is also offering virtual experiences (say, bee-keeping in Portugal) and partnering with local governments and NGOs to showcase local experiences. They’re all reminders that millions of jobs, and a fair chunk of the economy, depends on our willingness to travel again. Tourism, after all, does have a massive multiplier effect that goes far beyond airlines and hotels. You visit Jaipur, you buy a pair of juttis . That money gets paid down all the way to the family that cures the leather. It finds its way into the hands of the local community, benefiting many more than the industry directly employs. And tourism has not received any direct aid to help it tide over the ill-effects of the pandemic.  Common sense over fear  More importantly, I know I’m not ready to give up on the many trips I want to take. To Manipur and Tel Aviv. To Dudhwa and Rwanda. Across Chhattisgarh and the Stans. And, yes, Antarctica. No virtual medium can match the adrenaline rush of seeing hippos spar in the flesh, or convey the aroma wafting out of a dum biryani on a Hyderabad street. The key, I’ve rationalised, lies in trusting again. You step out of the door and you’re immediately placing your safety in the hands of a taxi driver, an airline pilot, housekeeping staff, sous chefs, bartenders and everyone else who is there to ensure your trip is a success. To travel then is to trust. And to be logical, not hypochondriacal. We know how the virus spreads and we know the precautions we ought to take. I’ll wear my mask, a pair of gloves and even a face shield when I step out. If I do need to take the gloves off, I’ll remember to wash my hands. If I take the mask off, it’ll only be when I’m at some distance from other people. I should then get into my own clean car and make a road trip of it. Drive to a hotel I trust and stay there. Feel the sand under my feet, the wind in my hair. Yes, I think I can do that. Though I’ve just heard about a luxury camper van being launched in Bengaluru. Oh, the possibilities! But, baby steps.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I’ll be the filter’||Fashion’s creative directors, stars even before their appointment at a legacy brand, have to deal with too many expectations these days. How well can they communicate with millennials (or now, Gen Z), and mastermind unexpected collaborations? Are they comfortable addressing gender, identity and other issues? How soon can they turn a sluggish label’s fortunes around? Virgil Abloh, artistic designer of Louis Vuitton menswear, set the tone for the above. Five years after being appointed as Gucci’s head, Alessandro Michele is relentless with his high-concept ideas. So while one cannot compare Satya Paul, the 35-year-old Indian sari brand with a print heritage, these global fashion houses, it is fair to say that one is curious and hopeful about the plans of its new creative director, Rajesh Pratap Singh. Post-Covid relevance For well over two decades, Singh, 51, with his eponymous label, has built a reputation for innovative fabrics and often architectural or stark silhouettes. For his white shirt, indigo-dyed denim and R&D with khadi, ikat, wool, even aluminium and steel in his fabrics. His research for his first collaborative collection with The Woolmark Company back in 2013 gave him a fine understanding of yarns and weaves across the country. And this will come into play at a time when the coronavirus impact on Indian crafts and handlooms calls for many saviours. In The Voice of Fashion ’s recent Rebuilding Report, Dastkar’s Laila Tyabji writes that designers will have to “move out of their comfort zones and work with craftspeople in distant clusters all over India, rather than just piggyback onto familiar master craftspeople already in the market”. Singh has been doing just that for a while now, acquainting himself with “different looms and addas ”. But the NIFT graduate with a high-profile clientele that goes well beyond Bollywood, prefers to let his work speak for itself. Often reluctant to be interviewed, he tells me over the phone from Delhi, “I’m not a very articulate man and I am not very good at expressing myself”. But he admits that there have been a few changes at Satya Paul, some “decluttering”. “Mr Satya Paul had initially done a lot with Indian textiles. I want to visit that again and make it more relevant to the times,” he says. Happier with the term ‘modern’ rather than ‘minimalist’, Singh has begun with a capsule collection of linen shirts for men (Rs. 4,995) onwards. Jungle themed, they have names like Happy Hummers featuring hummingbirds or the Mangal Shirt with tropical leaves and monkeys. The thing about sustainability “These shirts are a taste of things to come,” he allows, adding that saris are next. “When we started talking about the collection, the fires were raging in the Amazon and Australia. We had few episodes in India as well. From that point of view, there were discussions in the studio: on nature, our relationship with it and how irresponsible and ungrateful we are.” Which brings us to the designer’s uneasiness with the term ‘sustainability’, even when his own company has been lauded for its environment-friendly practices. When receiving GQ magazine’s Fashion Sustainability Award in 2018, his short acceptance speech was about sustainability not being a fashion or a trend. I ask him about this. “It’s when you start using these labels that you start restricting yourself. We can’t be the messiahs of sustainability,” is his reply, and he adds, “To sustain the business we have to be commercially sustainable. There are balances which we have to make. I don’t have perfect answers, and that’s why I don’t like to use these words.” On the job We talk about him leading the two labels and how challenging he expects it to be. “The process and the core remains the same, and it is just the visual language that will change. There will be a lot of experimentation.” Will we see signature details like motorbike sleeves on kurtas? "It is a different language in that sense. I have to respect the DNA of Satya Paul. The brand is much more than who I am. Luckily for me, the (Satya Paul) team is fairly large. It is more guidance, and I will act as a filter. It is a more holistic approach at Satya Paul,” he explains. It helps that RPS is known for creating fabrics that are tailoring worthy. “Probably that is one knowledge I can bring to the table with Satya Paul. We want to work with the finest weavers, the finest printers, craftsmen and the process has already started,” says Singh, whose network includes the Bhutti weavers in Kullu and craftspeople in Maheshwar and Kumaon. It is why Shefalee Vasudev of VOF says she is looking forward to Singh’s synergy with “the completely different, almost contradictory DNA of Satya Paul as imagined by its founder and creative directors so far”. I couldn’t agree more.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Wings on paper||Michelle Poonawalla juggles many hats: wife, mother, businesswoman, philanthropist, artist. It is as the latter that she has showcased at galleries across the country (solo exhibitions such as What If You Fly? and Born Free ), the Kochi-Muziris Biennale 2018 and Dubai Art Week 2019 (multi-media installation, Introspection ). Her canvases, her unique ruler technique — which she learnt from her grandfather, artist Jehangir Vazifdar — and explorations with digital video mapping have made her a recognised name in the field. Through it all, she has taken her signature motif, the butterfly, with her. “It is synonymous with me and my style, from my very first art piece. To me the butterfly can depict multiple meanings. It reminds us of the fragility of life, freedom, the feeling of hope and love, and a metamorphosis,” says Poonawalla. So when she collaborated with Italian furnishings company, Inkiostro Bianco, in one of the few global interior design collaborations with an Indian name during the pandemic, the butterfly once again took centre stage.  Flights of fancy  Poonawalla has created two expressions, Flutter and Misty Flutter, as part of the Turin-based brand’s Goldenwall 2020 wallpaper collection. The former uses a ‘stamping method’ of acrylic paint, while the latter is softer, with a more dreamy quality, done with acrylic spray painting. “I did my art keeping in mind its usage as wallpaper. So the design needed to have an infinite feel,” she says. The Pune artist began working with Inkiostro Bianco early this year, exchanging ideas and artwork files over the internet, and did the actual art on white paper so that it could be superimposed on gold foil, one of several metal-effect base materials they’ve used. Though there isn’t a direct inspiration from her video mapping, she says she wanted to create the feeling of an immersive experience and a contemplative space through both mediums. “While works like Introspection forces you to question the world, Goldenwall is intended to be a more calming presence. But they are both intended to take you to a new space, in part through their scale and volume of imagery,” she shares.  Message in a rose  The Italian team met Poonawalla through a common friend during a business trip to India last year. “We were fascinated by her artwork and immediately thought our gold foil wallpaper perfectly matched the aesthetics of her works,” says Elena Grazioli, Marketing & Communication Manager, adding that the range was to have been launched in April, at the Salone del Mobile. It was finally unveiled a few weeks ago. Goldenwall may be the artist’s first time working with an interior brand, but having dipped her toes, she is now looking forward to collaborating on more projects. Meanwhile, the lockdown afforded her time to reflect and explore her practice further. “I’ve been working on a few pieces, such as From Dust to Dust , a stop-motion video work with a single dying rose that is a reflection on nature's ability to humble humanity — something I see as an important message we need to take away from the Covid-19 pandemic. And more traditional works, including 21 Migrants , a sketch that portrays the human tragedy of the impact of Coronavirus in India.”  Gold wallpaper from 96€ (approximately Rs. 8,200) per sq mt. Available at select dealers in cities including New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Details: info@InkiostroBianco.com
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#VanLife for India||Sometime in early 2018, I began researching the camper lifestyle for this newspaper, a trend that was picking up speed in the West. Social media was flooded with stories of millennials leaving well-paying jobs to live off the grid, embracing the #VanLife way: a “one-word lifestyle”, as The New Yorker put it, “denoting a renewed interest in road trips, a culture of hippie-inflected outdoorsiness, and a life free from the tyranny of a nine-to-five office job”. Many early adopters have also made money from product placements and partnerships. But back home it seemed travel junkies were not in step with their peers; it was barely even a trend. Just not the right time, perhaps? Two years on, however, things could be changing. While Indians might not be ready to move into a caravan full-time or even try to monetise a new lifestyle, the pandemic is making them rethink how they holiday. And renting campers could be one of the options.  Call of the road  At a time when lockdown is lifting, travel, either on work or for pleasure, which had come to a screeching halt is stuttering back to life. Maldives, a popular luxury destination for the one-percenters, recently announced the reopening of its borders post July 15, and it is just a matter of time before others follow suit. With the Indian hospitality sector reportedly taking a beating of close to Rs. 90,000 crore in revenues in 2020 (with a corresponding loss of an expected 20 million jobs), it is also heartening to hear that homestays and hotels, especially those promising isolation and high standards of hygiene, are seeing a spike in bookings. Soneva, the luxury resort chain in the Maldives and Thailand, has seen inquiries picking up by 135% this month. “We have more bookings for August this year than we had for the same time last year. And October has 50% more,” reveals Sonu Shivdasani, the CEO, over a webinar on luxury travel. “I think people who were planning to travel for Easter are now doing so later in the year. [The fact that] we are ‘one island one resort’ also helps.” But not everyone wants to go through the hassle of flying, especially with inflated costs and the hours of checking and sanitisation. Instead, driving holidays are becoming the post-Covid answer. And everyone from start-ups to state governments are looking to cash in. “We think people will want to travel closer to home and we see a great opportunity for road trips,” says Valsa Nair Singh, Principal Secretary of Tourism of the Maharashtra government. “We plan to identify existing amenities on popular routes and help them become Covid-19 compliant. We are working on upgrading infrastructure and identifying spots where people can set up camps on beaches along the Konkan coast. We are also looking into the feasibility of promoting RVs.” Have wheels, will travel Close on the heels of the Madhya Pradesh tourism ministry’s launch of luxury caravans in early June, the Karnataka government has now announced a Caravan Tourism initiative in collaboration with Campervan Camps. According to Tiger Ramesh, founder of the Bengaluru-based start-up, the caravan ecosystem is set to change for the better. “People might reluctantly fly for work, but not for holidays,” he says, adding that families are showing the most interest in his LuxeCamper motorhomes (assembled on an Ashok Leyland chassis with a 4,200mm wheelbase). Three thousand kilometres away, Guwahati-based Harsh Sharma, co-founder of Camping Co, has been seeing traffic on his website surge, thanks to ongoing social media campaigns, discounts and advance booking offers. Known for promoting #VanLife with his own spin on the traditional campervan — with roof top tents mounted on a Tata Xenon — he says, “Our product is optimal for social distancing as we travel to remote areas and avoid crowds.” Others like Captain (retired) Suresh Sharma, of Chandigarh-based Green Room Expeditions, are also addressing the global challenge of lack of access to stores (which are either closed, offering reduced services, or pose a high-risk of exposure), by creating additional storage. He is adding a trailer to his overland camping truck, to stock groceries and act as “extra seating”.  Money matters While #VanLife originally meant hopping on a caravan and roughing it out, the culture mushrooming in India offers a range of experiences. The LuxeCamper — complete with facilities such as queen size beds and imported toilets with waste incinerators — will take you to lesser-known places in Kabini, Bandipur and Hampi in association with the Karnataka government (which is providing exclusive campsites and amenities). Packages are between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 90,000 for two, and they currently have two RVs, with plans to add another 10. Yes, costs can be a challenge. Travel influencer Ankita Kumar (@monkey.inc), who was part of the first documented #VanLife trip in the country back in 2018, says that apart from renting or buying a vehicle, other wallet-lightening factors include fuel and the enormous amount of paperwork (for owners) — from procuring a fitness certificate (issued by the Regional Transport Office annually) to show that your caravan is in working condition, to insurance and tax papers (which can costanywhere between Rs. 25,000 andRs. 30,000).“Itis doable, but it takes a longer time. We’ve sometimes got permissions to visit a certain place just a day before our actual departure!,” says Kumar, who went on a month-long caravan trip across Sikkim with fellow blogger Sharanya Iyer last year. “Government officials, tour operators and van designers need to get in sync otherwise you can’t guarantee clear-cut policies for caravan travel,” adds Captain Sharma.  Continued on page 3 Another bump on the road is the lack of camping sites. The lifestyle relies on finding places to park and sleep, to stock up on water and food, to shower, to name a few. While the pandemic has amplified these inconveniences globally, it is especially tough in India, where we lack demarcated caravan parks. “Things like contactless accommodation at BnBs, making your own meals, and carrying your groceries must be favoured,” says Iyer. Operators like Ramesh are trying to sort out the logistics. Most of them have collaborated with campsites and properties at all the locations listed on their itinerary (a boon for first-timers). Trippy Wheels has partnered with homestays and youth hostels in locations such as Coorg, Chikmagalur, Gokarna and Hampi. And Sharma is updating his fleet of refurbished Tata Xenons and Force Tempo Travellers, which already come with a fridge and a shower, with solar panels to power the appliances. Meanwhile, rental requests for private vans are spiking too. Next week, Sanjna Hangal of Bengaluru-based rental service, Trippy Wheels, will launch her ‘Build your own caravan’ campaign. Assembling your own camper on a Mahindra Imperio or Force Tempo Traveller could cost you anywhere between Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 22 lakh respectively; Hangal hopes to use their experience to keep the prices affordable.  Safety first  Even on the open road, discussions about sanitisation can’t be ignored. Along with handing out safety kits to guests, Ramesh ensures all surfaces in the LuxeCamper are sterilised, and the upholstery and linen steamed (100°C). “The driver and tour leader sit in a cabin up front, isolated from the rear. Initially it was to ensure privacy but now it is working with the new norms,” he says. Travellers can also use an Android tablet to control operations, such as indoor temperature and heating water. Sharma has covered all the seats with single-use plastic sheets, though he admits that “this is a double-edged sword for a pro-conservation company like ours and will only be a necessary short-term decision”. Will travellers be putting others at risk by stepping out? “We believe our guests are responsible adults and won’t [unnecessarily] visit stores, cafes and public places. They will limit interactions to around our LuxeCamper, in safe halting spots,” Ramesh concludes.  With inputs fromPrasad Ramamurthy
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘honestly’ quiz||Now that we’re all equally fed up of hiding our anxieties under sunny, positive messages, let’s be diplomatically incorrect instead. Hint: do this quiz in front of the mirror, not a cell phone in selfie mode. 1. You stocked up toilet rolls only because everyone else did? You’ve got five points. You’ve also got enough toilet rolls now to audition for The Mummy Returns (whenever it returns, given that time travel may also be banned). 2. Five points if you told your kids to get off their phones. Five more if you sent them messages on their phones to get off their phones. 3. If you’ve subjected your colleagues on any Zoom call to any embarrassing noise, by forgetting to unmute, add five points. If you pretended to scrape the chair to cover the embarrassing noise, another five points. No one was fooled, by the way. 4. Your online life kept you alive. Five points if your status said ‘Busy’ but you were actually scrolling through random posts. Five points if you liked videos you didn’t look through. Five more if you put LOL emojis on jokes you didn’t get. 5. What did you honestly complain loudest about? Five points each if you said virus, the economy, the lockdown and cyclones. And 20 points for protests in America. 6. Innerwear sales dropped. Why do you need innerwear not when you’re in but only when you’re out? Five points if you don’t know what the answer is, 10 points if you don’t know what the question is. 7. No sports happened. Yet, fans stayed glued to sports channels, watching each old game again and again. That was the corner shot just before the opponents scored. You know they scored. You know you felt miserable. Will watching the opponents’ goal again or not watching it make you more miserable? No points, to make you even more miserable. 8. How many such quizzes did you do? Did you follow dots jumping around screens to check your eyesight, memory, mental age, to find your lockdown name, which live celeb you’re a twin of, which dead celeb you’re reborn as? No? Liar! Deduct 20 points. Add up your points: if you scored less than 40, you’re not honest enough and we can’t believe you. If you scored 40 or over, you’re claiming to be so honest that it’s probably a lie. If you didn’t bother counting, congratulations, you’ve passed. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Three dogs, a baby and a route map||It has been over 100 days of staying at home in Delhi with three dogs, a newborn baby and a working-from-home husband who is data-crunching as a researcher. As someone who has travelled quite a lot — both for work, as a journalist, and as a lifestyle, train-hopping across the country with my pets — it has been tough staying indoors. Travel is a way of life for us as a family. Something that Covid-19 and the lockdown has put a hard pause to recently. In the past, we were what you’d call impulsive travellers. During a month-long stay in Landour, Uttarakhand, last year, we hitch-hiked almost every day with our dogs, from market runs and discovering hiking trails to visiting the Jabarkhet Nature Reserve. We’d get rides from milkmen in their mini trucks or from a stranger driving a Maruti car (he let us all squeeze into the back seat). But in the current situation, I know such social interactions, and small generosities, will change. While I dare not dream too big, a simple train journey or road trip to a place with clean air and open spaces is what my mental health needs. Be it by rail or road, I’d pick a familiar route because with the level of uncertainty out there, exploring the unknown, as exciting as it used to be earlier, would be nerve-wracking now.  Rentals and routes  With most travel restricted to roads (the Indian Railways may resume normal operations only by mid-August), I will miss the little shared joys of enjoying a cup of chai at the railway station, chatting with co-passengers, and my dogs’ excitement when attenders drop by with extra packets of soup sticks or a cup of vanilla ice cream. Instead, we must hit the road, packing not only bags full of wipes and sanitisers, but also treats, home cooked meals, baby purees, flasks of hot water and packets of chips for the husband. Road trips will be a new challenge because we don’t own a car and we haven’t got behind the wheel since the baby was born. However, there are plenty of rental services to pick from for a self-driven expedition. After my extensive research, we plan to toss a coin to choose between Avis India and Zoomcar (both have good sanitisation protocols in place, a large network, and a wide range of cars to suit our ‘large’ family). And for our first trip, the choice is between familiar routes such as Rajasthan, with its fantastic roadways (so, less motion sickness for the dogs and an easy initiation for my baby boy) and Madhya Pradesh (to my hometown in Shekhawati).  Conscious travel  As parents, the narrative of how we travel has evolved over time to make it inclusive, local and community driven. On our last trip to Pranpur, in Madhya Pradesh, I remember a village walk in the late afternoon, to meet the local weavers. At each house, the families welcomed us, offering us tea, showing off their family albums, and bringing out piles of handwoven Chanderi saris. Even the dogs were greeted with freshly-made roti and buttermilk. These simple interactions will be a thing of the past. Villagers (or people in general) may not look kindly at strangers coming into their midst. So we will have to adapt — a tough proposition because the whole meaning of travel for us is to have these unexpected adventures and encounters — and enjoy small walks instead, and stick close to our homestay/resort/hotel. Travel goals will no longer be about ticking places off a list, but more about going slow and being sustainable, enjoying a patch of green and the proximity to nature. The future of travel is unmapped, but what is certain is that we will hit the road soon, hopefully as more responsible, conscious and mindful travellers.  The writer is on Instagram, @dugardd
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion goes to AI school||“Fake free. Couture curious” reads Nila’s Instagram bio. India’s first virtual model, represented by talent management agency, Inega, just might replace Bollywood showstoppers as the fashion industry goes virtual in the aftermath of the pandemic. With many designers forgoing models — thank social distancing and cancelled events — she could play a big role (along with older CGI models such as the US’ Lil Miquela and the UK’s Shudu Gram) in helping clothes do the talking. In other news, on May 22, Congolese designer Anifa Mvuemba debuted her Pink Label capsule collection on Instagram, with 3D renderings of her clothes moving down the runway. Except, there were no models! The eerie, ghost-like effect aside, the focus was entirely on the outfits. This went well beyond virtual runways, like the one hosted by YouTube in May, where names like Winnie Harlow and Ashley Graham modelled clothes from Fendi, Dior, Oscar de la Renta and others, from their homes.  Tech in the background With design houses looking for new ways to showcase their work in the post Covid-19 scenario, AI tech companies like Bigthinx are offering solutions. The Bengaluru-based outfit works on visualisation solutions for fashion and retail using a software called Lyfsize, which uses two smartphone pictures to determine 44 precise body measurements. “An additional software, Lyflike, uses a selfie to create a lifelike 3D virtual avatar and can recreate clothing in 3D from normal photos,” explains co-founder Chandralika Hazarika,who caters to clients in the US, Europe and India. But when compared to Mvuemba’sshow, the result looks more animated, which can distract from the clothes. However, Shivang Desai,the CEO of Bigthinx,believes the digital effects will only improve as creators “look at pushing boundaries” using technology. “This requires environments and backgrounds that are engaging, interactive and personalised to offer user experiences tailored to the viewer’s moods or personality,” he adds. The Fabricant, an Amsterdam-based digital platform, also creates solutions using both fashion and VFX industries. Clients include Japanese streetwear brand AAPE, for whom they translated physical craftsmanship into digital for their 2019 Spring-Summer collection. “The foundational knowledge of patterns and garment construction applies to these tools as much as they do in the real world. The technology should be in the background so they don’t have to worry about technicalities,” says founder Kerry Murphy. They’re working with American brand Tommy Hilfiger too, in their ongoing transition towards full digital design by Spring 2022.  Time over money For designers who want to get involved directly in the process, Murphy suggests tools like CLO3D, which are fairly easy to learn (with plenty of free online resources). He believes that investing in hardware is critical because professional tools will differentiate the novice from the pros. “I see the investment being less than it is for physical tools and materials. The whole fashion value chain can exist in one PC,” he explains. Desai adds that staying up-to-date does not need a big budget either. A yearly subscription for CLO3D, for instance, starts at around Rs. 35,000. “It does require time, effort and patience to catch up and stay informed of all new developments. Designers should spend a few hours a week on learning how to navigate it.” After creating a virtual show for New York-based networking platform, Fashinnovation, in early June, Bigthinx will be part of Lineapelle, the international leather fair in Italy, later this year. In earlier interviews, Murphy predicted that designer virtual clothing is something that consumers will soon be willing to invest in. To encourage a move in this direction, The Fabricant has launched the beta version of Leela, a platform that allows users to try on digital fashion in a 3D avatar. If the pandemic continues to keep us indoors and isolated for the near future, retail therapy for our digital avatars just might be the way to go.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinemas: a cautious reopening||Earlier this week, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that cinemas could reopen from July 4. Cineworld and Vue, both global chains with hundreds of screens worldwide, announced plans of reopening UK cinemas from July 10, with adequate safety precautions in place. I am using the UK as a microcosm for scenarios that could play out worldwide, in case you were wondering. There was immediate controversy as Cineworld CEO Mooky Greidinger said that while his staff will be required to wear masks, the audience wouldn’t. This understandably irked Cineworld staff, who would be risking their lives by inadvertently inhaling the coronavirus from an unmasked customer, and they promptly began a petition to fight this. In the US, where some people feel that wearing masks is an affront to their personal liberty, the AMC chain initially said that it was not mandatory for audience members to wear masks, then did a U-turn and said that it was. Regal, owned by Cineworld, did a similar flip-flop. Wherever it is, including India, it will boil down to the specific cinema on the day, and the audience and staff. I’m sure the hapless cinema workers in India aren’t looking forward to a belligerent unmasked audience member bellowing the equivalent of “Do you know who I am?” But enough of masks (no, not really, do wear them). What will we get to see when cinema screens reopen, and we muster up enough courage to enter them? There are three keenly anticipated big Hollywood films due in the July/August box-office frame – Christopher Nolan’s Tenet , the live-action version of Disney’s Mulan and the return of Gal Gadot in Wonder Woman 1984 . Before that, distributors will test the waters with a wealth of repertory titles including a 4K release of Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back ; the best of Nolan including Dunkirk , Inception , Batman , and Batman Begins ; various franchises including The Fast and the Furious , Harry Potter , The Matrix , Twilight and Mad Max ; re-releases — of recent titles like 1917 , Little Women and Parasite . We must also take a moment to bless the cinemas that are planning to bring back classics like 2001: A Space Odyssey and Lawrence of Arabia . Last week, speaking at annual global cinema conference CineEurope, held virtually this year for obvious reasons, Steven O’Dell, president of Sony Pictures, said, “What you can feel is that you can have the biggest television that can be in the house, and people are pulling out their hair to get outside.” Unless you are filthy rich and have a state-of-the-art home cinema, there is just no way to replicate the theatrical experience. There’s also the question of whether I am ready to go back to theatres. The disease no amount of social distancing can cure in cinemas around the world is the annoying people who continually play with their phones — the glare of which destroys the moments that have taken filmmakers years to create. If Thor’s hammer can be deployed instantly on such idiots, I’ll be first in line when cinemas reopen.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Piano’s meditative rockstar||Sahil Vasudeva’s hair is ringed in a halo of light. His fingers caress the Yamaha grand as his sneakers hold down the pedal. Only the truly gifted can make the piano sound like a booming drum and still seek out lyrical filigrees. Onstage, the 33-year-old is a flamboyant rockstar; the music bubbling and flowing. Offstage, he is austere and meditative. And both times, all he asks is that we listen — as he navigates his musical journey to the shore in his debut album, Qinara . The Delhi-based pianist has been playing since the age of eight, but not until he was 25 did he pursue music full time. By then his life had followed an unusual trajectory, from his childhood in the Capital to a banker’s job in New York. But the music of the piano was to be his calling. “I quit my job and returned to India to work in the development sector. Three years later it was the piano that won,” says Vasudeva in a phone interview. In the beginning, he threw in theatre, mixed media and film photography. “Playing the piano is the happiest part of my life, but I had no clue how to convert it into a career. So I decided to take it beyond the rigidity of concert halls, beyond suits and ties and questions as to when to clap and when not to. Beyond the trope of a white man at the keys.” Vasudeva also realised that there was so much to offer his audience in terms of original piano music from India. After reimagining the works of influential composers like the American Philip Glass, he decided to launch Qinara . The album was to be recorded after it saw a well-received run at the Oddbird Theatre late last year. But with the Covid-19 pandemic playing spoilsport, he is now releasing the live concerts as a series on YouTube. The music is minimalistic in terms of how Vasudeva caresses the keys, but extravagant in terms of sound. With an average length of eight minutes, each piece tumbles gently like autumn leaves, charging like cavaliers on a battlefield in some sections. The melodies leap over a chasm, letting Indian and western tunes meet in a manner that is pleasing to the ear. He explores the dense complexities of modern sound with airy oscillations and repetitions. The music is rightly aimed at 20 to 40-year-olds who live in a digital landscape, and its narrative decided by light, floral notes and verses that rise and fall gently like a personal message. Available on YouTube.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Open Prison Voices: Along the lines of Humans of New York, this photo project by Prison Aid + Action Research brings to light stories from the open prisons of Rajasthan. In these facilities, inmates serve their sentences with minimal supervision and perimeter security. From Sanganer, Pooja Chhabra tells us why she chose to grow flowers, Samay Singh Gurjar talks about living with his family, while Abdul Karim tells us about the inmate friends he has made. Follow @openprisonvoices on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing for plants||The Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona played for the first time since mid-March: the seats were filled with 2,292 plants. The Concert for the Biocene came the day after Spain finally lifted the emergency order put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. On their FB page, watch a string quartet aptly play Giacomo Puccini's ‘Chrysanthemums’ for their leafy audience. Meanwhile, Kaushik Ramachandran has launched a new song, ‘Akele’, as part of Terribly Tiny Tales' Songs from Home series. @ttt_official on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-care sessions||In Prakriti Foundation's workshop, facilitated by Sisters Living Works, learn how to reach out to those around you struggling with their mental health and how you can help. Today at 4 pm. Register for free on bit.ly/SPWS04. If you’re looking for some lighter ways to deal with the pandemic, try kawaii doodling, cooking Indian curries or learn how pleasure can be a form of self-care for women and non-binary people. As part of The Talking Market's virtual weekend edit, today and tomorrow. @thebackyardclan on Instagram.7358458117
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playdates and comics||The GSP Skill Building workshops for kids will help them hone skills in photography, news writing, storytelling and comic making through online sessions. On June 29 and 30. From Rs. 300 per head for both days. Details on cseindia.org. Expand your child's friends circle with Playdates. The online platform connects kids with similar interests in themed sessions that engage four- to eight-year-olds in sensory and observation skills, among others. From Rs. 499 per month. Details on play-dates.com.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Covid-19 vaccine: Novak Djokovic was in the news for all the wrong reasons earlier this week. The top-seeded tennis player has apologised for backing the ill-advised Adria Tour as he and wife Jelena, among others, have tested positive for Covid-19. Despite this, it looks like UFC's Fight Island matches will continue in Abu Dhabi as planned for July. And talks are on to host cricket's Asia Cup in either UAE or Sri Lanka in September or October. Wherever the sporting event, best tune in via TV.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pride watch||Chaka Khan, Laverne Cox and Peppermint lead a special Netflix Pride show that includes Queer Eye’s Fab Five, Tituss Burgess, Monet X Change and Alice Wu, among others. On YouTube at 4.30 am IST on July 1. Take a pop culture quiz hosted by Vivek Tejuja, author ofSo Now You Know: A Memoir of Growing Up Gay in India. On June 28 at 3.45 pm. Or join the Queer Carnival, with performances by Lush Monsoon, Durga Gawde, Rahul Manhas and more. On June 28. Tickets at Rs. 99 and Rs. 500 respectively on insider.in.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Skill up your hospitality||Rémy Cointreau has partnered with Flow Hospitality Training to offer free accredited online training to hospitality workers. This includes bartending, food, health and safety, management and leadership. Email remy-cointreau@ flowhospitalitytraining.co.uk for details. For those who love to entertain at home, learn how to shake and stir up some iconic gin cocktails with bartenders Madhu and Susan. Today, from 6 pm to 7 pm on Zoom. Register for free at tulleeho.com. Only 20 places available.7011702081
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrity stories||Kevin Hart’s new bookThe Decisionis now available as an Audible Original audiobook. The stand-up comic and actor takes on a new role as life coach in this follow-up to hisNew York Timesbest-selling memoir,I Can't Make This Up. Learn about the practical steps you’ll need to track and reach your goals. Sarah, Duchess of York's, YouTube channel has amassed over three lakh views. The 60-year-old has been dressing up and reading popular books likeThe Wonky DonkeyandLittle Red Riding Hoodto entertain kids.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, join chef Eeshaan Kashyap to learn how to make your kitchen a zero-waste space. Plus easy ways to make exciting dishes from vegetable peels and what to do with coffee powder, old banana peels, eggshells, fruit pulp or tea bags. In conversation with columnist Vasudha Rai at 5 pm @thehinduweekend. From earlier this week, influencer Anupriya Kapur's session on social media brand building, Astad Deboo on dance and social change and Shoojit Sircar's #DirectorsOnDirectors chat are now on IGTV.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#VanLife for India||Sometime in early 2018, I began researching the camper lifestyle for this newspaper, a trend that was picking up speed in the West. Social media was flooded with stories of millennials leaving well-paying jobs to live off the grid, embracing the #VanLife way: a “one-word lifestyle”, as The New Yorker put it, “denoting a renewed interest in road trips, a culture of hippie-inflected outdoorsiness, and a life free from the tyranny of a nine-to-five office job”. Many early adopters have also made money from product placements and partnerships. But back home it seemed travel junkies were not in step with their peers; it was barely even a trend. Just not the right time, perhaps? Two years on, however, things could be changing. While Indians might not be ready to move into a caravan full-time or even try to monetise a new lifestyle, the pandemic is making them rethink how they holiday. And renting campers could be one of the options.  Call of the road  At a time when lockdown is lifting, travel, either on work or for pleasure, which had come to a screeching halt is stuttering back to life. Maldives, a popular luxury destination for the one-percenters, recently announced the reopening of its borders post July 15, and it is just a matter of time before others follow suit. With the Indian hospitality sector reportedly taking a beating of close to Rs. 90,000 crore in revenues in 2020 (with a corresponding loss of an expected 20 million jobs), it is also heartening to hear that homestays and hotels, especially those promising isolation and high standards of hygiene, are seeing a spike in bookings. Soneva, the luxury resort chain in the Maldives and Thailand, has seen inquiries picking up by 135% this month. “We have more bookings for August this year than we had for the same time last year. And October has 50% more,” reveals Sonu Shivdasani, the CEO, over a webinar on luxury travel. “I think people who were planning to travel for Easter are now doing so later in the year. [The fact that] we are ‘one island one resort’ also helps.” But not everyone wants to go through the hassle of flying, especially with inflated costs and the hours of checking and sanitisation. Instead, driving holidays are becoming the post-Covid answer. And everyone from start-ups to state governments are looking to cash in. “We think people will want to travel closer to home and we see a great opportunity for road trips,” says Valsa Nair Singh, Principal Secretary of Tourism of the Maharashtra government. “We plan to identify existing amenities on popular routes and help them become Covid-19 compliant. We are working on upgrading infrastructure and identifying spots where people can set up camps on beaches along the Konkan coast. We are also looking into the feasibility of promoting RVs.” Have wheels, will travel Close on the heels of the Madhya Pradesh tourism ministry’s launch of luxury caravans in early June, the Karnataka government has now announced a Caravan Tourism initiative in collaboration with Campervan Camps. According to Tiger Ramesh, founder of the Bengaluru-based start-up, the caravan ecosystem is set to change for the better. “People might reluctantly fly for work, but not for holidays,” he says, adding that families are showing the most interest in his LuxeCamper motorhomes (assembled on an Ashok Leyland chassis with a 4,200mm wheelbase). Three thousand kilometres away, Guwahati-based Harsh Sharma, co-founder of Camping Co, has been seeing traffic on his website surge, thanks to ongoing social media campaigns, discounts and advance booking offers. Known for promoting #VanLife with his own spin on the traditional campervan — with roof top tents mounted on a Tata Xenon — he says, “Our product is optimal for social distancing as we travel to remote areas and avoid crowds.” Others like Captain (retired) Suresh Sharma, of Chandigarh-based Green Room Expeditions, are also addressing the global challenge of lack of access to stores (which are either closed, offering reduced services, or pose a high-risk of exposure), by creating additional storage. He is adding a trailer to his overland camping truck, to stock groceries and act as “extra seating”.  Money matters While #VanLife originally meant hopping on a caravan and roughing it out, the culture mushrooming in India offers a range of experiences. The LuxeCamper — complete with facilities such as queen size beds and imported toilets with waste incinerators — will take you to lesser-known places in Kabini, Bandipur and Hampi in association with the Karnataka government (which is providing exclusive campsites and amenities). Packages are between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 90,000 for two, and they currently have two RVs, with plans to add another 10. Yes, costs can be a challenge. Travel influencer Ankita Kumar (@monkey.inc), who was part of the first documented #VanLife trip in the country back in 2018, says that apart from renting or buying a vehicle, other wallet-lightening factors include fuel and the enormous amount of paperwork (for owners) — from procuring a fitness certificate (issued by the Regional Transport Office annually) to show that your caravan is in working condition, to insurance and tax papers (which can costanywhere between Rs. 25,000 andRs. 30,000).“Itis doable, but it takes a longer time. We’ve sometimes got permissions to visit a certain place just a day before our actual departure!,” says Kumar, who went on a month-long caravan trip across Sikkim with fellow blogger Sharanya Iyer last year. “Government officials, tour operators and van designers need to get in sync otherwise you can’t guarantee clear-cut policies for caravan travel,” adds Captain Sharma.  Continued on page 3 Another bump on the road is the lack of camping sites. The lifestyle relies on finding places to park and sleep, to stock up on water and food, to shower, to name a few. While the pandemic has amplified these inconveniences globally, it is especially tough in India, where we lack demarcated caravan parks. “Things like contactless accommodation at BnBs, making your own meals, and carrying your groceries must be favoured,” says Iyer. Operators like Ramesh are trying to sort out the logistics. Most of them have collaborated with campsites and properties at all the locations listed on their itinerary (a boon for first-timers). Trippy Wheels has partnered with homestays and youth hostels in locations such as Coorg, Chikmagalur, Gokarna and Hampi. And Sharma is updating his fleet of refurbished Tata Xenons and Force Tempo Travellers, which already come with a fridge and a shower, with solar panels to power the appliances. Meanwhile, rental requests for private vans are spiking too. Next week, Sanjna Hangal of Bengaluru-based rental service, Trippy Wheels, will launch her ‘Build your own caravan’ campaign. Assembling your own camper on a Mahindra Imperio or Force Tempo Traveller could cost you anywhere between Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 22 lakh respectively; Hangal hopes to use their experience to keep the prices affordable.  Safety first  Even on the open road, discussions about sanitisation can’t be ignored. Along with handing out safety kits to guests, Ramesh ensures all surfaces in the LuxeCamper are sterilised, and the upholstery and linen steamed (100°C). “The driver and tour leader sit in a cabin up front, isolated from the rear. Initially it was to ensure privacy but now it is working with the new norms,” he says. Travellers can also use an Android tablet to control operations, such as indoor temperature and heating water. Sharma has covered all the seats with single-use plastic sheets, though he admits that “this is a double-edged sword for a pro-conservation company like ours and will only be a necessary short-term decision”. Will travellers be putting others at risk by stepping out? “We believe our guests are responsible adults and won’t [unnecessarily] visit stores, cafes and public places. They will limit interactions to around our LuxeCamper, in safe halting spots,” Ramesh concludes.  With inputs fromPrasad Ramamurthy
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘The Nakba was the core of our feelings and thinking’||Palestinian poet writer, translator and anthologist, Salma Khadra Jayyusi, fondly remembers the ’50s as a time that saw the emergence of several female Arab poets and critics. Yet, the West and the world at large was unfamiliar with the vast repository of Arab poetry, especially those that chronicled the early Palestinian struggles. Awarded the Cultural Personality of the Year at the 2020 Sheikh Zayed Book Award, Jayyusi has made profound contributions to translation and academia, filling a glaring void, through the Project of Translation from Arabic (PROTA). She acquainted the West in Arab poetry and literature for decades, and is currently penning her memoir. Excerpts from an edited interview…  Looking back at your early days, how did your love for Arabic poetry and literature begin? Who were your early influences? Both my father and my mother and other members of my extended family, especially my Aunt Jamal Sleem Nuweihd (who was a poet and a story writer, writing in poetry and in various genres of prose), they all encouraged our love of, and reverence for, poetry and literary prose. These were part of our upbringing and we all loved them. In the long winter nights, especially, we would gather and recite poetry from the long Arab literary tradition and memorize selections from it. One of my earliest memories was when I was five years old: Haj Amin al-Husseini, the most famous Jerusalamite and political activist of the time, would come to visit my father, as they were both engaged in the national struggle in their different ways: he would always, right at the start of his visit, ask for me to come before him and recite the poems I had learnt. Usually, it would be the first few lines from some of the Mu‘allaqat , the great classical pre-Islamic poems which all Arab students eventually study in school. My mother would coach me in them, from the books in our library. Naturally, I ended up studying Arabic literature in college. Moreover, the early classical pre-Islamic poetry, the Mu‘allaqat and others, were big influences on me as I started writing poetry: the power of the language, and their music helped shape my poetic instinct.  Your first publication, Return from the Dreamy Fountain , came out in 1960, in the early days of the occupation of Palestine. How did the political situation influence your works? In my first anthology, the political upheaval and disaster of the loss of Palestine, the Nakba, figured very clearly. Much of the poetry, though not all, dealt with the struggle for freedom and independence from colonial domination that the Arab peoples faced. One of the major poems in the collection was Rootless , a long free verse poem that dealt with the dispossession of Palestinians from their land and country in 1948 at the hand of the Israeli settler colonial project. It was a poetic description of the condition of becoming a refugee, in its deepest dimensions. Many poems dealt with the various other struggles for freedom and independence from colonial dominance that followed on from that, including the Suez war in 1956, when Britain, France and Israel attacked Egypt. These events highlighted the sacrifices that generations of young Arabs were called upon to make in order to repel foreign intervention and domination and to move forward. The condition of youth faced with the call to arms, and the need for sacrifice and the interplay between memory, hope and will for the future that these moments of crisis represented were themes that emerged in my poetry at the time (and that of my contemporaries ). One poem in my anthology was addressed to my father about just such themes. My critical works, also dealt with the issue of commitment in literature, a topic that was hotly debated in literary circles at the time. People, in the early days of the occupation of Palestine, saw nothing but the painful wounds of defeat and the fall into a world of treachery and deceit. The possibility of getting back ones’ rights came only after a long period of suffering and the general feeling of being in the grip of disaster. Much of our poetry revolved around the early days of the occupation of Palestine. or, as it is called in Arabic: the Nakba (the Disaster). The Nakba was the core of our feelings and thinking. As a female poet, did you face any challenges in the Arabic literary world in your early career? And has it changed for women writers today? This question keeps popping up whenever the writings of women are broached. Let us go back to the 1950s. This is a major decade for Arabic poetry and should always be revisited and kept in mind. The 1950s saw the Arab woman’s leadership in the changes that happened to the modern Arabic poem, but to this day, this is not emphasised the way it deserves. I am speaking here of the appearance of several women poets led by Nazik al-Mala’ika, the Iraqi poet and critic whose work in the 1950s changed the inherited forms of Arabic poetry. I remember the ’50s also for being a decade which saw the appearance of several Arab women critics, some of them of major influence in their contemporary scene, again beginning with Nazik. But I also remember, with regret, the eventual and silent withdrawal of some of them from the scene, some taking to religion (Nazik herself, for example) after achieving very successful innovations in the poetic form within a changing scene. My book Trends and Movements in Modern Arabic Poetry which  thoroughly discusses these innovations appeared just around the beginning of their silent withdrawal. But I must insist here that the earlier appearance of women poets and critics was very much welcomed at the start which showed an early modern and normal acceptance of women’s creativity and thinking. The ’50s welcomed all women poets and critics and spoke about their work with equal respect to the work of men.   How aware do you think the West was of Arab poetry then, and how much has that changed today? I don’t think the West (except in certain areas) was aware that we were the inheritors of a genuinely big civilization which certainly included a very weighty corpus of literature, both prose and poetry, especially poetry. I believe it was the limited exposure of our poetry to the other that led to this limited interest in the West. This is where my work came in. I discovered that where there are individuals (and now, finally, institutions) that dedicate themselves to the dissemination of a culture’s best, it is possible to make a difference.People across different cultures and religions are ultimately the same, and they recognize the human experience in all its settings, and moreover they can recognize excellence, originality, and aesthetic qualities. At 94, you are now writing your memoir. How do you go about condensing your life in a book? I have been working, now and then, for several years, on my memoirs writing on certain experiences. I have lived through many different turning points both personal and public, and both historical and cultural, especially in the field of poetry. I have witnessed different periods of struggle and the emergence of new sensibilities both in terms of certain perspectives towards the world, and in the forms of expression around them. I can say that I consider myself to have always been modern in the sense that I have ever been open to the idea of change, and to the idea of the plurality of human experience. This gives me a certain critical distance to view these changes and try to understand them. How they will all fit into the frame of a book remains to be seen.  At a time like this, when the world is struggling to cope with a pandemic, how do you view this moment in history as a poet, especially when you compare it to the various historical moments you've witnessed in your life? In my mind, I cannot compare this abnormal phenomenon to other historical moments I have witnessed: the Second World war and the Nakba were all man made disasters, this is something else. Despite my poetic vision, I am not attracted  to any explanations of poetic or religious nature for this pandemic. For me, it lies wholly in the realm of science. It is a global human phenomenon and we all as humans need to take responsibility to heal the world of its plight. I find the image of many people dying all alone with no family to console them so deeply distressing that I have been as yet unable to respond poetically at all.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Three dogs, a baby and a route map||It has been over 100 days of staying at home in Delhi with three dogs, a newborn baby and a working-from-home husband who is data-crunching as a researcher. As someone who has travelled quite a lot — both for work, as a journalist, and as a lifestyle, train-hopping across the country with my pets — it has been tough staying indoors. Travel is a way of life for us as a family. Something that COVID-19 and the lockdown has put a hard pause to recently. In the past, we were what you’d call impulsive travellers. During a month-long stay in Landour, Uttarakhand, last year, we hitch-hiked almost every day with our dogs, from market runs and discovering hiking trails to visiting the Jabarkhet Nature Reserve. We’d get rides from milkmen in their mini trucks or from a stranger driving a Maruti car (he let us all squeeze into the back seat). But in the current situation, I know such social interactions, and small generosities, will change. While I dare not dream too big, a simple train journey or road trip to a place with clean air and open spaces is what my mental health needs. Be it by rail or road, I’d pick a familiar route because with the level of uncertainty out there, exploring the unknown, as exciting as it used to be earlier, would be nerve-wracking now.  Rentals and routes  With most travel restricted to roads (the Indian Railways may resume normal operations only by mid-August), I will miss the little shared joys of enjoying a cup of chai at the railway station, chatting with co-passengers, and my dogs’ excitement when attenders drop by with extra packets of soup sticks or a cup of vanilla ice cream. Instead, we must hit the road, packing not only bags full of wipes and sanitisers, but also treats, home cooked meals, baby purees, flasks of hot water and packets of chips for the husband. Road trips will be a new challenge because we don’t own a car and we haven’t got behind the wheel since the baby was born. However, there are plenty of rental services to pick from for a self-driven expedition. After my extensive research, we plan to toss a coin to choose between Avis India and Zoomcar (both have good sanitisation protocols in place, a large network, and a wide range of cars to suit our ‘large’ family). And for our first trip, the choice is between familiar routes such as Rajasthan, with its fantastic roadways (so, less motion sickness for the dogs and an easy initiation for my baby boy) and Madhya Pradesh (to my hometown in Shekhawati).  Conscious travel  As parents, the narrative of how we travel has evolved over time to make it inclusive, local and community driven. On our last trip to Pranpur, in Madhya Pradesh, I remember a village walk in the late afternoon, to meet the local weavers. At each house, the families welcomed us, offering us tea, showing off their family albums, and bringing out piles of handwoven Chanderi saris. Even the dogs were greeted with freshly-made roti and buttermilk. These simple interactions will be a thing of the past. Villagers (or people in general) may not look kindly at strangers coming into their midst. So we will have to adapt — a tough proposition because the whole meaning of travel for us is to have these unexpected adventures and encounters — and enjoy small walks instead, and stick close to our homestay/resort/hotel. Travel goals will no longer be about ticking places off a list, but more about going slow and being sustainable, enjoying a patch of green and the proximity to nature. The future of travel is unmapped, but what is certain is that we will hit the road soon, hopefully as more responsible, conscious and mindful travellers.  The writer is on Instagram, @dugardd
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion goes to AI school||“Fake free. Couture curious” reads Nila’s Instagram bio. India’s first virtual model, represented by talent management agency, Inega, just might replace Bollywood showstoppers as the fashion industry goes virtual in the aftermath of the pandemic. With many designers forgoing models — thank social distancing and cancelled events — she could play a big role (along with older CGI models such as the US’ Lil Miquela and the UK’s Shudu Gram) in helping clothes do the talking. In other news, on May 22, Congolese designer Anifa Mvuemba debuted her Pink Label capsule collection on Instagram, with 3D renderings of her clothes moving down the runway. Except, there were no models! The eerie, ghost-like effect aside, the focus was entirely on the outfits. This went well beyond virtual runways, like the one hosted by YouTube in May, where names like Winnie Harlow and Ashley Graham modelled clothes from Fendi, Dior, Oscar de la Renta and others, from their homes.  Tech in the background With design houses looking for new ways to showcase their work in the post Covid-19 scenario, AI tech companies like Bigthinx are offering solutions. The Bengaluru-based outfit works on visualisation solutions for fashion and retail using a software called Lyfsize, which uses two smartphone pictures to determine 44 precise body measurements. “An additional software, Lyflike, uses a selfie to create a lifelike 3D virtual avatar and can recreate clothing in 3D from normal photos,” explains co-founder Chandralika Hazarika,who caters to clients in the US, Europe and India. But when compared to Mvuemba’sshow, the result looks more animated, which can distract from the clothes. However, Shivang Desai,the CEO of Bigthinx,believes the digital effects will only improve as creators “look at pushing boundaries” using technology. “This requires environments and backgrounds that are engaging, interactive and personalised to offer user experiences tailored to the viewer’s moods or personality,” he adds. The Fabricant, an Amsterdam-based digital platform, also creates solutions using both fashion and VFX industries. Clients include Japanese streetwear brand AAPE, for whom they translated physical craftsmanship into digital for their 2019 Spring-Summer collection. “The foundational knowledge of patterns and garment construction applies to these tools as much as they do in the real world. The technology should be in the background so they don’t have to worry about technicalities,” says founder Kerry Murphy. They’re working with American brand Tommy Hilfiger too, in their ongoing transition towards full digital design by Spring 2022.  Time over money For designers who want to get involved directly in the process, Murphy suggests tools like CLO3D, which are fairly easy to learn (with plenty of free online resources). He believes that investing in hardware is critical because professional tools will differentiate the novice from the pros. “I see the investment being less than it is for physical tools and materials. The whole fashion value chain can exist in one PC,” he explains. Desai adds that staying up-to-date does not need a big budget either. A yearly subscription for CLO3D, for instance, starts at around Rs. 35,000. “It does require time, effort and patience to catch up and stay informed of all new developments. Designers should spend a few hours a week on learning how to navigate it.” After creating a virtual show for New York-based networking platform, Fashinnovation, in early June, Bigthinx will be part of Lineapelle, the international leather fair in Italy, later this year. In earlier interviews, Murphy predicted that designer virtual clothing is something that consumers will soon be willing to invest in. To encourage a move in this direction, The Fabricant has launched the beta version of Leela, a platform that allows users to try on digital fashion in a 3D avatar. If the pandemic continues to keep us indoors and isolated for the near future, retail therapy for our digital avatars just might be the way to go.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Despite HC order, riot victims struggle to get compensation||Two victims of the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year were welcomed by a poster at the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) office stating it is closed for public dealing, even though the High Court had passed an order on Monday stating that they could present their compensation applications there. Neha Fareen (24) from Shiv Vihar, whose house was looted during the riots, spent her entire Tuesday at Karawal Nagar police station with her one-year-old son Zubin in the scorching heat only to get a copy of the FIR, which is to be attached to her compensation papers. She has to submit the papers at the SDM (Karawal Nagar) office. She said she was waiting for the copy for her own satisfaction. However, on Wednesday, when she went to the SDM office in Nand Nagri, the guard allegedly told her that she won’t be allowed to enter and she should check after July 1. Ms. Neha said a poster in Hindi read that public dealing in the DC office will remain shut due to the outbreak till further orders. “I have visited the police station over five times only for the diary entry number. I have also visited the SDM office a few times, the latest being on Wednesday after Monday’s court order. We are all really troubled because of depleting finances,” she said. On June 21, while hearing a plea by Ms. Fareen and another petitioner Mohammed Mohsin, the High Court had ordered that the government “shall accept the application of the petitioners without insisting on a copy of the FIR” and that “such applications shall be processed expeditiously”. Ms. Fareen had tried to lodge the FIR earlier but was informed that a diary entry has been lodged. The court was informed that her complaint has been clubbed with one of the FIRs registered in connection with the incident. Ms. Fareen and her family had left for their village in Uttar Pradesh to attend her sister’s wedding a day before the riots broke out. They returned only in March to find that all their gold and cash, as well as an LCD TV had been looted. Soon after this, the lockdown was announced due to which she couldn’t process the compensation documents. Subsequently, in May and June, several trips were made to the police station and SDM office. Similarly, 19-year-old Mohsin, also a resident of Shiv Vihar, said his bakery shop and house were looted during the riots. He and his family had fled to their village in U.P. on February 25, soon after the riots broke out. They returned on March 16 and subsequently submitted their loot complaint at Idgah relief camp. “I have gone to the SDM office a number of times. When I went on Wednesday, I was told by the guard to come after July 1,” he said.  SDM (Karawal Nagar) P.K. Patel said: “The office is open and they [victims] can call me if they want to come. I get calls from so many riot victims.” Regarding the poster at the office, Mr. Patel said: “Public dealing is not encouraged and we are working by putting our lives at risk”.  The court on Monday was also informed by the government’s counsel that the relief application web portal, which wasn’t functional will be rectified immediately. However, advocate Mishika Singh appearing for riot victims said: “The web portal was working earlier and those who applied for compensation were given web IDs. Eventually, the domain was shut. After the court order, the website is running but after submission of application, no web ID or proof of receipt is generated,” she said.  The office is open and they [victims] can call me if they want to come. I get calls from so many riot victims P.K. Patel SDM (Karawal Nagar)
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinemas: a cautious reopening||Earlier this week, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that cinemas could reopen from July 4. Cineworld and Vue, both global chains with hundreds of screens worldwide, announced plans of reopening UK cinemas from July 10, with adequate safety precautions in place. I am using the UK as a microcosm for scenarios that could play out worldwide, in case you were wondering. There was immediate controversy as Cineworld CEO Mooky Greidinger said that while his staff will be required to wear masks, the audience wouldn’t. This understandably irked Cineworld staff, who would be risking their lives by inadvertently inhaling the coronavirus from an unmasked customer, and they promptly began a petition to fight this. In the US, where some people feel that wearing masks is an affront to their personal liberty, the AMC chain initially said that it was not mandatory for audience members to wear masks, then did a U-turn and said that it was. Regal, owned by Cineworld, did a similar flip-flop. Wherever it is, including India, it will boil down to the specific cinema on the day, and the audience and staff. I’m sure the hapless cinema workers in India aren’t looking forward to a belligerent unmasked audience member bellowing the equivalent of “Do you know who I am?” But enough of masks (no, not really, do wear them). What will we get to see when cinema screens reopen, and we muster up enough courage to enter them? There are three keenly anticipated big Hollywood films due in the July/August box-office frame – Christopher Nolan’s Tenet , the live-action version of Disney’s Mulan and the return of Gal Gadot in Wonder Woman 1984 . Before that, distributors will test the waters with a wealth of repertory titles including a 4K release of Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back ; the best of Nolan including Dunkirk , Inception , Batman , and Batman Begins ; various franchises including The Fast and the Furious , Harry Potter , The Matrix , Twilight and Mad Max ; re-releases — of recent titles like 1917 , Little Women and Parasite . We must also take a moment to bless the cinemas that are planning to bring back classics like 2001: A Space Odyssey and Lawrence of Arabia . Last week, speaking at annual global cinema conference CineEurope, held virtually this year for obvious reasons, Steven O’Dell, president of Sony Pictures, said, “What you can feel is that you can have the biggest television that can be in the house, and people are pulling out their hair to get outside.” Unless you are filthy rich and have a state-of-the-art home cinema, there is just no way to replicate the theatrical experience. There’s also the question of whether I am ready to go back to theatres. The disease no amount of social distancing can cure in cinemas around the world is the annoying people who continually play with their phones — the glare of which destroys the moments that have taken filmmakers years to create. If Thor’s hammer can be deployed instantly on such idiots, I’ll be first in line when cinemas reopen.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Piano’s meditative rockstar||Sahil Vasudeva’s hair is ringed in a halo of light. His fingers caress the Yamaha grand as his sneakers hold down the pedal. Only the truly gifted can make the piano sound like a booming drum and still seek out lyrical filigrees. Onstage, the 33-year-old is a flamboyant rockstar; the music bubbling and flowing. Offstage, he is austere and meditative. And both times, all he asks is that we listen — as he navigates his musical journey to the shore in his debut album, Qinara . The Delhi-based pianist has been playing since the age of eight, but not until he was 25 did he pursue music full time. By then his life had followed an unusual trajectory, from his childhood in the Capital to a banker’s job in New York. But the music of the piano was to be his calling. “I quit my job and returned to India to work in the development sector. Three years later it was the piano that won,” says Vasudeva in a phone interview. In the beginning, he threw in theatre, mixed media and film photography. “Playing the piano is the happiest part of my life, but I had no clue how to convert it into a career. So I decided to take it beyond the rigidity of concert halls, beyond suits and ties and questions as to when to clap and when not to. Beyond the trope of a white man at the keys.” Vasudeva also realised that there was so much to offer his audience in terms of original piano music from India. After reimagining the works of influential composers like the American Philip Glass, he decided to launch Qinara . The album was to be recorded after it saw a well-received run at the Oddbird Theatre late last year. But with the Covid-19 pandemic playing spoilsport, he is now releasing the live concerts as a series on YouTube. The music is minimalistic in terms of how Vasudeva caresses the keys, but extravagant in terms of sound. With an average length of eight minutes, each piece tumbles gently like autumn leaves, charging like cavaliers on a battlefield in some sections. The melodies leap over a chasm, letting Indian and western tunes meet in a manner that is pleasing to the ear. He explores the dense complexities of modern sound with airy oscillations and repetitions. The music is rightly aimed at 20 to 40-year-olds who live in a digital landscape, and its narrative decided by light, floral notes and verses that rise and fall gently like a personal message. Available on YouTube.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Customer fear puts restaurants in a bind||A thermal check at the entrance followed by a dab of hand sanitiser and a brief on what to expect in terms of service are some of the new ways that restaurants are greeting customers — the few there are. The government permitted eateries to open their dining areas on June 8, but over the last two weeks only a handful of restaurants have taken the leap to layout their tables. Most are rethinking their strategy given the high rent and fixed costs; and the fact that customers are staying away as they are apprehensive of getting infected. While quick-service restaurants have adapted well as they mostly use disposable containers to serve customers, it is the traditional restaurants that are putting in the extra effort to ensure safety of customers and employees. Measures include contactless menu cards, contactless payment, and transparent glass partitions between tables in the dining area. Strict sanitation rules are observed in the kitchen and employees have to wear protective gear. The move to open restaurants was welcome news for the thousands who were left unemployed as the industry tried to survive the lockdown on the little revenue it made from takeaway and delivery orders. Randeep Bajaj, co-founder and partner, Ambrosia Hospitality, which runs restaurants such as Townhall in Khan Market, and Amour Bistro on Malcha Marg in Chanakyapuri, said: “Customer response has been positive so far which gives us some hope for the future and courage to fight, but the numbers are not enough to sustain models... but at least the system is running again.” Ashish Ahuja, who owns Pebble Street in New Friends Colony, said the fear in the minds of customers is too much for restaurants to start functioning normally again. “Our restaurant in New Friends Colony is open but the one in Connaught Place is still shut... the dining business is next to negligible,” said Mr. Ahuja. Managers of restaurant located in commercial areas said that business has improved slightly. Pradeep Mishra, general manager at Nathu’s in Sunder Nagar, said they have changed the layout of the restaurant to ensure space between tables. There is also a divider to ensure that those who come for takeaway do not enter the dining area. “Earlier, many families would come. But now with children under the age of 10 and senior citizens not being allowed out, it is mostly individuals who are coming in for a quick bite,” Mr. Mishra said, adding: “Since reopening, there has been a steady rise in customers... it is helping us sustain our business, but it will be a long time before things are back to normal.” Many restaurants said that the 9 p.m. curfew, which stops them from offering dinner service, and ban on serving alcohol are coming in the way of their unlock plans. “Only very early diners can be catered too and if someone is supposed to go to work and then come for dinner, 9 p.m. seems like an impossible situation for them. Lifting the curfew, or at least pushing it to 11 p.m. will certainly help,” said Mr. Bajaj.
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet filed in man’s murder during Delhi riots||The Special Investigation Team of Delhi Police on Friday filed a chargesheet in connection with the killing of a 28-year-old man during the north-east riots in February, said an officer. The police said they have filed the chargesheet in Karkardooma court against four persons, including two juveniles, for killing Suleman, a construction worker. They said the incident happened on February 26 at 8. a.m. when some men — engaged in construction work at a school in Karawal Nagar Delhi near TB Hospital — were attacked by a mob of around 30-40 persons. The mob, armed with sticks and rods, apprehended four persons — Sanobar, Sunil Kumar, Suleman and Mamur — near Shree Ram Chowk. Mamur managed to escape from the spot. Identification asked “The mob asked the victims of their identification. They asked Sunil, a Hindu, to leave the spot but he insisted on taking Sanober and Suleman with him. The mob then thrashed Sunil and sent him away. After this, they started beating Sanober and Suleman mercilessly,” said an officer. He added that someone hit Sanober with an iron rod after which he fell unconscious. The mob continued to beat Suleman. Meanwhile, Sanober regained consciousness and managed to escape the spot. The mob paraded Suleman towards Prem Vihar culvert. They kept hitting him with sticks and rods, said the officer. After this, the mob threw him near a toilet from where he was taken to GTB Hospital by a PCR van at 10.15 a.m. Suleman died during treatment, added the officer. During the investigation, an extensive verification drive was conducted and based on accounts of eye-witnesses and technical evidence, the accused were nabbed. “These persons were part of the mob that had been rioting and committing arson in the area. According to eyewitnesses, all four were actively involved in assaulting the victim,” the officer added. “The arrested accused are in judicial custody while juveniles have been sent to correction home,” said the officer.  These persons were part of the mob that had been rioting and committing arson in the area. According to eyewitnesses, all four were actively involved in assaulting the victim Police officer
27 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 arrested for stabbing man; 1 on the run||A 35-year-old man was stabbed by three persons after the former’s motorcycle brushed past one of the accused in central Delhi’s Hauz Qazi, the police said on Friday. Two accused have been arrested while the third culprit is absconding, they added. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said the victim has been identified as Aminuddin. The accused have been identified as Suhail, Sehzad and Kaif. Suhail is on the run, Mr. Bhatia said. The victim has been discharged from the hospital, the police said.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Need time to get health in order: Safoora||Jamia Millia Islamia scholar Safoora Zargar, who was granted bail by the High Court earlier this week after being lodged in Tihar jail for nearly two months in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, said she needed time and space to get her health and life in order. She also thanked those who had supported her. “I am grateful to the almighty and all those who have spoken out for me within India and outside and deeply grateful to the Delhi High Court for this order of release,” said Ms. Zargar, who is 23 weeks pregnant. She also thanked her family for “standing by her and going through this trauma and worry” as well as her lawyers. Stating that she needed time to recover, she said that she did not wish to say anything else at this point. She was arrested on April 28 and was in judicial custody at Tihar jail after being charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention (Act). Ms. Zargar is part of the Jamia Coordination Committee, a group of students and alumni from JMI who came together to protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, after a police crackdown at JMI on December 15, 2019.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Schools to remain shut till July 31||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said schools in Delhi will remain closed till July 31 keeping in mind the current situation due to the pandemic. Mr. Sisodia after a meeting with the Directorate of Education said a plan would be designed to reopen schools post July in a way that would prepare students to adjust to the new circumstances. “The aim of today’s meeting was to design a plan of action for schools so that whenever they reopen after July, they are well prepared,” said a DoE official. The government said a district-wise report based on the suggestions from teachers, student and parents were presented at the meeting. Suggestions like primary classes should be held once or twice in a week with a strength of 12-15 students in a class, classes on alternate days, and reduction of the syllabus were discussed. For Classes 9 and 10, it was suggested that it should be taken in small groups once or twice a week while others were of the opinion that Class 10 students should have classes daily, the government said. The suggestion made to the Minister was that online classes should not be withdrawn and online library facilities should continue.
27 June 2020||New Delhi,||Restaurant body issues SOP for safe dining areas||To help restaurants provide customers a safe space to dine in, the National Restaurant Association of India has released a set of Standard Operating Procedures, which includes e-training modules to train staff on how to COVID-proof an eatery. NRAI president Anurag Katriar said that hygiene and safety would be key differentiators in post-pandemic restaurant operations. The directions in the SOP include how to arrange tables and furniture to ensure social distancing, appointing a COVID-free ambassador to oversee a restaurant’s operation and guidelines for staff.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Open Prison Voices: Along the lines of Humans of New York, this photo project by Prison Aid + Action Research brings to light stories from the open prisons of Rajasthan. In these facilities, inmates serve their sentences with minimal supervision and perimeter security. From Sanganer, Pooja Chhabra tells us why she chose to grow flowers, Samay Singh Gurjar talks about living with his family, while Abdul Karim tells us about the inmate friends he has made. Follow @openprisonvoices on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing for plants||The Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona played for the first time since mid-March: the seats were filled with 2,292 plants. The Concert for the Biocene came the day after Spain finally lifted the emergency order put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. On their FB page, watch a string quartet aptly play Giacomo Puccini's ‘Chrysanthemums’ for their leafy audience. Meanwhile, Kaushik Ramachandran has launched a new song, ‘Akele’, as part of Terribly Tiny Tales' Songs from Home series. @ttt_official on Instagram.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-care sessions||In Prakriti Foundation's workshop, facilitated by Sisters Living Works, learn how to reach out to those around you struggling with their mental health and how you can help. Today at 4 pm. Register for free on bit.ly/SPWS04. If you’re looking for some lighter ways to deal with the pandemic, try kawaii doodling, cooking Indian curries or learn how pleasure can be a form of self-care for women and non-binary people. As part of The Talking Market's virtual weekend edit, today and tomorrow. @thebackyardclan on Instagram.7358458117
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Playdates and comics||The GSP Skill Building workshops for kids will help them hone skills in photography, news writing, storytelling and comic making through online sessions. On June 29 and 30. From Rs. 300 per head for both days. Details on cseindia.org. Expand your child's friends circle with Playdates. The online platform connects kids with similar interests in themed sessions that engage four- to eight-year-olds in sensory and observation skills, among others. From Rs. 499 per month. Details on play-dates.com.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Covid-19 vaccine: Novak Djokovic was in the news for all the wrong reasons earlier this week. The top-seeded tennis player has apologised for backing the ill-advised Adria Tour as he and wife Jelena, among others, have tested positive for Covid-19. Despite this, it looks like UFC's Fight Island matches will continue in Abu Dhabi as planned for July. And talks are on to host cricket's Asia Cup in either UAE or Sri Lanka in September or October. Wherever the sporting event, best tune in via TV.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pride watch||Chaka Khan, Laverne Cox and Peppermint lead a special Netflix Pride show that includes Queer Eye’s Fab Five, Tituss Burgess, Monet X Change and Alice Wu, among others. On YouTube at 4.30 am IST on July 1. Take a pop culture quiz hosted by Vivek Tejuja, author ofSo Now You Know: A Memoir of Growing Up Gay in India. On June 28 at 3.45 pm. Or join the Queer Carnival, with performances by Lush Monsoon, Durga Gawde, Rahul Manhas and more. On June 28. Tickets at Rs. 99 and Rs. 500 respectively on insider.in.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Skill up your hospitality||Rémy Cointreau has partnered with Flow Hospitality Training to offer free accredited online training to hospitality workers. This includes bartending, food, health and safety, management and leadership. Email remy-cointreau@ flowhospitalitytraining.co.uk for details. For those who love to entertain at home, learn how to shake and stir up some iconic gin cocktails with bartenders Madhu and Susan. Today, from 6 pm to 7 pm on Zoom. Register for free at tulleeho.com. Only 20 places available.7011702081
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrity stories||Kevin Hart’s new bookThe Decisionis now available as an Audible Original audiobook. The stand-up comic and actor takes on a new role as life coach in this follow-up to hisNew York Timesbest-selling memoir,I Can't Make This Up. Learn about the practical steps you’ll need to track and reach your goals. Sarah, Duchess of York's, YouTube channel has amassed over three lakh views. The 60-year-old has been dressing up and reading popular books likeThe Wonky DonkeyandLittle Red Riding Hoodto entertain kids.
27 June 2020||June 27 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, join chef Eeshaan Kashyap to learn how to make your kitchen a zero-waste space. Plus easy ways to make exciting dishes from vegetable peels and what to do with coffee powder, old banana peels, eggshells, fruit pulp or tea bags. In conversation with columnist Vasudha Rai at 5 pm @thehinduweekend. From earlier this week, influencer Anupriya Kapur's session on social media brand building, Astad Deboo on dance and social change and Shoojit Sircar's #DirectorsOnDirectors chat are now on IGTV.
