27 July 2020||New Delhi,||200 proposals from China wait for security clearance by MHA||About 200 investment proposals from China are awaiting security clearance from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) after new rules were notified in April, making prior government approval mandatory for foreign direct investments (FDI) from countries which share a land border with India. As FDI is allowed in non-critical sectors through the automatic route, earlier these proposals would have been cleared without the MHA’s nod. Prior government approval or security clearance from MHA was required for investments in critical sectors such as defence, media, telecommunication, satellites, private security agencies, civil aviation and mining and any investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh. Revised in April The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) notified the new FDI policy on April 18, which said, “…an entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route.” The revised FDI policy, a press statement from DPIIT said, is aimed at “curbing opportunistic takeovers/acquisitions of Indian companies due to the current COVID-19 pandemic.” A senior government official told The Hindu that since April, after the new rules were notified, the Ministry has received around 200 applications for vetting. May pull out “However, none of the proposals have been cleared so far. These agreements would have been in the pipeline for months and it is possible that many might withdraw due to the delay or stringent conditions put in place now,” said the official. LAC stand-off India and China have been engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as there has been a massive build-up of Chinese troops since April-May. In a first in more than four decades, 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in violent clashes with the Chinese troops at Galwan Valley. Several rounds of diplomatic and military-level talks have been held as India has demanded that status quo be restored in the border area. On July 10, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong issued a video statement, saying “China has been India’s largest trading partner for many years in a row with cumulative investment in India exceeding $8 billion.” India shares land borders with Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Investors from countries that are not covered by revised FDI new policy only have to inform the Reserve Bank of India after the completion of a transaction rather than seek prior clearance from the administrative ministry.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remember jawans, PM tells people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to those who lost their lives during the Kargil War on the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, also cautioning citizens not to do anything that might affect the honour of the armed forces serving on the borders. He said this during his monthly radio broadcast‘Mann Ki Baat’on Sunday. He recalled late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s speech from the Red Fort after India had prevailed over Pakistan in the Kargil War where he had stated that just like Mahatma Gandhi’s talisman urged people to keep the most oppressed at the centre of all actions in case of doubt, so too should citizens keep martyred soldiers in mind while saying anything on the security situation. “Nowadays it is very easy to post a comment on social media or forward something said casually. But we don’t realise the effect it has on the morale of those posted on our borders. What we say here has a huge effect on those serving on the border.” He said the Kargil War took place at a time when India was engaged in peace talks with Pakistan, but it had backstabbed India to wage war, only to distract attention from its domestic issues. The Prime Minister also urged Indians to resolve to gain ‘independence’ from the coronavirus pandemicon August 15, and said while India, due to a unified effort, has kept its mortality rates and overall numbers low compared to other countries precautions must always be observed.  “I know that wearing a mask, constant hand washing, maintaining distance can irk after some time, but whenever you feel the urge to remove your mask, remember the COVID warriors like doctors and paramedics who are risking their lives everyday to combat the disease.” He lauded local body representatives in rural India for coming up with innovative methods to sanitise conditions and create capacity to deal with the pandemic.
27 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||They are glad to have missed the train||Like several other migrant workers from Odisha, Sumant Naik made innumerable calls throughout May to enquire about a train back home from Perundurai in Erode; he also weighed the costs of returning by bus. Despite several calls, the journey back did not materialise. Now two months later, as the pandemic induced lockdown has eased in Tamil Nadu, 30-year-old Mr. Naik has little time to think of returning home as the spinning mill he works at is humming again.“The months of April and May were emotionally draining. Everyone wanted to be with their families as if the end of the world was nearing. However, during the past two months, I have not given any thought to my return. I would have been left jobless had I been in my village,” said Mr. Naik, who hails from Keonjhar. Iswari and Bhakta Batsala Das from Jorada village of Odisha’s Ganjam district, who were left stranded in Chennai as they could not board a train home, echo Mr. Naik and are happy in hindsight. “The situation back home is grim. Hundreds of people are testing COVID-19 positive every passing day. People are left with no jobs. We are better off here. At least, our livelihood is protected,” said the couple. Livelihood hopes According to civil society organisations and activists, more than 10,000 migrant workers decided to stay back in Tamil Nadu. The steep rise in positive cases in Odisha and lack of employment opportunities have been major factors in their decision. In July, the State’s COVID-19 tally just tripled while the death toll increased by almost five times. On the other hand, employers across India have also gone the extra mile to ensure the workers do not face any problem on industry premises.
27 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot sends Governor new note for Assembly session||The stalemate over holding a new session of the Rajasthan Assembly, where Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot could prove his majority, continued in Jaipur on Sunday after the State Cabinet sent a revised note to Governor Kalraj Mishra, urging him to convene the session from July 31. Mr. Mishra had raised objections to an earlier request made by the State government. The fresh proposal sent to the Raj Bhavan stated that a special discussion on the COVID-19 pandemic would be held during the session in addition to the introduction of six Bills. The Cabinet note did not make a mention of the floor test aimed at proving the Congress government’s majority amid the turmoil created after a rebellion by the now sacked Deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Mr. Gehlot has held two Cabinet meetings and met his legislators multiple times since Friday to discuss the points raised by the Governor on the Cabinet’s previous advice to call the Assembly session. The revised note has reportedly answered the Governor’s six queries on the need for convening the session at a short notice. Raj Bhavan sources said the Governor was examining the new proposal sent by the State government through a senior officer of the Law Department. Mr. Mishra had earlier asked about the need for calling the session when the government already had the majority as well as about free movement of MLAs and the disqualification matter pending in the Supreme Court.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Capped prices not for insured patients||An announcement by the Telangana Health department on capped prices for COVID-19 treatment has shocked people. State’s Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said that the prices capped by the State government for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals were not applicable to patients who subscribe to insurance schemes. Besides, they were not applicable to patients being treated under various agreements or memoranda of understanding (MoU) entered by hospitals and different sponsored groups or corporate entities. This was announced 41days after a Government Order (GO) was issued capping the prices between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. ,9000 per day for COVID treatment, depending on the ward and if ventilator support was provided, with some exclusions. The announcement on Sunday makes it clear that the capped prices are not applicable to insurance schemes. So higher rates might be charged for those holding insurance policies. However, it remains unclear whether corporate hospitals will accept insurance schemes at all for COVID-19 treatment, even if the rates for the treatment are high. A few people complained that they were asked to pay in cash. After reports on exorbitant bills for COVID treatment were published in the newspapers, the State government on June 15 issued orders announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for various services provided by them for COVID-19 treatment. The charges range between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 per day depending on the ward and if ventilator support is provided. Some services were excluded from the maximum rates such as charges for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), high-end medicines such as immunoglobulin, high end investigations such as CT-Scan, MRI, and for COVID-19 testing. People hoped to undergo treatment at private hospitals at affordable rates. However, they complained that private health facilities did not accept insurance policies for COVID treatment. Left with no option, some of them paid Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 70,000 per day. On Sunday, the Director of Public Health, Dr Rao, released a press note and the Government Order (GO), dated July 6, which states that the capped prices were not applicable to patients who subscribed to insurance schemes and to patients being treated under various agreements or MoU entered by hospitals and sponsored groups or corporate entities.
27 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal reports 40 deaths, 2,341 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal on Sunday reported 2,341 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases to 58,718. The number of active cases stands at 19,595. With 40 more deaths, the fatality toll in the State has gone up to 1,372. Of the 40 deaths , 17 were recorded in Kolkata, nine in Howrah and five in North 24 Parganas. As many as 2,097 people were discharged from different health facilities on Sunday, pushing the total number of recoveries to 37, 751. With this, the State’s discharge rate has climbed up to 64.29%. The State has tested 16,045 samples in the past 24 hours. The total number of samples tested in the State is now 8.05 lakh. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared a seven-day lockdown from Sunday in all three municipalities of Darjeeling hills: Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik. Bodies unattended Two incidents came to light during the day where bodies of suspected COVID-19 patients were left unattended for hours. The body of a 70-year-old woman, who lived alone on the ground floor of a house, remained unattended for almost six hours in Shyampukur of north Kolkata. At Sonarpur in the southern suburbs, the body of a suspected COVID-19 patient was left unattended for 12 hours.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||CM challenges BJP to topple MVA government||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday dared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple his government. The MVA government may be three-wheeled (with three parties in alliance), Mr. Thackeray asserted that he was firmly in control of the steering wheel. “Why wait for September-October as is being speculated. Topple the government right now since you get pleasure in toppling. Some people derive pleasure in constructive work while some are happy in destruction. If you feel happy in destruction, go ahead,” the CM said. Mr. Thackeray, in his interview to Shiv Sena’s party mouthpiece Saamana, said the government is being benefited from the experience of the two other alliance partners — the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress. “The future of my government is not in the hands of the Opposition,” said Mr. Thackeray. He was interviewed by the Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. Taking potshots at Mr. Thackeray for the interview, BJP State president Chandrakant Patil dared him to be interviewed by journalists and not “party sycophants” like Mr. Raut. Mr. Patil remarked caustically that the State was being run by two Chief Ministers — one sitting in ‘Matoshree’ (Mr. Thackeray) and the other touring the State (NCP chief Sharad Pawar)
27 July 2020||Guwahati,||Five drown in Assam, flood toll crosses 100||Five people drowned during the last 24 hours in Assam to take the flood death toll to 102 on Sunday. Another 26 were killed in landslides triggered by intermittent heavy rainfall since May 22. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said the flood situation improved overnight despite the deaths, with the number of affected people now reading 24.76 lakh across 23 districts, down from 26.38 lakh on Saturday. The relief camps too had about 2,000 fewer people. The State Disaster Response Force, district administrations and local people rescued 188 persons during the last 24 hours by deploying 101 boats across the State. Goalpara is the worst-hit district with over 4.7 lakh people affected. In Barpeta, more than 3.95 lakh persons have been affected. The water level subsided in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve where 129 animals, including 14 rhinos have died. As many as 157 animals have been rescued so far. (With PTI inputs)
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Deaths cross 1,000, cases nearing 1 lakh||The State’s COVID-19 deaths crossed the 1,000-mark with 56 fatalities and 7,627 fresh cases reported in 24 hours. The total number of cases has gone up to 96,298 and death toll reached 1,041, as of Sunday morning, according to the Health Department bulletin. The death toll almost doubled in the past nine days. The first 534 deaths occurred in 128 days since the first COVID-19 positive case was reported, while the last 507 deaths were reported in the past nine days. The overall death rate is 1.08%. Kurnool top in fatalities Over 70% of the deaths were reported since July 13. Kurnool district reported the highest of 162 deaths so far with six new fatalities. It is followed by Krishna (144 deaths, 5 new), East Godavari (122, 9), Guntur (98,1), Anantapur (83, 2), West Godavari (79, 5), Chittoor (77, 4), Visakhapatnam (73, 8), Srikakulam (60, 5), Prakasam (48, 1), Vizianagaram (36, 3), Kadapa (31, 2) and Nellore (28, 5). While Krishna continues to have the highest death rate at 2.58%, Nellore has the lowest of 0.64%. The recovery rate is at 48.08% with 3,046 new recoveries and 46,301 overall recoveries. As many as 48,956 patients are being treated currently in the State.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CM will discuss lockdown measures with Collectors||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will chair a video-conference meeting of all District Collectors on July 29, as the Statewide lockdown with certain relaxations is to end on July 31. Mr. Palaniswami is expected to finalise a decision on the extension of the lockdown, meant to curb the spread of COVID-19, based on inputs from the Collectors, and determine the measures to be taken to control the disease in the State. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu saw a complete lockdown, the last such measure this month.  Free mask distribution On Monday, the Chief Minister will launch a scheme to distribute face masks, free of cost, to ration card-holders across the State. In the first phase, more than 4.44 crore masks will be distributed to over 69 lakh families living in the corporations (except those in the Greater Chennai Corporation), municipalities and town panchayats.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It is clear who has the numbers’||The “superficial and motivated” queries posed by the Rajasthan Governor’s office, intended to delay the floor test to prove the majority of the Gehlot government, have let the “cat out of the bag” on who really has the numbers, the Congress said at a press meet on Sunday.page 9
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. mounts social media campaign||The Congress ran a day-long a social media campaign, ‘Speak Up For Democracy’ aimed at putting pressure on the Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra to convene the Assembly to enable Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his government’s majority.page 13
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Maoist killed in encounter||A Maoist was killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in the forest area under the Annavaram police station limits in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district, close to the Odisha border. Personnel of the Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP), Greyhounds and Special Operation Group (SOG) of Odisha were combing the area when they ran into a group of Maoists. Tension gripped the AOB as the incident occurred days ahead of Maoist martyrs’ week, scheduled to begin on July 28. The deceased is believed to be Pangi Daya, a native of Vakapalli village of G Madugula mandal. The Agency area has been witnessing a series of incidents for the last one week. Meanwhile, a banner questioning the ideology of the Left Wing Extremist groups appeared on Chintoor-Sarive road in the Chintoor agency of East Godavari on Sunday.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CM to discuss lockdown measures with Collectors||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will chair a video-conference meeting of all District Collectors on July 29, as the Statewide lockdown with certain relaxations is to end on July 31.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Study: Karnataka best in COVID-19 reporting||Karnataka fares the best in terms of quality of COVID-19 data reporting, says a study conducted by researchers of Stanford University. The sudty analyses the quality of data reporting done by different States and Union Territories.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi,||APMC strike from today in central, north Karnataka||The APMC Action Committee based out of Hubballi held a meeting of merchants from central and north Karnataka on Saturday and announced that they would go ahead with an indefinite strike from Monday.
27 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Sunday curfew: State to wait for Centre’s norms||The State government is now set to look into whether the Sunday curfew should be extended beyond July 31. Sources in Chief Minister’s Office said that the State is likely to wait for the Centre’s guidelines .
27 July 2020||Kolkata,||Second Kolkata nearby||The Border Security Force (BSF) has handed over to Bangladesh four fishermen who have crossed into Indian waters on July 24. Two engine-fitted boats along with four fishermen entered the Indian territory while fishing in river Ganga in Murshidabad district. “During the preliminary questioning, we found that they all belonged to the same family,” a press statement of BSF said. The BSF also handed over a protest note to the company commander of the Border Guard Bangladesh asking them to ensure that “Bangladeshi nationals do not violate the international boundary and show respect in maintaining its sanctity”.
27 July 2020||Kolkata,||First Kolkata nearby||The first goods train with 50 electronically sealed containers left Majerhat in Kolkata, crossed Petrapole station and entered Bangladesh on Sunday. The trains have been introduced to eliminate smuggling along the India-Bangladesh border. “The train will put a check on smuggling because the containers are electronically sealed so it will not be possible for smugglers to open it,” a statement by the South Bengal Frontier of the Border Security Force. Over the past one month, six people were arrested while trying to cross the border using goods trains.
27 July 2020||Belagavi,||913 positive cases in North Karnataka||A total of 913 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in North Karnataka districts on Sunday. Officials reported 22 related deaths across the region. Among other districts, Dharwad saw 165 positive cases and five discharged patients, taking the total cases to 1,873. In Belagavi, there were 13 positive cases and 173 discharged patients, taking the active cases to 141. There were 132 positive cases in Vijayapura and 143 discharged patients. In Davangere, there were 89 positive cases, with 57 discharged patients. In Uttara Kannada, 85 tested positive and 91 were discharged. In Bidar, 77 tested positive and 32 were discharged, and in Gadag, there were 61 positive cases, with 26 discharged patients.
27 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Six deaths in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district on Sunday reported six more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 64. The tally of infected patients rose to 3,864 with 152 fresh cases, a bulletin said. Of the 3,864 total positive cases, 2,198 have recovered and there are 1,602 active cases. As many as 29 persons are getting treatment.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||Can do e- bhoomi pujan for Ram temple: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya can be conducted through videoconferencing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is an event of joy, and lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony,” he said.
27 July 2020||Pune,||State tally crosses 3.75 lakh with 9,431 cases||Maharashtra reported 9,431 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 3,75,799. This is the fifth consecutive day that the State recorded a spike of over 9,000 cases. It also reported 267 more fatalities, pushing the death toll to 13,656.
27 July 2020||Pune,||Pune to monitor bed shortage in hospitals||In an effort to reduce Pune’s mortality rate and address the problem of bed shortage, the Pune civic administration has begun clinically monitoring hospitals. The PMC has directed hospitals to install an app called ‘iHealWell Patient Care’ and update it regularly.
27 July 2020||Chennai,||6,986 patients test positive for COVID-19||With 6,986 more patients testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, Tamil Nadu's tally touched 2,13,723. The number of active cases rose to 53,703. The State also recorded 85 deaths due to the infection, taking the toll to 3,494. Chennai recorded 1,155 new cases.
27 July 2020||Chennai,||Students wait for clarity on syllabus reduction||While the School Education Department has been telecasting lessons on Kalvi TV since mid-July, students and teachers continue to wait for clarity on syllabus reduction as well as textbooks for all classes.
27 July 2020||Chennai,||Keep test positivity rate under 5%, says expert||Highlighting the need for increased testing, tracing and isolation of COVID-19 patients and their contacts, V. Ravi, head, Department of Neurovirology, NIMHANS, on Sunday said it was important to keep the test positivity rate (TPR) under 5%.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Governor doing Centre’s bidding: Cong.||Objections and queries posed by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra’s office, intended to delay the floor test to prove the majority of Congress government led by Ashok Gehlot in the State Assembly, have let the “cat out of the bag” on who really has the numbers, the Congress said at a press conference on Sunday. The Rajasthan Cabinet, for the second time, on Sunday, advised the Governor’s office to call for an Assembly session. The Governor’s office had raised objections to an earlier request by the State government on Friday. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the Governor’s office’s reference to pendency of judicial proceedings in the Supreme Court and Rajasthan High Court regarding the Speaker’s powers on disqualification of members “appears to be absurd, to use words of studied moderation”. He said that whether the Speaker disqualified or did not do so, could not, per se, affect the holding of a session. “Such flimsy, “clutching at straw” contentions underline the true ulterior motives of persons holding high constitutional posts and their so-called advisers,” he added. The Governor’s office had stated that the Cabinet had not mentioned the agenda for the session. “If the Governor’s office is unaware of the elementary fact that an agenda is sent after the date of the Assembly session is notified, then an extremely sorry state of affairs exists, where ignorance of basic procedures is bliss in causing unconstitutional delay,” Mr. Singhvi added. The Governor’s office’s claim that at least 21 days’ notice was necessary to call a session was also untenable, he said, adding that Assembly sessions had been called at a week’s or even five days’ notice. ‘His Master’s Voice’ “Such superficial, clearly motivated, digressive and extraneous queries establish beyond doubt that they are coming from the highest authorities of the Central government and being parroted without change as His Master’s Voice from Raj Bhavan, Jaipur. We all know who that Master is. But it decimates the lustre and dignity of the Governor’s constitutional position,” Mr. Singhvi added. Quoting from the Constitutional Assembly’s debates, he said that it was proved beyond doubt that the Governor was bound by the advice of the State Cabinet. “The framers repeatedly rejected the possibility of two competing executive authorities in one State — Governor and CM. Clearly, some Central governments and Governors want to revive dyarchies,” said Mr. Singhvi. This fact had been reiterated by several Supreme Court judgments, he said. “Is the Governor and his diverse advisers who have generated such queries not aware of established jurisprudence, from the Constituent Assembly to diverse SC judgments, that unequivocally establish that the Governor is powerless and without jurisdiction in matters where he is advised by the State Cabinet,” he asked.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Imported vaccines may be fast-tracked||Indian companies looking to import or test potential COVID-19 vaccines that have been developed internationally, could get leeway in the number of India-specific tests and trials they would need to conduct, says a guidance document from the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). Normally, a vaccine that has been licensed in another country, would still need to repeat all human safety tests in India. Use of earlier data “Data generated outside India will be considered and examined and an abbreviated pathway may be considered for COVID-19 vaccine based on scientific rational and level of completeness of data in human trials in addition to satisfactory pre-clinical data. Phase I/II or phase III multi-centric study on statistically significant sample size may be considered based on, initial safety studies, proof of concept and dose finding data,” says the document that was published on May 23, but has only now been made public. The Pune-based Serum Insitute of India (SII), which has a partnership with AstraZeneca to manufacture a potential vaccine being developed at Oxford University, has announced plans to conduct phase II/III clinical trials, meaning it will test the potential vaccine in Indians to determine if the vaccine is capable of stimulating an immune response and if it is capable of protecting people from the infection. However the SII’s application to the Drug Controller General of India is partly premised on promising data on the vaccine candidate generated in the United Kingdom. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has also begun testing its product Covaxin — based on a SARS-CoV2 strain sourced from ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune — at different sites on volunteers, but these are early phase-I and phase-II trials. The same company has also been funded by the DBT to test a vaccine candidate utilising the inactivated rabies vector platform, developed with the Jefferson Vaccine Centre (JVC) in Pennsylvania in the U.S. In an interview to The Hindu , Secretary, DBT, Renu Swarup had said regulatory approvals would be accelerated but no important stages would be skipped. This would include different stages of vaccine tests being conducted in “'parallel.” Parallel tests The clause also finds mention in the guidelines. “The applicant may submit parallel application for conducting appropriate phase of clinical trial to CDSCO (the drug regulator) for consideration... However, the application for clinical trial will be approved subject to ‘No objection certificate' from RCGM after examination of data of pre-clinical studies.” The RCGM is the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation, a DBT body that approves trial procedures on biological products that involves genetic manipulation. These can include DNA or modified vaccine candidates.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,||In fresh Karnataka high, 5,199 more test positive||With 6,986 more patients testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, active cases, including those under isolation rose to 53,703. The overall tally of persons who had tested positive was 2,13,723. New cases on Sunday were just two short of the previous day’s figure. The State also recorded 85 deaths due to the infection, including 36 persons dying in private hospitals and 49 in government hospitals, taking the toll to 3,494. A 37-day-old baby and a 15-year-old girl, were among the youngest to die. Chennai recorded 1,155 new cases whereas 1,315 persons were discharged. While 26 deaths were recorded in the city, the number of persons under treatment, including those under home isolation stood at 13,744. Cumulative COVID-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 1,000-mark with 56 new fatalities reported during the past day. During the same period, 7,627 fresh cases were reported, and the tally rose to 96,298. The death toll was 1,041 on Sunday, the Health department said. Though the State’s mortality rate was around 1% for many days, the toll doubled in nine days. The first 534 deaths were reported in 128 days from the first positive case, while the last 507 deaths occurred in the last nine days. The overall death rate was 1.08%. Kurnool topped the districts with 162 deaths, six in the past day, followed by Krishna (144 deaths, 5 new), East Godavari (122, 9), Guntur (98,1), Anantapur (83,2), West Godavari (79,5), Chittoor (77,4), Visakhapatnam (73,8), Srikakulam (60,5), Prakasam (48,1), Vizianagaram (36,3), Kadapa (31,2) and Nellore (28,5). While Krishna continues to have the highest death rate at 2.58%, Nellore was lowest at 0.64%. The recovery rate is at 48.08% with 3,046 new recoveries and 46,301 overall recoveries. As many as 48,956 patients are being treated currently in the state. Kurnool reported 1,213 new cases, East Godavari 1,095, West Godavari 859, Visakhapatnam 784 and Anantapur 734. Chittoor reported 573, Guntur 547, Kadapa 396, Krishna 332, Nellore 329, Srikakulam 276, Vizianagaram 247 and Prakasam 242. The State tested 47,645 samples in the past day. Telangana touched 54,059 cases as 1,593 more tested positive in data as of Saturday. Eight COVID-19 patients died. The daily media bulletin was not issued on Saturday and was put out on Sunday in a new format with information on Rapid Antigen Test centres. New cases included 641 from Greater Hyderabad, 171 from Rangareddy and 131 from Warangal Urban. A total of 3,53,425 tests had been performed; the cumulative Test Positivity Rate was 15.29%. Greater Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan tested positive for COVID-19. Kerala added 927 cases on Sunday, its case load being 19,025. Two more deaths in Malappuram and Thrissur raised the toll to 61. Locally acquired infections caused 760 of 927 new cases, and no epidemiological link was found for 67. Also, 16 more health-care workers were infected. There were 1,56,162 in quarantine, of whom 8,980 with COVID-19 like symptoms isolated in hospitals. The State tested 20,626 samples in the last 24 hours.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||People will reject BJP’s conspiracy, says Rahul||The Congress, in a day-long social media campaign, ‘Speak Up For Democracy’, sought to put pressure on Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra to call the Assembly session to enable Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his government’s majority. Introducing the campaign, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The democracy of India will run on the voice of the people on the basis of the Constitution. The people of the country will protect democracy and the Constitution by rejecting the conspiracy of fraud of the BJP.”  ‘Unethical attempts’ Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said that in the last year, the BJP had made several attempts to destabilise State governments. It’s unfortunate that some Congress leaders and members had secretly joined the BJP in this diabolical effort, he said. “We demand that the Governor immediately call a session of the Assembly, so that CM of Rajasthan Ashok Gehlot can prove his majority. The only place to test the majority is the floor of the House. The Governor should not hesitate for a moment,” he said. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said, “It’s for everyone to see what is happening in the Rajasthan Raj Bhavan on the directions of the Central government. Every Chief Minister has the right to call for an Assembly session. But even that is being stalled. This is deplorable and it weakens our Constitution.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a tweet said a leadership was tested during times of crisis. “In this national corona crisis, the country needs a leadership that works in the public interest. But the BJP government at the Centre has made its intention and its character clear by trying to topple the governments elected by the people,” she said.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Itolizumab may go off regimen||The COVID-19 task force, at a meeting on Friday, recommended against the emergency use of psoriasis drug, itolizumab, according to a person privy to proceedings. Task force recommendations usually reflect in periodic guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research on what drugs, therapies may be used under what conditions for COVID-19 patients. Because the ICMR is yet to issue fresh guidelines on itolizumab, the drug can still be used by physicians as it still has been approved this month for emergency use by the drug regulator. “The available evidence on efficacy was deemed inadequate and there were concerns over generalised immunosuppression,” the person told The Hindu. “Guidelines are updated whenever a new drug is introduced or an old one is deleted. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences is in charge of preparing them.” Rajesh Bhushan, task force member and Officer on Special Duty, Health Ministry, told The Hindu that post the group’s discussion, “more information was desired” from clinicians on the way the drug addresses the ‘cytokine storm.’ “Based on this information, the task force would engage with the subject in the next meeting.” Antibody drug Itolizumab is a lab-cloned antibody drug approved for psoriasis, developed by Bengaluru-based Biocon Biologics. It has been approved for emergency use in the treatment of moderate and severe disease by the DCGI, in patients who manifest acute respiratory disease. This acute form of the disease frequently occurs due to a pro-inflammatory cytokine storm, or a rush of messenger chemicals in the body that stimulate a variety of virus-destroying cells that also end up harming healthy tissue and organs as collateral damage. Critics have earlier pointed out that drug’s evidence for preventing deaths in COVID-19 patients rests on an inadequately performed trial. This month, Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, also said that there was yet no evidence from trials that itolizumab and tocilizumab reduce death in severely ill COVID patients. A Biocon spokesperson told The Hindu on Sunday that more evidence would be provided to the task force and plans for a 200-patient ‘phase-4 trial’ across 10-15 hospitals was on the anvil. “The results from the phase-4 will create a larger body of evidence for the efficacy of itolizumab. Nearly 1,000 patients have used the drug across the country with good outcomes.”
27 July 2020||Bengaluru/Hubballi,||APMC strike in parts of Karnataka||The State government’s decision to reduce market cess on the sale of agri-produce at Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yards from 1.5% to 0.35%has created fissures within the trader community. While many have announced a withdrawal of the strike in south Karnataka, the APMC Action Committee based out of Hubballi held a meeting of merchants from central and north Karnataka on Saturday and announced that they would go ahead with an indefinite strike from Monday. The government recently promulgated the Karnataka Agriculture Produce Market Committee (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which essentially annulled the restriction on wholesale trade in agricultural produce to APMC yards and allowed private players to set up markets elsewhere — a move opposed by farmers’ unions and APMC merchants alike. Merchants have argued that they were put at a distinct disadvantage against merchants outside the yard as they had to pay 1.5% market cess on the sale of agri-produce that is passed on to buyers. Demanding a level playing field, merchants threatened to go on an indefinite strike from Monday. Meanwhile, S.T. Somashekhar, Minister for Cooperation, announced that after negotiations with stakeholders, the government had decided to reduce the market cess to 1%, and further representations from merchants had convinced it to slash it again to 0.35%. The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), in a statement issued on Sunday, welcomed the move. “We are ready to compete with private players, but we naturally want a level playing field. We had demanded that the market cess be completely cancelled and a service tax of 0.2% for maintenance of markets be imposed. The government has substantially reduced the cess to 0.35%, which we welcome. We have called off the strike,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, president, APMC Committee, FKCCI. He said the Yeshwantpur APMC yard in Bengaluru city would function normally on Monday, even as other markets that had already gone on strike, such as in Shivamogga, would also be open for business. Many demands However, Shankaranna Munavalli, president of the APMC Action Committee based out of Hubballi, said abolition of market cess was just one of their demands, and that was only partially met. “We want the same law to be applied on transactions done inside and outside APMC yards,” he said. For instance, merchants have to procure and renew permits for doing business in the yard — a process that is mired in red tape and which increases the expenses of merchants. “We don’t want any of the permits to be applied only on APMC merchants. We want the government to ensure a level playing field and save APMCs and small farmers dependent on them,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers’ unions that have opposed the APMC ordinance have criticised the stand taken by APMC merchants as “self-serving”. “Deregulation of agriculture marketing is more a farmers’ issue. Merchants were also affected and were fighting with us. But they have now been self-serving, myopic and have failed to stand by the farmers. Just reduction of cess will not save the APMC yards, which are facing an existential crisis now,” said G.C. Bayya Reddy, State convener, All-India Kisan Coordination Committee. “The recent ordinances brought about by the Union government, which was followed by that in the State, will pave the way for corporatisation of agri-marketing, which is detrimental to the interests of farmers. In APMC yards, the produce is at least auctioned, while farmers will have to sell their produce at prices fixed by the corporates in private markets,” he said. Thecommittee has decided to stage protests in front of all taluk offices in the State on August 9 as part of a national campaign demanding ‘corporates quit agriculture”, to mark the anniversary of the Quit India Movement.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Railways suffer a whopping Rs. 800-crore loss in State||The railway network in Kerala has incurred a loss of over Rs. 800 crore since March 24 when train services were suspended owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The two railway divisions headquartered in the State, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, depend on passenger earnings. The suspension of train services for the past three-and-a-half months has dealt a heavy blow to Railways and the total loss of the entire network is estimated at Rs. 75,000 crore. Austerity measures The revenue loss will be reflected on the ongoing development projects. The Railway Board has already asked the zonal and divisional railway authorities to adopt austerity measures. In the Thiruvananthapuram railway division which runs 167 trains, the monthly loss is Rs. 140 crore, and the adjoining Palakkad division, which operates 170 trains, has incurred a loss of Rs. 95 crore. “The loss is owing to the fall in passenger earnings,” said Thiruvananthapuram Divisional Railway Manager Shirish Kumar Sinha. Compared to the Rs. 100-crore monthly passenger earnings received, the division got just Rs. 2 crore in June. The revenue from goods trains during the 30 days in June was Rs. 30 crore. “We hope the revenue will touch Rs. 35 to Rs. 40 crore in the next two months as more and more goods trains are on the track,” Mr. Sinha said. In the Palakkad railway division, the earning for April, May, and June was Rs. 47.07 crore compared to Rs. 254.44 crore during the same period in 2019. It is 81.50% less than last year’s. The Shramik Specials for migrant labourers, goods trains, and the 100 pairs of long-distance mail and express trains had not netted much revenue for Railways. Fear prevailing among citizens to travel and the spurt in COVID-19 cases are cited as the main reasons.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||India evacuates 11 Afghan nationals||India has helped in the evacuation of 11 Sikh and Hindu citizens of Afghanistan who arrived here on Sunday, the Ministry of External Affairs announced. The group’s arrival is significant as it indicates India’s new policy since the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Bill of 2019, which promises amnesty for persecuted members of religious minority groups from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. “India has granted appropriate visa and facilitated their travel to India. We appreciate the efforts of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in extending necessary support for the safe return of these families,” said the MEA in a press release. Abducted man The group also includes a Sikh community worker Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was kidnapped by unknown gunmen in Paktia province and was released on 18 July. It was initially believed that the kidnappers belonged to the Taliban, but the group denounced the action and pledged to punish the kidnappers.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM Modi to inaugurate three COVID-19 testing facilities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch “high throughput COVID-19 testing” facilities capable of testing up to 10,000 samples daily, on Monday, according to a statement from the Press Information Bureau. “These facilities have been set up at the ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research, Noida; ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai; and ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata, and will be able to test over 10,000 samples in a day. These labs will also reduce turn-around-time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials. The labs are enabled to test diseases other than COVID as well, and post the pandemic, will be able to test for Hepatitis B and C, HIV, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Cytomegalovirus, Chlamydia, Neisseria, Dengue,” the press statement said. Pooled testing However, it wasn’t clarified what these techniques would be. High throughput screening in essence involves being able to test a large number of samples at a go. These could involve machines that can sequence entire genomes of a virus or could also mean “pooled testing”. Here, instead of individually screening each sample for presence or absence of the virus, a group of samples are bunched together. A ‘negative’ on an entire batch rules out an entire batch and a ‘positive’ would entail checking every individual sample of the batch. Such an approach could save precious reagents and chemicals but also runs the risk of potentially missing samples. The event is expected to include Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, along with the Chief Ministers of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh.
27 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Row over sexual abuse case in Kerala||The alleged failure of the Kerala police to slap charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on a primary schoolteacher suspected of having sexually exploited a 10-year-old girl student at Palathayi in Kozhikode is shaping up to be the next political battlefront between the government and the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said the reluctance on the part of the Crime Branch (CB) to bring POCSO charges against the accused, a BJP worker, pointed to a tacit pre-poll understanding evolving between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in north Kerala. The controversy has come to a head after a court in Thalassery had granted bail to the accused. The CB had booked the teacher under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act on the charge of having inflicted corporal punishment on the girl. It filed an interim report in the court seeking more time for a detailed inquiry. ‘Revist statements’ A senior CB official said the agency would revisit the statements given by the minor. Many of her claims appeared to contradict the declarations given by her schoolmates and other teachers. For instance, the CB had probed the allegation that the accused had sexually exploited the girl at the school after the Republic Day celebrations. She attended the flag-hoisting ceremony and later sat through a quiz. However, investigators could not prove the suspect was at the school on that day. His cell phone showed a different location and he also provided alibis for the whole day. The CB would also verify the statements given by the girl on the happenings on January 15 and February 2. It would evaluate the child psychiatrically. Political impact The case has animated the politics in north Kerala. P. Jayarajan of the CPI(M) has blamed the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) of having tried to sabotage the case. P. Abdul Hammed, State general secretary of the SDPI, accused the CPI(M) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) of having conspired to help the accused. He said the family of the victim had come to the SDPI for help. The party’s Women India Movement (WIM) had taken up their cause. Writers, including Sara Joseph and K. Satchidanandan, expressed their solidarity with the victim by protesting at their homes on Sunday.
27 July 2020||Patna,||Over 14 lakh affected by Bihar floods||Floods continue to wreak havoc on 11 districts in northeastern Bihar on Sunday, with over 14 lakh people affected so far. Seven persons have been reportedly killed. The Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra rivers are flowing above the danger level. However, the Ganga is still below the danger mark. Officials sources said the government has deployed IAF helicopters to drop food packets and set up 463 community kitchens and 26 relief camps in the affected areas. Nearly 1.7 lakh people are getting food from the community kitchens and 14,011 have taken shelter in relief camps, said the State Disaster Management Department. 25 DRF teams As many as 25 teams of the National and State Disaster Response Force are engaged in relief and rescue operations. The State government has said drones will be deployed to locate marooned people in the flood-affected districts. Amidst the rescue efforts, a 25-year-old woman was delivered of a baby girl on a rescue boat in the flood-affected East Champaran district. The NDRF boat was engaged in a rescue operation led by assistant sub-inspector Jitendra Kumar. The woman, identified as Reema Devi, wife of Muni Lal Mahto, is from Gobari village under Banjariya block . “With the help of ASHA workers, the NDRF team helped the woman in safe delivery. The woman and her baby were later shifted to a nearby Primary Health Center,” said Vijay Sinha, NDRF 9th battalion Commandant. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said the government had given permission to district magistrates of the flood-affected areas to buy boats and use drones to locate and rescue marooned people. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to distribute free masks to rescued people in these areas, and also urged them to follow other protocol for COVID-19 prevention. Earlier, the government had announced compensation of Rs. 6,000 to each flood-affected person. State Water Resources Minister, Sanjay Jha, along with top officials undertook an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas.
27 July 2020||Srinagar,||All militant recruits from Srinagar neutralised, says IGP||All militant recruits from Jammu & Kashmir’s capital Srinagar have been neutralised in the past five anti-militancy operations in the city, the police said on Sunday. “Five encounters took place in the city this year. Of 10 terrorists killed in these gunfights, four were from Srinagar. Now, no resident of Srinagar district is in any terrorist rank,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, told The Hindu . Mr. Kumar said Lashkar-e-Taiba’s Ishfaq Rashid Khan, who was killed on Saturday near Srinagar, was the last active militant from the capital. Two militants were killed in the operation on Saturday. A top Hizbul Mujahideen commander, Junaid Sehrai, who is the son of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai, was among the four slain militants from Srinagar. Sehrai was killed along with his two associates in May this year. Police sources said the killing of these militants has dented the logistic support of the militants arriving from north and south Kashmir for “temporary bases and money” in the capital. Srinagar witnessed heightened militant activities this year, resulting in setting up of multiple checkpoints across the city and launching of frequent crackdowns in residential areas, police sources said. Over 137 militants have been killed in anti-militancy operations in Jammu and Kashmir so far this year, mostly in south Kashmir’s Shopian, Kulgan and Awantipora. Meanwhile, militants opened fire on security forces on Sunday morning in Shopian town. “A joint party of CRPF and the police was attacked near Shungloo Bridge in Shopian. There were no casualties,” the police said.  Arms, drugs recovered  Meanwhile, an Army spokesman said three suspects were arrested from the Sadhna Pass in Kupwara’s Tangdhar area. “Based on inputs about smuggling, an Army dog, aided by detectors and scanners, located the concealed and hidden packages from a vehicle. The search led to apprehension of three suspects and seizure of two vehicles,” the spokesman said. The Army said one AK-56, a magazine and ammunition, two pistols with two magazines and ammunition, 20 grenades and about 10 kg of narcotics were recovered.
27 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Anand Singh tests positive for virus||Karnataka Forest Minister and Ballari in charge Anand Singh tested positive for COVID-19 late on Saturday evening. He was asymptomatic and his health condition is stable. The Minister had voluntarily given his throat swab on Friday and the result was out late on Saturday. Home Isolation Sources close to Mr. Singh said the Minister would get isolated and treated at his residence in Hosapete since he was asymptomatic. The source of Mr. Singh’s infection was not known. The Forest Minister had recently visited COVID-19 wards and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at a designated COVID-19 hospital in Ballari. Driver tests postive During his first visit to the ward, he had not worn Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit. However, he had worn it in his second visit to the ICU. His driver had tested positive a few days ago.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Panel moots re-engagement of govt. employees in Kerala||A conditional re-engagement of Kerala government employees has been mooted as an alternative to raising their retirement age to ease the immediate strain on the State finances and to stave off a similar threat in the future. A COVID-19 response strategy drawn up by a six-member expert panel, headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham, has pointed out the financial implications in raising the retirement age and the advantages in re-hiring employees on the same pay and allowances they avail themselves of on their retirement date. The proposal has been mooted to cushion the impact of the jolt rendered by the pandemic on the State exchequer. Kerala and Jharkhand are the two States that still retain the retirement age at 56. While Madhya Pradesh has fixed it at 62 years, it is 60 in 13 States and Union territories and 59 in Tamil Nadu. Raising the retirement age from 56 years would offer a major benefit to the employees and a temporary reprieve to the government since it can defer the financial burden of disbursing the pension benefits at least in the short run. But it would substantially jack up the long and medium term commitments. The new proposal has been prepared in anticipation of that threat too. On raising the retirement age to 60 years, the eligible pension amount for each employee would go up considerably, with four increments getting added to the emoluments. The quantum of pension too would increase substantially. Hence, the panel has proposed to grant the privilege of re-employment as a matter of right without any hike in salary and other allowances. This would offer a twin advantage to the government — it could put off the burden for meeting the retirement benefits and the commitment would be the same even after four years. Major challenge Kerala, which has the highest life expectancy for men and women, has the lowest retirement rate. This throws up a major challenge since 18,000 to 20,000 persons are being sent off when they attain the peak of their professional acumen and experience. Those opting for re-employment should agree to defer all retirement benefits till the new agreement expires and will be eligible only for a special pay. The government should assure to pay 8% interest, or 1% more than the bank rate on the deferred benefits. The committee has proposed to extend the option, if implemented, to public sector undertakings and autonomous bodies too.
27 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Ayodhya mosque trust yet to be constituted||More than five months after its announcement, the trust meant to construct a mosque in Ayodhya following the Supreme Court verdict in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title suit, is yet to be constituted. On February 24, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board decided to accept the five acres allotted to it by the State government for building a mosque in Dhannipur village in Sohawal tehsil of Ayodhya, around 25 km from the site where the Babri Masjid had stood. The U.P. Sunni Central Waqf Board is yet to get “physical possession” of the land, said Syed Shoeb, CEO of the Board, on Sunday. “After the physical possession, a board meeting will be held and we will decide how it [construction] is to be done,” Mr. Shoeb said. Delay due to pandemic The trust, expected to have 11 members, would be announced soon, he said. Asked about the delay, Mr. Shoeb said it was mainly due to the pandemic. Moreover, the tenure of the Board expired on March 31 following which it got an extension last month for another six months but the paper work took time till July 1, he said. Rakesh Yadav, pradhan of Dhannipur, said though officials had a few months ago come to measure the land, it lies vacant. The Agriculture department is still farming on it, he said. “Dhaan laga hua hai [Paddy has been sown],” he said. Mr. Yadav says locals hope that the mosque would transform the village into a tourist spot. A decision on the design, size and blueprint of the mosque would also be taken in the Board meeting, the date for which is not announced, Mr. Shoeb indicated. Chairman of the Board Zufar Faruqi had in February announced that the Trust would also construct a centre showcasing Indo-Islamic culture of several centuries, a centre for research and study of Indo-Islamic culture, a charitable hospital, a public library and other public utilities at the site. Calls to DM Ayodhya, SDM Sohawal and Mr. Faruqi went unanswered.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||Try toppling my govt., Uddhav tells BJP||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday dared the Opposition BJP to topple his government. Mr. Thackeray said despite being a three-wheeler government, he was firmly in control of its steering wheel. “Why wait for September-October as is being speculated. Topple the government right now since you get pleasure in toppling. Some people derive pleasure in constructive work while some are happy in destruction. If you feel happy in destruction, go ahead,” the Chief Minister said in an interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna.  Mr. Thackeray, who is also the president of the Shiv Sena, said the government is being benefited from the experience of other two alliance partners — the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress. “The future of my government is not in the hands of the opposition. The steering wheel is in my hands,” said Mr. Thackeray, ahead of his 60th birthday on Monday. He was interviewed by Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. “You say the MVA government is formed against the democratic principles but is it called democracy when you topple it?” Mr Thackeray asked. He also rejected criticism that bureaucracy has an upper hand in his government. “The government is the decision-maker and bureaucracy implements the decisions,” he added. He also said the Congress's grievance of being neglected in the three-party alliance government was resolved after his meeting with the state Congress leaders. Taking a dig at the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Mr. Thackeray said, “If ours is a three-wheeler government, then how many wheels does NDA have?”
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Facebook apologises for blocking news website ‘Naanu Gauri’||Facebook has apologised for blocking the news website ‘Naanu Gauri’, run by Gauri Media Trust in memory of slain editor-activist Gauri Lankesh. Facebook not only blocked the page of the website on the platform, but also took it down and did not allow any posts with the URL. Following a social media campaign that alleged the website had become a target of the right-wing ecosystem online, the news portal was unblocked on Saturday night. ‘Restored’ “The URL www.naanugauri.com as well as the posts that mentioned the URL were removed in error (technical issue) and have now been restored. We apologise for the mistake,” a Facebook spokesperson told The Hindu . H.V. Vasu, editor, Naanu Gauri, said this was not the first time the news portal had run into troubles with Facebook. “While our application for Facebook Instant articles was accepted, later clearance was withdrawn. There are questions of fair play and parity that these issues raise about Facebook, which we will continue to raise. We suspect the online right-wing ecosystem has campaigned against us by reporting the page. But it is expected of Facebook to have used their discretion and have a system in place to verify and not allow organised campaigns with malicious intent to lead to censorship on the platform,” he said.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ramesh’s criticism of EIA notification unfounded’||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has dismissed the criticism of the proposed Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2020, by Jairam Ramesh, former Environment Minister and Chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Environment, as “unfounded and based on misrepresentation.” Mr. Ramesh, in a letter to Mr. Javadekar on Saturday, laid out a five-point criticism of the controversial notification. The notification promoted “land grab,” reduced public participation in all aspects of the environmental clearance process, allowed post-approval of projects that violated norms, and went against the principle of cooperative federalism, Mr. Ramesh said. Mr. Javadekar, in a note, responded that while Mr. Ramesh’s criticism was noted, the notification was still open to public feedback for a fortnight. He added that the government would finalise the notification only after considering all suggestions and they were open to scrutiny by parliamentary standing committees. The EIA notification is a compilation of updates to the existing environment impact assessment laws but a range of environmentalists have objected to its provisions that reportedly waters down checks on infrastructure projects that may have a significant impact on environment. The Act was open to public comments until June 11.
27 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. CM urged to help Bhopal gas survivors||Groups working for Bhopal gas tragedy survivors on Sunday appealed to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to provide interim relief to survivors during the COVID-19 pandemic. Writing to Mr. Chouhan, the Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sanghathan and the Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti demanded relief for each survivor, “who is facing a torrid time during the present COVID-19 pandemic”, at Rs. 3,000 every month and to each widow and orphan Rs. 5,000 a month. “By the Government of India’s own submission in the curative petition, which is currently pending before the Supreme Court, the government has sought Rs. 7,728 crore [which is a gross underestimation] as additional compensation from Union Carbide Corporation and its present owners, the Dow Chemical Company,” they wrote, contending that compensation was due to them.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||These workers are glad they missed the train||“If we return home we would have to undergo 21 days of quarantine. Moreover, there is every chance of fellow villagers boycotting my family. Instead of undergoing such mental trauma, it is better to keep earning away from home and consider returning Odisha after normalcy is restored,” said Mr. Naik. The situation is serious in Ganjam, which has emerged as the epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. The district, incidentally, sends the highest number of migrant workers from the State across the country including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. More than two lakh people from Ganjam are employed in the apparel sector of Surat alone. “People competed among themselves to return home from Surat in the beginning of May. The government has paid Rs. 2000 to those who completed their quarantine period. Upon their release from quarantine centres, they faced the harsh reality of unemployment. While there were few takers for Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act jobs, other work was hard to come by,” said Srikant Padhy, a labour leader. As sources of income dried up without any job, villagers have been sending feelers to their employers over the last month to return to their work spots. The lack of public transport has put a spoke in many workers’ plans to return. Six buses have been sent to Ganjam to ferry workers back to Surat. “I have been receiving frequent calls from Odisha, people requesting help for their return to their workplaces, over the past few weeks. Though COVID-19 situation in Surat continues to be serious, workers are ready to take chances. After all, livelihood worries have dwarfed the fear of contracting the disease,” said Bhabagrahi Panda, a senior executive at a Surat-based apparel company. Kick-starting industries Mr. Panda said Surat-based employers were incurring heavy losses due to lack of workers to kick-start the industry with full capacity. “A train is running between Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Workers have started arriving from Uttar Pradesh. If Odisha government could think on similar lines, workers will get back their jobs,” he pointed out. At Tamil Nadu’s Perundurai, 27-year-old Satyananda Guru from Odisha’s Bargarh district said he has no plans to return anytime soon. “We have been getting diminishing returns from agriculture. If all members of family are involved in one profession, the division of labour would make the task easier. However, the harvest from the crop will also have to be divided. Rather, we must look for earning individually and learn to keep living with coronavirus,” said Mr. Guru. For most migrant labourers, staying back is a conscious decision.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gehlot sends revised note to Governor||Earlier in the day, Mr. Mishra reviewed security arrangements in Raj Bhavan at a meeting with Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup and Director-General of Police Bhupendra Yadav in view of Congress’ announcement that it would be holding demonstrations outside the residences of Governors across the country on Monday. The Congress workers have planned to protest against the BJP’s alleged attempts to topple democratically elected governments. However, newly appointed Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra, who has replaced Mr. Pilot, said no protest would be staged outside Raj Bhavan in Jaipur as part of the “Save democracy, save Constitution” campaign. “We do hope that the Governor will soon approve the Cabinet's advice for calling the [Assembly] session,” he said. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who is camping in Jaipur as a central observer, said at a press conference that the “disruptive forces” wanted to make democracy a “slave of Delhi Durbar” and a puppet in their hands. He also asked how a Governor could refuse to call an Assembly session, when advised by an elected government. Civil rights groups Meanwhile, more than 80 civil rights groups have written to the Governor urging him to respect the Cabinet's decision to convene the Assembly session in order to ensure political stability in the State. PUCL-Rajasthan president Kavita Srivastava said the State was being led into a constitutional crisis when the people were reeling under the impact of the pandemic.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||200 proposals from China await clearance||Several rounds of diplomatic and military-level talks have been held as India has demanded that status quo be restored in the border area. On July 10, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong issued a video statement, saying “China has been India’s largest trading partner for many years in a row with cumulative investment in India exceeding $8 billion.” India shares land borders with Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Investors from countries that are not covered by revised FDI new policy only have to inform the Reserve Bank of India after the completion of a transaction rather than seek prior clearance from the administrative ministry. Last week, the Centre amended the General Financial Rules, 2017, to enable imposition of restrictions on bidders from countries which share a land border with India in relation to public procurement for reasons of national security and other factors directly or indirectly related to the country’s defence. In 2019, MHA informed the Lok Sabha that the framework for security clearance has been streamlined and the average time taken for security clearance has reduced from 104 days in 2014 to 60 days in 2019. As per MHA’s annual 2018-19 report, 5,490 proposals related to security clearance were disposed from May 2014 to March 2019.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Remember soldiers, Modi tells people||He said the Kargil War took place at a time when India was engaged in peace talks with Pakistan, but it had backstabbed India to wage war, only to distract attention from its domestic issues. The Prime Minister also urged Indians to resolve to gain ‘independence’ from the coronavirus pandemic on August 15, and said while India, due to a unified effort, has kept its mortality rates and overall numbers low compared to other countries precautions must always be observed. “I know that wearing a mask, constant hand washing, maintaining distance can irk after some time, but whenever you feel the urge to remove your mask, remember the COVID warriors like doctors and paramedics who are risking their lives everyday to combat the disease.” He lauded local body representatives in rural India for coming up with innovative methods to sanitise conditions and create capacity to deal with the pandemic. Mr. Modi urged people to look up the life of freedom fight Lokmanya Tilak.
27 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. postmen ensure you get your mails, medicines||During the COVID-19 pandemic, sorting hundreds of mails every day that have changed several hands and going door-to-door to deliver parcels in containment areas can be a daunting task. But for Brahamanand Bilwariya, a postman in Bhopal, connecting families split by the lockdown and distributing medicines in time, is a call of duty. “When I saw our soldiers grappling along the Chinese border on TV recently, away from their homes, I felt lucky to be staying with my family,” said Mr. Bilwariya, 40, a postman for 10 years. “If they can work in such tough conditions, why can’t we?” he wondered. Mr. Bilwariya delivers mail every day in Kotra and Naya Basera. The pandemic has altered the rules of engagement. He either drops parcels in a patch of sunlight or at the doorstep. Before confirming receipt, some eagerly inch forward to spray sanitiser on the pen and sheet he carries, that he promptly pulls back. “Well, that’ll drench it,” he said, wearing gloves, a visor covering his face.  The nationwide lockdown paralysed rail and air networks. But shouldering the responsibility of delivering testing kits, medicines, personal protective equipment and ventilators timely, the India Post placed a north-south, east-west road transport network. For Madhya Pradesh, Sagar, 170 km from Bhopal, became a sorting hub. “Delivery of essential items, including medical equipment and continuing banking services, became a priority,” said M.P. circle Chief Postmaster General Jitendra Gupta. On a non-festive day before the lockdown, Mr. Bilwariya delivered around 200 mails a day which has dropped to 50 now. “Rakhi bookings have come down by half this year,” he said. Around 8 a.m. at the T.T. Nagar post office here, tens of postmen slit open mail bags and sort mails area-wise into racks before heading out for delivery at noon. Further, people during the pandemic were preferring doorstep banking more, said Harjinder Singh Bhatti, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Bhopal Division.
27 July 2020||Bulandshahr (U.P.),||U.P. lawyer goes missing, family suspects abduction||A lawyer has gone missing under mysterious circumstances in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district and his family suspects that he has been abducted, police said on Sunday. A search operation has been launched to locate the lawyer, who had left home in Khurja Nagar on Saturday evening with some associates, officers said. “Dharmendra Chaudhary had left with some of his associates. Around 10.45 p.m. his phone was found switched off and he has not returned home since. His family approached the police and an FIR has been lodged under IPC Section 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder),” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said. He said a combing operation was launched on Saturday night and dog squads were pressed into service. “Mr. Chaudhary’s motorcycle was found abandoned at a place around five to seven km from his phone location,” Mr. Singh said.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Chiranjeevi, Pawan Kalyan take up green challenge||Actors Chiranjeevi and Pawan Kalyan, and directors Boyapati Sreenu and Anil Ravipudi participated in the Green India Challenge organised by Jubilee Hills Housing Society, Jubilee Hills International Centre and NTV chairman Narendra Chowdary on Sunday. Plantation of 1 lakh trees was planned in the premises of Jubilee Hills society along with Green India Challenge patron RS MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar. After planting trees, Chiranjeevi said that Mr. Santosh was the real hero who took the challenge forward successfully for the last three years. He felt that protecting our lungs have become more important in the wake of the COVID pandemic. Actor Pawan Kalyan also thanked the MP and Jubilee Hills Housing Society.
27 July 2020||pune,||BJP takes a dig at Uddhav for interview||Taking potshots at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for his interview with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamna , BJP State president Chandrakant Patil dared him to be interviewed by journalists and not “party sycophants”. Mr. Patil, an MLA from Kothrud, said Maharashtra was being run by two Chief Ministers — one sitting in ‘Matoshree’ (in reference to Mr. Thackeray) and the other touring the State (referring to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar) Mr. Thackeray, who heads the Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, had dared the BJP to topple the MVA in his interview with Mr. Raut. In response, Mr. Patil said, “Which BJP leader in the State is saying that this government [MVA] will fall? Neither has [BJP’s Leader of Opposition] Devendra Fadnavis said such a thing nor have I, or any other senior BJP leader for that matter.” He said the Chief Minister’s interview with Mr. Raut was analogous to ‘match-fixing’.
27 July 2020||Kochi,||Airlifted baby dies on way to hospital||A nine-day-old baby with a serious heart defect who braved a helicopter ride from the Lakshadweep islands to the Cochin International Airport died on the way to the hospital here. In the absence of adequate medical facilities on the island, the Lakshadweep administration had arranged to airlift the baby to Kochi for treatment at a private hospital. The hospital spokesperson said the baby had tentatively been diagnosed with total anomalous pulmonary venous connections (TAPVC), a congenital heart defect, but the team at the hospital had been awaiting his arrival for a clear diagnosis. The helicopter arrived at the airport in Nedumbassery by 2 p.m. on Sunday, and a specially equipped ambulance was arranged for his transport to the hospital. But the baby, accompanied by a parent, suffered a cardiac arrest in the ambulance en route, the spokesperson said.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||e-notice stopped due to privacy issues||The Registration Department had decided to discontinue the practice of uploading marriage notices on its website following complaints that they were being misused for spreading communal propaganda. The department began uploading notices given under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which include photographs of the applicants and their addresses, in 2019. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minister for Public Works and Registration G. Sudhakaran had received complaints that the notices were being downloaded from the website and misused for communal purposes. The Inspector General of Registration, who looked into the matter, had recommended appropriate measures to curb misuse of personal information and invasion of privacy.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka celebrations go online||The COVID-19 pandemic has truncated the customary anniversary celebrations of the BJP government. While otherwise, several programmes would have been held to highlight the works undertaken, the first anniversary celebrations of the B.S. Yediyurappa government have not only been truncated but will go online. Only the CM and Revenue Minister R. Ashok - incharge of Bengaluru Rural district- will be part of the celebrations at Banquet Hall in Vidhana Soudha on Monday morning. All Ministers have been asked to be present in the headquarters of the districts that are in-charge of and join the anniversary celebrations on Zoom. “With the number of participants being restricted to 50, Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Ashok will be present with Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. Top officials and mediapersons will be allowed,” CMO sources said. Evaluation The Chief Minister will release a book Putakkitta Chinna, a collection of 22 articles by persons from various walks of life evaluating the first year of the government. “The book includes articles critical of policy matters and covers a wide range of issues from science and technology to education and land reforms,” said Mahadeva Prakash, editor of the book, also media adviser to the CM. The book includes articles by seers Dr. Shivamurthy Shivacharya Swami, Basavalinga Pattadadevaru and Prof. C. Narasimhappa on irrigation, and Dr. V.P. Niranjanaradhya on education among others. While the CM will release the anniversary book in Bengaluru, Ministers will release the book in their respective districts.
27 July 2020||KAKINADA,||‘Action plan prepared to set up four RALs’||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said that a special action plan has been chalked out to set up four Regional Agriculture Laboratories (RAL) with an allocation of Rs. 175 crore in the State. Speaking to newsmen here, Mr. Kannababu said the labs would be set up in Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Eluru and Tirupati. On the impact on the operations of aqua processing plants and the subsequent impact on exports, he said that an immediate initiative would be taken to ensure the availability of workers in the processing units. “East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has been briefed on the impact of the absence of workers in the aqua processing units. A coordinated exercise will be undertaken to persuade the workers to return to work to avoid impact on the aqua industry,” the Minister said.
27 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Cong. set to table motion against Biren||The coalition Ministry in Manipur is likely to face a no-confidence motion in the one-day Assembly session scheduled for August 10. Congress MLA and spokesperson Keisham Meghachandra has announced the decision to table the motion even as BJP Chief Minister N. Biren expressed confidence of his political survival. At the same time, the Opposition party will also move a contempt of court against Speaker Yumnam Khemchand. Meanwhile, two dissident Congress MLAs, R.K. Imo and Okram Henry, are yet to respond to the party’s show cause notice to explain why disciplinary actions should not be taken up against them for voting for Leishemba Sanajaoba, the BJP candidate for the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Manipur. The BJP candidate won the election by a narrow margin, defeating Tongbram Mangibabu of the Congress. During his recent visit to meet the BJP national leaders after winning the Rajya sabha seat, Mr. Biren had taken both Mr. Imo and Mr. Sanajaoba to Delhi.
27 July 2020||Pune,||BJP takes a dig at Uddhav for interview||Taking potshots at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for his interview with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamna , BJP State president Chandrakant Patil dared him to be interviewed by journalists and not “party sycophants”. Mr. Patil, an MLA from Kothrud, said Maharashtra was being run by two Chief Ministers — one sitting in ‘Matoshree’ (in reference to Mr. Thackeray) and the other touring the State (referring to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar) Mr. Thackeray, who heads the Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, had dared the BJP to topple the MVA in his interview with Mr. Raut. In response, Mr. Patil said, “Which BJP leader in the State is saying that this government [MVA] will fall? Neither has [BJP’s Leader of Opposition] Devendra Fadnavis said such a thing nor have I, or any other senior BJP leader for that matter.” He said the Chief Minister’s interview with Mr. Raut was analogous to ‘match-fixing’.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Medicos must instil confidence through effective treatment’||The State government has exhorted the medical fraternity to instil confidence in people by providing effective treatment and ensure that that they are not scared of the impact of COVID-19. Health Minister Eatala Rajender asserted that the government has taken all necessary steps to tackle the virus and it is the responsibility of the medical fraternity to instil confidence among the people on the steps initiated in their interest. The Minister, accompany by his colleague Vemula Prashanth Reddy, visited Kamareddy on Sunday and held a review on the coronavirus situation as well as on seasonal diseases. ‘Consult for symptoms’ Appreciating the relentless struggle by the medical fraternity against COVID-19, he said the people should be alert about the scope for the spread of seasonal diseases during monsoon. People should consult doctors in case of any symptoms related to the seasonal diseases and take necessary precautions. “The country has successfully tackled pandemics more acute than coronavirus and the government is committed to stand by the doctors who are fighting to save the lives of the people,” Mr. Rajender said, suggesting that people with co-morbid conditions should be particularly more careful as they were more susceptible to contract the coronavirus. Rapid tests Steps had been taken to intensify the rapid tests to identify COVID-19 patients and there was no shortage of oxygen, ventilators and other equipment that was important in tackling the virus. Mr. Prashanth Reddy said the district administration had prepared an action plan worth Rs. 5 crore to check the spread of COVID and urged Mr. Rajender to approve the plan at the earliest besides solving the problems related to community health centres in Yellareddy, Domakonda and Banswada. Government whip and Kamareddy MLA Gampa Goverdhan asked the government to set up a quarantine centre on Bhiknoor campus besides making arrangements for food supply. Zilla Parishad chairperson D. Shoba Raju also spoke.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Film festivals go online, draw an overwhelming response too||Most of the film society screenings in the post-Internet era meant a rented room, a makeshift screen, and less than hundred of its most dedicated members. With the COVID-19 pandemic making all such meetings impossible, the Kerala chapter of the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI) decided to launch an online film, documentary, and short film festival. The response has been beyond the expectations of the federation that it has now begun mulling the launch of a possible Over The Top (OTT) screening platform to generate revenue for independent filmmakers. When the Tamil film Merkku Thodarchi Malai (Western Ghats), directed by Lenin Bharathi, was screened as the inaugural film of the festival on July 20, close to 4,000 people joined. The link and password for the day’s film is shared on the FFSI Keralam Facebook page at 7 p.m. every day and will be active for 24 hours, during which period it can be accessed for free. It is a model that was successfully implemented by the 10-day ‘We are One: a Global film festival’ organised in May, with contributions from major film festivals across the world. Indian language movies The FFSI film festival features independent films from Malayalam and other Indian languages, and 10 documentaries and short films over 10 days. In a year in which even opening of the cinemas is still not in consideration, more such online festivals could be on the way. “We were not expecting such a response when we began organising this festival. The publicity campaign for the festival was mainly through online platforms. With the involvement of all the film societies across Kerala, it did reach a wider audience, as 3,000 to 4,000 people have watched each film. When a film society organises a festival locally, the crowd is usually sparse, consisting of usual members. With this online festival, we have realised that we can even have a permanent OTT platform, with nominal amounts from viewers, which can be given to independent filmmakers,” says film critic V.K. Joseph, secretary of FFSI Keralam. He says that the online festivals can continue in the future, parallelly with the regular ones. The federation has also got suggestions to have specific days of screening , even after the ongoing festival gets over on July 29.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||BRIEFLY||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy will review the implementation of COVID containment measures in Kurnool district in a meeting at Kurnool Medical College from 10 a.m. on July 27 (Monday), according to a press release by district Collector G. Veerapandian. The Minister will take stock of the flood situation at APSP battalion guest house from 2.30 p.m.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||in brief||
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports over 6,900 cases for second consecutive day||With 6,986 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the State on Sunday, the number of active cases, including those under isolation, rose to 53,703. The overall tally of persons who have tested positive till date is 2,13,723*. Sunday’s tally fell just two cases short of the previous day’s figure. The State also recorded 85 deaths due to the infection, including 36 fatalities at private hospitals and 49 at government facilities. This took the death toll to 3,494. A 37-day-old baby and a 15-year-old girl were among the youngest casualties. Chennai recorded 1,155 new cases, whereas 1,315 patients were discharged from hospitals. While 26 deaths were recorded in the city, the number of persons undergoing treatment, including those under home isolation, stood at 13,744.  Cases continued to rise in the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Chengalpattu recorded 501 fresh infections, Kancheepuram 363 and Tiruvallur 480. Ranipet and Virudhunagar recorded 367 and 385 new cases. According to the daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, Madurai recorded eight deaths, while Chengalpattu and Virudhunagar recorded five deaths each. Ten of those who died had no co-morbidities. Eight deaths were reported from government medical college hospitals and two from private hospitals. Among the fatalities was a 37-day-old male baby, who was admitted to the Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore on July 5 with complaints of multiple episodes of loose stools for three days. The infant, which had a low birth weight, died on Friday. The hospital recorded the death as having occurred due to hypoxemic respiratory failure/sepsis caused by the infection. A 15-year-old girl from Thanjavur, who had been admitted to the government medical college hospital there on July 19, died the following day. Her sample was taken on July 17, and returned positive for the infection. The hospital recorded her death as having occurred due to COVID-19. The oldest patient whose death was recorded on Sunday was a 93-year-old man who had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on July 25 after testing positive at a private hospital 11 days earlier. He died on Saturday night. Approval for lab The daily report on the public health measures taken to combat COVID-19 noted that 5,471 persons had been discharged. With this, the total number of patients discharged stands at 1,56,526. A private laboratory in Coimbatore has been approved for COVID-19 testing. The State currently has 116 testing centres, including 58 government facilities and an equal number of private facilities.  Chennai recorded 1,155 new cases, whereas 1,315 patients were discharged
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to conduct training sessions for sanitary inspectors||The Greater Chennai Corporation will conduct training sessions for sanitary inspectors in 50% of the 200 wards to strengthen COVID-19 containment activities. A number of young sanitary inspectors, appointed amid the pandemic to fill vacancies in the Public Health Department, had not been able to implement containment measures properly, officials said. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash directed the Health Department to conduct training sessions for such staff to help them understand the issues pertaining to COVID-19 containment in the city. Initially, over 100 sanitary inspectors were hired on a contractual basis for three months. Later, the civic body hired a private agency to engage the services of sanitary inspectors for a year to carry out containment activities in all 200 wards during the pandemic. Lapses in measures But most of the young inspectors had not been able to implement containment measures efficiently, leading to gaps in screening, isolation and treatment of patients, sources said. Patient management in several zones was also affected, primarily because of inexperienced sanitary inspectors who were unable to coordinate with other agencies and departments on containment activities. The Corporation is also planning to study the role of inexperienced sanitary inspectors in the rise in the number of COVID-19 deaths in some zones, including Teynampet, Anna Nagar, Adyar and Kodambakkam. Many wards have reported a case fatality rate of over 2.3%. Over 25 sanitary inspectors, eight sanitary officers and four assistant health officers have tested positive for the infection so far. A number of sanitary inspectors, who had worked in Chennai on deputation from other districts, had returned to their native places after testing positive, sources said. Residents had complained about the poor response to civic issues during the pandemic in many of the wards manned by inexperienced sanitary inspectors. Many of the new recruits were unable to interact with the public during emergency situations related to the pandemic. “Some young sanitary inspectors are ignorant. Others are arrogant. This affects the COVID-19 response,” former Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin seeks support of national leaders||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday sought the support of national leaders, including Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, for the “war to protect social justice” and to provide equality of status and opportunity to communities which he said were discriminated against for centuries. He reached out to leaders, including CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI leader D. Raja and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. Letters sent “I seek your support and voice to defend the defenseless and preserve the basic structure of our Constitution in relation to reservations,” Mr. Stalin said in separate but identical letters addressed to the leaders. He said the Centre could not be permitted to turn a blind eye when a significant number of meritorious OBC students were denied seats and reservations for SC/ST students were mismanaged by applying Central reservations in all-India quota for medical seats. Mr. Stalin pointed out that in Tamil Nadu alone for the last four years, about 2,729 medical seats had been denied to the OBC students alone. “By applying the wrong reservation policy, about 164 seats have been denied to SC students. The media report shows that throughout India about 10,000 seats have been denied to OBC students,” he alleged.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against ABVP president withdrawn||Hours after the Adambakkam police registered a FIR against Dr. Subbiah Shanmugam, a Chennai-based oncologist and ABVP national president, on charges of harassing an elderly woman, her nephew withdrew the complaint following a “compromise”. The FIR was registered on Saturday after a delay of nearly a fortnight from the date of the complaint. However, police said since they have registered the FIR, the investigation will continue. “They will have to settle the issue in the court,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . The complainant, Balaji Vijayaraghavan, said, “The doctor spoke at length with my aunt and apologised. He asked me to consider him as his brother,” and added that besides his apology, there was pressure from other residents of the apartment building, where both his aunt and the doctor live. “The fact that his service is needed for society during such a public health emergency (COVID-19) was also a reason for me to withdraw the complaint. However, I would like to reiterate that the CCTV footage (of a man, who he alleged is Dr. Subbiah, urinating outside the woman’s apartment) was genuine,” he added. The ABVP, in a statement, said certain political parties were indulging in slander and character assassination. “The Congress, the DMK and the Left parties are conniving to defame Dr. Subbiah and ABVP,” said Nidhi Tripathi, national general secretary, ABVP. On July 25, the Adambakkam police registered a case against the doctor under three Sections of the IPC and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act. An audio clip purportedly containing a telephonic conversation between Dr. Subbiah and one of his neighbours was circulated on social media and mobile messaging platforms. Telephonic conversation In the audio, a person could be heard saying he desperately wants a “compromise” (on the complaint) as he was defamed on social media and “wants to put an end to this”. He goes on to add that two people, at the behest of the RSS, tried in vain to contact a woman in the apartment complex. The other person on the call says not to involve outsiders and that dadagiri (threat) would not work. He goes on to say he even spoke to a local BJP functionary. When contacted, Dr. Subbiah refused to comment on the audio clip. “I want everything to happen according to the law,” he added.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Bharathidasan favoured celebrating Bharathiar’s birth anniversary’||Whether to celebrate the birth anniversary of national poet Subramania Bharathiar or observe his death anniversary has always been a subject of debate in Tamil Nadu. Well known Tamil poet Bharathidasan, a disciple of Bharathiar, had strongly argued in favour of celebrating his birth anniversary. A letter written by him reiterates the point. “Subramania Bharathi is a world-class poet. His birth anniversary should be celebrated every year and all Tamils should become poets,” he said in a handwritten letter, which has been traced by Tamil writer Kadarkarai. Bharathidasan, who was living on Raman Street in T. Nagar, had agreed to record his views on the issue when approached by members of the Bharathi Youth Association in 1962. “The handwritten letter was in the possession of Ramamurthy, president of the Youth Association, for two decades and he published it in Tamil magazine Kalki in 1982, when Bharathiar’s birth centenary was celebrated. I found a copy in the archives,” said Kadarkarai, who writes and lectures on Bharathiar. Old debate Tamil Nadu has always debated the issue. In the 1940s, Congress leader and Tamil scholar Thiru. Vi. Ka. in his magazine Navasakthi supported the idea of observing the death anniversary on the ground that a person’s greatness was not proved on the day of his birth. Kadarkarai said that in another article Valikaati Yaar ? (Who is the guide?), penned by Bharathidasan in another Tamil magazine Kumudham in 1961, he had explained how his meeting with Bharathiar totally changed the subject matter and the style of his poetry. “I have written thousands of poems. They are not simple when it comes to style. There is no trace of patriotism in them,” Bharathidasan had said in the magazine. Bharathidasan had met Bharathiar through his physical trainer Venu, who was also a bodyguard of Bharathiar. Bharathidasan presented a vocal performance on the wedding day of Venu and rendered the song Thondu Nikalntha . “It was appreciated by freedom fighters V.V.S. Iyer and Srinivasachari. Even then I had not met Bharathiar. Bharathiar had listened to my song and wanted to make me his friend,” Bharathidasan further explained. Subsequently he met Bharathiar. “I moved with him. I moved more with what he had written. After that my poems never remained the same. He taught me the art of writing in a simple style,” Bharathidasan recalled. Kadarkarai said Bharathidasan’s aim was to make a film on Bharathiar, but he died before realising it. “His wife Pazhaniammal had said in an interview to Dinamani Kadir that he spent 60 days for completing the script and it had taken a heavy toll on his health,” Kadarkarai explained.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cracker units in wait-and-watch mode||Cracker manufacturers in Sivakasi, the fireworks hub of India, fear a massive setback to their business this festive season owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. While it is business as usual for big manufacturers, smaller units are cutting down on production by 20%-30%. Manufacturers say the number of orders for Ganesh Chaturthi has not been good. The Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA), which represents the fireworks industry, has sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting that the government announce that Deepavali celebrations would happen (with personal distancing norms, if needed). In the letter, TANFAMA president P. Ganesan said, “Because of the pandemic and the lockdown, the industry is in panic whether Deepavali will be celebrated. This is the month when wholesalers and retailers place orders but all wholesalers, distributors, retailers are cancelling orders...” There are about 1,000 licensed cracker units in Sivakasi, which account for a market size of Rs. 2,500 crore-Rs. 3,000 crore. The industry employs over 3 lakh people directly, and over 5 lakh indirectly. Mr. Ganesan, who also runs Sony Fireworks, said that with minimum staff, he is making only 70% of the crackers on his premises. “As of now, we are optimistic that Deepavali will happen this year. But if it doesn’t, the industry will collapse, stocks will pile up and there won’t be any fresh orders for 2021. This will, in turn, lead to job losses and factories being shut,” he said. A few firms under the TANFAMA umbrella have submitted cracker samples to the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to check whether the emissions will help in containing COVID-19. K. Mariappan, who runs Sri Arumugam Fireworks, said only select items were being made at his factory. “We are making select products, which we are confident will sell. At the same time, we are honouring every order that comes our way.” He said units that are dependent on marriages and other functions have incurred huge losses. Illegal units have also been hit as there is no cash flow. P.C.A. Asaithambi, partner at Lord Fireworks, said they start production in December and get advance payments by January/February so there has not been any impact on production. “We need to wait and see how Ganesh Chaturthi turns out, and based on that, we can assess how Deepavali sales will be,” he said. Some manufacturers said wholesalers and retailers who visit Sivakasi to place orders have not turned up because of the lack of transport. A Chennai wholesaler said, “We are being cautious. We are not sure whether people will spend money on crackers, given the lay-offs and salary cuts across all industries.”  We are optimistic that Deepavali will happen. If it doesn’t, the industry will collapse P. Ganesan TANFAMA president
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As televised lessons progress, wait for syllabus trim continues||While the School Education Department has been telecasting video lessons on its Kalvi TV since mid-July, students and teachers continue to wait for clarity on syllabus reduction as well as textbooks for all classes. So far, most government and government-aided schools have distributed books to students of Classes 10 and 12. “Middle-school students are yet to get their books. It will be easier for students to follow the televised lessons with their textbooks in hand. While we have been given a schedule of the subjects for each class and timings, we want to be informed in advance about the order of lessons as well,” said Patric Raymond, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. The School Education Department has so far released a schedule for the period till the end of the month with telecast timings for lessons for each class. Teachers, however, want a schedule for the lessons that are being tackled through these sessions as well. “A proper schedule for televised classes could have been prepared based on the reduced syllabus. We are waiting for some clarity on how the syllabus will change, especially for students of higher classes,” said a government schoolteacher from Chennai. In many smaller districts, students with DTH connections are unable to access the televised lessons through the cable channel. However, the School Education Department has said that there are plans to telecast the lessons on private channels, too, for better access. Supplementary content A teacher from Tiruppur said that while video lessons were not new for the students, they had so far been used only as supplementary teaching resources in classrooms. “Tamil Nadu has a bank of videos and other e-learning content on the DIKSHA platform,” he said. The concern for most teachers, he said, is to follow up with students whether they were tuning in to see the lessons being telecast. “Only a few students have been getting back to us with doubts or feedback. The lessons tackled through these TV lessons will be handled again in the classroom by the teachers, and all this should be taken into account when the syllabus reduction is being prepared,” he said.
27 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||In contrast to initial stages, districts now push tally||An analysis of COVID-19 cases over the last few weeks shows how the pandemic has thoroughly spread across Tamil Nadu. The State has added 1,02,572 patients since July 5, when the lockdown was relaxed. While 26,441 (25.8%) of these cases came from Chennai, 17,317 (16.9%) came from nearby Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts. The remaining majority of 58,814 cases (57.3%) came from other districts. In contrast to the initial stages of the pandemic, when Chennai and its surrounding districts accounted for more than 75% of the cases, the region now accounts for below 60%. This reduction is not due to a fall in cases in the Chennai region, but due to an increase in cases in other districts. On July 5, 21 districts had less than 1,000 cases, but on Sunday, there were only 11 districts with less than 1,000 cases.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keep positivity rate under 5%, says expert||Highlighting the need for increased testing, tracing and isolation of COVID-19 patients and their contacts, V. Ravi, head, Department of Neurovirology, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), on Sunday said it was important to keep the test positivity rate (TPR) under 5%. Delivering the 16th Prof. Arcot Gajaraj Memorial Oration through videoconferencing, Dr. Ravi, who is part of the Karnataka government’s task force on COVID-19, said that the State had managed to keep its TPR under 5% while the lockdown was in force. “Once the lockdown was relaxed, cases surged, the rate of testing fell and TPR went up,” he said. He added that keeping TPR under 5%, in any geography, was an indication that testing, tracing and containment measures were better. He said it was critical to identify all symptomatic patients as they were the ones driving the pandemic. While the ability to spread the infection was around 19.4 persons for a symptomatic person, it was only four for someone asymptomatic. Stressing the need for effective communication from the authorities, he said that though there was community transmission of COVID-19 everywhere, no State except Kerala had acknowledged it. Arguing that community transmission was not wrong, he said acknowledging it would help tackle the pandemic better. He stressed on the need for data-driven interventions at the local level for better handling of COVID-19. Chief guest Abraham Verghese, professor of Medicine at Stanford University and author, said that though the world had been predicting a pandemic for long and thought it was prepared, COVID-19 had proven it wrong. ‘Democratic virus’ “The virus, which is quite democratic and has crossed all barriers of nationality, caste, creed and religion, has united us in our vulnerability as human species,” he said. Saying that his country’s [the U.S.] decision to pull out of the World Health Organisation was “incredibly short-sighted,” he said that science was the only good news in the otherwise sad story of the pandemic. V. Ramasubramanian, director of Capstone Multispecialty Clinic and consultant, Infectious Diseases at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, said while developing herd immunity or vaccines were the only two possibilities to end the pandemic, the world was still not close to either. He said that testing, contact tracing, and the use of masks were crucial. A. Jaishree Gajaraj, obstetrician and gynaecologist and chairperson of Kausalya Gajaraj Charitable Trust, and others participated.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newly designed rakes for Vande Bharat trains likely in 2023||The newly designed rake of Vande Bharat Express is expected to roll out of the Integral Coach Factory here around March 2023, railway sources said on Sunday. Three companies have submitted bids for the multi-crore project to make 44 rakes or 700-plus coaches. According to the tender conditions, the first two prototype rakes for commercial operation should be delivered in 28 months from the date of award of contract. However, the sources said no date had been fixed yet for finalising the tender and awarding the contract. The Railways had initially tasked the ICF with making 720 coaches for running 45 Vande Bharat Express trains in December 2019. This was after India’s first semi-high speed train evoked a good response from travellers. In the revised Rolling Stock Programme, the target for 2020-2021 has been fixed at 240 coaches or 15 trainsets or rakes, with a possible modification of the goal. The revision has become necessary for different reasons, including the lockdown and safety measures to control COVID-19 that have slowed the production of coach-making factories. After allegations over a particular company having been favoured and safety features being compromised, the specifications for Train18 were sent back to the drawing board. Advanced features Some changes approved by the Research Designs and Standards Organisation include increasing the flood proofing level from 203 mm to 650 mm above the rail, reducing the time to achieve 160 kmph from 190 seconds to 140 seconds and integration of the fire detection and alarm system in such a manner that in case of smoke or a fire, the doors shall open only after the train stops, the sources said. As for the move to rope in private players for train operations, All India Railwaymen’s Federation national working president N. Kanniah said the cost of importing trainsets or bringing in a foreign company would cost more than Rs. 98 crore, the original cost of Train18. Instead of allowing private parties to run trains with a heavy discount on haulage charges, the Ministry of Railways should let each zonal railway operate premium trains, using Linke Hoffman Busch (LHB) coaches, with the freedom to fix rates on a par with the tariff of private trains run by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation, he said.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll collection on OMR, ECR will resume on Wednesday||Collection of toll will resume at plazas on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, also known as Old Mahabalipuram Road, and East Coast Road from Wednesday. Collection was stopped after the lockdown was announced in the end of March. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Road Development Company (TNRDC), which manages the roads, said staff could not report for work due to the restrictions. “Now since there is some relaxation, they are able to report for duty. We will take enough precautions to ensure safety,” an official said. Traffic volume Traffic, too, has increased gradually and OMR has been witnessing around 35% of its usual per day vehicle numbers. On the other hand, ECR has been seeing increased traffic only during weekends. The Electronic toll collection method, FASTag, will also commence operations at the plazas since trials have been conducted. “This will help reduce cash transactions. Those using local residents’ passes too have to get ID tags, which will enable them to move without having to swipe their passes at the booths in the plazas,” the official added. On the losses incurred due to non-collection of toll, the TNRDC will write to the State government, seeking compensation by way of money or extension of concession time.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC raises the bar for designation of lawyers as Senior Advocates||The Madras High Court has raised the bar for its lawyers to be designated as Senior Advocates, who enjoy privileges such as a preferential right of audience in all courts according to seniority, wear special robes and exercise other rights conferred under the Advocates Act of 1961. The Madras High Court Designation of Senior Advocate Rules of 2020 prohibits the designated Senior Advocates from seeking adjournments or mentioning any case before the court seeking early hearing. Only their junior advocates or instructing counsel can perform such jobs. A permanent secretariat would be established in the High Court for dealing with designation of Senior Advocates and every proposal for designation would be published on the High Court website inviting views and suggestions, along with verifiable materials, within 30 days. However, it has been made clear that the secretariat would not receive any anonymous or pseudonymous petitions or views and only such submissions, submitted in writing with full name and address, would be entertained. Lawyers above 45 years of age and with a standing of not less than 10 years in the Bar would be considered for the designation. They should exhibit distinction and eminence for legal acumen and special knowledge. Integrity, reputation and high ethical standards, both inside and outside the court, would form part of the selection criteria and they should have at least 15 judgments, in the preceding five years, where they had contributed to the growth of law. Three different modes of proposal have been contemplated. Firstly, either the Chief Justice or any permanent judge of the High Court could make a written recommendation. Secondly, any two Senior Advocates, who had a standing in that capacity for a minimum of 15 years, could make a similar recommendation. Thirdly, a lawyer fulfilling the criteria could make an application endorsed by two Senior Advocates.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. suppressed death reports’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday reiterated his allegation that the State government had suppressed deaths caused by COVID-19. The recent inclusion of 444 deaths in Chennai had thoroughly exposed the State administration, he said. “If the government is able to suppress facts in the capital, Chennai, the question that naturally arises is what it would have done in the districts without adequate infrastructure?” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the committee constituted to audit the anomalies in death reports by the Health Department and the Chennai Corporation had found that 444 deaths were not included. “The new finding has revealed that the death rate is not 1% but 2.67%. The government has suppressed 63% deaths,” he said. Electric crematoriums Citing media reports, Mr. Stalin said that in Madurai, electric crematoriums were functioning throughout the day because of an increase in the number of deaths. “In the first 10 days of July, the crematoriums received bodies three times higher. There is an anomaly in the official figure and the data recorded by the crematoria,” he said.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exercise self-restraint on social media, says Police Commissioner||People should exercise self-restraint while using social media, City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said on Sunday. He was addressing mediapersons near the Dr. M.G.R. Chennai Central Railway Station, after inspecting enforcement of the complete lockdown on Sunday. Mr. Aggarwal said the police had chalked out a detailed plan to handle cyber crime cases and it would be implemented in a week. “People should be disciplined. They should use social media to do good and not to abuse others or create fake accounts,” he said. Regarding the complete lockdown, he said there was good cooperation from the public. “The lockdown will help break the chain [of COVID-19 transmission]. A total of 193 checkpoints have been set up across the city and 13,000 police personnel have been deployed to ensure a full-fledged lockdown. Vehicle movement has lessened,” Mr. Aggarwal said. He said 1.18 lakh cases had been registered for violation of Section 144, and 1.57 lakh vehicles seized. From Sunday morning till afternoon, around 850 cases had been registered and 600 vehicles seized. “We have also adopted a new strategy to tackle lockdown violators. Instead of seizing vehicles, we register a case against them and let them off with a warning,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Crackdown on narcotics In a release, the Police Commissioner warned that stringent action would be taken against those who indulge in trafficking of ganja, gutkha, mawa and liquor. Between July 10 and July 24, 648 cases had been booked for stocking and selling banned gutkha products, ganja and liquor, and 706 suspects were arrested. In total, 17,258 gutkha and pan masala packets, 873 kg of mawa, 2,190 kg of ganja and 8,076 liquor bottles had been seized from them.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture college fee panel’s report expected next month||The Fee Fixation Committee for regulating the structure in private agricultural colleges affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is expected to submit its report by the end of next month. The panel, headed by retired High Court judge K. Chandru, received responses from about 15 of the total 29 private agricultural colleges in the State. “Since the public consultation could not be held due to the COVID-19 lockdown, we have called for inputs from parents, students and educationists to the Committee’s Secretary. We will submit the report by August end. We hope it will benefit students from this academic year,” Justice Chandru told The Hindu on Sunday. The panel is expected to weigh the investments made by the institutions on campuses, infrastructure and courses before determining the fees. “Presently, the colleges collect around Rs. 45,000 for an academic year from the students. Many students from rural areas believe agriculture as a major is an easy option, comparatively, for the civil services and hence, they join the course. About 10 IAS officers in the Secretariat presently have agriculture major,” an informed source said. Located in rural areas As these agricultural colleges are located mostly away from cities and in rural areas, though these programmes are non-residential, students are forced to stay in hostels and end up paying more for accommodation and mess facilities. On January 7, the State government named the members of the Committee to fix the fee for private agricultural colleges. The source pointed out that the procedure was already delayed. “Though the State government sought the then Chief Justice to name a retired judge to head the committee, the former CJ sat on it for nine months. The present CJ named the judge in January and hence, a whole academic year went by without fee fixation.”
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report on agricultural college fee expected next month||The Fee Fixation Committee for private agricultural colleges affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is expected to submit its report with recommendations by the end of next month. The panel headed by retired High Court judge K. Chandru has received responses from about 15 of the total 29 private agricultural colleges in the State. “Since public consultation could not be held due to COVID-19 lockdown, we have called for inputs from parents, students and educationists in this regard to the Committee’s Secretary. We will submit the report by August end. We hope it could benefit students from this academic year,” Justice Chandru told The Hindu on Sunday. The panel is expected to weigh the investments made by these institutions on their campuses, before determining the fees. “Presently, the colleges collect somewhere around Rs. 45,000 an academic year from students. Many students from rural areas believe agriculture as a major is an easy option comparatively for the civil services and hence they join. About 10 IAS officers in the Secretariat presently have agriculture major,” an informed source said. As these agricultural colleges are mostly located away from cities and towns and in rural areas, though these programmes are not residential, students are forced to stay in their hostels and end up paying more for accommodation and mess facilities.  On January 7 this year, the State government named the members of the Committee to fix the fees for private agricultural colleges. The source pointed out that the procedure was already delayed. “Though the State government sought the then Chief Justice of the Madras High Court to name a retired judge to head the committee, the former CJ sat on it for nine months. The present CJ named the judge in January and hence a whole academic year went by without fee fixation.”
27 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Pedda Jeeyar hospitalised||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Pedda Jeeyar, who tested positive for COVID-19, has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai, sources said. The Jeeyar had been reportedly unwell for over a week. He was earlier admitted to Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati and was later discharged. He was advised to be in isolation.
27 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for cow slaughter in Uthukottai||A couple has been arrested by the Tiruvallur police on charges of slaughtering a pregnant cow near Uthukottai on Saturday. According to the police, Sai Vignesh, of the Almighty Animal Care Trust, received information about the illegal slaughter of cattle in Uthukottai and passed on the information to P. Aravindhan, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur. A special team was formed to nab the offenders. However, the couple hid the cow and later slaughtered it. A police team seized the meat and nabbed Raghu and his wife Sarala. They were booked under various sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. They were later released on bail.
27 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||12 cluster areas identified in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has identified 12 localities as COVID-19 cluster areas in the city as they had two or more positive cases. The civic body said the Sivasakthi Colony in Ganapathy with 10 positive cases, Al Ameen Colony off Raja Street with seven cases, Indira Nagar in Telugupalayam, Sriram Nagar in Podanur and Nehru Nagar in Vilakurichi – each with four cases, Karuppannan Layout in Peelamedu, Bharathi Nagar in Kuniamuthur, Ashok Nagar in Selvapuram, M.G.R. Nagar in Singanallur and Mariappa Konar Street in Podanur – each with three cases, and Selvapuram North Housing Unit and N.S.K. Street in Selvapuram – each with two cases were the clusters, where it had on Sunday carried out targeted disinfection. In those areas, it had also deployed special teams equipped with pulse oximeter to go door-to-door to identify showing COVID-19 symptoms. The Corporation had given 20 pulse oximeters to each of the five zones. On Monday too, the Corporation would continue the targeted disinfection drive in 37 locations – eight with more than five cases and 29 with fewer than five cases. As of July 26, the city had 894 active cases, the sources added.
27 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for circulating child pornographic content on social media||The Chettipalayam police in Coimbatore on Saturday arrested a 48-year-old man on charges of circulating child pornographic content on social media. C.T. Sunilkumar, a native of Kerala, was arrested based on information shared by the Cyber Tipline monitoring facility at the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The police said that Sunilkumar was staying at Ambal Nagar, near Malumichampatty. He was working in a canteen at the airport here. Coimbatore district (rural) police had received an alert from the Cyber Tipline monitoring cell of NCRB through State police channels, stating that the accused had uploaded child pornographic content on social media. The police apprehended him by tracking the location and the IP address of his mobile phone, using which he had circulated the pornographic content. It was found that the accused had circulated child pornography videos from his Facebook account on May 2, 2019. Sunilkumar was arrested for offences under Sections 67 A and 67 B of the Information Technology Act, 2000, read with 15 (i) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The mobile phone was seized. Sunilkumar was produced before the court and remanded to judicial custody.
27 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Drawings in praise of Lord Murugan on roads||People drew vel (spear) and praises for Lord Murugan on roads and medians in many parts of Coimbatore on Sunday in protest against a video that appeared on the YouTube channel ‘Karuppar Koottam’ that allegedly depicted the Hindu god and the hymn in praise of him namely ‘Kandha Sashti Kavacham’ in poor light. Police sources said that they found spear and praises for the deity such as ‘ vetrivel’ (victorious spear) and ‘ veeravel’ (courageous spear) drawn in several parts of the city including Podanur, Ukkadam, and Peru Bypass. Photos of children drawing spears on a median and an elderly woman lighting camphor at the foot of a spear drawn on a road were widely circulated on social media. Sources added that many devotees of the deity and members of Hindu organisations, who found the video an insult to the deity, had plans to take the protest to more parts of the district in the coming days.
27 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four nabbed for bid to poach deer||The Forest Department apprehended four men who ventured into a reserve forest area at Sirumugai, near Coimbatore, with a country-made rifle and ammunition late on Saturday. Officials said that the accused trespassed into a reserve forest area within the limits of Sirumugai forest range to hunt deer, but they could not shoot any animal. A country-made rifle, gun powder and pellets were seized from them. A senior official said that a fine of Rs. 10,000 each was slapped on them. The rifle and ammunition were handed over to the police.
27 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Disburse revised wages’||Stating that wage hike of Rs. 1,000 for conservancy workers ( Thuimai Kavalargal ) announced by the State government is yet to be given to them, members of Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association affiliated to AITUC staged a demonstration at Sathyamangalam here recently. Led by its president and former MLA, P.L. Sundaram, the members said that 66,130 workers were appointed by the government in 2015, who were earlier paid wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and later by the local bodies. Their meagre wage of Rs. 2,600 is insufficient to meet their needs, yet to continue to perform their duty, they added. Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani had in March 2020 announced a wage hike of Rs. 1,000 for Thuimai Kavalargal in the State Assembly. But so far no government order was passed.
27 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits 50-year-old eatery in Erode||For 70-year-old Miniyamma and her two daughters, the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown from March 25 has been an unexpected blow. The three women run an eatery at Vaniputhur near TN Palayam in Erode district. Opened over five decades ago, the eatery is the only source of income for Miniyamma’s family and is a go-to place for several workers in and around the village for breakfast or dinner. The two-room eatery is known for the fluffy parottas that Miniyamma makes. It also serves idli, dosa, lunch, and tea. “We used to sell about 250 parottas a day before the lockdown. Now it s just 50 a day,” she says. The parottas come with vegetable gravy and are priced at Rs. 10 a piece. “I start work at 4 a.m. and first make tea and other items. I start preparing the dough for parottas at 6 a.m. and these are sold till 10.30 a.m. Parotta sales starts again at 3 p.m. and goes on till 10 p.m.,” Miniyamma says. Since the eatery is located on the Sathyamangalam - Athani Road, a large number of workers employed in construction and farm activities and travellers stop for food at the eatery or take parcels. “We used to sell about 30 parcels a day apart from serving 20 to 30 customers at the eatery. Now, there are almost no parcel orders,” she says. “The eatery was opened by my husband after our marriage and he was making parottas. Since employing workers will add to the costs, I learnt to make parottas and continue doing it for more than 50 years now,” she says. Even after their marriage, her daughters Vijayalakshmi (52) and Santhi (43), who live in the same area, continue to help their mother in running the hotel. The taste and quality of food remains the same and is like home food, says Murugan, a regular customer to the hotel.
27 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Dheeran Chinnamalai death anniversary to be observed on August 2||The 215th death anniversary of freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai will be observed at Odanilai village in Arachalur on August 2, said Collector C. Kathiravan. Mr. Kathiravan said the memorial would be observed as a government function on Aadi Perukku and five members from each of the recognised political parties and associations would be allowed to garland the statue from 8.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Members of political parties from other districts who wish to garland the statue should approach the Personal Assistant (General) to the Collector and submit a COVID-19 negative certificate, photograph, mobile number, Aadhaar number and obtain e-pass. Members of political parties and associations within the district should submit the above documents by 4 p.m. on July 30 to obtain permission, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said all the COVID-19 guidelines should be followed while at the mandapam and no flags or advertisements would be allowed on the premises.
27 July 2020||M. Soundariya Preetha Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders face 40 % drop in sales||Vegetable traders at the four main markets in Coimbatore - Anna, MGR, Thyagi Kumaran, and Ukkadam - have seen nearly 40 % slump in sales in the last four months with several restrictions to trade in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19. “The Anna market traders have seen almost 90 % fall in sales, especially after moving to GCT campus. There are no main functions now and several people are now selling vegetables on vehicles in different areas. So there is steep fall in the number of people coming to the market,” says Suresh, secretary of the vegetable traders’ association at the market. “We have appealed to the authorities concerned to permit us to operate from the market. We can take turns and open shops as we are doing now and we can follow all the precautions,” he adds. At MGR market, though functioning of the market is as usual, the sales have dropped. “It is just about 50 % of what it was earlier. The authorities should find an alternative location with enough space and facilities so that the vegetable traders can continue to open the stalls with enough personal distancing. There should be facilities to load and unload the vegetables even during the rainy season. Be it Madurai, Tiruchi or Chennai, the vegetable markets are located in spacious areas. In Chennai, the officials have given the traders an alternative location,” pointed out one of the traders. The Ukkadam market traders have appealed to the officials to permit them to function from the market rather than shifting to alternative locations. Vegetable buyers - wholesale and retail - who earlier used to buy from the sellers at the Ukkadam market are now scattered because the trading is shifted to alternative locations. “Even if there are COVID cases, the officials should ensure that the traders are able to continue business without affecting others,” says a trader there. President of the vegetable traders’ association at Thyagi Kumaran market M. Rajendran says rather than shutting down shops or the market itself, the authorities concerned should organise vehicles so that the traders are able to take the vegetables to different localities and sell. Even if two vehicles go twice a day to a ward, the public can buy the vegetables safely and there will be no crowding. The traders will not be affected too, he says. Traders in the markets also said the officials should discuss these issues with them and look at sustainable solutions so the sellers and farmers are not affected and the public continue to get vegetables without shortage even if there is increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. The aim should be to ensure a safe environment for all, they said.
27 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over more doctors and nurses testing positive||With several medical staff, including doctors and nurses, testing positive for COVID-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital since Friday, the administration is analysing reasons behind the sudden surge. Ten doctors and 15 nurses have tested positive in the last two days, particularly those on triage duty. “Comparatively, only six doctors and nurses on COVID-19 duty tested positive in the last five months. The surge over the last two days is a cause of concern,” a hospital source said. Despite issuing specific passes and having police personnel providing security at the hospital, sometimes caretakers and attendants stay with the patients without their knowledge. For sick patients, at least three attendants end up staying. Many of them argue with the doctors and nurses about the food, etc. This close contact could be one of the reasons for the surge in cases among the medical staff. Allowing so many caretakers to stay with the patients will lead to more doctors and nurses testing positive,” a doctor said. The Treatment Coordinator of COVID-19 wing of the GRH, K. Senthil, said, “We are figuring out what went wrong. The security must be bolstered to prevent unauthorised entry into the hospital. There is also a shortage of nursing staff and sanitation workers,” he said. Dean J. Sangumani said they have been insisting on better donning and doffing techniques to be followed while using personal protection equipment (PPE). “Doffing is a crucial step that must be done carefully. Caretakers are monitored and their entry is restricted in the COVID-19 ward,” he said. The problem of unauthorised entry of attendants was sorted out by posting additional police and security personnel, he said. It is learnt that the hospital has increased the number of doffing rooms from two to three to prevent overcrowding and is disinfecting the premises four times a day.
27 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BDO cannot bypass panchayat, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ruled that when a local body has been elected, merely because the Chairman and Vice Chairman have not been elected, the Block Development Officer cannot bypass the panchayat and act as its Special Officer. The court was hearing a petition filed by Ramu, an elected ward member of the Thirupuvanam Panchayat Union. He complained that the choice of development works to be carried out in the wards were influenced by political considerations. Out of the 17 members in the panchayat union, nine belonged to opposition parties and one was an independent member. With the ruling party not able to secure a majority, no meeting had been held for holding elections to the post of Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The petitioner alleged that taking advantage of the situation, the Block Development Officer of Thirupuvanam issued a tender notification for development works, bypassing the local body. He sought to quash the tender notification. The State argued that as the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Panchayat Union Council had not been elected, the Block Development Officer can very well continue to act as its Special Officer. The first meeting of the panchayat had not been held, the State said. Quashing the tender notification, Justice G. R. Swaminathan observed that the tender notification was issued by usurping the role of Panchayat Union Council in violation of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act. Article 40 of the Constitution of India mandates that the State shall take steps to organise village panchayats and endow them with such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable them to function as units of self-government, the court said. A duly elected local body had been treated as non-existent and totally ignored in the process of decision making. Unless it is a case of emergency, it is the local body that must deliberate and make proposals, the court said. A mere reading of Tamil Nadu Panchayat (Election) Rules would indicate that the meeting in which the members of the panchayat union council take oath is the first meeting. Elections of Chairman and Vice-Chairman will take place only thereafter. Therefore the BDO cannot take advantage of the non-election of Chairman and Vice-Chairman, the court said.
27 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One more deserted Sunday||Most arterial roads in the district were deserted on Sunday as residents stayed indoors in view of the complete lockdown. All commercial establishments and restaurants remained closed. However, a fish stall located on Airport Road was open in the morning. An official said they immediately ordered its closure. “We warned the shopkeepers not to open their shops in violation of lockdown norms,” said the official. Vehicles, except those meant for milk distribution, medical services and emergencies, were barred from plying. Police personnel levied fine on a few people at Goripalayam and Simmakkal for violation of lockdown norms.
27 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar records 385 cases in a single day||A total of 209 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday, taking the tally to 9,805. As many as 249 people had been discharged and the number of discharged persons as on date stands at 7,643. There were eight deaths recorded in the district taking the toll to 210. There were 1,952 cases in the district. Virudhunagar district recorded the highest number of positive cases in southern districts with 385. The district now stands second in total number of positive cases with 5,959 cases, second only to Madurai. However, 126 patients were discharged from various hospitals taking the total number to 3,290. With this, the total number of active cases stood at 2,612. On Sunday too, the district reported higher number of deaths – five – taking the total number of deaths to 57. Tirunelveli tested 178 positive cases, taking the tally to 3,772. There were 231 discharges from hospitals and 25 deaths so far. Thoothukudi had 251 fresh cases of COVID-19 which took the total positive cases to 5,542. According to the State bulletin, 29 people had died so far and 302 people had been discharged from the hospital. In Kanniyakumari, new cases accounted for 217, which pushed the tally to 3,610. There were 77 discharges on a single day. So far, 32 people have died in the district. Tenkasi had 75 fresh cases which took the tally to 1,682. While 32 people were discharged, the district has reported 12 deaths so far, the lowest among southern districts. Theni tested 217 new cases, which took the tally to 3,773. As many as 44 people were discharged. The district has reported 48 deaths so far. Dindigul had 203 fresh cases on a single day taking the total to 2,318. While 80 people were discharged, 35 deaths have been reported from the district. Ramanathapuram had 89 fresh cases, which took the tally to 3,040. There were 57 deaths in the district so far. As many as 159 people were discharged on a single day. Sivaganga had 88 new cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 2,079. As many as 256 patients had been discharged and 33 succumbed to the infection so far.
27 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Yoga acts as stress buster during quarantine period||Doctors and nurses being quarantined after doing COVID-19 duty at Government Rajaji Hospital are undergoing yoga training to relieve their stress. Dean J. Sangumani said they have been working on different ways to keep the spirit and morale of the front-line workers ever since the pandemic started.  Helpline First a helpline was started to hear out problems of doctors and nurses. “Now, we encourage them to perform yoga during their stay at the various quarantine facilities as it helps in relaxing them and they can return to duty with a positive outlook, as they are performing a stressful job at the COVID-19 wing,” he said. The last batch which underwent the yoga training expressed satisfaction and wanted more such sessions, Dr. Sangumani added.
27 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||806 under home isolation||A total of 806 COVID-19 positive patients were under home isolation in the district as on Saturday, said Collector T.G. Vinay. The number includes 138 persons treated by private hospitals. On most of the days, asymptomatic patients under home isolation constituted around 30% of the district's total active cases. After a person tests positive, initial triage is done to categorise the patient under mild/moderate or severe categories. Persons who are clinically fit and have proper infrastructure at home were treated under home isolation. “Asymptomatic patients who do not have sufficient infrastructure at home were treated at COVID Cares Centres,” he said. Only 15% of cases required hospitalisation. Doctors and nurses at the tele-medicine centre at Corporation office call the patients twice a day and monitor their health. “We monitor them for 14 days until their full recovery. Minor complaints are addressed. If the health condition deteriorates, the patient is shifted to the hospital,” a doctor said.
27 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Flag hoisted at Alagarkoil temple||The flag hoisting ceremony on the first day of the Aadi Brahmotsavam festival was held at Alagarkoil’s Lord Sundararaja Perumal Temple, on Sunday. Unlike other years, the ‘kodi etram’ only saw senior officials from the temple administration, due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The temple’s thakkar, or fit person, V. R. Venkatachalam, Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) T. Anitha, and temple priests took part in the event, a press release said. Aadi Brahmotsavam holds tremendous significance for devotees of the temple, as they gather in hundreds to witness the temple car festival on the ninth day of the festival. People from neighbouring villages get together to draw the large temple car with thick ropes as they pray. A source said that only regular alangaram for Lord Sundararaja Perumal will take place this year on all 10 days between July 26 and August 4. On the day of the temple car festival, the deity will be placed atop the temple car and pujas will be conducted, the source said.
27 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Brothers hacked to death||Two brothers - V. Murugan, 43, and Velllikannu Senthil, 40, were hacked to death by an unidentified gang at Bodi Line in Ellis Nagar on Sunday evening. Both the brothers had history-sheets in S.S. Colony police station for various criminal activities. Recently, they had a dispute with one of their neighbours over cattle movement. The police suspect that this dispute could have led to the murder. The bodies were taken to the Government Rajaji Hospital.
27 July 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Congress MLA tests positive||Congress MLA, S. Rajesh Kumar, representing Killiyoor Assembly constituency in Kanniyakumari district, has tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Rajesh Kumar gave his samples for test at the Kanniyakumari District Medical College hospital at Asaripallam, on Sunday morning. His results came late in the evening. “I got myself admitted at the GH in Asaripallam,” he said. His family members would go for test on Monday, he added.
27 July 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Congress MLA tests COVID-19 positive||Congress MLA S. Rajesh Kumar, representing Killiyoor Assembly constituency in Kanniyakumari district, has tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Rajesh Kumar gave his samples for test on Sunday morning. “I have got admitted at the GH in Asaripallam,” he said. His family members would undergo tests on Monday, he added.
27 July 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||PM interacts with Namakkal student||A beeline of visitors congratulated N.N. Kaniga on Sunday after her interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during the Man Ki Baat that was aired on All India Radio. Ms. Kaniga, who scored 490 out of 500 marks in the recently held Class XII CBSE examinations, said, “It was completely out of the blue. I received a call on Friday and an official said that the Prime Minister would interact with me and congratulate me. I could not believe it at the moment.” The interaction was very friendly and motivational. “I was quite nervous initially but the Prime Minister spoke in a very friendly manner. I felt motivated at the end of the call,” she said. Ms. Kaniga wants to become a doctor and is busy preparing for the entrance examination. She wishes to join the Armed Forces Medical College and serve the armed forces. Her father S. K. Natarajan, a LPG truck driver, said that it was indeed a proud moment for his family. “We never expected this, and it is something much beyond our imagination,” he said.
27 July 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal student interacts with PM||A beeline of visitors to offer congratulations marked N.N. Kaniga’s Sunday’s afternoon after her interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Mann Ki Baat was aired on All India Radio. Ms. Kaniga, who scored 490 out of 500 marks in the recently held Plus-Two CBSE examinations said, “It was completely out of blue. I received a call on Friday and an official said that the Prime Minister would interact with me and offer congratulations. I could not believe it at the moment.” The interaction was very friendly and motivational. “I was quite nervous initially but the Prime Minister spoke in a very friendly manner. I felt motivated at the end of the call,” she said adding she found him to be someone who cared for every citizen. Ms. Kaniga aims to become a doctor and is busy preparing for the entrance examinations. She wishes to join Armed Forces Medical College and serve the Armed Forces. Her father S.K. Natarajan, is a LPG truck driver here and he said that it was indeed a proud moment for his family. “We never expected this and it is something beyond our imagination,” he said.
27 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects medical college construction works||Minister for Social Welfare V.Saroja on Saturday inspected the ongoing construction works at the government medical college here. Ms. Saroja said that the works are progressing at a steady pace and would be completed by March next year. About COVID-19 prevention drive, she said that the district leads in preventive measures.
27 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi, Narayanasamy pay homage to war heroes||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy participated in their first public event after a tense face-off over modalities of Budget 2020-21 as they paid homage to war heroes to mark the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday. Ms. Bedi placed a wreath and paid floral tributes at the Kargil War Memorial. “Our brave officers and men laid down their lives for us so that we could carry on serving our motherland. We pray for the well-being of all families who sacrificed their loved ones in protecting the country,” the Lt. Governor tweeted later, sharing a video of the event. The Chief Minister also paid homage to the war heroes. Speaker V. P. Sivakolundhu, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Director General of Police Balaji Srivastava, District Collector T. Arun, Information Secretary S. D. Sundaresan and other dignataries also participated in the event.  Praise for Speaker Before leaving the venue, Ms. Bedi and Mr. Narayanasamy briefly exchanged pleasantries. Ms. Bedi also interacted with the Speaker and commended the decision to hold the Assembly session outdoors to pass the Budget after a legislator tested positive for COVID-19.
27 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two COVID-19 deaths in Puducherry||The Union Territory on Sunday recorded two more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 40. With 131 fresh cases, the tally has gone up to 2,787. While a 58-year-old man from Shanmughapuram died at the Indira Gandhi Medical College & Research Institute (IGMCRI), a 57-year-old patient succumbed to the infection at the Government General Hospital. Both suffered from co-morbidities. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that of the fresh cases, 127 were reported from Puducherry, three from Karaikal and one from Yanam. Eighty-four patients were discharged in the past 24 hours. In all, 1,645 have been discharged. A total of 35,080 samples have been tested, of which 31,894 were negative; the results of 236 are awaited.
27 July 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Naval team saves 12 Rameswaram fishermen||In a swift operation by the Naval team from INS Parundu with coordination by the Indian Coast Guard, 12 fishermen were saved after their boat reportedly capsized near Manali island, south of Pamban bridge, near here on Sunday. Officials at the Parundu Naval Station said that they received a call at 06.05 a.m. from Coast Guard Mandapam that a boat had capsized. The team, which was dispatched immediately, spotted the fishing trawler from a naval helicopter about eight miles from the coast. As the boat appeared to be sinking fast, probably due to bad sea conditions and damage to its hull, four of the eight fishermen were winched up by the helicopter in two batches and evacuated to the Mandapam helipad. The remaining four fishermen were rescued by another fishing boat which too, reached here safely. When contacted, Lt Cdr. Vivekanandan Manoharan said, the timely information enabled in spotting and rescuing the stranded fishermen. Fishermen from Tharuvaikulam heaved a sigh of relief after the Naval team confirmed that all eight had been successfully saved. The fisherfolk were in an upbeat mood on seeing their near and dear ones safe back on shore. It is said that the trawler, in which the fishermen had set off to the sea on Saturday at 3 p.m., had developed a snag in the early hours of Sunday when they were returning with the catch, and had capsized. After first aid, the fishermen -- Murugavel, Mariamman, Selvam, Ramu, Sannasi, Thangaraj, Madasami, Ramu, Sekar, Dharmaraj, Madasami and Subash were all sent home, officials said.
27 July 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports three deaths, Tiruppur two||Salem district reported the death of three COVID-19 patients on Sunday, while one person died in Dharmapuri. According to health department officials, the deceased are an 80-year-old woman from Patta Kovil area in Salem, a 56-year-old male from Annadhanapatti and a 62-year-old male from Hasthampatti. The other patient, who died in Dharmapuri district, is a 55-year-old woman from Palakode. Tiruppur district reported death of a 47-year-old man and a 60-year-old man from Tiruppur Corporation limits.
27 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers seek salary dues from Periyar University||Members of the Association of University Teachers have urged Periyar University authorities to pay consolidated salaries for guest lecturers and non-teaching staff working in six constituent colleges under the University for the months of May and June. In a release, the Association urged the University to pay salaries for May and June for guest lecturers whose livelihoods have been severely affected due to COVID-19 lockdown. The association also demanded the Higher Education Minister, department secretary and Chief Minister to look into the issue. Vice-Chancellor P. Kolandaivel said the there were no salary dues as the guest lecturers were hired only for 10 months and their appointment expired in April. He said the guest lecturers would be recruited once the University starts functioning and efforts were on to pool funds to support them.
27 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Business development unit established at Salem division||To explore the possibility of attracting additional freight traffic to railways, Salem Railway Division has established a Business Development Unit (BDU) here recently. A press release from the division said that the divisional-level unit aims at focusing on doubling the freight carried by railways by 2024. M. Harikumar, Senior Divisional Operations Manager, is the convener of the unit. “The committee will have frequent interactions with the trade and industry to understand the existing pattern of goods transportation and will look for new business opportunities”, the release said and added that the unit will also serve as a nodal point for speedy operationalisation of any new traffic proposals.  Special Correspondent adds from Coimbatore  Southern Railways officials had a virtual meeting with Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) office bearers recently on “Parcel Cargo Express Train Services”. The Railways has come out with several new features to support MSMEs through its parcel cargo transport facilities. Codissia president R. Ramamurthy said this is a beginning and the MSMEs can benefit from it. “Any effort that will help the MSMEs bring down the costs should be welcomed,” he said. “We have asked the Railways to provide end-to-end service so that they engage service provider to pick the parcels from the industries, transport it by rail and take it to the industries or dealers in the destination cities. They have agreed to look into it,” he said.  Awareness The meeting was to create awareness among the MSMEs on the service provided by the Railways, he said.
27 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||55 persons booked for entering Salem without e-pass||The Salem Corporation through police has registered case against 55 persons for entering into Salem Corporation limits without e-pass. According to a release, the Corporation has set up quarantine facilities on the premises of two government institutes and swab samples of persons travelling with e-pass to Corporation areas are collected and quarantined at the buildings until results are received. Corporation officials advised the public to inform the civic body about persons travelling to their neighbourhood without e-pass.
27 July 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Bribe: Tenkasi Government Hospital staff transferred||After a video of a staff receiving money for issuing admission cards and free coupons for meals at the Government Hospital here went viral on the social media , the authorities transferred the corrupt staff to Sivagiri GH on Sunday. Though the public and activists voiced their protest against corruption prevailing in public offices, lack of tangible action irked them. They said corruption was thriving even in these COVID-19 pandemic period in government hospitals. On Sunday, when a patient, who was standing in a queue at the GH here, recorded the action on his mobile phone and posted them on social media, the higher-ups to swing into action. The Medical Superintendent ordered the transfer of the staff and assured to conduct a departmental inquiry soon. Expressing satisfaction over the swift action, the activists, however, pressed for lodging a police complaint against the staff for corruption charges and legal action too. The complaint was that the staff demanded Rs. 50 for issuing OP (outpatient) cards and free meal coupons.
27 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) to hold protest against project||The CPI(M) has expressed apprehension that Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), which is under implementation in rural areas, may deprive villagers of free drinking water supply. In a resolution adopted at the executive committee meeting of its Thanjavur unit, the party has also expressed fears that implementation of JJM may lead to a situation where consumers in urban areas will also be made to pay for drinking water in the near future. Every household in the villages, where the project is to be implemented, have been directed to remit Rs. 3,000 as initial charges to receive protected drinking water supply through pipeline. As the project envisages fixing of water meter in every household, the committee has decided to stage demonstrations in the villages on August 4. Meanwhile, Collector M. Govinda Rao chaired a District Drinking Water and Sanitation Committee meeting recently to discuss proposals forwarded by village-level DWS committees for implementation of JJM covering 1,10,676 households in 548 hamlets under 154 village panchayats in Thanjavur district. The village-level committee reports with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 78.19 crores were ratified at the meeting. While the committees in 22 village panchayats in Pattukottai Panchayat Union have forwarded proposals to cover a maximum number of 17,558 households in 53 hamlets at a total expenditure of Rs. 11.85 crore, those in four village panchayats in Peravurani have mooted proposals to cover 1,951 households in 12 villages at a cost of Rs. 1.31 crore. Under JJM, every house will be provided with 55 mld of protected drinking water per day per person by tapping local resources. Rejuvenation of water bodies or creation of new sources will also be taken up.
27 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Festival of Our Lady of Snows Shrine Basilica begins||The 438th annual festival of the famous Our Lady of Snows Shrine Basilica here commenced with special prayers and hoisting of the holy flag on Sunday. The 11-day long festival, which draws lakhs of devotees from far and near, saw very few people witnessing the rituals amid heightened deployment of security around the shrine due to COVID-19 pandemic and the Sunday curfew. Thoothukudi Bishop Fr. Stephen Antony Pillai and Fr. Kumar Raja among others participated in the ceremony. The shrine is more a symbol of unity as people, including Hindus, would converge on all days and offer prayers, the organisers said. Elaborate arrangements have been made to view the festival through youtube on all the days till August 5. To ensure that people did not venture out of their homes as curfew was in vogue, a large posse of police personnel consisting about 700 personnel led by Superintendent of Police Jayakumar were present on the occasion.
27 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||4 deaths, 591 new cases in central region||The central region on Sunday witnessed a reduction in COVID-19 cases with 591 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region recorded four deaths: one each in Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Fatalities A 73-year-old man with coronary artery disease died in Nagapattinam, a 65-year-old man died in Pudukottai due to diabetes and other comorbidities, and a 15-year-old girl died in Thanjavur of cardiogenic shock and COVID Myocarditis, while a 56-year-old man died in Tiruchi of COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Of the 591, 153 cases were reported from Thanjavur district, 131 from Tiruchi, 113 from Pudukottai, 93 from Tiruvarur, 36 from Nagapattinam, 27 from Ariyalur, 26 from Perambalur and 12 from Karur district. Thanjavur In Thanjavur, of the 153, more than 100 patients were individuals who got themselves tested voluntarily, a senior health official in the district said. Others were primary and secondary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. The number of patients who tested positive for COVID-19 from Darasuram vegetable market had significantly dropped, the official said. Tiruchi In Tiruchi, 131 patients, including primary contacts of patients who had already tested positive, tested positive for the viral infection. The patients were admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. The COVID-19 cases in the district increased to 3,420. Meanwhile, 46 patients from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 36 patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Pudukottai, Tiruvarur A total of 113 patients from Pudukottai and 93 patients from Tiruvarur tested positive for the viral infection on Sunday. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam, 36 patients tested positive. Of them, 15 are contacts of seven patients who tested positive earlier. Meanwhile, of the 12 patients identified through conduct of fever camps in the district, one pregnant woman tested positive, while one each had returned from Hyderabad and Kanchipuram. Perambalur Perambalur recorded 26 cases of whom 13 were primary contacts of inter-district travellers, seven were inter-district travellers, two were immediate family members of a frontline worker, while the remaining were local cases. All patients were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. Ariyalur In Ariyalur, 27 patients, including a five-year-old boy, tested positive. The patients were inter-district travellers or primary contacts of those who had travelled earlier. Karur Twelve people, including four from Thogamalai, tested positive in Karur. The patients were all admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital, where they were responding well to treatment.
27 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||She has set her sights high||As a student of Government Girls Higher Secondary School for the Blind at Puthur in Tiruchi, R. Kaviya has excelled in Plus Two examination this year. Now, she is taking the next steps towards a career in the civil services. A score of 571 out of 600 came as a surprise to Kaviya, whose education began at a regular school in Namakkal. “Within a year, I was sent to a residential elementary school for visually impaired students in Coimbatore,” she recalls. She studied at the school from class 1 to 5, when her parents, who run a juice stall in Namakkal, noticed that she needed special attention to learn. “Even though we did not have much as earnings or savings, they encouraged me to be independent,” she says. She joined Government Girls Higher Secondary School for the Blind in Tiruchi. “The teachers should get all credit for our success. They worked hard to ensure that we understood all concepts, she feels. Her scribe at the examinations too was understanding and patiently wrote down what she dictated. Ms. Kaviya studied history, geography, economics and political science in Class 12. “There was delay in delivery of our textbooks, but our teachers recorded audiobooks to make up for lost time,” she says. She aspires to become an IAS officer and spends time watching videos of speeches made by various officers on the internet during the lockdown. “I have also been preparing for TNPSC examination,” Ms. Kaviya said. With keen interest in history, she plans to enroll for graduate course in the subject in Chennai. “The city has many opportunities for visually impaired girls like me and also coaching classes for IAS exam. My friends asked me if I was apprehensive about moving to a big city. I am actually quite excited,” she says.
27 July 2020||tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown near total in Tiruchi||The fourth and final leg of the day-long lockdown of the month was near total in Tiruchi on Sunday. There was hardly any movement of vehicles on roads and streets. Since almost all shops and business establishments were closed, residents did not venture out of their houses. Temporary vegetable markets, grocery stores and fruit stalls too remained closed. No meat and fish stalls functioned. People came out only for emergencies. With cars, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers off the roads, most of the arterial and interior roads and bridges, including Madurai Road, Cantonment and Cauvery bridge, looked deserted. Big Bazaar Street, NSB Road, Singarathope and Chinnakadai Street were also empty with shopkeepers extending solidarity to the total lockdown.
27 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Attempt to grab temple land’||Hereditary trust of a non-listed temple at Nallambur in Valangaiman taluk has lodged a complaint with the Valangaiman police stating that some persons were attempting to encroach the temple’s land. In the complaint, R. Balasadaksharam of Nallambur stated that some people in the village were making attempts to encroach upon the temple tank by claiming that the land on which the tank existed was a government poromboke land. Hence the complaint.
27 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ooty schoolchildren learn their lessons the hard way||Twelve-year-old Rithu likes the look of his new classroom. Set up on top of a small hill overlooking his village in O-Valley, Gudalur, he, along with a few of his friends, trek to the new “classroom” — a temporary shed — one of the few spots where the children get internet connectivity to download lessons. “It’s much more fun to study here than in our old classrooms,” says Rithu, a private school student in Gudalur, while downloading lessons sent by his teachers on a mobile-messaging application. It may be fun for Rithu, but such learning involves risks too. “The area is known to be home to elephants and other wildlife. We make it a point to always go in groups and with an adult,” said one of his friends. Even college students use the makeshift classroom every day, said K. Sakadevan, district secretary of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), and a local. Many tribal communities, including members of the Kurumbas and Paniyas, live in Periya Solai in O-Valley. Locals said a few days ago, some children were chased by elephants, indicating the threats that lie on their way to the new classroom. “Many people living in O-Valley do not have electricity in their homes, so classes broadcast for government school students too don’t reach them,” said Mr. Sakadevan. He said the mobile phone tower in the area was not functional. He added that there were plans to stage a protest demanding a solution to the problem. A Revenue Department official said that the lack of mobile phone connectivity was a problem not just in O-Valley but across the Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. “We have had discussions with engineers from the telecommunications provider, and they have assured us that they will adress the issue,” he said.
27 July 2020||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishers attacked in sea by Lankan counterparts||Four fishermen of Arcottuthurai in Nagapattinam district were reportedly intercepted and attacked in mid-sea with rods and knives by suspected Sri Lankan fishermen on Sunday. Bharathidasan, 40, the boat owner who was inflicted with cuts on head and hands, Porchelvam, 34, Ramachandran, 34, and Ayyappan were rescued by fishers of Vedaranyam and admitted to the government hospital. A complaint was lodged with the Marine Security Group, sources said.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relief for cotton farmers as CCI steps in during lockdown||Farmers in Tamil Nadu, especially those in Delta areas, who harvested cotton summer crop this year faced low demand and prices because of the lockdown and COVID-19 impact. However, with the intervention of the State Government, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has stepped in and purchased over 40% of the crop so far, giving the much-needed relief to farmers. Official sources in CCI said that since the first week of June they have purchased 18,000 bales of cotton, which is nearly 40% to 50% of the arrivals, so far. This is mostly cotton with less than 12% moisture content. They have also tied up with ginning units so that the cotton procured is moved from the markets to the ginning units in a week. According to a senior official of the Agriculture Department, cotton is one of the important commercial crops in the State and is grown on 1.8 lakh hectares. In Delta areas, cotton is grown as a rice fallow crop after harvest of Samba paddy. More farmers evince interest in cotton cultivation as they get market price of approximately Rs. 5,500 a quintal and profit of nearly Rs. 70, 000 an acre. Area under cotton in the State increased from 99,000 hectares in 2007-2008 to 1.69 lakh hectares in 2019-2020. This year, with the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown since March 25, textile mills did not function to capacity and this reduced the demand for cotton. Hence, traders did not come forward to buy cotton or offered low prices. The official said that the State Government engaged with the CCI to procure cotton at the regulated markets at Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore. The CCI purchased cotton at minimum support price (Rs. 5,500 a quintal) if the quality standards were met. With active procurement by CCI, more private traders stepped in and they have procured the remaining 60% even if the moisture content is slightly high. The price they offer is slightly low for such cotton. But, the farmers find it remunerative. The State Government continues to work with the CCI so that it is active in the market. Cotton growers in nearby districts started bringing cotton to regulated markets. The State Government has made temporary arrangements in more cotton growing areas so that farmers can sell the produce faster to the CCI or traders. The cotton arrivals and procurement so far have crossed last year’s for the corresponding period. J. Thulasidharan, president of Indian Cotton Federation, said Tamil Nadu is the only State that has a summer cotton crop and usually the industry buys the cotton.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water hyacinth poses threat to Yercaud Lake||The pristine Yercaud lake, one of the major tourist attractions at the hill station, is getting covered with water hyacinth and the residents want authorities to take necessary action at the earliest. The Yercaud Lake is spread over 10 acres and has been the major attraction for tourists visiting the hill station. A visit to the hill station is considered incomplete without a boating trip in the lake. However, the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease has affected not just the livelihood of people dependent on tourism but also the maintenance of the lake. If not for the lockdown, a huge crowd would be present during the summer months at the boat house handled by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation. The visitors do not miss the Anna Park here. The boat house and all other tourism activities in the hill station have remained closed since the first lockdown announced in March. However, with lack of tourist activity, maintenance has been hit. J. John, a resident of Yercaud, said that water hyacinths are starting to spread over the lake and authorities should act immediately. Otherwise, it may become difficult to remove them. Residents here complained that though they have pointed out the issue to authorities, no action has been taken yet. Officials from Tourism Department said that the boat house operators have been advised to conduct the cleaning works and it would start at the earliest.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western districts record 670 COVID-19 cases||The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in western districts reached 670 on Sunday. Coimbatore district recorded 220 new positive cases on Sunday, bringing the tally to 3,459. The district had 1,491 active cases and the death toll increased to 39 after a 75-year-old woman died on Saturday. Members of the medical wing of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam on Sunday volunteered the burial of a 68-year-old man from Podanur who died at a private hospital late on Saturday. This death was not included in Sunday’s media bulletin. The 220 positive cases reported on Sunday included 17 from Selvapuram, nine from Ramanathapuram, eight from Avarampalayam, seven each from Ganapathy, Ukkadam and Perur, six each from Kuniyamuthur and Singanallur, and five each from Pollachi and Sundaram Street. Meanwhile, Variety Hall police station in Coimbatore was closed for fumigation on Sunday after a sub-inspector tested positive. The station will temporarily function from an auditorium on Ayyanna Gounder Street. Salem district recorded 162 positive cases on Sunday. According to health department officials, 149 cases were indigenous and nine had travelled from other districts and four from other states. Namakkal district registered nine cases. Dharmapuri recorded 130 cases and Krishnagiri 52. Tiruppur tally touches 700 Tiruppur district reported 32 fresh cases with the overall tally touching 700. The 32 cases are from Anupparpalayam, Kovilpalayam, Vadugapalayam, Elavanthi, Pethappampatti and Goundampalayam in Avinashi Block. Erode district reported 34 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 618. In the Nilgiris, 31 people tested positive, bringing the total number of cases in th district so far to 692. The district administration said that 25 of the people who were found to be infected on Sunday were local residents, while six were from other districts.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Siruvani remains a cause for concern||Water level in Siruvani Reservoir remains a cause for concern for the city’s water managers, who say that they have pinned their hope in the remaining South-West Monsoon season. As of July 21, water level stood at a little over 11 feet in the reservoir, the full storage level of which is 49.50 feet. Since the start of the monsoon season the water level has not risen as it should have during this part of the year due to poor rain. In a good monsoon year, the reservoir overflows first during the monsoon season and second during the North-East Monsoon season. But, last year with the Kerala Irrigation Department reducing the water level to around 44 feet, the water level did not touch the full reservoir level. The impact of the reduction of about five feet water put the city on the edge in terms of water supply. The loss of five feet water equalled 25 days water supply to the city as it accounted for 15% of the storage because more water gets stored as the water level rises in the saucer-shaped reservoir. The sources said the reservoir witnessed rain on Tuesday night and early Wednesday morning as well and this could have pushed up the water to half-a-foot to a foot. The long-term impact of the poor water level could be that the city would start feeling water crisis even as early as January 2021, what with the loss of five feet water compounding the problem. The city would have to do with the Pilloor water to supply to the Siruvani-fed wards as well. Around 25 of the 100 wards in the city are Siruvani dependent. The water managers said that only good monsoon rain in the Siruvani catchment could save the city from a water crisis in summer 2021.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: one more CBI officer tests positive||A fifth officer of the special team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the Sattankulamcustodial deaths caseof trader Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, has tested positive for COVID-19. The officer, who had given his samples for testing two days ago, tested positive on Saturday. Four personnel of the eight-member team from New Delhihave already tested positiveand have been admitted to the Railway Hospital in Madurai that has been converted into a COVID-19 special ward for the Madurai City Police. The team that arrived here on July 10, has been staying at the Circuit House and their investigation is taking place at the CBI office at Aathikulam and at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Meanwhile, a local CBI officer, who was working with the New Delhi team, had also tested positive. The CBI has to take into custody Pauldurai and Francis Thomas of the 10 accused among the Sattankulam police personnel, for interrogation. Pauldurai, a Sub-Inspector of Police, who had been lodged at Madurai Central Prison, has also tested COVID-19 positive. With most of the CBI team already under medical treatment and unlikely to return to duty in the immediate future, the investigation into the custodial deaths has suffered a setback. The investigation into the case gained momentum after the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court suo moto took up the case and ordered a probe by the Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department. The State government had handed over the case to the CBI.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Crop loans being disbursed by EDCCB’||Since core banking solution is not available at the primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) in the district, crop loans are temporarily disbursed by the Erode District Central Cooperative Bank (EDCCB), School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan told mediapersons here on Friday. The Minister along with Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan, District Collector C. Kathiravan and MLAs distributed various loans totalling Rs. 35.57 lakh to 25 beneficiaries in the presence of Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, District Central Cooperative Bank chairman N. Krishnaraj, C.R. Abuvarajan, Assistant General Manager, District Development, Nabard and other officials. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the Reserve Bank of India has directed core banking solutions to be implemented in all the PACS so that loans could be distributed. The facility is currently available only at EDCCB and hence, crops loans are disbursed only there, he added. He said that the EDCCB had fixed a crop loan target of Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 180 crore had been disbursed as on April 1. Milk procurement To a question regarding cooperative milk societies in villages refusing to receive additional milk from farmers, Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the situation is different as against the procurement capacity of 2.50 lakh litres everyday, 3.20 lakh litres are procured from farmers. “Surplus milk is converted into milk powder and other value added products”, he added.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre must help BHEL ancillary units in dispatch of goods’||The Economic Cell of BJP’s Tiruchi Unit has made a representation to the Union Ministries of Finance and Heavy Industries and Small and Medium Enterprises seeking their intervention in preventing closure of more ancillary units of BHEL, Tiruchi, due to difficulty in dispatch of finished goods. While the Centre has taken measures such as extending additional credit on their existing working capital limit, enforcing 45-day payment commitments to MSMEs from clients and bolstering MSME participation in public procurement contracts for revival of the units, they have not been able to dispatch the finished goods, it said. On the Centre’s instruction to PSUs to clear dues to MSMEs within 45 days, V. Kannan, president of the economic cell, says the units have been unable to unload the vehicles across the country. The request of the ancillaries for tweaking the policy pertaining to tender system for price viability has not been addressed resulting in closure of several units. Even the existing units are struggling for survival due to which the State government has lost GST revenue of over Rs. 100 crore.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Kargil martyrs in Tiruchi||The supreme sacrifices of the country’s armed forces personnel were remembered and tributes paid to them on the occasion of the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas to commemorate India’s victory against Pakistan. The memorial raised in memory of Kargil war hero Major M. Saravanan in Tiruchi was decorated. Tributes and homage were paid to the slain soldiers for their valour, courage and determination in defending the country during the 1999 war. Officers from the Army, Navy and Air Force laid wreaths at the memorial and paid homage.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Uttathur made containment zone||Uttathur panchayat was declared a containment zone on Sunday after over 20 residents tested positive. Only outlets selling groceries and other essentials will be allowed to remain open and residents must stay indoors, officials said. Panchayat president Indira Arivazhagan said 500 villagers took part in a health camp and 72 showed symptoms. Among them, 25 tested positive. However, most patients were asymptomatic. “Twenty-four of them have been sent for home quarantine. Only one remains in hospital.” Collector S. Sivarasu visited the village and inspected disinfection exercise before declaring the area a containment zone, she said. Panchayat conservancy workers were sanitising all areas. “The individuals are being monitored by a health officer at a quarantine facility in school until their test results arrive,” Ms. Arivazhagan added.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop permits work from home||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has permitted employees above 55 years of age and those with co-morbid conditions to work from home for two weeks starting from July 27. A communication to this effect approved by the Chief Workshop Manager has been issued by the personnel branch of the workshop, which has over 3,000 employees on rolls. Employees above 55 years of age as well as officers/employees suffering from co-morbid conditions such as severe diabetes, heart disease, cancer, severe respiratory problems and those who were under immune suppressive medication were permitted to work from home from July 27 to August 8. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram said such employees should be accessible through mobile phone and electronic means of communication at all times and should not leave the headquarters except for emergency. They should be prepared to attend the workshop, if called, for any exigency of work.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid19 update||Till July 26   Coimbatore district  No. of cases on Sunday: 220 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 3,459 Indigenous cases: 3,421 Imported cases: 38 No. of active cases: 1,491 Persons recovered: 1,929 No. of persons died: 39  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 2,907 Domestic cases: 692 (32 new cases on Sunday) Imported cases: 8 Discharged: 380 Active cases: 314 Deaths: 6
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Ever since college admissions started, students are crowding browsing centres to apply online for undergraduate courses in colleges. These centres charge exorbitantly as students lack internet and net banking facilities, particularly in rural areas. Since public transportation has been suspended, many students find it difficult to reach the browsing centres, making hundreds lose the chance to apply. Moreover, students and their parents or relatives are unmindful of social distancing norms at the browsing centres. This could lead to the spread of COVID-19. I request the district administration and education department to instruct heads of schools to facilitate the process of applying online. Sainithii. M, Madurai    There are media reports that there will be no more lockdowns in Karnataka “as they are, in no way, helpful in arresting the spread of COVID-19.” Lockdowns have affected the economy of the State. Ending them will revive the economy and prevent the conditions from becoming worse, it is believed. Tamil Nadu government can also follow suit, but with strict adherence of norms such as wearing masks, keeping social distance and avoiding going out of home unnecessarily. K.R. Rajendran,  Madurai    To prevent surge in COVID-19 positive cases and deaths, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital plans to go for plasma therapy, following Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Though late, it is a welcome step, as many lives can be saved. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai    Nagercoil town has been elevated to the status of a city. But incomplete projects such as underground drainage system, drinking water schemes, widening of roads, creation of parking space and integrating footpaths and rainwater drains need immediate attention. Presently, work on the footpath of KP Road, opposite the Collector’s office is going on. The Corporation authorities must maintain the same level on the footpath so that it is safe for walking, and prevent shop owners from encroaching the footpath. G. Stanley Jeyasingh, Nagercoil
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Secretary appointed for election panel||The State government has named IAS officer K. Balasubramaniam as the Secretary of the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, replacing L. Subramanian. Mr. Subramanian has been posted as the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the post which was earlier held by Mr. Balasubramaniam, a G.O. issued by the Chief Secretary stated.
27 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three suffer burns after fire breaks out in hospital||Three persons, including a junior doctor, suffered burns when oxygen leaking from a cylinder caught fire in the district designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi on Sunday. A nurse and a ward boy were the others who suffered burns in the fire accident. They were admitted to the burns ward in the hospital. Though earlier reports described it as a blast, the police said that it was a fire accident. “Oxygen began leaking from the cylinder when the staff were changing the cylinder’s pipes to provide supply to a patient’s ventilator. However, the inflammable gas caught fire immediately,” a police officer said.
27 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Teenager killed in road accident, another hurt||A post-PU results party turned traumatic for a group of teens in Belagavi on Saturday. One of them died and another was injured in a road accident near Jamboti in Khanapur taluk on Saturday night. They were returning from a party at a private dhaba near Jamboti village. The party was organised by Rohit Chandilkar (19) of Belavatti village. His motorcycle skidded off the road and he suffered a head injury. He was dead before he could be taken to a hospital. His friend Ganesh Chougale was the one who was injured. He is under treatment in a hospital in Khanapur. A case has been registered.
27 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||11 accused positive||As many as 11 of the 21 persons arrested by the police have tested positive for COVID-19. They are facing the charge of setting an ambulance on fire after their relative died of COVID-19 in Belagavi three days ago.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Source unknown in 55% of cases in State||With surge in the number of COVID-19 cases, the source of 55% of the total 90,942 positive cases reported in Karnataka is unknown. According to analysis of the State war room of 90,942 cases reported till Saturday, the source of how 50,151 individuals contracted the virus is still not known and multiple agencies are unable to track this. While the largest chunk of cases fall under the “under investigation category”, cases with domestic travel history comprise of 33% of the total cases. Meanwhile, 10% of the cases are contacts of patients who tested positive. Out of the total 90,942 cases, only 0.8% cases are learnt to have an international travel history. Officials in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike acknowledged that they were struggling to trace how people had contracted the virus. “Initially, it was easy as all our manpower were involved in tracing the source of infection and later on tracing the contacts of patients who tested positive. But this has taken a back seat with the surge in the number of cases,” an official admitted. Limited manpower Giridhara R. Babu, Professor and Head, lifecourse epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, said that as the number of cases is surging, limited manpower impairs the efficiency of finding the person who tested positive quickly. The stigma attached if one tests positive also results in many people trying to evade from being traceable, he said. “At this stage, it is important to address both issues of engaging more personnel as well as create a conducive environment by disseminating information so that positive persons are not stigmatised,” he said. Dr Babu also said that there was an urgent need to find out how the cases spread. “If this is not done, the epidemic will outgrow in ways we do not know and we will not be able to track the trajectory,” he added. A senior IAS officer involved in COVID-19 duty said the State government would intensify its efforts to trace the source of infection in the coming days.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New swanky train terminal comes without proper access roads||With South Western Railway (SWR) hoping to start passenger and express train services from the new coaching terminal at Baiyappanahalli in October, experts and commuters have raised questions about connectivity and accessibility to the station. The roads leading to the swanky new terminal, the exterior of which looks similar to that of the Kempegowda International Airport, are narrow and under-developed, say commuters, urging the authorities to remedy the situation before COVID-19 restrictions are lifted. Though the new terminal is less than 2 km from Baiyappanahalli metro station on Old Madras Road and the existing railway station, commuters will have to take a detour of over 6 km via Kasturinagar in the absence of a proper road. Commuters from Indiranagar, K.R. Puram, Domlur, Koramangala, and Ramamurthynagar will not be able to use the narrow and mud-filled bumpy lane leading to the station from Old Madras Road. The situation is no different for those coming from Maruthi Sevanagar as the roads leading to the station are narrow. The new terminal is likely to see a huge footfall once it is operational. According to South Western Railway officials, commercial operations from Baiyappanahalli will reduce congestion at Yeshwantpur and KSR Bengaluru railway stations. There are reports that the Railways is contemplating private trains to Delhi, Guwahati, Patna, and some other destinations from the new terminal.  However, unless the road connectivity issue is addressed, massive traffic jams and bottlenecks are in the offing, warn residents in and around Baiyappanahalli. Vasu B. of Old Byappanahalli Residents’ Welfare Association said that the SWR should have worked in coordination with the civic body to improve multi-modal connectivity to the new terminal while the work on the station was under way. “Construction of a bridge over the level-crossing on the road leading to the new terminal from Old Madras Road has been pending for the past several years owing to land issues with the Defence Ministry,” he said. Residents at the other end — in Banaswadi and other eastern suburbs — also anticipate an increase in traffic bottlenecks once the terminal is fully operational as the existing roads are inadequate to handle an increase in the number of vehicles. “The new terminal is very well built. But what is the use if there is no proper connectivity?” said Shekar B., who lives nearby. D.S. Rajashekar of the Federation of Bangalore North East Residents’ Welfare Association pointed out that people of East Bengaluru already face a challenge accessing Banaswadi Railway Station. “What is the use of having these two railway stations if they lack proper road connectivity?” Possible solutions Transport expert Sanjeev Dyamannavar of the advocacy group Praja said they had been raising this issue with the authorities concerned for over four years. “The Railways should also consider running more local trains from other stations across the city to the new terminal. This will solve, to an extent, the problem of lack of integration of multi-modal connectivity,” he said. He also suggested construction of a footbridge with a walkalator from Baiyappanahalli metro station to the new terminal. “One such pedestrian bridge from the KSR railway station to the KSR metro station has been well received by people,” he said. He suggested a subway beneath the congested flyover near Mukunda theatre to solve the problem at the other side. On providing better access points and integration of terminals with other modes of transport, E. Vijaya, chief public relations officer of the SWR, said, “We have built 75% of the road to access the terminal using railway land. Beyond that is the responsibility of the BBMP.” To a question whether the authorities concerned held a meeting to integrate various modes of transport, the official said, “No discussion has been held yet.” Poor planning The lack of seamless integration of public transport systems is a hurdle that a majority of mass transit projects face. Majestic, one of the major transport hubs in the city, is a case in point. It took years for the BMRCL and the SWR to build a skywalk to connect the metro station with KSR railway station. At Yeshwantpur, the integration is yet to happen. Another example is the KSRTC’s Basaveshwara bus terminal at Peenya, which remains underutilised owing to connectivity problems. The transport corporation had spent Rs. 40 crore to build the terminal.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police of southern States working closely with NIA, says Bommai||Acknowledging that the presence of Islamic State (IS) modules in the country was more in the southern States, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the police of four southern States were working closely and sharing information with the National Investigation Agency (NIA). “Bengaluru is closer to borders of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. We have noticed that the movement of people between these States and Bengaluru is higher, and the police of southern States are working closely with each other,” Mr. Bommai told presspersons here on Sunday. United Nations report His reaction came after the 26th United Nations report that tracked IS, Al-Qaeda, and others stated that Karnataka and Kerala were among those States that had a significant number of individuals associated with these terror organisations. “We have worked closely with NIA, and are sharing with as well as taking inputs from the agency. We have busted two modules in Bengaluru and Udupi and the State is continuously involved in taking action to stamp out terrorism,” the Home Minister said. “We are in touch with the police in neighbouring States; and in several cases, sharing of information has helped. Individuals are either committing crimes in Tamil Nadu and coming here (Bengaluru) or vice versa,” he said. Different modules Mr. Bommai said that the U.N. report published recently was based on the operations conducted in these four States. “IS is operating in different modules and some modules are very active in the southern part of India, more so in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are big and small modules. We have busted these modules time and again and police are also aware of some. We are continuously operating against terrorism at our own pace. The police are on pursuit of these modules,” he stressed. Tighter security The Home Minister, in a statement, said that the State has taken the report of the United Nations seriously and has decided to tighten the internal security with the DGP having been asked to submit a report in this regard. It said that the UN report cites busting of Al-Hind module in January 2020 and JMB module in 2018-2019. The recently-held DGP’s conference on terrorism in South India has also discussed the issue. “A direction has been issued by the Home Department to monitor the movement of suspicious persons coming into the State as well as those organisations that are involved in terror activities,” the statement read.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No festive cheer for them||After a month of being shut down and various parts of it declared as containment zones, the wholesale hub of the city — Chickpet and its surrounding areas — is looking forward to revive businesses in the coming days as festivals are soon approaching. However, traders are now faced with multiple challenges, including transporting their goods to other parts of the State and also to other States. Transport-related issues Prakash Pirgal, president of the Bangalore Wholesale Cloth Merchants’ Association, said the demand for various items, including clothes, used to be very high before Varamahalakshmi festival and they would send goods to various districts across the State. “This year, there is hardly any business and whatever business we have is also hit because of transport-related issues,” he said. Traders in and around the area say the amount of materials transported has drastically dropped but the transportation charges have remained almost the same and that was hitting them hard. Ranjeet Jain, president of the Karnataka Paper Merchants’ and Stationers’ Association, said, “I supply paper to a district-level newspaper in Chamarajanagar. It was very difficult for us to supply the paper for them during the lockdown and it also proved expensive. Before we used to send materials for wedding cards and other things. But now there is no demand and whatever little is sent is sent at the same transportation cost,” he said. On the other hand, those in the goods transport fields are facing problems other than lack of business. Since many areas are sealed and also dug up for drainage-related works, they are not able to park their vehicles and load goods. “Tharagupet and Sultanpet areas are dug up for some drain-related work. Sultanpet is like the transport hub here and we have no proper place to either load or park our vehicles and the business is low,” Manjunath D. of a transport agency. N. Krishna of another transport agency said they used Mysuru Road and other places to park their vehicles and shifting goods from the pete area to the parking place was a huge challenge. Reviving economy Trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta said it was high time the economy is revived and shutting down areas was not a solution. “COVID-19 is going to stay and we should live with guidelines and not lockdowns. The government should create a conducive atmosphere for our business,” he said.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leave with pay for pourakarmikas aged over 50||Under fire after an increasing number of pourakarmikas — hailed as ‘corona warriors’ — started testing positive for COVID-19 and some even succumbed to the infection, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has proposed to allow pregnant pourakarmikas and those aged above 50 to take leave with pay. According to a circular issued by BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management and Health) D. Randeep recently, junior health inspectors, assistant executive engineers (SWM) have to identify pregnant pourakarmikas and those aged above 50 with co-morbidities. They will send a proposal of offering leave with pay to such pourakarmikas to the zonal joint commissioners and superintendent engineers. Mr. Randeep said around 50 pourakarmikas had tested positive for COVID-19, of whom more than 10 were serious cases. Five pourakarmikas have so far lost their battle against the virus. Kondamma is a 51-year-old pourakarmika from Vannarpet. Every day, she has to be at Austin Town mustering centre at 6 a.m. She comes back by around 3 p.m. and often complains about pain in her joints. “We have not been informed about this. Can we really take leave and still get paid?” she asked. Health check-up Maithreyi Krishnan from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha told The Hindu that there were a sizeable number of pourakarmikas among the 18,000-odd workforce who were aged above 50. “However, to ascertain co-morbidities, the BBMP should conduct a master health check-up, which has been one of the long-pending demands of the sangha,” she said, and added that pourakarmikas in some wards had been screened for COVID-19. “The drivers and cleaners of auto tippers and compactors are neglected. They have not even paid their wages regularly,” she said. Mr. Randeep said that around one-third of the pourakarmika workforce could be aged above 50, among whom around 10% could have some co-morbidities. “The identification of such pourakarmikas should happen at the mustering centres. Supervisors will know who are prone to illness. Such pourakarmikas may refrain from work,” he said, and added that since the spread of COVID-19, the civic body had suspended biometric attendance and had gone back to manual attendance. “We have received an additional 50,000 rapid antigen testing kits. We are planning a two-pronged approach, where pourakarmikas will be tested in all 600 mustering points in the city. We also plan on taking the kits to the 62 pourakarmika colonies, where the family members can also be screened,” he said.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘IISc. mobile labs will be handed over to State govt. shortly’||The first set of mobile laboratories designed by a team at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) is ready to be deployed and will be handed over to the State government shortly. Speaking to The Hindu days after being appointed, IISc. director Govindan Rangarajan said the faculty members were engaged in many areas of research on COVID-19. “One of our labs is working on an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with an IISc.-incubated startup. We are also developing test kits that are less expensive and yield faster results. A research team has designed mobile labs for RT-PCR testing that can be dispatched to remote areas, and these are ready to be deployed and will be handed over to the State government shortly. A COVID-19 test centre has also been set up on campus. Our researchers have built prototypes of low-cost scalable ventilators made with locally available components,” he said. The team developing the mobile labs said one sample collection, sample processing, and sample testing lab each was being handed over to the State government this week. Together, these three labs will enable the processing of up to 200 samples a day — from collection to final RT-PCR test report. “With the flexibility of deployment anywhere in the State, MITR Labs enable a critical tool in the COVID-19 response in the State by reducing the turnaround time for test results. Depending on where the Health Department sees the most need for testing and the longest delay in getting test results, MITR Labs can be deployed near that location,” said Sai Siva Gorthi, associate professor, Instrumentation and Applied Physics, IISc. The team at ShanMukha Innovations, a company incubated at the Society for Innovation and Development, IISc., is geared up to produce additional units of MITR Labs through their network of vehicle, fabrication, and equipment suppliers. It has started working with the State government to share the benefits of the solution and generate demand to drive the scale-up plans. Predictions Prof. Rangarajan also said that another important line of research being carried out was predicting the future course of this pandemic and the effects of various containment measures, which could be of immediate use to policymakers and public health experts. An app that can help identify people who may have crossed paths with COVID-19 patients is also being deployed, he said.  Stressing the need for institutions and governments to learn to work together during these unprecedented times, he said the pandemic was a reminder of the importance of coming together to work on scientific and technological solutions to society’s most pressing problems. “We will continue working on such solutions and will engage with industry and government agencies to ensure that they are rapidly deployed to tackle this crisis,” he added. Asked about the challenges ahead administratively and academically, the IISc. director said the first priority was ensuring the safety of students, faculty and staff as they start working towards resuming normal teaching and research activities. “The other pressing need is to ensure the mental well-being of our students and to help them navigate through these difficult times. Discussions are on about how to hold classes, although they are also likely to be conducted remotely. The same is true for placement interviews.”
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka best in COVID-19 reporting: Study||Karnataka fares the best in terms of quality of COVID-19 data reporting, says a study conducted by researchers of Stanford University. The study titled “Disparity in the quality of COVID-19 data reporting across India” analyses the quality of data reporting done by different State governments and Union Territories. While Karnataka fared the best, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were the poorest. The abstract of the paper, which is yet to be published and not yet peer reviewed, states that the researchers have developed a framework to calculate a COVID-19 Data Reporting Score (CDRS). The study has been shared by the Karnataka government and takes into account four key aspects of public health data reporting — availability, accessibility, granularity, and privacy. The data provided by the State governments and UTs were studied in a two-week period between May 19 and June 1. The study also excluded States that reported less than 10 total confirmed cases as of May 18. States and UTs were given CDRS, ranging from 0 to 1. Karnataka with a score of 0.61 fares the highest. The scores of the other States and UTs which got high scores were: Kerala (0.52), Odisha (0.51), Puducherry (0.51), and Tamil Nadu (0.51). Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh (0.0), Bihar (0.0), Meghalaya (0.13), Himachal Pradesh (0.13), and Andaman and Nicobar Islands (0.17) secured the bottom spots in this ranking. The study says that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have not published their data on the Health Department or their government’s website. Karnataka has fared well as it has the highest accessibility and availability of data. It states that the government releases a health bulletin and the State war room releases a bulletin everyday, besides maintaining a dashboard. The study also states that there is a “strong disparity in the quality of COVID-19 data reporting done by the State governments in India.” It points to the “lack of a unified framework for reporting COVID-19 data in India” and suggests that there is a need for a Central agency to monitor the quality of data reported by the States.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest single-day rise recorded in State||A total of 5,199 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Sunday. This is the highest spike in the number of positive cases reported in the State on a single day. With this, the total number of positive cases stands at 96,141. Of these, 35,838 patients have been discharged. As many as 2,088 patients were discharged from various designated hospitals on Sunday. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s health bulletin, 1,950 out of the total 5,199 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. Eleven other districts in the State have reported more than 100 cases. The second highest number of cases was reported from Ballari district – 579. Meanwhile, 82 new COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. With this, the total number of deaths in the State stands at 1,878. No comorbidities were reported among 21 patients out of the 82 who were reported dead on Sunday. Doctors said that in many of these cases, patients may have had comorbidities but were unaware of them. Of the total 58,417 active cases in the State, 632 patients are admitted to intensive care units.
27 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to wait for Central guidelines to decide on Sunday curfew||After enforcing lockdown and curfew on four Sundays to break the chain of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government is now set to look into the issue of whether the Sunday curfew should be extended beyond July 31. While Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will take a decision after consulting the health task force, sources in Chief Minister’s Office said that the State is likely to wait for guidelines issued by the Centre for Unlock 3 that will be implemented post July 31. “There are many areas in commercial space and public space that still remain closed. They include theatres, gymnasiums, and swimming pools and restrictions have been placed in using of equipment in parks. Similarly, the operation of metro has been suspended along with inter-State movement of trains,” sources said. Though the Union government has given permission to States to unlock, some of these have remained suspended, sources said, adding that the State government will wait and watch as to how the Centre will announce Unlock 3. “The Unlock 2 guidelines will end by July 31 and States are expecting guidelines in the middle of next week. The Chief Minister will consult the expert committee based on the Union government’s guidelines and take a call,” sources said.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 drug peddlers held||In a special drive, the Bengaluru East police on Sunday arrested three alleged drug peddlers and 12 customers. The arrested include a 35-year-old Nigerian national who is a resident of Kanakagiri Layout, near Ramamurhtynagar. Among the others arrested are Sayed Nazim, from whom 1 kg ganja was seized.
27 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress to protest in front of Raj Bhavan today||Senior Congress leaders will congregate in front of Raj Bhavan on Monday to protest against the BJP’s alleged move to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. This is part of the AICC’s decision to protest against the threat posed by BJP to the Rajasthan government. A note released by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar here on Sunday said the ‘Save Democracy and Protect Constitution’ protest will be staged against the anti-Constitutional move allegedly being made by the BJP. Urging party leaders and workers to make the protest successful, he said that senior leaders of the party, legislators, former legislators, defeated candidates in 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2018 Assembly elections besides party functionaries in Bengaluru will take part in the protest. Meanwhile, KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre said, “The responsibility of protecting democracy is on us. The BJP is undertaking Operation Kamala nationwide to topple elected governments.” Tweets On Twitter, Mr. Khandre said, “BJP is poaching MLAs in Rajasthan and trying to topple the government. Is this the way of protecting democracy and the Constitution?” In another tweet, he said: “BJP has enough funds for Operation Kamala but not enough funds to provide treatment for COVID-19 patients. I condemn this power greed.”
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 history-sheeters shot at||The Soladevanahalli police opened fire at two people accused of attempt to murder after they allegedly attacked police personnel in a bid to escape near Jalahalli on Sunday morning. The two accused are Arun Kumar, a resident of Nagashettyhalli, and Bharath alias Babu, a resident of Doddaballapur. According to sources, both the accused have cases against them in various police stations. According to thepolice, Bharath, along with his associates, had allegedly taken up a contract of Rs. 10 lakh and was paid Rs. 1 lakh as advance to eliminate Rajashekar, a resident of Hessarghatta, by his brother-in-law Srinivas over a property dispute. Rajashekar was attacked by a group of five to six people on July 23 and a case was registered at the Soladevanahalli police station. “Their plan to kill him failed. They had planned to attack him again,” a senior police official said.Based on a tip-off, when the police went to arrest the accused near Jalahalli, the two allegedly tried to escape after attacking the personnel. “The accused tried attacking our officers and staff. In self-defence and to arrest the accused, three rounds were fired. One in the air and one each at the legs of the two accused,” a senior police official said and added that other accused were also arrested.
27 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 14,500 cr. agri credit target set for this fiscal||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar on Sunday said the co-operation sector has set itself a target of disbursing agricultural credit of Rs. 14,500 crore this fiscal. “We have already disbursed Rs. 5,600 crore to 8.5 lakh farmers,” he said. He was speaking after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa released a booklet outlining the achievements of the government in the cooperation sector in the past year. Mr. Yediyurappa directed the Minister to ensure there were no hurdles for farmers in accessing credit in these tough times and set an ambitious target of Rs. 20,000 crore for 30 lakh farmers in the next fiscal.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mayor visits zonal COVID-19 war rooms||Mayor M. Goutham Kumar on Sunday visited the zonal COVID-19 war rooms in South and Bommanahalli zones. After inspecting the war room in the South zone, he directed officials to track the health of those under home isolation, especially their blood oxygen levels and if they have developed any symptoms.  Helpline Residents of 16 wards coming under Bommanahalli zone may call the dedicated COVID-19 helpline (8884666670) for information or to lodge complaints, he said.
27 July 2020||Dharwad,KARNATAKA||Confusion prevails after some claim that body drank water||A claim by some people that a body being prepared for the last rites drank water led to some confusion in Hebballi village in Dharwad district on Sunday. Eeranna Kamble, a teacher in the village, died of a heart disease in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi on Friday. The body was taken to Kamble’s native village by his relatives on Saturday. Women in the family began preparations for the burial after some more relatives gathered. Some men and women took the body for the final bath in front of the house. One of them claimed that when the body was being bathed, it drank some water. This led to confusion among the people who believed that Kamble was still alive and that doctors had failed to notice it. They took Kamble to KIMS again. However, the doctors clarified to them that the patient had died on Friday and the body was handed over to them after confirming that Kamble had indeed died. The doctors convinced the emotional relatives that the body had to be taken back for burial. The body was buried in Hebballi villlage on Sunday, a police officer from Dharwad said.
27 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Garments, furniture destroyed in fire||Garments and furniture worth lakhs of rupees were reduced to ashes after a fire broke out in a shop on MG Road in Chikkamagaluru on Sunday. The shop was closed and a passer-by noticed smoke coming under from the shutters. Fire and Emergency Services staff rushed to the spot to put out the fire. Three fire tenders were involved in the operation. It is estimated that valuables worth over Rs. 3 lakh were gutted. District Fire Officer K.P. Shashidhar told The Hindu , “Short-circuit could be the reason for the fire.”
27 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive cases reach 4,090 in Ballari||With 579 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the total number of infected persons in Ballari district stands at 4,090. The district also saw 17 people discharged upon recovery putting the active cases in the district at 2,464. The total number of deaths stood at 69, as per a bulletin released by the Health Department. However, a bulletin released by the local administration mentioned three new deaths and put the total number at 75.
27 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Murdered||A 32-year-old man was beaten to death over his alleged illicit relations with a woman in Wadi town in Chittapur taluk in Kalaburagi district. The deceased has been identified as Jagadish of Wadi town. He was allegedly having an affair with the married neighbour for long. A group of men waylaid Jagadish on the outskirts of Shahabad when the two were travelling together and thrashed him. He was rushed to a hospital where he died. The police suspected that the family members of the woman might have attacked Jagadish.
27 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Survey taken up to identify people with co-morbidities||Dakshina Kannada district administration has taken up an intensive survey to identify persons with co-morbid conditions to monitor their health and to ensure that such patients took precautionary measures not to get infected with COVID-19. As many as 906 teams are being involved in this exercise. The survey is being held in such clusters where high number of COVID-19 cases are being reported. The survey will cover 2.61 lakh households in the district. It is now under way in Bantwal, Puttur, Belthangady and Sullia taluks and will start shortly in areas covered by Mangaluru City Corporation, after some teething problems are addressed, according to District COVID-19 Nodal Officer H. Ashok. Each team, comprising an anganwadi worker and an accredited social health activist (ASHA), is visiting 40 houses. Apart from looking at those with cancer, diabetes, breathing problems and other co-morbidities, these teams are finding out how many of them have fever. Using the pulse oxymeter given to each team, the oxygen saturation level is being measured. Those found with below 90 % saturation level are enlisted and being referred to the nearby primary health centres for follow-up. All measures are being taken to ensure the safety of the members involved in the survey, he said. While 224 teams with 75 supervisors are doing the survey in Bantwal, 225 teams and 74 supervisors are involved in it in Belthangady. There are 169 teams and 56 supervisors in Puttur taluk and 72 teams and 24 supervisors in Sullia. The district administration has planned to depute 216 teams in Mangaluru City Corporation areas. “As there is shortage of volunteers, we are trying to take the services of NCC cadets and volunteers from NSS, Indian Red Cross and other social organisations,” Dr. Ashok said.
27 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight die in Dakshina Kannada, 170 test positive in Udupi||Dakshina Kannada district administration on Sunday announced the death of eight COVID-19 persons, who had had co-morbidities. With 199 tested positive on Sunday, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada rose to 2471. Of the 199, 73 had influenza like illness, 31 were primary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons, 10 had severe acute respiratory illness and two persons had history of international travel. Contact tracing of 83 COVID-19 positive persons was on. As many as 90 persons were discharged, the bulletin said. In Udupi, 170 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday taking the active cases to 1,241. As many as 14 have died so far. While 13 were discharged, 260 are under observation, and 1,701 persons are in home isolation, said a bulletin by Udupi district administration. Three more deaths In Hassan, three more people died of COVID-19 on Sunday taking the number of deaths to 44. The total number of confirmed cases reported has gone up to 1,673, which includes 165 cases reported today. So far, 778 people have recovered from the infection and 851 are under treatment. Among the fresh cases reported on Sunday, 17 are from Alur, 36 from Arkalgud, 51 from Arsikere, four from Belur, 16 from Channarayapatna, 27 from Hassan, 10 from Holenarasipur and four are natives of Sakleshpur.
27 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Century-old UoM looking for a ‘green’ future||The idea of establishing green campuses is finally taking shape with the century-old University of Mysore (UoM) dedicating its first major solar project as a step towards becoming “energy-rich”, harnessing eco-friendly and clean energy resources. It has embarked upon a plan of adopting renewable energy in a major way, besides turning its expansive and tree-rich Manasagangotri campus in Mysuru, and three other PG centres in Hassan, Mandya, and Chamarajanagar, into green campuses. The 32kW rooftop solar project developed on the building housing the Department of Studies in Physics is expected to save the exchequer Rs. 40,000 a month. The cost cut is by way saving on electricity bills and supplying surplus power daily to the electricity company through dedicated feeders. “The iconic Crawford Hall and the library building here are our next goals. These two buildings will also be getting rooftop solar panels for their energy needs. Likewise, we have identified other buildings on the campus, which consume a lot of electricity because of lab equipment and other devices, to turn them into solar-friendly buildings,” said Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar. Prof. Kumar said the long-term idea is to turn all campuses of UoM into eco-friendly centres of higher learning and to set an example for others on the need to harness renewable energy, especially solar energy. The library is one of the buildings where a great amount of energy is consumed because of the use of lights by students and research scholars for approximately 15 hours a day. Also, Crawford Hall, the seat of administration, houses many departments, including the office of the Vice-Chancellor. Here, too, the large roof area of the structures is being used to harvest energy from the sun. The university is not availing any grant for these projects.  Around 400 street lights on the Manasagangotri campus run on solar energy. The solar street lights were introduced much earlier and were running smoothly, with their maintenance given to a private firm. Hemagangotri (Hassan), Suvarnagangotri (Chamarajanagar), and Mandya PG Centre will also get the benefits of the project as solar energy will also harness light there once the projects lined up for Manasagangotri are done, Prof. Kumar said. Electric buggies were introduced recently at the University of Mysore for ferryingstudents and visitors to various departments and other facilities at Manasagangotri. The first batch of battery-operated carts was rolled out for operations early this year as part of the green transport initiatives, and more such zero-emission means of transport are planned.
27 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cycling is picking up speed during lockdown||Punitha, a fitness-conscious housewife in Mysuru, had regularly gone for aerobic classes and other forms of exercises at her neighbourhood gym till the COVID-19 lockdown ensured the shutdown of gyms, yoga studios, swimming pools, and parks. With few options left to remain fit and active, she bought a cycle and started pedalling along the city’s outskirts with a few like-minded friends.“When all the other doors to exercise were closed, I hit upon the idea of cycling. I tried it with a rented gear cycle initially and feltthe ride very refreshing. So I bought a cycle and now go out riding three or four days a week. I hit the road early in the morning and cycle 40 to50 km,” she said. Ms. Punitha is not alone. Cyclists are often spotted in good numbers in the morning and evening hours in different parts of the city, particularly along the Outer Ring Road, roads around Chamundi Hills, the one leading to the hilltop, besides the Mysuru-Bengaluru and Hunsur highway and the road leading to Krishna Raja Sagar. Incidentally, Mysuru was the city to have the country’s first public bicycle-sharing initiative, Trin Trin. The increasing popularity of cycling among the fitness conscious is also reflected in the surge in the business of cycle dealers in the city. “I used to sell about 10 cycles a month till March. But now, I am selling about 25,” said Lokesh, a cycling enthusiast who deals in premium-segment bicycles through the hit outlet ‘Cyclopaedia’. Many people, who had kept their cycles unused, have had them overhauled and readied for cycling. The neighbourhood cycle mechanics have also been seeing an increased footfall over the past few weeks. Though Mysore Cycling Club organised a lot of events such as group rides and community cycling, nothing appears to have worked as much to promote cycling as the COVID-19-induced lockdown.   With gyms, swimming pools and even parks closed, cycling is one activity that can be done not only solo, but also in groups by maintaining social distancing, Mr. Lokesh said. Besides, most of the roads around Mysuru do not have very heavy traffic, which makes them suitable for cycling, he added. Shadakshari Nandi, who steered Mysore Cycling Club till about a year ago, also confirmed that there has been a perceptible increase in the number of people cycling along the ring road and the highways leading out of Mysuru. “Not just youngsters, even people in their fifties can be seen cycling. The lockdown seems to have got a lot of people to realise the benefits of cycling,” he said. Early birds Veena Ashok, a passionate cyclist who is in her 40s, said cyclists like her leave home early, around 4.30 or 5 a.m., and return by 8 a.m. before motorised traffic takes over the roads. She suggested that it was better for adults to use gear cycles, which are not only easier on their legs and thigh muscles, but also help cover the distance in a shorter period of time. Ms. Punitha and her group of friends have already cycled to several locations around Mysuru, such as the KRS backwaters and Gommatagiri, covering 50-60 km during each outing. “We recently cycled to K.R. Nagar, where we had sumptuous masala dosas before cycling back through the interior roads. Though we covered more than 90 km during the expedition, we enjoyed the experience. Now, my husband Pradeep is also interested in joining us. He is planning to buy a cycle and join us soon,” she said. Meanwhile, adventure sports enthusiast D.S.D. Solanki, who also accompanies groups of cyclists during weekends, said there have been occasions when the cyclists had to face resistance from villagers wary of outsiders in times of COVID-19.
27 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials told to be prepared to tackle floods in Yadgir||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has directed officials of the departments concerned to be ready to face the flood situation in the district. “Yadgir district has been receiving heavy rain and major rivers, the Krishna and the Bhima, are flowing with high quantum of water. Therefore, members and officers of the Disaster Management Authority are alert and ready to tackle any emerging situation,” he added. He was addressing a meeting of the Disaster Management Authority in Yadgir. “The district has registered 138 % rainfall so far. If it continues to rain, water level in the Krishna will rise and life in villages on the banks of the river will be disrupted. Keeping this in mind, the officials should be prepared to face any emerging situation and ensure the safety of the people,” Mr. Kurma Rao stressed. The Deputy Commissioner strictly said that officers should be coordinate among themselves round the clock and not go on leave or leave the headquarters without prior permission. “Information on everything, including personal details of people and animals in the flood- affected areas, should be maintained. Decisions about establishment of relief centres, food and water facilities and electricity supply in such centres should be taken on the spot, he added. As per the guidelines of the Disaster Management Authority, task force committees in villages, taluks and the district-level should be established. Awareness programmes, including sounding tom tom, should be taken up to prevent people from going near the river course or any water source. Fire and Emergency Services personnel at Wadagera and Tinthini stations should be ready with boats with outboard motors and fibre boats to attend to emergency calls. General public can dial Ph: 08473-253950 to give information about any flood-like situation, the Deputy Commissioner said. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, Additional Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) Shankaragowda Somanal and Probationary IAS officer Ashwija B.V. and other district-level officers were present.
27 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||187 new cases||As many as 187 fresh cases of COVID-19 were registered in Yagdir and Raichur districts on Sunday. Of these 187, 56 were from Yadgir and 131 from Raichur. With these 56, the number of such cases touched 1,988 in Yadgir. Of these patients, 1,574 have been discharged and 412 patients are getting treatment while two patients have died. In Raichur, the total number of such cases, including the 131 registered today, reached 1,702. Of these, 816 have been discharged and 868 are getting treatment while 18 persons have died.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Playtime||
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Under attack from the Opposition for alleged corruption in purchase of COVID-19 equipment, the BJP has decided to dig up old alleged scams that occurred during the earlier regimes. Calling themselves as “Pancha Pandavas”, five Ministers held a press conference last week in an attempt to counter the charges. Revenue Minister R. Ashok harked back to an alleged scam when H. Anjaneya was Social Welfare Minister in purchase of coir mattresses during the Siddaramaiah-led government. This was the counter to the Congress’s charge that the government had indulged in siphoning of funds in the purchase of beds for COVID Care Centre at BIEC. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar referred to a CAG report to highlight the alleged lapses in the health expenditure in 2016-17. While the ruling BJP dismissed the documents released by Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah in support of his charges, it has to do more to come clean. Raking up “old scams” is far from a credible answer.   Health Minister B. Sriramulu is often found sulking in recent days. It all began when he was denied the post of Deputy Chief Minister in the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government by the party high command. Mr. Sriramulu, who floated his own party (BSR Congress) during the 2013 Assembly elections but rejoined the BJP in 2014, was given a major portfolio, Health. But when Revenue Minister R. Ashok was given the task of handling the COVID-19 pandemic in Bengaluru by Mr. Yediyurappa last month, Mr. Sriramulu was far from happy. There were more signs of unhappiness when he participated in one of the Task Force meetings through videoconference in Ballari. In the five Ministers’ press conference last week, Mr. Sriramulu did not utter a single word, though the Opposition Congress levelled charges against his department. Will he retain the portfolio during the proposed next Cabinet reshuffle/expansion is the moot question.   While Bengaluru got a new Commissioner amid steep surge in number of COVID-19 cases, the symbolic handing over of the silver baton by the outgoing Commissioner to the new one assuming office did not take place. Speculation was that B.H. Anil Kumar, who was transferred from the post BBMP Commissioner within an year of being posted, would approach Central Administrative Tribunal challenging his transfer. He later clarified that he had no such plans. Interestingly, the present BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad had served in the same position before Mr. Kumar took charge from him last August. Meanwhile, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar, who was criticised on social media for not being active during the surge in number of COVID-19 cases, is now suddenly more active. It is no secret that the Mayor and the former Commissioner were not in agreement on various issues. Nagesh Prabhu K.R. Jayasimha
27 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||46 cases in Alappuzha||The district witnessed 46 COVID-19 cases and 50 recoveries on Sunday. Local transmission cases formed the majority of the cases with 33 people contracting the disease through contact. Two Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at Nooranad unit, one health staff member, seven people who came from abroad, two from other States, and a 46-year-old woman hailing from Thaikkal also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Thaikkal native’s source of infection is unknown. Among the contact cases, three persons from Kayamkulam were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients associated with the Kayamkulam market. The rest of the contact cases are from Thamarakulam, Cheriyanad, Punnapra, Pattanakkad, Nooranad, Mararikulam, Panavally, Cherthala, Kanichukulangara, Neelemperoor, Alappuzha, Purakkad, Thaikkal, Kadakarappally, Chengannur, and Pathirappally. 50 recoveries The health employee who was found to have contracted the disease is identified as an employee of General Hospital, Alappuzha.The 50 recoveries include 21 ITBP personnel and a health worker from Cherthala. The active COVID-19 cases in the district now stands at 807.
27 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Coir exporters’ plea||Coir exporters have urged the State government to allow them to operate factories in containment zones with the minimum workforce. In a representation sent to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Federation of Indian Coir Exporters' Associations (FICEA) said that the industry was expected to come to a standstill after the entire Cherthala taluk and some grama panchayats in the district were declared as containment zones and re-imposition of lockdown. “The coir export sector employs about 20,000 people directly and 8,000 workers indirectly in Alappuzha district. The government should permit factories in containment and locked down areas to function with at least 40% strength to meet urgent needs and shipments,” says Sajan B. Nair, secretary-general, FICEA.
27 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Chilean couple in dire straits||A foreign tourist couple, stranded here for over six months owing to COVID-19, have got themselves into a difficult situation especially over the past three days. The couple — Gabriel, 34, and Leona, 29 — from Chile turned penniless after staying in various lodges, which forced them to pitch a tent on a piece of private land at Koombanpara, near Adimaly, on Friday. They stayed there for a night.On Saturday, the landowner took notice of it and informed the police. The couple informed the police about their plight. They came to the State on a tourist visa. On the move They had been moving from one place to another with no way to return to their home country once the pandemic hit. With the help of health officials, they were shifted to a quarantine centre. Their swabs were collected and sent for testing on Saturday. However, on Sunday morning, they escaped from there. The couple were seen in Mankulam by local people on Sunday. They informed the authorities and Gabriel and Leona have been provided temporary accommodation at a lodge in Adimaly. District Collector H. Dinesan said the panchayat had arranged a two-day stay for them. The district administration was planning to shift them to a care centre after the results of the COVID-19 test were received. He said they needed financial help to return to their country and would have to wait till flights resumed service.
27 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cancel illegal possession certificates: subcollector||Devikulam subcollector S. Premkrishnan has recommended the cancellation of 110 possession certificates, issued under the cover of a housing scheme for the landless people in the Kanan Devan Hills (KDH) village, which were found fabricated by a special inquiry team. Last month, District Collector H. Dinesan formed a special team to verify the records of the 110 possession certificates which were issued in 2018-19. The team headed by the subcollector found that the documents were tampered with and the possession certificates were illegally issued after fabricating documents. Stern action sought In a report submitted to the Collector, it was recommended that all the possession certificates issued in the KDH village under the scheme be cancelled. The report also recommended stern action against the Revenue officials who issued the possession certificates. Suspended The officials are already under suspension in the wake of an earlier inquiry report by Devikulam tahsildar Jiji M. Kunnappally. Mr. Kunnappally’s report found that the village land documents were tampered with in connivance with the staff of the KDC village to facilitate encroachments. Based on the tahsildar’s report last month, Mr. Dinesan suspended Sanilkumar T.S., deputy tahsildar, Devikulam; Preetha P., section officer, KDH village; E.P. George, village officer, Kumaramangalam; Gopakumar R., office assistant, collectorate, Idukki; and R. Stephen, village field assistant, KDH village.
27 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||48 in Idukki||Forty-eight persons tested positive in the district on Sunday. Those who got the disease through contact were 31 and the source of infection of two was untraced. Those untraced were a 49- year-old male special branch police official of Thodupuzha and a 61-year-old woman from Udumbanchola. Those tested positive through local contact included the residents of Munnar, Edavetti, Karimkunnam, Thodupuzha, Mariyapuram, Nedumkandam. However, 31 people recovered on Sunday.
27 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Four health workers among 61 new cases||Four health workers were among the 61 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. A 34-year-old staff member at the Koothattukulam family health centre, a 20-year-old native of Thrissur working at a private hospital, a 36-year-old ASHA worker from Eloor, and a 27-year-old doctor at the Kalamassery health centre have acquired the infection. Quarantined At Kalamassery, other staff members at the health centre have gone into quarantine, but the Health Department has not asked any patients who visited the centre to remain in quarantine, according to municipality officials. One set of staff members at the centre was quarantined earlier when a patient who visited the centre turned positive, said municipality chairperson Rukiya Jamal. With 60 cases through local transmission of the virus, only one person who arrived from outside the State has tested positive. From the West Kochi area, three people from Palluruthy, one person from Mattancherry and four from Fort Kochi have been infected. Six positive cases were recorded from Chellanam. Six people from Edappally, six others from Kavalangad and a nun from a convent at Koonammavu have tested positive. 107 recoveries Offering some respite, the district recorded 107 recoveries on Sunday. Currently, 865 patients are receiving treatment. As many as 422 samples were sent for testing on the day. From private labs in the district, around 1,748 samples were collected for testing. New ICU A new 40-bed intensive care unit (ICU) has begun functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. Ventilators With the new facility, the number of ventilators at the hospital that treats COVID-19 patients in critical condition has gone up to 75. The ICU is equipped with two dialysis units, blood gas analysers, video laryngoscopes, and ultrasound and digital X-ray facilities. The facility’s functioning is integrated through the Health Department’s e-health software. John Fernandez, MLA, and Hibi Eden, MP, have contributed Rs. 1 crore each from their respective development funds, for the new block. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), as part of its corporate social responsibility project, has contributed another Rs. 1 crore.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Unscientific U-turns turn death traps in city||The arterial Sahodaran Ayyappan Road that links Vyttila and Pallimukku on M.G. Road has become highly accident-prone thanks to abundance of unscientifically-located U-turns. The 3-km-long Vyttila-South overbridge stretch alone has 15 big and small U-turns, most of which are accident-prone. The latest on the list of near-fatal accidents occurred late on Friday night, when a superbike going from Vyttila to Kadavanthra rammed a scooter that took a U-turn near Toc-H School Road. The riders of both vehicles sustained serious injuries in the accident that was captured by the CCTV camera of a nearby shop. Even as the two severely mauled vehicles lay on the roadside, residents and traders staged a demonstration on Saturday, demanding that the police and the Kochi Corporation, which owns S.A. Road, seal the median cutting. “An average of three accidents take place here every week right in front of our eyes. Vehicles from Kadavanthra entering Toc-H Road have to proceed along the wrong side, often colliding with speeding vehicles coming from Vyttila. The metro rail pillars further hamper view. “Repeated demands from residents associations and political parties to seal the U-turn have fallen on deaf ears. We will again take up the matter with the police,” said Foji John, secretary of Toc-H Road Residents Association and a district-level office-bearer of Aam Aadmi Party. Inspection  Meanwhile, G. Poonguzhali, DCP (Traffic, Law and Order) said she would inspect the site in the coming week for taking preventive measures. “Accident spots like this at U-turns and other vulnerable areas were expected to be mapped in a study done by Thiruvananthapuram-based NATPAC as part of an endeavour to identify traffic bottlenecks and accident-prone areas in Kochi city and to find solutions. The lockdown slowed down the process. The police have offered assistance for the study,” she added. Former NATPAC director B.G. Sreedevi said unscientific U-turns abound in most cities in Kerala owing to the prevalence of far too many side roads taking off from arterial roads and highways. “U-turns are permitted only every 2 km on highways to prevent accidents. But they are often found every 50 metres in cities. Even if they are located closer to one another, care must be taken to prevent vehicles entering or exiting them directly from side roads. For this, U-turns must be located away from side roads,” she observed.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||As migrants return, concerns over quarantine facilities rise||With migrant workers returning to the State in a slow trickle, concerns over transport to the State, quarantine facilities and payment for such facilities persist. Figures with the Labour Department show that 2,254 migrant workers have returned to the State recently. A total of 3,71,000 workers from West Bengal, Odisha and other States had gone home on 216 trains. Several others hired private buses to get home, but those figures were not available with the department, said a senior official. Going by the department’s count, there were 4,34,280 migrant workers in the State. While the Labour Department had been maintaining a record of the number of workers returning, the Health Department and the local body had to monitor the returning workers, said a Labour official. In the absence of regular trains to Kerala from States such as West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Bihar, not many workers have been able to return. Contractors have made arrangements for the few who have returned. A plywood manufacturer in Perumbavoor said he had arranged for quarantine facilities and food in a separate building for six workers who returned via flight from Bhubaneswar. The local health inspector had made several calls enquiring after the workers, he said. Others, like an architect in Kochi, have been struggling to find places where workers can be quarantined. “Without any sort of government institutional facility for migrant workers, or an affordable paid space, it is difficult to ask workers to come back. With the stigma associated with migrant workers and the feeling that everybody from outside the State might carry the virus, renting adequate space for quarantine could also be difficult,” he said. Health Department guidelines issued last week require the employer or contractor to arrange for quarantine facilities as well as antigen testing for workers. Independent workers would have to bear the cost of testing themselves. The local government will monitor the workers for symptoms. “Contractors might, to some extent, be able to arrange such facilities. But the footloose workers, a majority of whom have gone back, would find it difficult to return. Paid quarantine facilities and testing will be out of reach for them since they cannot work while they are in quarantine,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. With rural distress in the home States, many of the workers would like to return, he said.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PM lauds CBSE topper from Thodupuzha||On Sunday, praise came from an unexpected quarter for Vinayak M. Malil, who scored 493 marks out of 500 in the recent CBSE Class 12 exams and thus emerged topper among students in the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe category in the commerce stream. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with him and exchanged pleasantries as part of the Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday. Vinayak scored 100 marks in three key subjects – accountancy, business studies, and informatics practices. Hailing from Thodupuzha, he was a student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Neriamangalam. “I stayed in the hostel there and did not have additional coaching for any subject. There was a study timetable in the hostel, and I strictly abided by that. Optimal time management and hard work played a key role in my success,” he said. He plans to pursue B.Com at the University of Delhi. When asked by Mr. Modi whether he had a message for his fellow students, he said hard work and proper utilisation of time were essential for success in exams.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vallarpadam evictee dies||Kochuparambil Ramakrishnan of Manjummal who surrendered his home and land for the International Container Transshipment Terminal project at Vallarpadam died on Sunday. He was 85. He was a former employee of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore and member of the Eloor Service Cooperative Society board. He is survived by his wife Valsala and children Sheela and Krishnakumar.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested on jewellery theft charge||A special team of the Kochi City police arrested a history-sheeter on the charge of stealing 1 kg of gold and Rs. 90,000 from a jewellery shop at Cheranallore, on Sunday. Jose Lalu of Karingachira, Thripunithura, was arrested from his hideout at Kalamassery. The police also recovered the stolen goods. The accused had been planning to go underground after selling the jewellery. He had served a jail term for burglary and was an accused in a murder case at Thripunithura.
27 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Honour for architect||S. Gopakumar has become the first architect from Kerala to be awarded the Baburao Mhatre Gold Medal for the year 2020, instituted by the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA). His socially-relevant projects include temporary accommodation for Gujarat earthquake victims. He is president of Better Kochi Response Group.
27 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||No respite in Kollam with 74 cases||A total of 74 people from the district, including a health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 59 patients contracted the virus through contact, 10 are from abroad and four others had travelled from Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. The district currently has 8,991 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,527. While 691 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 5,880 primary and 1,705 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The recovery rate of the patients also went up on Sunday with 70 people testing negative. While Anchal reported over 20 cases of local transmission, 960 people entered home quarantine on Sunday. The health worker who tested positive is a 31-year-old Chriyazheekkal resident who has been working in the Chest Diseases Hospital in Pulayanarkotta, Thiruvananthapuram. Legal metrology offices in Kollam and Pathanapuran have been closed after a staff tested positive and they will remain shut till Wednesday to complete disinfecting procedures. With more than 50 LSGs declared as containment zones, the district administration has issued new guidelines to officials concerned for strengthening containment activities. Vulnerable areas In all vulnerable areas groups of 10 to 15 houses will be formed and ward-level committees will ensure that all directions of the authorities are followed. Contact between the groups will be avoided and those coming in the same group will maintain physical distancing. At present Kollam has all wards of 32 LSGs in critical containment zone category while 15 wards in Punalur municipality and 6 wards in Kollam Corporation have been declared containment zones. In containment zones only half the shops will be allowed to function on a day and the license of the business outlets that violate the COVID-19 protocol will be cancelled, said the District Collector. Shops have been instructed to utilise the mobile app developed by district administration for hassle-free home delivery of essentials. Microfinance institutions will not be allowed to collect money and door-to-door sales is also banned. While marine fishing is banned the district, inland fishing and sales through licensed fish stalls will be allowed. Seafood exporting plants and processing units in the district can bring consignments from other places with required documents and Matysfed is allowed to sell fish from other places. Vehicle movement There will be restriction on private vehicle movement as odd and even number vehicles will be allowed to ply in the district only on alternate days. All the new restrictions will come into effect from 6 a.m. on Monday.
27 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||54 positive cases in Kottayam||As many as 54 persons tested positive for SARS- CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 413. Of the fresh cases, 41 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while 12 persons came from other States. One patient had landed from abroad. 38 recoveries At the same time, 38 people, including a person who had been undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College in Ernakulam, recovered from the disease. With 11 cases, the Kottayam municipality recorded the highest number of local transmission cases while Kumarakom reported four cases. Thrikkodithanam and Panachikkad villages reported three cases each whereas Athirampuzha, Aymanom, Ettumanur, Neendoor, Thalayazham, and the Vaikom municipality reported two cases each. Among the people who contracted the virus through local transmission included the wife, daughter, and parents of a patient from Kumarakom. Two persons from a family at Thengana and a 70-year-old man and his wife, who were among the primary contact list of a patient from Changanassery, too tested positive. The patients who returned from other States included five members of a family from TV Puram, who reached from Bengaluru by road on July 14. Meanwhile, the District Collector here on Sunday declared five more wards across four local bodies as containment zones. The district currently has 41 wards in 18 local bodies as containment zones.
27 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kuravilangad stays fit with online yoga sessions||For the people of Kuravilangad, there has never been a better time to roll out their yoga mat and take a deep breath. As Kottayam finds itself in the middle of a COVID-19 community spread, people residing in the village here are now discovering from the comforts of their home the combination of breathing and stretching exercises to stay fit . Thanks to Yogayanam, a unique project initiated by the Kuravilangad panchayat in association with the government Ayush wellness centre here. Live-streaming The training classes, divided into eleven video sessions, are being live-streamed by the local body through its official youtube channel. From its humble beginning as an alternative to the live yoga classes at the wellness centre, the initiative is fast catching up with 375 out of the 3,900-odd households in the local body joining for the sessions in the first week itself. The classes, live-streamed at 4 p.m everyday, are led by Sumi Sreekantan and Ranjana P.R, respectively the Medical Officer and Yoga demonstrator of the wellness centre here. Those attending the sessions are required to practise these exercises the next day morning. Commenting on the project, P.C.Kurian, president of the local body, said life had hit a pause in the village since the lockdown and with the influx of NRI families. “At one point, the number of households in quarantine within the panchayat went as high as 146. Starved of public contact, people had been spending an abundance of time in front of screens and this was when we decided to introduce yoga as a remedy for stiffness and calming their minds,” he said. The programme, according to him, has been immensely helpful for the women and elderly, besides the people in quarantine. Key attractions “The element of convenience offered by such video sessions has been one of the key attractions of this project. With more and more people expressing interest to join the classes, we plan to follow up the initial session with more training classes till the public life returns to normalcy,” added Mr.Kurien.
27 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two deaths, 57 fresh cases in Kozhikode||A 53-year-old woman from near Civil Station, who died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and a 53-year-old man from Kayakkodi, who died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, Ernakulam, on Saturday, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Fifty-seven fresh COVID-19 cases were reported too. The deceased woman’s mother, hailing from Karaparamba in Kozhikode city, had earlier succumbed to the infection and tested positive for the virus later. Her samples were collected after a girl in their family was confirmed to have contracted the infection. Meanwhile, 43 of the new cases are through local transmission and the source of infection of five others is not known. Six have come from abroad and three from other States. Twenty two cases of local transmission are from within the Kozhikode corporation limits, five from Vadakara, nine from Chekkiad, three from Eramala, and one each from Azhiyoor, Chorod, Kakkodi and Onchiyam. Newly infected persons without a source of infection are from Beypore, Kadalundi, Omassery, Maruthonkara, and Kozhikode corporation, said a release. In Kasaragod Of the 107 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Sunday, 104 contracted the disease through local transmission. Those infected were residents of Uduma, Chemmanad, Manjeswaram, Vorkady, Kumbala, West Eleri, Thrikkarippur, Mugral Puthur, Mangalpady, Valiya Paramba, Badiaduka, Bellur, Kasargod municipality, Pullur Periya, Chengala, Neeleswaram and Karaduka. A total of 4,386 persons are under observation in the district.       In Thrissur COVID-19 pandemic claimed one more life, 71-year-old Varghese Pallan of Irinjalakuda, in Thrissur district, where 41 fresh cases were reported on Sunday. Currently, 395 persons are undergoing treatment in the district. Of the 41 cases reported on Sunday, 25 were infected through local transmission. In all, 13,934 persons are under observation. The District Collector declared Mala grama panchayat and seven other wards as containment zones. Wards 1, 9 and 16 of Kadukutty grama panchayat; wards 2,3 and 4 of Varavur grama panchayat; and ward 5 of Puthenchira grama panchayat are the new containment zones. In Kannur Forty-seven persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Kannur. Of them, 26 persons were infected through local transmission. Those who were infected through contact were residents of Payyannur, Karivellur, Koodali, Taliparamba Pushpagiri, Anthoor Nanicherry, Meruvambai, Kunnothparambu, Panniyannur, Vayanthodu, Mattannur, Chirakkal, Panunda, Pallipuram, Azhikal, Cherupuzha, Pinarayi, Kottayam Malabar and Dharmadam. A native of Uttar Pradesh, who lives in Kannur city, also got infected through local transmission. In Wayanad Twenty-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Fifteen of them contracted the infection through local transmission, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. In Palakkad Forty-two persons tested positive for the virus in Palakkad. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said that 15 cases were identified through antigen tests conducted in and around Pattambi.  In Malappuram Fifty-six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Sunday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 33 of them had contracted the virus through local transmission. But the source of infection for 23 could not be traced.   (With inputs from Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, Wayanad, and Malappuram bureaus)
27 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||QRTs on high alert in containment zones||Quick Response Teams (QRTs) mostly comprising senior Revenue Department officials and the police are maintaining high vigil in areas that have been declared as containment zones to prevent the chances of community spread of COVID-19. As of now, there are about 20 such high-risk zones within the limits of Kozhikode, Koyilandy, Vadakara and Thamarassery taluks. The special squads, which function with the support of health workers and local body members, will be responsible for the grassroots-level exchange of information on newly suspected cases with the higher authorities. They will also ensure compliance with COVID-19 protocol in such areas. Village officers are primarily responsible for coordinating the activities of QRTs. They will have the freedom to adopt appropriate crowd controlling measures with the support of the police. Permission has also been given to use a public address system for crowd controlling measures and to pass emergency information. Biggest challenge Revenue Department officials part of the special squads say the biggest challenge for them is to ensure the proper quarantining of primary contacts as the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases is steadily on the increase. The support of ward-level squads comprising Accredited Social Health Activists and Junior Public Health Nurses is also crucial, they add. With the full-fledged functioning of panchayat-level first-line treatment centres, the quick response teams will have bigger responsibilities to ensure their safe operations. According to Health Department officials, squad members will also be playing a crucial role in mobilising required materials and services for the centres.
27 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||People told to avoid funerals, weddings||A complete lockdown was observed for the second consecutive Sunday in Kozhikode district while the authorities urged people to avoid attending funerals and wedding events in view of a rapid rise in COVID-19 cases through local transmission of the infection. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao in a Facebook post pointed out that the laxity on the part of certain people had led to the spike in cases through local transmission. “Recently, 36 people who attended a wedding event tested positive for the virus. Those who participated in another funeral event too were found to have contracted the infection,” he said. The violation of government restrictions on weddings, funerals and events to felicitate people was leading to the spread of the infection, Mr. Rao claimed. Meanwhile, a new first-line treatment centre is being set up by the Payyoli municipality at the Sargalaya Training Centre at Iringal. In the initial phase, 70 beds would be set up there and gradually another 30 beds would be added, the authorities said. The administration is gearing up to face the possibility of 3,000 to 4,000 cases being reported from the district by August-end. Efforts are on to offer treatment for at least 2,000 active cases at a time. At a review meeting held here recently, officials claimed that there were 11 clusters in Kozhikode, with Thooneri being the largest one. Kolathara and Vellayil have been removed from the list and Chekkiad, Olavanna, and Puthuppady have been added to it. The others are Vanimel, Vadakara, Villiappilly, Meenchanda, Eramala, Nadapuram and Kallayi.
27 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man who fled from mental health centre in custody||The Kozhikode City police on Sunday took into custody one more person who had recently escaped from the Government Mental Health Centre here. The man who allegedly attempted to escape using a stolen motorbike was detained during a vehicle checking by the patrol squad near NGO Quarters. According to the police, the escapee was a remand prisoner and had been undergoing treatment at the Mental Health Centre.
27 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Laid-off workers seek cut in house rent||Laid-off labourers in the unorganised sector have sought the immediate intervention of the State government to bring down house rents. The Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union (AMTU), in a letter to the Chief Minister, pointed out that 90% of labourers had lost their jobs due to the COVID-19 crisis, as most establishments had reduced staff strength. Most labourers live in rented houses and are now unable to pay rent. “Some have been evicted by their landlords, while others are bring threatened with eviction,” said AMTU State secretary P. Viji.
27 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Adivasi leader killed in elephant attack||An Adivasi leader was killed in elephant attack in the Attappady forest on Saturday evening. The body of Chinna Nanjan, 70, was found in the forest on Sunday morning. He was the tribal leader of the Vannanthara hamlet. The attack took place in the Agali range of the Mannarkkad Forest Division. Nanjan had gone into the forest to fetch his goats after rearing. His body was found with multiple injuries. An elephant was also found around 100 metres away from the body. The body was shifted to the district hospital.
27 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Spike in cases in Pathanamthitta||The district witnessed the highest ever spike in the number of new SARS-CoV-2 cases, with a total of 91 people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Two police personnel, a health worker and a KSRTC employee are among the newly infected persons, according to an official bulletin released here in the evening. With this, the total number of COVID Cases in the district has gone up to 1,124 on Sunday, 420 of them getting the disease through contacts. The source of five new COVID cases remains unknown. However, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has been put at 358 on Sunday. Of this, 349 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district while nine others have been admitted to hospitals outside the district, says the bulletin. Under observation As many as 376 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those having symptoms of viral infection, have been placed under observation at isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. As per the bulletin, 160 persons have been admitted to Pathanamthitta General Hospital, 62 people at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, four persons at the General Hospital at Adoor, 35 persons at the COVID firstline treatment centre (CFLTC) at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, 23 persons at the CFLTC at Archana Hospital in Pandalam, 39 at CFLTC at Muthoot Nursing College in Kozhencherry, one person each at Pathanamthitta Muthoot Hospital and the Believers Church Medical College Hospital in Thiruvalla, 38 persons at Holy Spirit Convent in Thiruvalla and 13 others at various private hospitals in the district. The primary contacts of COVID patients who have been tested positive for the virus infection on Sunday included people from Pazhakulam, Ranni-Pazhavangady, Kuttappuzha, Chathamala, Kottangal, Peringara, Thiruvalla, Niranom, Thelliyur, Pulikeezhu, Parumala, Vadasserikkara, Kummannoor, Naranganam, Kodumon. In quarantine A total of 6,023 people, 3,240 of them contacts of the already infected persons, have been placed in quarantine in different parts of the district as on Sunday. A 74-year-old patient who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 the other day succumbed to the ailment at a private hospital in Thiruvalla Sunday night.
27 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Institute that has innovation as its hallmark||The State’s first private self-financing professional college, Mar Athanasios College For Advanced Studies Thiruvalla (MACFAST), at Thukalasserry near Thiruvalla, is all set to spread its wings further and take students to the azure horizon of the corporates, exposing them to greater employment and research opportunities, soon. Talking to The Hindu , Principal Cherian J.Kottayil, said that MACFAST would be introducing a unique ‘corporate badging’ scheme in association with leading companies which could identify talented students with right kind of aptitude, interest and passion that suited well to the requirements of the industry concerned. Under this programme, students will be provided with a ‘corporate badge’ by companies that have selected them, acknowledging their aptitude and domain knowledge. Those who were ‘badged’ would virtually be part of that company which, in turn, would give them live projects and internships, Fr. Kottayil said. According to him, many recent surveys indicate that a large per cent of graduates in India are unemployable. India Skills Report, 2019-’20, says that only about 46.21 per cent students in the country were found employable, compared with that of 47.38 per cent in 2018. In yet another historic achievement, MACFAST bagged eight out of the first 10 ranks in both the MBA and MCA examinations conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi University, this year. Innovation has always been the hallmark of MACFAST that had launched the State’s first campus-based community radio service, ‘Radio Macfast-90.4,’ 10 years ago and the popular ‘Green and Clean City’ project in 2010. Solar-powered campus MACFAST became State’s first solar-powered campus in 2011. The 130 kw solar power plant installed on the rooftop comfortably meets the annual power demand of the entire campus. “The innovative campus-based solar power plant was MACFAST’s answer to our demand for Green Energy,” says Metropolitan Archbishop of the Syro Malankara Catholic Church, Thomas Mar Koorilos, who is the patron and driving spirit of the institution. The college offers nine key post-graduate courses, that include rare subjects of Phyto Medical Science and Bio Nanotechnology. Fr. Cherian said the college always stressed the importance of academia-industry collaboration. “Education sector is sure to witness tremendous changes in the post-COVID scenario and institutions can survive only if they keep abreast of the latest developments taking place in their respective domain,” he says.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Respite for capital as cases drop to 175||The district witnessed a dip in daily COVID-19 cases as 175 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, significantly lower than the previous day’s caseload of 240. As many as 164 people contracted the infection through local transmission. Eight health workers are among those who were diagnosed with the disease. The source of infection in eight cases are unknown. Three imported cases have also found place in the official figures. With 51 COVID-19 patients recovering from the illness, the number of people who were treated in the district stood at 2,788. While more people were diagnosed with the disease in the coastal areas, cases continued to mount in the rural areas of the district, particularly the southern region that borders Tamil Nadu and eastern parts including forest areas that form the tail end of the Western Ghats. The district’s tribal settlements accounted for a COVID-19 case probably for the first time. A 15-year old boy, who hails from the Pankavu settlement in Kottoor, has tested positive for the infection, the source of which remains unknown. Among those who have gone into quarantine is the president of the Kuttichal grama panchayat, who is a close relative of the patient and resides close by. An official says the roads leading to the settlement have been barricaded. From Parassala On the other hand, more cases were reported from Parassala and nearby areas. They included a grade sub-inspector attached to the Parassala police station. Having displayed no symptoms, the Mavilakadu native turned up for work on the day, but was hospitalised soon after his test returned positive. The district administration declared new containment zones in Kattakada and Ponnara wards in Kattakada grama panchayat; Kunnacodu and Kulangarakonam wards in Pallichal grama panchayat; Kochottukonam and Mariapuram wards in Chenkal grama panchayat; Kuttiyani ward in Vembayam grama panchayat; and Mudiyottukonam ward in Karavaram grama panchayat. The authorities have also decided to intensify testing in the critical containment zone. Mobile testing units will be deployed in the zone 1 from Edava to Perumathura. The decision was taken at a meeting led by incident commanders U.V. Jose and S. Harikishore. Three of the existing 10 ambulances stationed in the region will be utilised for the purpose. Symptomatic people, primary contacts of COVID-19 patients, and other quarantined will be tested. Meanwhile, tension prevailed in Pulimath grama panchayat late Saturday after a minor fire broke out in an institutional quarantine centre that housed seven people. However, no casualties were reported. Short circuit Fire broke out in a room in the Government Higher Secondary School in Koduvazhanoor, near Pulimath, by around 11.30 p.m. due to a suspected short circuit. The belongings of a woman who was accommodated in the room was charred. Fire was doused after a team from the Attingal fire station was pressed into action.  Eight health workers are among those who were diagnosed with the disease and source of infection in eight cases are unknown
27 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two deaths, 927 cases in State||The State on Sunday added another 927 new cases to its COVID-19 tally. With 689 recoveries, the total case burden now stands at 19,025 cases. With two more deaths reported from Malappuram and Thrissur, the number of deaths has risen to 61. The proportion of locally acquired infections continues to remain high with 760 out of the 927 new cases being reported from the community, with no epidemiological link found for 67 cases. With several hospitals becoming disease transmission hubs, the number of health-care workers affected on Sunday was 16. With 9,300 recoveries so far, the number of active cases is 9,655. 175 cases in capital Thiruvananthapuram continues to be the district with the highest number of cases, registering 175 cases, of which 172 are locally acquired infections. This includes eight health-care workers too. The district also has the highest number of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals with 2,788 cases The proportion of locally acquired infection remained high in other districts also with 105 out of 107 cases reported in Kasaragod; 54 of 91 in Pathanamthitta; 60 out of 74 in Kollam; and 60 of 61 cases in Ernakulam being cases of locally occurring infections. The cases reported in other districts are Kozhikode (57), Malappuram (56), Kottayam (54), Idukki (48), Kannur (47), Alappuzha (46), Palakkad (42), Thrissur (41) and Wayanad (28). The number of persons in quarantine now is 1,56,162, of whom 8,980 with COVID-like symptoms are in hospitals. The number of hospital admissions on Sunday was 1,277. On Sunday, 29 areas were newly designated as hotspots, while 15 were dropped from the list. .
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Homeless given shelter at school||For the second time since the COVID-19 pandemic began, the city Corporation has shifted the homeless, living on the city’s street, to a rehabilitation centre. Eighty four of them were shifted to the Government Central High School in Attakulangara on Sunday morning. Antigen tests were conducted on all of them as soon as they were shifted there. The two who tested positive during the antigen tests were shifted to a COVID First-Line Treatment Centre. The rest of those at the shelter will be lodged at the school at least until the end of the ongoing lockdown in the city. Street dwellers “Some of them were employed as cleaners or helpers at restaurants and other facilities, some are lottery sellers, while others have lived on the streets or bus stands for long. With the restaurants and other establishments remaining closed, they had nowhere else to go and hence were shifted to the rehabilitation centre, which is being managed by the Corporation along with the Social Welfare Department. We are appointing four caretakers to run the centre and to provide food and other necessities. It is a good sign that only two tested positive out of all of them,” said a Corporation official about the shelter. National lockdown Early in April, soon after the nationwide lockdown was declared, the Corporation had similarly rehabilitated 223 people living on the streets in the school. Some of those rehabilitated thus had cleaned up the shrubs on the school campus and set up a garden there, which was lauded as an act of dedication and hard work.  Testing was done on all of them and two were found positive
27 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell completes 1,000 classes||The ‘First Bell’ initiative, rolled out by the government for State school students through its KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) Victers educational channel, has completed 1,000 classes. First Bell was launched by the General Education Department on June 1 as an interim arrangement against the backdrop of State schools remaining closed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is aimed at ensuring that not a single student misses out on classes during these testing times. In Tamil, Kannada As part of the programme, 604 classes have been aired through the KITE Victers channel, along with 274 Kannada medium classes and 163 Tamil medium classes telecast through local cable networks in the State. In addition to the Victers channel viewership, the web-streaming platform of KITE Victers (www.victers.kite.kerala .gov.in) has also seen a tremendous response — as many as 442 terabytes data has been accessed from 141 countries. The monthly views of the YouTube channel (www.youtube.com/ itsvicters) come to 150 million (15 crore). The average daily viewership of classes on YouTube alone is 54 lakh, which translates to a whopping 5 lakh hours a day. Despite limited advertisements, the revenue from it stands at an average of Rs. 15 lakh a month. The classes are also broadcast through Facebook ‘Live’ on the Facebook page of the channelwww.facebook. com/victerseduchannel. Decentralised Owing to the pandemic, several places in the State, including Thiruvananthapuram, have hotspots, leading to restrictions on movement of people and affecting the preparation of classes. To tackle the crisis, KITE has made arrangements for preparation of classes from different districts. “To supplement this decentralised process, KITE has planned for providing support through the more than 2,000 schools where Little KITEs units have been set up,” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE, said in a statement. Augmented reality At present, augmented reality and virtual reality are being used to the extent possible. This will be expanded in due course. The schools will make use of free software applications to develop the classes for airing. Classes on co-curricular activities, including sports, will be ready from August, Mr. Sadath said.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Former students of KTU seek steps to clear backlog||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University’s (KTU) decision to cancel examinations of BTech intermediate semesters brought immense relief to many students though for those of the university’s founding batch (2015-19), the move is disconcerting. The former students of the university have been preparing to appear for the supplementary examinations that are normally held in July. The cancellation of the examinations under the pandemic-induced circumstances has now raised concern among large sections. Thiruvananthapuram native Nithin Jagadeesh fears that he might lose his job if he fails to submit his certificates at the earliest. “Despite having backlogs, I got the job on the condition that I would produce mark lists and degree certificates within a year. We have been counting on the university to conduct the supplementary examinations,” he said. The university’s first batch had seen multiple revisions made to the course regulations. Disorder ensued for a major part of the four-year duration with students agitating against the ‘year-out’ policy that was scrapped midway. “Along with the withdrawal of the year-out system, the university also introduced a reform by which students could attempt supplementary examinations of odd semesters only during the subsequent odd semester. Same applies to even semesters,” says Kannan J.Y., who has been unable to apply for jobs as he is yet to clear a sixth-semester subject. He said the situation worsened after the 2018 floods disrupted the academic calendar, prompting the university to draw out a crammed examination schedule. At times, students with arrears were forced to select from among a regular examination and two supplementary ones, all of which were held on the same day. In September KTU authorities clarified that the cancellation applied to only those students whose teaching-learning process were hampered by the pandemic. A senior official said that they were considering the idea of conducting supplementary examinations in the pen-and-paper format by September, if not earlier. Besides, the odd-even norm for supplementary examinations could also be exempted for once.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reverse quarantine centre opened at Vallakkadavu||‘Pariraksha Kendram’, a model reverse quarantine centre, has been opened at Vallakadavu, which is in the COVID-19 critical containment zone in coastal Thiruvananthapuram. Opened in a building earmarked as a Siddha Hospital, the centre is meant to benefit the elderly and people with other ailments. The district administration has joined hands with the Health Department and the National Health Mission (NHM) to establish the model centre that can accommodate 30 people. Senior citizens from the coastal areas who tested negative for COVID-19 and who lack reverse quarantining facilities in their homes and also those who live alone will be shifted to the centre, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja says. Those who have tested positive will be transferred to COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC). Placing the elderly and people with ailments in reverse quarantine will significantly help to reduce the death toll due to COVID-19, Ms. Shylaja says. The ‘Pariraksha Kendram’ is intended to be a model for reverse quarantine facilities. The department has ensured round-the-clock availability of nurses and doctors. Ambulances too will be provided if needed. In addition to medicines and food, each occupant is also handed a kit containing clothes, plate, glass, footwear, soap, tooth brush, and tooth paste. The centre also has a television set, the Minister adds.
27 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Debate over home care for asymptomatics||When the burgeoning case burden of COVID-19 is threatening to bring the State’s robust health system to its knees, the decision whether the State should let the asymptomatic cases heal at home and not choke the health system, has become a dilemma of sorts. Community transmission of COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram and the formation of large community clusters in other parts of the State have seen hospitals filling to capacity and the government struggling to set up more and more COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC) to manage mild/asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. The projections for the State predict a scenario wherein within a few weeks there could be at least 75,000 people at a time filling the State’s hospitals. With 80-85% of COVID-19 patients in the FLTCs being asymptomatic, the State Medical Board and the experts’ committee headed by Dr. Ekbal had recommended that this category of patients may remain in home isolation, with regular monitoring by the field health staff. With limited facilities and resources, the numbers are already becoming unmanageable. For the government, which has already begun to feel the heat over its COVID-19 strategy coming undone, taking a decision to keep these patients in home isolation has now become a touchy affair. Change of strategy “So far it is our strategy of early hospital admission and treatment of all symptomatic cases and addressing any incremental issues early to prevent secondary organ damage, which has helped us keep the mortality down. Happy hypoxia, a rare state wherein the patients remain unaware of the drop in oxygen saturation in the body only to suddenly collapse and die, has been a characteristic feature of COVID-19 world over. As happy hypoxia can be totally unpredictable, sending the asymptomatic patients home could be a decision which invites political backlash, the government fears,” a senior Health official said. Analysing the data of over 18,000 COVID-19 patients the State has already treated to find out the proportion of asymptomatics, what proportion of them develops symptoms later on and how many of them develop hypoxia and when would help the government take a rational decision on the care of asymptomatic patients. “If we send all the asymptomatic cases home, with the instruction that they get in touch with the health system if they develop any symptoms, we are pinning the entire responsibility of that decision on them. This could be dangerous as people are likely to dismiss symptoms like fatigue or diarrhoea and find excuses not to go to a hospital,” a public health expert said. Support needed The authorities will have to draw on the State’s social capital and enable systems in each locality such as ‘ayalkoottams’ to support over each other, and arrange for Pulse Oximeters/mobile apps to monitor oxygen levels and a vehicle with oxygen in each locality for accessing emergency care, if they decide to send asymptomatic patients to home care.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Opposition creating smokescreen: Kodiyeri||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said that the people will identify the ‘smokescreen’ being created by the Congress and the BJP against the LDF-led government by continuously raising false allegations. The people of Kerala would identify the move against the government and defeat it, Mr. Balakrishnan said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran were spreading baseless allegations at the same time. The Congress and the BJP had worked in unison to topple the LDF government in the State earlier too, Mr. Balakrishnan said. In 1991, the Congres-BJP-IUML combine had worked to prevent the LDF from coming to power. The CPI(M) State secretary said former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy should not forget the open electoral alliance in the Vadakara Lok Sabha constituency and Beypore Assembly constituency. Mr. Chennithala had not been able to prove even one of the allegations raised against the LDF government, he said.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Step up testing in coastal areas: forum||The Coastal Students Cultural Forum has urged the district administration to step up COVID-19 testing in the coastal areas of Kottukal, Karumkulam, Poovar, and Kulathur panchayats which are in the critical containment zone. The test results should be expedited too, the forum said in a memorandum to District Collector Navjot Khosa. It urged the administration to transfer pregnant women and the elderly to quarantine centres in their own localities. The forum requested the services of a psychologist and adequate food supply. Services of Horticorp and Triveni mobile outlets should be extended to the areas.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SFI flays autonomy for engg. colleges||The Students Federation of India (SFI) has condemned the conferment of autonomous status to three self-financing engineering colleges in the State. It has also voiced its opposition towards the reported move to grant autonomy to 12 aided colleges. In a statement, SFI office-bearers demanded that the LDF government clarify its stance on the issue.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Extend validity of PSC lists: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged the State government to extend the validity of all PSC rank lists which expire on July 30. The validity of several rank lists expires on this date. Although the State government extended the validity of the lists on two occasions, appointments could not be made due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In March and April, a large number of government employees retired. The government has not filled these vacancies. This being the situation, the government should extend the validity of the lists and ensure speedy appointments, he said.
27 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online interview for MBA admission||The Kerala Institute of Cooperative Management is conducting an online interview from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on July 29 for admission to the MBA (full time) course 2020-22. Students who have appeared for the KMAT exam and those who have qualified in the CMAT/ CAT can appear for the interview on the linkhttps://meet.google.com/xjw-iqga-unq. For details, call: 85476 18290.
27 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Allow restaurants, shops to function: KVVES||The State government should allow shops and establishments, including restaurants, to function, the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) has said. Indefinitely keeping them shut in the name of COVID-19 would push entrepreneurs and investors into further hardship. Many cities across the globe had revised such policies, KVVES State secretary S.S. Manoj said in a statement.
27 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID-19 deaths on the rise in districts||One more patient succumbed to COVID-19 in Thrissur on Sunday. This is the seventh COVID-19 death in the district. Varghese Pallan, 71, of Irinjalakuda was undergoing treatment at Thrissur Medical College Hospital. He was admitted with COVID-19 symptoms at the hospital on July 17. He was shifted to the ICU when his condition worsened. According to hospital sources, Varghese was a diabetic and had high blood pressure. He had undergone an angioplasty surgery two years ago. As he developed difficulty in breathing, he was put on ventilator support on July 24. However, his condition deteriorated and he succumbed to the disease on Sunday. His body will be buried by maintaining the COVID protocol once permission is received from the district administration, according to the Principal of the Thrissur government medical college. His wife and son are also undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the hospital. In Kasaragod A 70-year-old COVID-19 patient, who is a resident of Arikadi in Kumbala panchayat, died at Kannur Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday. According to the Health Department, the deceased was suffering from kidney and heart ailments and diabetes. He had also been diagnosed with pneumonia and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, where he was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He was shifted to the Kannur medical college hospital after his condition deteriorated. The district has reported five COVID-19 deaths so far. In Malappuram A 71-year-old man from Tirurangadi died of COVID-19 on Sunday. His source of coronavirus infection could not be traced, said district health officials. He was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri with acute pneumonia on July 18. He was tested positive on July 19. He had suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), blood pressure and diabetic issues. He was given plasma therapy, Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections as per the directive of the State Medical Board. Although he showed signs of improvement, he developed septicemia on Thursday, and died on Sunday morning.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting up a school at home for differently abled kids||A training programme for differently abled children who are homebound in the wake of the COVID-19 situation has been launched under the Community Disability Management and Rehabilitation Programme (CMDRP) of the Women and Child Development Department and the University of Calicut’s Department of Psychology. ‘Veettil oru vidyalayam’ (a school at home) will include distribution of equipment that will aid training of differnently abled children in their homes, training guidelines for parents, tele-rehabilitation, and online training programme. Free teaching learning material will be provided to the children to facilitate their learning activities and therapeutic interventions. This will be done through the CMDRP with the support of the Secunderabad-based National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities. The teaching-learning material kits will be given to 1,300 children in the first phase. Four types of kits have been designed taking into consideration the children’s age and challenges faced by them. Each kit has 22 equipments. Language development, play, concentration, communication and social skills will be benefited with the use of these kits.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A problem on hand||
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sailing through||
27 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many lapses in COVID care facilities: BJP||The people being discharged from the COVID Care Centres and hospitals were not being provided with transport facility and in some cases the stipulated Rs. 2,000, alleged Bharatiya Janata Party district general secretary Duddakunta Venkateswara Reddy here on Sunday. The number of cases was increasing by the day in the district and patients were being brought even from far off places to Anantapur city by ambulances, but at the time of discharge the same care was not being taken and they were being made to wait outside the hospital for several hours, he alleged. There were clear guidelines for payment of Rs. 2,000 to each discharged patient which were not being followed, he said. With none to escort them back home people were finding it difficult to go home taking autorickshaws and buses at own cost after getting discharged, he said. ‘Food not being served’ “The BJP demands decentralisation of COVID Care Centres and triage of patients instead of making patients travel more than 100 km. More COVID Care Centres should be opened and phone numbers of the nodal officers made public,” he said. Quarantine centres and COVID Care Centres were lacking in facilities, he said, and alleged that in Narayana and PVKK COVID Cares centres, food was not being served to some patients. There was a lack of coordination between the Revenue and Health Department officials in the district, which should be corrected. All private hospitals must be opened immediately and even non-COVID cases entertained there. Action should be initiated against the non-compliant nursing home owners/doctors, Mr. Venkateswara Reddy said.
27 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO chief conferred honorary doctorate||Spain-based University of Girona awarded an honorary doctorate to Anantapur-based NGO Rural Development Trust(1969) co-founder and executive director Anne Ferrer. Since its inception, the university had awarded the recognition to 29 people. The university board recognised Anne Ferrer’s commitment to working with disadvantaged communities with focus on gender equality. The citation read “Anna Ferrer is not only an example of vital dedication to the improvement of living conditions of the most vulnerable people, but also has played a crucial role in highlighting the role of women who have contributed to construction of a fairer, humane and more responsible world”. Ms. Anne Ferrer is one among three women to have been conferred with the award so far.
27 July 2020||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur wakes up to undeclared lockdown as cases rise unabated||People in Anantapur were in for a shock on Sunday morning as the district administration and police personnel imposed an unannouced curfew in the city with all the shops closed and all the main thoroughfares deserted. Unlike during the usual ‘announced’ lockdowns when shops are given a time slot(6 a.m. to 11 a.m.) to run their businesses, on Sunday none of the shops were opened and those who had planned to get some essential groceries had to either order online or had to wait. Many people had to run from one shop to another even to get milk packets. Municipal Corporation vans, however, announced in different localities that the entire city was declared as a containment zone and none should venture out unless it was unavoidable. On Sunday, Anantapur district registered 734 cases after testing 4,000 samples pushing up its tally to 9,723. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said 15 more COVID Care Centres would be operationalised as the number of positive cases was likely to increase with the increase in testing capacity. “We wish to test 8,000 samples a day from Monday against the current 4,000. Samples were being collected from various locations 13 IMASQ and Sanjeevini vehicles throughout the district,” he added. While 4,714 active cases were being treated, 4,926 patients had been discharged with 83 deaths till Sunday. Kurnool tally Meanwhile, Kurnool district on Sunday crossed the 10,000-mark with 1,213 new cases getting reported and cumulative total going up to 11,570. Out of the total cases, 5,373 were active and 6,035 have been discharged so far.
27 July 2020||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Diviseema region reports 500 snakebite cases in a month||With the farm operations picking up owing to rain and flood water being released into canals, many snakebite cases are being reported in the villages along the bunds of Krishna River. According to the officials, the hospitals in Avanigadda are receiving more than 20 snakebite cases on a daily basis. However, no death has been reported so far. “A majority of the victims are farmers and agricultural labourers. Many cases are also being reported from the small hamlets and island villages,” say farmers. Anti-venom supply Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that anti-venoms have been supplied to Avanigadda Community Health Centre (CHC), District Headquarters Hospital at Machilipatnam and Government General Hospital in Vijayawada and all Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district. “We have kept adequate anti-venom doses ready. People need to shift the snakebite victims to the nearby hospitals immediately,” said District Medical and Health Officer I. Ramesh. Many poisonous snakes, scorpions, centipedes and venomous bugs are venturing out of burrows in the fields and canal bunds. The Villagers say that snakes such as cobras and vipers get washed away in the flood waters to the habitations from forest areas. ‘More cases this year’ “On an average, 600 snakebite cases are reported in the region during the rainy season. However, the number is high this year,” says Avanigadda CHC Superintendent Parada Krishna Dora. Many snakebite cases are being reported in the villages in Yerurumondi, Mopidevi, Mandapakala, Nagayalanka, Ghantasala, Challapalli, Koduru and Movva mandals. “All snakes are not dangerous. We are requesting the villagers not to approach quacks and shift the victims to the nearby hospitals,” says Dr. Krishna Dora.  Speed is key He explains that cobras and viper species are the deadliest. Scorpions and centipede stings can also be dangerous. The victims should be rushed to a hospital in 10 to 15 minutes, the Superintendent says. “To catch the rats and other prey, snakes are slithering into fields and farm hands busy in sowing operations suffer snakebites,” says Saikam Prasad, a villager. A farmer, K. Ramakrishna says snakes are slithering into houses, thus creating panic among the villagers.
27 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus remedies galore on social media||The alarming increase in cases and the talk of community spread have created a scare among the general public. Social media messages advocating the benefits of certain drugs to cure or even prevent COVID-19, are creating utter chaos in the minds of the citizens. The daily routine for many citizens on waking up from bed is to check social media messages on their mobile phones. Short videos, mostly of young men and women, claiming to be doctors, and sometimes as users of certain drugs and alternative remedies, wax eloquent on the particular products or remedies and convince their clients to use them. Scores of such videos are circulating on social media groups and even before a person can try out one suggestion, several others are surfacing. Some people are said to be trying out multiple therapies, while others are at a loss to understand, which one to try out. The capability of the ‘young doctors’ or the credibility of the claims is debatable. While common home remedies and natural products are generally safe, one cannot be sure about their efficacy in tackling COVID-19. The allopathic drugs, being prescribed to counter the virus, should also be taken with a pinch of salt. It is not advisable to take drugs except under medical supervision as some of the drugs may cause damage to vital organs in those with other ailments, say medical experts. New drugs “All the new drugs are ‘off labelled’ and are given under trial therapy. They should be used under the supervision of doctors,” K. Rambabu, vice chairman of the Association of Physicians of India and Professor of Medicine, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu . The new drugs are: Favipiravir 200 mg 9 tablets and 9 tablets in the evening on day one and from the next day onwards 8 tablets a day for 14 days. These drugs are nephrotoxic and hepatotoxic and kidney and liver problems would be elevated so this drugs should be used under the supervision of doctors. This drug works in mild cases of COVID-19. The cost of each strip is Rs. 3,600. Similarly, Remdesivir (injection) can be used for mild and severe cases by varying the dosage and monitoring the liver carefully. The cost of each injection is Rs. 3,800. Tocilizumab injection cost varies between Rs. 32,000 and Rs. 40,000 for one vial and should be given in selective cases. “Plasma therapy has limitations like compatibility of blood and antibody titer. In spite of all this, the chances of side effects may be more,” add Dr. Rambabu.
27 July 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand-written banner against Maoists surfaces in Chintoor agency||A banner questioning the ideology of the Left Wing Extremist (LWE) groups appeared on Chintoor-Sarive road in Chintoor agency of East Godavari district on Sunday morning. It was tied to a roadside tree close to a group of three hamlets affected by the LWE activities – Tullama, Sarive and Boddugudem. The Chittoor agency shares border with Chhattisgarh. The banner, in the name of Adivasi Girijana Sangham (AGS), has many questions written on it for the Maoists: “Why do you celebrate the Martyrs’ Week? At a time when the government is building schools in the agency, the Maoists are instigating minors to join them in the Naxal movement.” The Maoists are gearing up to celebrate the martyrs’ week from July 28. The banner further said that the Maoists had targeted minor and innocent tribals, recruiting them for the movement in which they required to dedicate their entire life to the forest. The AGS questioned the Maoists whether they were for the development of tribals or against it. However, no names of the AGS members were mentioned on the banner. At least four Maoists belonging to the Guttikoya tribe have surrendered to the East Godavari police since March, who were minors when they had joined the LWE groups. All of them belong to the East Godavari agency.
27 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sonu Sood sends a tractor to Madanapalle farmer||Actor Sonu Sood has done it again. He tweeted on Sunday that he would be sending a tractor to a farmer from Mahalrajuvari Palle in KV Palle mandal. The actor tweeted in response to a clip showing a farmer and his wife sowing groundnut seeds, while his teenage daughters tilling the land by carrying the yoke on their shoulders. Within hours of the actor’s tweets, the Sonalika Tractors Agency at Madanapalle delivered the vehicle at the doorstep of the farmer. The family members thanked Mr. Sood for the gesture. According to information, V. Nageswara Rao, who was running a tea stall in Madanapalle town before the outbreak of COVID-19, came to his native village of Mahalrajuvari Palle. Several media reports claimed that the family returned to the village in view of the pandemic. Mr. Rao’s aging parents live in the village and own a small piece of land. He reportedly decided to cultivate groundnut crop. Mr. Rao told the media that he could manage the tilling of land with the help of his wife and daughters. His daughters said that the family had been living in Madanapalle for nearly two decades, and that they had come to the village a month ago. With not much time left for mechanised ploughing, they decided to do it by themselves. However, the video went viral and Mr. Sood, after watching the video, promised the family a tractor. Meanwhile, the actor’s tweet caught the attention of the officials in Amaravati. On Sunday, Mr. Sood posted two tweets. The first one said: “By tomorrow morning, he (farmer) will have a pair of ox to plough the fields. Let the girls focus on their education.” In another tweet, the actor said: “The family doesn’t deserve a pair of ox. They deserve a tractor. So sending you one. By evening, a tractor will be ploughing your fields. Stay blessed.” KV Palle MPDO S. Manohar Raju, however, said after being alerted by the officials at the Secretariat, he verified the facts. A voluntary act: MPDO “The media reports that the family could not afford to engage oxen or a tractor to plough the field are false. The family voluntarily did it. The family wanted to have the experience as a sweet memory,” he said, adding that the family came to their village for a temporary stay. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu appreciated Mr. Sood for his gesture.
27 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two boys drown in farm well||Two seven-year-old boys drowned after they were caught in the slush in a farm well at Kapatlabanda village in V.Kota mandal, about 100 km from the district headquarters, on Sunday. Three boys from Kapatlabanda village went to the well brimming with rain water on an agriculture land for a swim. Two of them—identified as Kiran and Manjunath—dived into the well, while another was standing on the edge. With Kiran and Manjunath not surfacing after several minutes, the boy standing on the edge of the well called out for help. Some farmers working nearby fished out the bodies. The villagers reportedly cremated the bodies without informing the police, fearing that post-mortem to the bodies amid the COVID-19 pandemic would result in spread infection in the area.
27 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASI, 4 others held in liquor smuggling case||Police arrested Jeelugumilli Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Police Srinivas Rao and four other persons, who were allegedly smuggling Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from Telangana . Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik on Sunday said the police seized 4,275 liquor bottles on AP-Telangana borders on July 23, under Jeelugumilli police station limits and registered a case. During investigation, it was revealed that the ASI along with Ramesh, Rama Rao, Prasad and Radhakrishna of Telangana State, were illegally transporting liquor and were supplying stocks to some belt shops in AP. Further investigation is under progress, said Special Enforcement Bureau ASP Kareemulla Sheriff.
27 July 2020||GUNTUR/MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP promises all help to infected personnel||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said that the department would provide anti-viral drugs and the best possible healthcare services to the personnel who have been tested positive for coronavirus. Inspector General of Police J. Prabhakara Rao, along with Guntur Urban SP R.N Ammireddy and Guntur Rural SP Vishal Gunni, interacted with the police personnel and their families members through video link on Sunday. Mr. Prabhakara Rao said the police were among the frontline soldiers who had been in line of duty in fighting the COVID-19 and assured all help to the personnel and their families. “There are 477 police men and women in the range who have contracted the infection, out whom 229 are in home quarantine, while 246 police personnel have been recovered,’’ said Mr. Prabhakara Rao.  Meanwhile, Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu advised the policemen who have been tested positive to practise yoga for speedy recovery. The SP also spoke with the policemen who are under home isolation and those undergoing treatment in the hospitals through video link.  Nutritious diet “All the police officers and staff who have been infected are recovering fast,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. He enquired about the healthcare services being extended to the personnel undergoing treatment. “Nutritious diet is being supplied to those who are under home isolation,” the SP said.
27 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioners told to talk with patients daily||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Sunday directed Municipal Commissioners to interact virtually with COVID patients observing home quarantine every day. At present, more than 6,000 persons are in the home quarantine across the district. “This is to address their grievances and also to help them build confidence to fight the disease,” said Mr. Muralidhar. In Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram cities, where the disease has been spreading at an alarming rate since early July, the civic body chiefs have been told to conduct the ‘Dial Your Commissioner’ programme every day, identifying the needs of the patients and monitoring the ground-level situation. Action plan In rural areas, the division-level officials have also been directed to prepare an action plan to interact with patients every day. Daily tally Meanwhile, as many as 938 new cases have been reported in the past 24 hours ending by Sunday morning in East Godavari district. A total of 335 and 116 cases have been reported in Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram cities respectively.
27 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA takes stock as low-lying areas in Kurnool get inundated||As the water level in Hundri river reached 42,000 cusecs in the early hours of Sunday inundating some of the low-lying areas, municipal officials alerted people to be prepared to shift to higher locations if the flow increased further. However, with the quantum of rainfall reducing on Saturday night, the flow in the river came down to 23,480 cusecs by Sunday afternoon. Kurnool MLA Abdul Hafeez Khan visited all low-lying areas in the city along the Hundri river and enquired about the condition of the people and houses on Sunday morning and promised them all possible help to overcome the crisis. He said hutments along the river, from Bhudwarpeta to Joharpuram and Bapuji Nagar to Jammi Chettu, regularly faced the problem. A retaining wall was essential to prevent inundation, but there were no funds to take up the project due to diversion of money during the rule of Telugu Desam Party, he alleged. “I will take up the issue with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and ensure that the wall is constructed,” Mr. Hafeez Khan said. Water flow Hitting at TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the MLA said: “Just by saying he was the Chief Minister for 14 years does not help in any way, he should tell people what tangible development he had brought to Kurnool.” Meanwhile, District Collector G. Veerapandian said the officials kept a watch on the water flow overnight and a review on the flood situation will be done by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath here on Monday. The Minister will also review the rising number of COVID-19 cases and the steps being taken to tackle it.
27 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dignified last rites a fundamental right: judge||Prakasam District Principal Judge and District Legal Services Authority Chairperson P.V.Jyothirmayi on Sunday exhorted the para-legal volunteers to step up awareness to end social discrimination against COVID-19 victims. Addressing a webinar on BlueJeans platform, she said it was unfortunate that people in some places continued to object the funeral of deceased COVID-19 patients. She also expressed that there was a need to raise awareness among people on the legal provisions, as a dignified last rites of the deceased was a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution. The volunteers were duty-bound to clear misapprehensions of the people and explain to them that the authorities fully followed the World Health Organisation(WHO protocol on conducting safe and dignified funerals, she said.
27 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judicial probe sought into atrocities against Dalits||A roundtable attended by members of Dalit outfits on Sunday demanded a judicial probe into the atrocities against Dalits, including gang-rape of a minor, tonsuring of a youth, and custodial death of another youth at Chirala. Senior Congress leader G.V. Harsha Kumar, who brought together the outfits cutting across party lines , accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of not fulfilling the promises he had made to the Dalits during his padayatra. Referring to the tonsuring of a Dalit youth for allegedly objecting to illegal transport of sand , he said, “Only a probe by a sitting High Court judge will bring out the truth.” The meeting adopted resolution seeking effective implementation of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
27 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Half of the patients in Nellore in 21-40 age group’||Nellore reported five more COVID deaths taking its toll to 28 and added 329 new cases to its tally in the last 24 hours. Over 2,000 patients of the total 4,354 positive cases in Nellore district were in the age group of 21 to 40, health officials said. Officials on toes Meanwhile, health authorities in Prakasam district that saw 248 cases on Sunday were on their toes identifying the contacts. The district also reported one death pushing up its toll to 48. As of Sunday, there are 1,618 active cases and 15 deaths had occurred in the last seven days. As many as 11 new very active clusters were created while health workers traced 915 primary and 1,006 secondary contacts of the infected persons and isolated them. Ongole tally rises to 728 Much to the relief of officials, as many as 150 patients-- 96 in COVID hospitals and 54 in COVID Care Centres in Prakasam district were discharged. With the addition of 35 cases, the tally in Ongole rose to 728. It is followed by Markapur, where the number of confirmed cases went up to 521 with 31 new cases. Kandukur registered 24 new cases taking the count to 317 in the town. The fresh cases also came from Chimakurthy(5), Pedda Dornala(5), Yaddanapudi(4), Darsi(4), Tangutur(3), Podili(3), Tripurantakam(3), Thallur(3), Giddalur(3), Chinnaganjam(2), Korisapadu(2), Inkollu(2), Martur(2), Chandrasekarapuram(2), Lingasamudram(2), Singarayakonda(2), Cumbum(2) and Bestavaripeta(2).
27 July 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor shops witness overcrowding in city||Almost 50% of wine shops in the core area of Visakhapatnam urban limits have been closed after falling under containment zones in the city and due to a few other issues. This has been leading to overcrowding at the existing shops. According to sources from the Excise Department, out of 57 liquor outlets in the core area of the GVMC covering the stretches of NAD Junction, Beach Road and Arilova, only 16 shops are opened. Similarly, in the Gajuwaka division, out of 32 shops, 26 shops are opened. Liquor outlets which were opened in the core city area are witnessing overcrowding and queue lines extending over 500 metres. People from surrounding areas have been thronging the shops. Despite warning from officials, no safety measures are being taken. In many areas, people coming to buy liquor are not even wearing a mask. It has been a Herculean task for the policemen as well as the excise officials to control people. “Most of the areas have been declared as containment zones. Even though many areas have been declared as non-containment zones, people say liquor shops should not be opened,” said a senior official from Excise Department. “Some people have been openly consuming liquor near the outlet at the NAD Junction,:said J. Ramana, a resident of Butchirajupalem. TDP MLA P.V.G.R. Naidu in his letter to the Chief Minister pointed out the issue of overcrowding at the liquor outlets and how locals in his constituency have been suffering.
27 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Non-cooperation by patients burdening doctors’||The medical fraternity is subjected to undue pressure due to the non-cooperation by the people tested positive for coronavirus, TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy has said. Addressing the COVID-19 coordination meeting attended by with Joint Collector S. Veerabrahmam (development), SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma and TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna and medical administrators on the SVIMS campus on Sunday, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said that some COVID-19 positive patients were roaming in the public places. “With the sharp spike in the infection count, the pressure on the doctors and other health workers is mounting, even as they continue to risk their lives to check the spread of the virus,” he said. Special kit The TUDA Chairman further said that ginger tea, eggs and nutritious food would also be provided to the doctors on duty, apart from the patients. “Televisions and books will be provided at the hospitals for the convenience of the patients . A kit comprising sixteen toiletry items, fruits, isolation kit will be distributed to the patients,” said Mr. Bhaskar Reddy. SVIMS Superintendent Ram and IMA representatives Ravi Raju, Yugandhar and P. Krishna Prasanthi took part.
27 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||OP services suspended||SVIMS super speciality hospital in Tirupati has announced that the Out Patient(OP) services will remain cancelled until August 1. The OP services at the hospital have already been under suspension for the last two weeks, in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases and to prevent the spread. However, emergency and Operation Theatre will continue to function normally, SVIMS Director B. Vengamma clarified on Sunday. 120 staff infected The decision was taken keeping in view the safety of patients as well as duty doctors, Ms. Vengamma said. As many as 120 staff members of SVIMS contracted the virus so far, after it was declared State COVID Hospital.
27 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP blames State govt. for virus spread||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has blamed the YSRC government for the rapid spread of COVID-19 cases in the State. As part of the State call, the party leaders led by former MLA Mannur Sugunamma staged a demonstration for the fifth day here on Sunday, expressing solidarity with the frontline warriors like doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitary workers in their demand for better facilities and working conditions. Ms. Sugunamma recalled how the erstwhile TDP government had tackled the outbreak of dengue by declaring a war against mosquitoes (Domalapai Dandayatra). “In spite of knowing how dangerous this disease is, the government failed to take preventive measures, even as the disease spread to thousands in no time,” Ms. Sugunamma charged.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State’s debt burden will shoot up to Rs. 6.54 lakh crore by 2024’||TDP Polit Bureau member and former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has accused the State government of mismanaging the finances. “Andhra Pradesh will face a severe economic crisis if the government fails to take corrective steps. The total burden of debts and interest on the State will be Rs. 6,54,500 crore by 2024,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Sunday. In one year, the YSRCP government had taken massive loans that were equal to the total loans availed of by the previous governments in Andhra Pradesh over a period of 30 years, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. Observing that the State’s finances had become unmanageable, the TDP leader said Andhra Pradesh stood in the sixth place in the list of States that borrowed highest loans. “The credit rating of Andhra Pradesh has touched a new low. In his first 14 months rule, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has become popular as a ‘reverse growth CM’ for adopting reverse tendering and cancelling power purchase agreements,” he alleged. The outstanding debts, as per the budget figures, had touched Rs. 3,04,500 crore (including the loans raised by the YSRCP government) by 2019-20. With the government availing Rs. 70,000 crore per year as loan, the total debt would touch Rs. 3.50 lakh crore by 2024, and the overall burden would reach Rs. 6,54,500 crore, he said. The credit rating was badly hit because of heavy dependence on loans, the TDP leader observed. ‘Goodwill lost’ “In the future, nobody will come forward to lend loans to the State. It will become bankrupt due to lack of development,” the former Finance Minister said. All the goodwill the State had earned as a favourite investment destination was lost because of the “discredited and chaotic policies” of Mr. Jagan, he alleged.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC to install 24,000 water meters to ensure 24X7 supply||The convenience of having treated drinking water supply round the clock may be a reality very soon in the city. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is contemplating fixing water meters to Household Service Connections (HSCs). The corporation has planned to implement the water supply scheme under the Central government’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) programme. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 101.07 crore. According to information, the VMC has finalised the tender filed by city-based Velko Infrateck Pvt. Ltd., which has already started the survey in 27 divisions in the city. The firm will take up designing for 24X7 water supply with Operation and Maintenance (O&M) for a period of two years, excluding defect liability period of five years. The divisions covered are: 2, 3, 7, 9,13,17, 18, 19, 21, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 49 and 50. Chief Engineer Marianna says, “About 24,000 water meters will be installed in the city.” Of the total cost, Rs. 38.67 crore will be met under the AMRUT programme. The VMC’s share of Rs. 57.24 crore will be met under the 14th Finance Commission Grants. The VMC will bear Rs. 4.16 crore, which is excess tender amount, he says.  The financial pattern has been submitted to the State government for according the revised administrative sanction for an amount of Rs. 100.07 crore. The original financial pattern was for Rs. 95.91 crore. As per the original plan, the Central government’s share was Rs. 24.17 crore and State government’s Rs. 14.50 crore. The VMC planned to meet its share of Rs. 42.63 crore under the 14th Finance Commission Grants and the remaining Rs. 14.61 crore from the VMC general funds. There is no change in the Central and State governments’ share in the revised financial pattern, he says. Long-pending proposal The VMC has been trying to install water meters since 2007. The corporation attempted to implement 24X7 water supply under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) programme but faced stiff resistance from Opposition parties. In 2016, the VMC was selected for the 24x7 water supply project sponsored by AMRUT and the State government. The VMC planned to take the number of water meters to 50,000 from 7,885 and provide water connections to all households in the city by March 31, 2013. It had set a target to fix 10,000 water meters in the first phase. But the plan did not materialise. In the City Development Plan (CDP), it was stated that Rs. 1.3 crore would be spent on fixing water meters between 2005 and 2012. The civic body, in 2007, planned to purchase 2.6 lakh water meters at an estimated cost of Rs. 50 crore. However, that could not be implemented due to stiff resistance from political parties.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown helps police nab accused in gold heist||The curfew-like situation prevailing in the city with the closure of all entry and exit routes has helped the police nab the accused in the Friday’s gold theft case within a few hours. Police said a worker in Sai Charan Jewellers, Vikram Kumar Lahor from Rajasthan, allegedly stole 7 kg of gold jewellery, 19 kg of silver ornaments and Rs. 42 lakh cash all worth Rs. 4 crore from the workshop being run in an apartment. However, he tied himself up later to create it as a robbery. He even made some cuts on his body to buttress his claim. “Normally, robbers take the rail route to escape, or they will cross the city or district immediately in private vehicles or buses. As there were no train and bus services Vikram Kumar made a different plan,” said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. “The accused hid the booty in the same apartment and did not dare to come out. Otherwise, he might have fled the city,” a police officer said. “As usual, my senior officers closed all the main thoroughfares and the State and National Highways and started checking vehicles at major junctions. But I grew suspicious of Vikram Kumar and started investigation at the spot,” said One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu. “The simple injuries on Vikram Kumar, his pretence of unconsciousness and the CCTV footages confirmed that it was his handiwork,” Mr. Srinivasulu said.      Similar robbery  On June 11, 2017, a 12-member gang struck at a gold workshop at Governorpet here and escaped with 5 kg gold ornaments. Police arrested all the gang members, hailing from West Bengal, Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, and recovered 4 kg jewellery. The last accused in the case was arrested on June 16 this year. Police flew to Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and other places to nab the accused.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘AP makes rapid strides in PAT scheme in industries sector’||The Energy Department of Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) saved 2,386 million units (MU) of power in the industries sector under the Perform Achieve & Trade (PAT) scheme. The power conserved is worth around Rs. 1,600 crore in the last three years , according to an official release. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) appreciated the efforts of A.P. towards improving energy efficiency in energy-intensive industries. BEE director (PAT) Vineeta Kanwal conveyed on behalf of BEE Director General Abhay Bhakre that A.P. is considered as one of the best States in the field of energy efficiency in the industries sector. As per a communication received by AP State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy, around 22 energy intensive units in cement, fertilizers, pulp and paper, power generation and chemical sectors saved 2,05,204 tons of oil equivalent (TOE) (2,386 MU) worth Rs. 1,600 crore under the PAT scheme. The objective of the PAT scheme is to make the industries sector energy efficient and set energy efficiency targets for it.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna district has highest recovery and death rates||Krishna district reported 332 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths in 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 5,580 and death toll to 144. However, 4,060 patients have recovered and have been discharged so far and there are 1,376 active patients. Having the least number of active cases among the districts, Krishna has the highest recovery rate of 72.76%. At the same time, the district’s mortality rate is also the highest in the State. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, in a review meeting on Sunday, said that the district has over 1,890 beds at three designated COVID hospitals – GGH, Vijayawada (790 beds), Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Institute of Medical Sciences (600) and Nimra Institute of Medical Sciences (500). The private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients were Ramesh Hospitals, Ayush, Andhra Hospitals, Anu Hospitals, Kamineni Hospitals and Liberty. He said there was a dearth of pulmonologists and anaesthesiologists in the hospitals and the district administration will soon recruit them. He asked the public to not venture out without wearing a mask as it was one of the effective measures to stop the spread of coronavirus. Meat shops raided Meanwhile, VMC officials raided several meat shops in the city that were opened on Sunday. The civic body has asked meat sellers to not open the shops on Sunday as a COVID prevention measure. Officials said that the shops could be opened from Monday.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appalaraju takes charge as Minister||The government is committed to improving the living standards of the economically downtrodden, particularly fisherfolk who were among the poorest of the poor, said Palasa MLA Seediri Appalaraju while taking charge as the Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries at the Secretariat on Sunday. He made his first signature on the file related to the establishment of the A.P. Aquaculture Authority. Speaking to the media, Mr. Appalaraju expressed his gratitude to the Chief Minister for inducting him into the Cabinet and termed his elevation a step towards empowerment of the fishermen community. He exuded confidence that the Aquaculture Authority would help the farmers in fetching remunerative price for their produce.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oil smuggling racket busted, two policemen among seven arrested in West Godavari||The Pedapadu police have busted an oil smuggling racket in West Godavrari district with alleged links to Odisha and Kerala; and arrested seven persons including two constables attached to Gandepalli police station in East Godavari district. “A few days ago, Gandepalli SI B. Tirupati Rao and constables Srinivas Rao and Ramakrishna intercepted a lorry carrying low grade oil in the Gandepalli police station limits. They let off the lorry after detaining it for a day. They recorded all the details, but did not register a case,” said Eluru Range Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) K.V. Mohan Rao. The SI and the two constables allegedly let off the oil tanker after accepting a bribe of about Rs. 1.50 lakh. They also allegedly ensured smooth passage of the tanker on the national highway. However, the Pedapadu police intercepted the same tanker at Kalaparru tollgate in West Godavari district, and registered a case. “During questioning, the lorry driver and helper explained how they escaped from Gandepalli police after paying bribe,” the DIG said. Following the directions of SP K. Narayan Naik, the two constables and five others were booked. Samples of the seized oil have been sent to laboratory for examination, said Eluru Town DSP O. Dileep Kiran. Peobe ordered The DIG said that the lorry was carrying the oil from Sambalpur in Odisha to Kerala. Meanwhile, police have also seized four more tankers carrying low grade oil near Visakhapatnam. The low grade oil, which resembles blue kerosene are usually used in adulteration of diesel and petrol. “Based on the preliminary inquiry, the SI and two constables have been suspended and a detailed inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the role of the Gandepalli SI in the racket,” Mr. Mohan Rao said. Driver tests positive Meanwhile, the driver of the oil tanker, a native of Tamil Nadu, has been tested positive for coronavirus. He has been put under quarantine for 14 days and the DSP is probing into the case. “We have alerted the civil supplies officials about the oil smuggling racket, and the results from the laboratory are awaited,” Mr. Mohan Rao added.
27 July 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP virtual agitation continues across State||On the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, the TDP leaders and cadres took part in a State-wide week-long virtual agitation demanding that the State government step up the testing and treatment facilities for COVID-19 patients. The agitation was being staged in response to the call given by party president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The TDP leaders stressed the need for providing Rs. 5,000 cash assistance to the poor families that were suffering on account of lack of work. At least Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia should be paid to the next of kin of the frontline warriors who died in the line of duty. The facilities at the COVID isolation centres should also be improved, they said.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed to provide PPE kits to doctors, paramedics’||JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar has said the government has failed in providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to the doctors and paramedical staff who have been leading the war against COVID-19 from the front. In a press release on Sunday, Mr. Manohar said the sordid state of affairs was evident from the government’s inability to supply PPE kits, which forced doctors and paramedics in the Tenali COVID hospital to work by wearing raincoats and other protective gear and spent own funds to buy sanitisers.
27 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free online courses||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation and ElearnOAK India, an online learning service entered into an agreement to provide free training in various courses for graduates in engineering and degree. APSSDC managing director and CEO A. Srikanth, director Hanuman Naik have exchanged MoUs recently with ElearnOAK chairman A.Aravind. As part of the agreement, candidates who competed graduation in engineering and degree courses will be provided digital marketing, IELTs, app development and data science courses. For further details dail 1800 425 2422 or log into apssdc.in, he said.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 537 new cases, district tally crosses 7,500-mark||As many as 537 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the tally to 7,531. Three more persons succumbed to the coronavirus taking the death toll to 69. Meanwhile, as many as 170 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 4,865 and the number of persons discharged is 2,597. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, 21 new clusters including, Palliveedhi, Sivajinagar, Raghuram Colony, Ramalayam Veedhi, Rice Mill Road, Chinna Akkireddipalem and Dondaparthy, have been formed. With the new cases, the total number of clusters in the district has gone up to 655. Among them, the very active clusters are 127. The number of active and dormant clusters is 268 and 260 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LHMS app evokes poor response||The Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) app, which was initiated by the city police to prevent burglaries, has evoked poor response from the citizens. The city police appeal to people to make use of it in case they leave for other areas during the COVID-19. According to DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu, of the 20 lakh-odd population only 1,06,922 approached the city police seeking LHMS. More awareness is needed among people to utilise this system. He said that the burglars have been targeting locked houses and are stealing gold, silver, cash and other valuables. Police officials say that the LHMS app can be downloaded from the Google Play Store. After downloading the app, one can inform cops through the app about their date of travel and return. The registration must be done 24 hours before inmates leave their home, to enable the police install surveillance cameras, which would help in monitoring the house. “The police personnel will visit the houses and install the wireless motion camera, UPS and wifi modem, before the inmates leave their house. Any suspicious movements in the locked houses will be immediately flashed to the Control Room. This unit is linked to the owner’s phone and also to the police control room. If there is any movement in front of the house, the camera will record pictures and videos and send the same to the Control Room and the owner’s phone,” the DCP said.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Kargil martyrs||Rich tributes were paid to the Kargil martyrs on the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas at the Navy War Memorial on Beach Road here on Sunday. Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Naval Command, Police Commissioner Rajiv Kumar Meena, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Vice Admiral V.K. Namballa (Retd), president, Navy Foundation, and G. Satyanand, Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer, paid homage to the heroes of the Kargil war in a solemn wreath-laying ceremony. A 50-men Guard of Honour was paraded on the occasion. The Guard performed the ‘Salami Shastra’ and Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain placed the floral wreath. While the bugler sounded the ‘Last Post’, a two-minute silence was observed. The ‘Victory at Sea’ War Memorial built in 1996 at R.K. Beach Road is a fitting tribute to mark the supreme sacrifice of our men, who in the highest traditions of the Indian Armed Forces, made the supreme sacrifice during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. The memorial was upgraded from time to time. The recent additions are the National Emblem atop the memorial tower in October 2019 and a mural created this week depicting missile attacks by Indian Naval Ships on the night of 4th December, 1971, along with routing of Indian Missile Boats during the 1971 War.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six persons, including 2 doctors, arrested in child trafficking case||Six persons, including two doctors and two ASHA workers, were arrested by the city police on Sunday, on the charge of child trafficking. The gang sold a newborn baby boy, born to a woman from the rural areas of the district, to a couple in Kolkata. The arrested have been identified as Patchipala Namratha, MD of Universal Srushti Hospital, Zilla Parishad area, in the city, K.Venkata Lakshmi and B. Annapurna, both ASHA workers from V. Madugula mandal, A. Ramakrishna, son-in-law of Venkata Lakshmi, Dr. Tirumala, working at Universal Srushti Hospital, and L. Chandra Mohan. The two receivers have also been identified. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, Police Commissioner R.K. Meena said that a widow from V. Madugula mandal had an extramarital affair with her paramour and she became pregnant. Ramakrishna who allegedly works as an agent for Dr. Namratha, came to know about the unwanted pregnancy and informed the doctor. Mr. Meena said that Dr. Namratja took advantage of the poverty of the woman and promised to help her.. After taking the woman to her hospital, Dr. Namrata had performed surgery in March. The woman gave birth to a baby boy. Later, the doctor along with her associates sold the boy to a couple in Kolkata. A few days later, an anganwadi teacher from V Madugula, G Sarojini, who was aware of the pregnancy of the woman, questioned the woman about the baby. When the woman did not give proper replies, she suspected something fishy and alerted the ICDS and Childline officials on March 20. After coming to know that the Childline personnel were probing into the matter, the doctor’s associate Chandra Mohan brought the boy from Kolkata and handed her over to Childline. The boy has been under safe custody of Sishu Gruha in Visakhapatnam, police said. Mr. Meena said that the police started investigating into the case based on a complaint from the mother of the baby. In their investigation, they found that Dr Namratha has been running a hospital in the name of Srushti Test Tube Baby Centre and changed the name of the hospital. After getting caught in two criminal cases at various places in Andhra Pradesh, she changed the name of the hospital as Universal Srushti Fertility and Research Centre in the year 2018. The doctor has also opened branches in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata.  Mr. Meena said that the police are investigating the case from various angles.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lashes out at Narsapuram MP||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has warned Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju that his outbursts against making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital will not be tolerated. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao questioned Mr. Raju’s right to make such a statement. Mr. Raju should remember that he had become an MP by the grace of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he said. Despite winning on the YSRCP flag and symbol, Mr. Raju was criticising the party more than the Opposition TDP, he added. Advising the MP to restrict himself to his constituency, the Minister sought to remind Mr. Raju how the people had prevented TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu from entering the city for his adverse comments against the proposed Executive capital. “Mr. Raju should resign to his post if he does not like the policies of the YSRCP,” he said.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||On her own feet for the first time after birth||The smile on the little girl’s face and the sparkle in her eyes when she was able to stand up on her legs said it all. She will no longer have to depend on others to walk. The joy of her parents also knew no bounds. This was made possible by the joint efforts of The Ability People (TAP), Visakhapatnam, and Mobility India, Bengaluru. Saba, the 5-year-old girl of Visakhapatnam, was born without her right leg, hip down. Her father works as a tailor and the family depends on his meagre income. They had no idea that an artificial limb (prostheses) could give mobility to their child. Mobility India (MI) has been working for a decade with TAP, a Disabled People's Organisation, started by Dilip Patro, who has been rendering yeomen services to the disabled despite his personal experience of disabilities. Saba was brought to the rehabilitation centre to provide her with a hip disarticulation prosthesis. In the COVID-19 situation, under the prevailing lockdown, there was no scope for the technical team of MI to travel to TAP for the fitment. “The entire process of fabrication was demonstrated to the Prosthetist over the virtual platform from MI office to the TAP centre. Every stage was guided and monitored and several iterations made before Saba was fitted with the trial prosthesis,” Mr. Dilip said. “It was left on the technical expertise and skills of Soikat Ghosh Moulic, clinical Prosthetist and Orthotist, Associate Director- Technical & Quality Systems of MI, to work remotely with the team in Visakhapatnam to complete the process of fabrication. The necessary components were couriered by MI to TAP.” “The entire process of fabrication was demonstrated to the prosthetist over the virtual platform from MI office to the TAP centre. Every stage was guided and monitored and several iterations made before Saba was fitted with trial prostheses. The results encouraged us to take it to the next level of advanced fittings, which required meticulous planning and perfection,” he said. Murthy, a Rotarian, promised to support Saba, for her schooling. Those in need of support can contact our TAP on the toll free helpline 1804258911 or mobile: 85 00 36 57 36.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inaugurated||Officials from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) made the renovated RPF barracks at Marripalem, operational here on Friday. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Srivastava inaugurated the facility through video conference.
27 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Exempt GST on COVID products’||Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to exempt all COVID-19 related equipment/products, from the Goods and Services Tax (GST). PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya noted that the pandemic has created a distress situation The GST relief will provide succour to the common man in this grim situation.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily grind||
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID deaths cross 1,000||Meanwhile, Kurnool district reported 1,213 new cases, East Godavari 1,095, West Godavari 859, Visakhapatnam 784, Anantapur 734, Chittoor 573, Guntur 547, Kadapa 396, Krishna 332, Nellore 329, Srikakulam 276, Vizianagaram 247 and Prakasam 242. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: East Godavari (13,486), Kurnool (11,570), Guntur (10,003), Anantapur (9,723), West Godavari (8,412), Chittoor (7,442), Visakhapatnam (6,781), Krishna (5,580), Kadapa (4,757), Srikakulam (4,574), Nellore (4,354), Prakasam (3,549), Vizianagaram (3,172). Samples tested So far the State has tested 16.43 lakh samples, 47,645 of them in the past day. The overall positivity rate of the tests has increased to 5.86% and the tests per million ratio is at 30,774.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Courting trouble||
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big task||
27 July 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Sale of banned gutka flourishing in Adilabad||Hanging it like shampoo sachets or snack packets, banned chewable tobacco, also known as gutka, has been openly sold in Adilabad for years, but, of late the small town in the northern part of Telangana has become a hub for its illegal transportation as well. Gutka is available in almost all paan and kirana shops in the town with huge bulk of supplies coming in from Karnataka and parts of Maharashtra, which is later transported to Nirmal, Nizamabad, Asifabad, Peddapalli and Karimnagar districts and other places in north Telangana. Locals maintain that a couple of ‘illegal’ traders are using Adilabad as a base to smuggle the contraband to various parts of North Telangana. The Andhra Pradesh government has implemented a ban on gutka since 2013 in view of public health. The ban is enforced by the State Food and Drug Administration, and the local police. “It is a well-oiled network and police are aware of their activities, but very little effort is made to curb it,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. He said that two or three influential families, which make at least Rs. 30-35 lakh worth of business each day, are dominating the entire market with one having a major partnership in an illegal gutka manufacturing company in Hyderabad “We know where the gutka is stored and how the channel operates, but hardly raid any. Recently, a huge quantity of tobacco was seized from a farmhouse on the outskirts of the town. It is just the tip of the iceberg and happens once in a while,” the officer said, adding that most of the activity happens in I Town police station limits, which mostly comprises older parts of Adilabad, once a sleepy town. Local sources said only petty and small traders were often booked, while the ‘big fish’ were let off the hook. “There appeared to be a complexity between law enforcing agencies and the illegal gutka traders. One can easily notice that the business is thriving here,” he said. “Even during the lockdown there was no shortage in supply, as the products smuggled and stored here is very huge. I hope the police, who are well aware of the network, will take action for the sake of public safety,” the 52-year-old local businessman said.
27 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||9 goats seized in Yellandu||As many as nine goats landed in the custody of the civic authorities in Yellandu town after being caught while grazing on the saplings recently planted under the median plantation component of the State government’s flagship green initiative - Haritha Haram in the coal town. The staff detained the flock of goats to impose a fine on its owners on charges of violating the municipal rules, sources said. In the backdrop of ambitious plans to embellish the coal town with green cover by taking up massive plantation drive under the Haritha Haram, the civic body has decided to act tough against those damaging the saplings and hindering the green drive. When contacted, Yellandu Municipal Commissioner Srinivas Reddy told The Hindu that action will be initiated against the owners of cattle and sheep who let the livestock to graze on saplings.
27 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Two Maoist supporters escape police||Two bike-borne youths, suspected to be Maoist sympathisers, escaped from police during a vehicle checking drive, leaving behind their bike at Bandirevu crossroads near Dummugudem in the early hours of Sunday. Sources said that a police team tried to intercept a bike heading towards Charla at Bandirevu crossroads early on Sunday morning. Police seized the bike and recovered CPI(M) revolutionary literature, including pamphlets and wall posters on the ongoing ‘Martyrs’ Week’. A probe is on to nab the duo.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,593 COVID cases on Saturday, 8 succumb||The total COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 54,059 as 1,593 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Eight more COVID-19 patients died. The daily media bulletin, which is usually released in the night every day, was not issued on Saturday. The bulletin, with details recorded on Saturday, was issued on Sunday morning in a new format. The fresh 1,593 cases included 641 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and 171 from Rangareddy and 131 from Warangal Urban districts. Of the total 54,059 cases, 12,264 are active cases, 41,332 have recovered. After the first COVID1-19 case was reported in Telangana on March 2, multiple changes were made to the format of the media bulletins. In the new format issued on Sunday, the order in which positive cases, recoveries, deaths and other details had been displayed was changed. The significant addition is the list of government health centres where Rapid Antigen Tests are performed. Till July 8, only RT-PCR tests were performed to detect coronavirus. Thereafter, Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) were introduced. However, most of the people did not have information on where these RATs wer performed. People stood in queues for long hours at major hospitals to undergo the tests. The list of 320 Primary Health Centres (PHC), Community Health Centres (CHC), Area Hospitals, District Hospitals, as per districts where the RATs were performed, were listed in the new format of the bulletin. This could help in distribution of crowd to all testing centres and avoid crowd at hospitals. A total of 35,3425 tests to detect coronavirus had been performed to date. However, distribution of number RATs and RT-PCR tests was not mentioned in the new format too. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate is 15.29%. Mayor tests positive Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Mayor Bonthu Rammohan on Sunday tested positive for COVID-19. In a tweet, Mr. Rammohan said: “Am tested positive. Am up and active. No difficulty at all. Let’s face COVID with courage and not with fear. Do not get panic if you are tested positive. Thanks for your wishes for my well-being and fast recovery.” Responding to the tweet, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said: “Get well soon Mayor Garu. I am sure you’ll be back to normal in no time; Take care.”
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SRDP projects await migrants’ return||GHMC Engineering wing officials and contractors who are doing the SRDP works are keeping their fingers crossed for the return of migrant labour force to Telangana, so that the projects could be completed as per deadline. While the Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) is on a spree of foundation laying ceremonies for various components of the SRDP, work pertaining to the respective projects hinges largely upon return of the migrant labourers from their home states. The Minister has recently laid foundation for two elevated corridors, one between VST and Indira Park, and another between Nalgonda Crossroads and the Owaisi junction. Both are designed as steel bridges, and will have steel pier, steel pier cap, and steel girders with RCC deck slab cast in situ. “Normally, the contractors take three to four months after the work order has been issued, to start the work. They need the work order even to generate funds from banks, hence the delay. It has been two months since we issued work orders for both the elevated corridors, but neither the contractors nor we are certain about when the labour force would return,” says an official under the condition of anonymity. Manpower cannot be done away with even with reliance on most modern technology, he says. Skilled workers with expertise in construction of flyovers usually come from states such as Bihar, Bengal and Odisha, and never before has there been any problem in commissioning of workers as the market has always been favourable for contractors. With return of lakhs of migrant labourers to their native states post COVID-19 lockdown, the market conditions have reversed in favour of the labourers, officials say. “An agency doing about five SRDP projects in the city, has recently flown down 40 labourers from Assam, by bearing the flight charges. However, they refused to work and returned, saying they were not familiar with the technology being used,” the official narrated. While local labourers are not willing to engage in construction work, those from other states would be willing to work for half the pay, as their accommodation would be taken care of by the contractors. “As of now, the workers are engaged in agricultural operations in their native states. Besides, the floods in Bihar have left workers stranded in their villages, with no means to return,” says the official. Officials and contractors both are pinning their hopes on return of the labourers after August 15, by when the harvesting season would be over in Bihar and Bengal.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalits are unsafe under TRS rule, says Uttam||Describing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as anti-Dalit, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has strongly condemned the inaction by police in the murder case of a dalit youth in Mallaram village of Jayashankar- Bhupalpally district in Manthani Assembly constituency. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy was speaking to media persons at Lingala Ghanpur Police Station after he was detained by the police at Jangaon to prevent him from participating in ‘Chalo Mallaram’ protest march organised by TPCC Scheduled Caste Department on Sunday. “A dalit youth, Revuli Raja was murdered at Mallaram village on July 6 allegedly by a local TRS leader and his supporters. But the local police neither investigated into the murder nor took any action against the culprits. We wanted to meet the family and also the local authorities to seek justice for the dalit youth. However, we were stopped from visiting Mallaram and taken into custody by the police. This is not a democracy, but ‘Police Rajyam’,” he said lashing out at the police. Mr. Reddy also expressed deep concern over rising atrocities against dalits ever since TRS came to power in Telangana. He said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been pursuing anti-dalit policies in the State. The TPCC chief said that there was a rise in cases of atrocities against dalits in Telangana. Citing instances, he said in July 2017, dalits of Nerella were subjected to third-degree torture by the police when they objected to illegal sand mining in Sircilla. On one side, dalits were being subjected to torture and brutality. On the other, police are not taking any action against the culprits. Instead, he alleged that the victims were being harassed further and they were being implicated in false cases. He strongly condemned the arrest of CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and house arrest of MLAs D. Sridhar Babu and Seethakka and illegal detention of hundreds of Congress leaders.
27 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie sells veggies to support family||Inspiring many, a young techie has turned vegetable-seller after losing her job owing to the coronavirus lockdown and subsequent economic crisis. Since there was a family business in selling vegetables, Sharadha Undadi from Borabanda did not hesitate for a moment to switch her profession. After working in a software firm for around two years in the national capital, the 26-year-old techie returned to Hyderabad for personal reasons and took a short break. A few months later, she joined a software company as intern in the performance and quality analysis wing in February. “After completing three months of mandatory internship, they promised me to offer a job. But then, this lockdown came and they refused to consider my application, and asked me to move due to the ongoing financial crisis in the industry,” she told The Hindu . Without being ashamed of not having a job, even after completing the engineering degree and working at two MNCs earlier, Ms Sharadha started to support her parents in running the ‘family business’ at Borabanda. “One should not forget one’s roots. I was able to complete my education only on the money earned from selling vegetables. They (her parents) have been doing this for the past two decades and I’m more than happy to support them,” the techie said even as she did quick maths and packed veggies to customers, who were praising her for the new task. Boosting the morale of those who go into depression or think of committing suicide after losing job, Ms. Sharadha said suicide was not the answer to problems; people should think of their parents and other family members before taking the extreme step. Standing up for parents and family is much more satisfying than having a lucrative job, she believes. “Here, I unload the fresh vegetables from the trolley auto, place them in my road-side store and sell them. It is dignity of labour. I’m not ashamed of doing what makes me happy,” the youngster said.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA reconfigures AC, air circulation||Hyderabad International Airport, which has recommenced its domestic operations from May 25 and increasing the frequency of flights and passengers since, has also reconfigured the air-conditioning (AC) network and the entire network of air circulation across the terminal. The indoor air quality too is sought to be improved by doubling the quantity of treated fresh air requirements. While frequent sanitisation, deep cleaning, and social distancing have become the new norm, the airport always had one of the best control system with carbon-level-monitored fresh air control mechanism right from its inception. However, as per the latest COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government on the quantity of fresh air requirement, AC system has been further improved, said an official spokesperson. Its own technical team has made the required changes and kept it ready for passengers once the airport recommenced its operations. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, the HVAC — heating, ventilation and air conditioning system, of the airport was designed for a combination of recirculated air and fresh air intake based on the carbon concentration level. Post COVID-19 all regulatory norms for circulation of fresh air flow in the terminal has been doubled to ensure better indoor air quality, he claimed. Air temperatures have to be maintained in the range of 24 to 30 degrees and RH (Relative Humidity) is to be kept between 55% and 70%, as per the government stipulation. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has also issued guidelines for AC air filtration, cleaning of filters, UV Germicidal Irradiation (UVGC), and chemical cleaning, to be implemented strictly. The RGIA already had MERV 13 level filtration ensuring cleaner air circulation even prior to the outbreak of the pandemic and all ventilated spaces are being maintained at 10-15 Air Change Per Hour (ACHP) to sustain healthier conditions inside the spaces. “We have introduced massive systems modifications to enhance air quality inside the terminal as per government guidelines to ensure we have continuous, fresh supply of healthy air inside,” he added.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bakrid sacrifice service outside city||Given the COVID-19 pandemic, ahead of Id-al-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, socio-religious organisations are offering qurbani (sacrifice) services outside city limits with all precautions such as maintaining social distancing, sanitisation of equipment and face mask. A recently-issued fatwa, and the Muslim clergy had asserted that coronavirus was not a deterrent to sacrifice, and that it should be made from the 10th of Zul Hijjah, the first day of Bakrid, to the 12th of Zul Hijjah. In case the situation was such that the sacrifice was not possible in the city or town of one’s residence, efforts must be made to do it in some other place. For instance, office-bearers of the Foundation for Economic and Educational Development (FEED), an organisation involved in promoting education, said that as part of Zabiha Project, they would be making the sacrifice in controlled conditions, duly taking all COVID precautions. “We will take fund from those who are intending to make the sacrifice. The sacrifice itself will be made in remote villages where there is no history of COVID infection. Earmarked places are villages in Khammam and Vikarabad districts, among others,” said an office-bearer. He said that all equipment of butchers would be sanitised, social distancing maintained, and wearing face masks had been made mandatory. FEED would be distributing meat to the poorest of poor, including widows. The over-70-year-old All India Majlis-e-Tameer-e-Millat (AIMTM) would make the sacrifice after receiving funds from donors. “All sacrifice and distribution will done in accordance with the precautions,” said official of AIMTM, adding that once donations were received through WhatsApp or calls, a token number would be allotted. Once the sacrifice was made, donors would be intimated and delivery as per options would be made. Other organisations such as Safa Baitul Maal too would follow similar models. Maulana Ghayas Rashadi, an office-bearer of the organisation, said all sacrifices would made outside of city limits and in districts.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spillway discharge of flood stopped at Jurala||Discharge of flood through the spillway of Jurala project was stopped on Sunday morning as the inflows into the reservoir came down to 18,000 cusecs. Release of over 16,000 cusecs of flood was, however, continuing with power generation. Generation of electricity at the dam site power house has commenced from around noon on July 14 and the spillway discharge of flood began in the night. The spillway discharge was stopped for about 12 hours after it was taken up on July 14 till the closure of gates again on Sunday morning. According tot he flood monitoring officials, the inflows into the reservoir increased gradually from the afternoon and reached about 25,000 cusecs by 6 pm. Inflows are expected to deplete again as the outflows from Narayanpur dam in Karnataka were reduced to 6,000 cusecs in the evening following a similar quantity of outflows from Almatti dam in the upstream of Krishna river. Srisailam reservoir in the downstream was however getting nearly 75,000 cusecs with help of nearly 26,000 cusecs flood from Sunkesula (Tungabhadra) and andother 8,000 cusecs from Handri river. The water storage in the common project for the two Telugu States reached 90 tmc ft on Sunday night against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft as release of water to Nagarjunasagar was continuing with power generation at the Left Bank underground hydel station there.
27 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Price of potato seed may increase this year||Less quantity of potato seed coupled with higher seed price this year is likely to impact the potato production and the farmers’ income in the country during rabi season , according to Samarendu Mohanty, Asia Regional Director, International Potato Center, Peru. Dr. Mohanty says compared to previous years potato seed storage is 30% less now while the seed price has more than doubled to Rs. 30 to Rs. 35 per kg compared to Rs. 12 to Rs. 14 in the last season. Expecting a further hike, seed producers are waiting to fix a higher price as the planting time approaches, he said. The reasons for lower storage of seed, he feels, is that farmers sold the potato right after the last harvest to take advantage of the high market price. Those who have stored in the cold storages are now selling it at a higher price and this is likely to increase further, says the Philippines-based scientist. The current pandemic and the related fears led to a spike in potato prices – the highest in the last 10 years for July, he said citing the present market price ranging from Rs. 35 to Rs. 40 in several markets and the average price being Rs. 33 per kg. Fluctuation to continue The price fluctuation, mostly towards the higher side, is likely to continue as the COVID-19 cases spike in the country and the prices are likely to remain high until the rabi harvest enters the market in December. Dr. Samarendu also warns that higher price for potato doesn’t mean higher returns for farmers in the rabi season. He argues that spiralling prices will encourage the farmers to expand the cultivation area in the rabi season, investing hugely in the expensive seed. And this may lead to more production and fall in prices sometime. Small and marginal farmers generally fail to hold on to the produce for a long time to escape from additional costs in storage. So they sell it at lower prices when the market is flooded. But he suggests a way out, asking the farmers to reduce the risk by going for early planting and choosing early-maturing varieties. The climate of certain locations in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh is suitable for potato in September and farmers can plant at that time and harvest in December.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Psychiatry post-graduates as counsellors||To allay anxiety among COVID-19 patients and suspects, psychiatry post-graduates will be posted at government hospitals. Recently, orders were issued to absorb 1,119 medical students, who took post graduation (PG) final year exams this year, as senior residents (SR). They include around 30 psychiatrists. Earlier, one year of work at government hospitals after completing PG in medical specialisations was mandatory. This one-year work was known as senior residency. This mandatory service was revoked by the State government a few years ago. However, because of prevailing COVID situation, those who took the PG final exams are absorbed in government hospitals where COVID-positive patients and suspects are admitted. The post graduates attend patients as part of their course work. Doctors said scores of patients were gripped with fear and often asked healthcare professionals if they will survive. A person who has recovered from COVID said that since family members or friends are not allowed to meet patients, counselling would do a world of good to them. “Around 30 medical students who completed PG in psychiatry will be posted at COVID-19 hospitals and quarantine centres in Hyderabad. They will offer counselling to patients,” said a senior official from the Health department. Officials had earlier said more than the infectious disease, fear was affecting patients. As the number of patients with COVID and suspects is increasing, doctors said more trained professionals would be needed.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. hiding COVID stats, deaths: Congress leader||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has alleged that the State government is hiding the actual statistics of COVID-19 cases and deaths in Telangana. Mr. Shabbir Ali said the modified media bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health on Sunday for cases as of July 25 (till 8 p.m.) clearly exposes the trickery of State government in hiding the figures. He alleged that there was a huge mismatch in the number of deaths occurring in COVID and other hospitals across the State and the deaths being reported in the bulletin. In a statement issued here on Sunday, he said many deaths due to COVID were not being registered officially to show lower mortality rate. The fatality rate in the media bulletin was just 10% of the actual number of bodies being cremated or buried at graveyards and crematoriums across the State. “If those deaths have occurred due to reasons other than coronavirus, why are the last rites being performed silently,” he asked. The present death rate, according the media bulletin, was just 2.3% of the total number of positive cases reported so far, the former Minister said and pointed out that various Central agencies tracking the COVID situation had repeatedly accused the Telangana government of under-reporting the cases.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Work with commitment’||State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has asked the officials to work with commitment in the effective implementation of the welfare and development programmes launched by the government for them. He said it was the responsibility of the officials to see that the programmes reached the targeted beneficiaries at the grassroots level. Mr. Vinod Kumar was interacting with representatives of the newly recruited deputy tahsildars and excise inspectors who called on him at Ministers’ Quarters on Sunday. In all, 257 deputy tehsildars and 284 excise inspectors completed their training and secured postings recently.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Avra Labs gets nod to make Favipiravir||City-based Avra Laboratories has been granted regulatory approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to manufacture and market Favipiravir API for COVID-19 patients. The lab is supplying commercial quantities to Cipla for the launch of ‘Ciplenza’, the generic version of Favipiravir. “I am very pleased to be working with Cipla and Dr Yusuf Hamied again with whom I share a five-decade association and friendship, during which time we collaborated on several projects to produce lifesaving drugs including anti-cancer, anti-HIV/AIDS and several other generic products. The current pandemic has brought us together to work tirelessly for the speedy launch of Favipiravir,” said chairman A.V. Rama Rao, who is a former CSIR-IICT director, stated a press release.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prohibitory orders imposed in Mallaram village||Tension prevailed at several places, including at Mallaram, with the deployment of police, and the Congress workers’ altercations with them. According to the police, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC were imposed in Mallaram village. An alleged discord between a husband and wife eventually led to the killing of the husband, Rajababu, and the incident assumed political colours later. The ‘Chalo Mallaram Yatra” (visit to Mallaram) planned by TPCC to protest the alleged atrocities against dalits and the alleged killing of a dalit youth there was foiled by police. A dalit youth was killed in lock-up in the past in Manthani constituency and now another dalit youth was beaten to death and Congress leaders were detained when they were going to express solidarity with the victim’s family. Former TPCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah demanded that the government order a CBI probe into the deaths of dalit youths for the last six years. Meanwhile, the police also prevented TRS leaders of Jayashankar-Bhupalapally district proceeding towards Mallaram in the wake of prohibitory orders there.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Get licence renewed via mobile app||The Transport Department in association with IT and Electronics and Communications (ITE & C) Department has launched the first set of online services through the mobile app — T App Folio. The range of services include renewal of driving licence sans a visit to any RTA office, by utilising Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning based liveness detection, big data based demographic matching and deep learning based photo comparison. Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar had unveiled the services a few days back and said that people need not run around RTA offices for various services as most of these would be made available online and through the mobile app, except for vehicle inspections. Commissioner (electronic service delivery) and special commissioner (e-governance) G.T. Venkateswara Rao informed that the entire application has been designed and implemented by the IT&EC department. Applicants with a selfie for a ‘liveness’ check, after uploading documents can get the renewal done.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Footfall rises to 13k daily||Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has witnessed more than four times rise in daily passenger footfall from around 3,000 domestic passenger footfall (arrivals and departures) during the first few weeks starting May 25 (the day of recommencement of domestic operations) to over 13,000 in July. There has been more than 3.5 times growth in daily air traffic movement from around 40 domestic air traffic movement (arrivals and departures) to more than 150.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awareness programme for RMPs, PMPs||The Health department held an awareness programme on COVID-19 for Registered Medical Practitioners (RMPs) and Private Medical Practitioners (PMPs) at Hari Hara Kala Bhavan in Secunderabad on Sunday. Speaking at the programme, Hyderabad’s District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) J. Venkat said RMPs and PMPs can provide only primary treatment. Asking them not to offer treatment without knowledge on diseases, he has asked them to direct people with symptoms to government health centres or hospitals. The DMHO has also instructed them not to display fake certificates and prescribe steroids. This is the second time in the past two days that there has been interaction between MPs, PMPs and the Health department. On Saturday, RMPs, PMPs and Community Paramedics Association members met Health Minister Eatala Rajender to offer services during the pandemic. Doctors who have completed MBBS and post graduation have always opposed services offered by RMPs or PMPs. Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association president K. Mahesh Kumar said if Health officials are bothered about public health, they should keep ‘quacks’ at bay.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Loan processing facilities in Nizamabad||Union Bank of India has set up centralised loan processing centres SARAL and ULP in Nizamabad. The bank’s regional head, P.V.V. Satyanarayana, inaugurated the facilities that have been established as part of customer friendly initiatives.
27 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Low-lying wires claim farmer’s life||A farmer was electrocuted after coming in contact with a low-hanging electricity wire at an agricultural field in Bachhodu village of Tirumalayapalem mandal on Sunday. The tragic death of the farmer sparked a protest by his relatives in the village. The police identified the deceased as Uppaiah, 40, of Bachhodu. The incident occurred when an iron farm tool Uppaiah was carrying on his shoulder accidentally touched a low-hanging live wire at an agricultural field in Bachhodu on Sunday.
27 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Constable suspended for ‘misbehaving’ with visitor||A police head constable attached to the Nakrekal police station was suspended on Sunday, allegedly for misbehaving with an aggrieved woman visitor whom he had promised to help. According to information, the woman was reportedly being harassed by her husband, and she had requested the intervention of the Nakrekal police. But head constable Raghu was alleged to have repeatedly called her, seeking certain favours. The victim then approached a local leader with the evidence for redress, after which electronic media broke the story on Sunday. In a statement, Nalgonda SP A.V. Ranganath said preliminary inquiry was completed, and the officer was suspended. “Addl. SP Narmada will take up a full inquiry. If the aggrieved person files a case, we will open a criminal case against the HC,” he said.
27 July 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Bund plantation in Siddipet on a large scale||In a move to strengthen the bunds of various irrigation projects and tanks in the district, the administration has decided to take up bund plantation on a large scale. Canals, tanks and reservoirs in the district will have saplings planted in two or three rows depending on the availability of space. The officials have informed that as much as 556 km length of canals are attached to reservoirs in the district. For the main canals of Ranganaiksagar itself saplings need to be planted in about 80 km. The length of Ranganaiksagar bund stretches for as much as 8.6 km and the agency that has been executing the project was directed to plant as many as 50,000 saplings as per agreement and so far about 5,000 saplings were planted. There will be a mutual agreement between Forest Department and the project execution agency, with the latter planting the saplings and the government department to take care of them. “The saplings would grow vertically and strengthen the bund ,” District Forest Officer Sridhar Rao told The Hindu .
27 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||One woman labourer was killed on the spot and three others injured when a car hit them while they were crossing the road at Kondapaka on Sunday. According to the police, a car coming from Hyderabad hit P. Lakshmi (40) and killed her on the spot. Three other labourers were critically-injured in the accident. They were shifted to Hyderabad for treatment. Kuknoorpally police have registered a case and are investigating.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||TRS leaders throw their weight around||At a time when banks are reeling under the impact of bad loans due to COVID-19 pandemic, here is an MLA of the ruling TRS who threatened bank staff when they launched auction of a property in the city after a loanee defaulted on repayment. The legislator's supporters pushed the head of the bank team after their leader asked him to leave the place immediately. The team then lodged a complaint in the local police station. Such instances of rash behaviour by TRS leaders have come to notice at regular intervals. Last year, the brother of another MLA led a murderous attack on a woman forest officer at Kagaznagar when her team took up an afforestation programme in a degraded forest. Meanwhile, a bank employees’ association has claimed that about 1,000 employees of banks in the Telugu speaking States have contracted COVID-19 and some of them died. Many employees preferred to remain at home by applying for leave.  HC intervention a relief to commuters Finally, commuters on the arterial roads in and around the old Secretariat are a relieved lot. But not before the intervention of the Telangana High Court. Commuters had a tough time in accessing major government offices ever since the government had restricted the movement of vehicles as well as people on all the roads leading to the old Secretariat since July 6 midnight. Display of ID cards was mandatory for entering the area as there was an apprehension that media people might take advantage of the vantage position of the other offices to take a snap of the demolition process. The case of the “secrecy involved in the demolition process” finally reached the High Court and the court has given orders accordingly leading to opening up of these roads, providing relief to commuters who had to do a round about for reaching their destinations. Hopefully, the government will consider other aspects while taking up such projects. N. Rahul and M. Rajeev
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Last date to register for DU courses extended to Aug. 31||Delhi University has extended the deadline for registration process for admission in merit-based courses to August 31, said officials. The last date for registrations has been extended twice this year. Earlier, the deadline was July 4, but was extended to July 18 and further to July 30. Meanwhile, admissions under the extracurricular activities quota have also been thrown open. Earlier, the DU had scrapped admissions under the ECA category due to the pandemic and the need to follow social distancing norms. However, the quota has been reinstated following several petitions. Students can now seek admission under any three of the 14 categories under ECA, including creative writing, dance, debate, digital media, fine arts, theatre, quiz, divinity, NCC, NSS, Yoga and music (vocals, Indian instrumental and western instrumental). Each one of them also has its own sub-categories. Students willing to apply under this category, including those who have already registered, will be allowed to do so from August onwards. However, no trials will be held and applicants will be scored out of 100 marks on four broad categories. These include participation, prizes, training, workshops and published works. Details on website A detailed break-up of the marking scheme will be put on the university’s website, the university said in a statement. Those scoring 20 marks or more, based on the uploaded certificates, will be eligible for the final merit list. Those eligible under this category will receive a maximum of 15% concession in academic merit compared to unreserved category applicants.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Conman arrested for duping woman of Rs. 17L||A conman has been arrested for allegedly duping a woman of Rs. 17 lakh on the pretext of marriage, the police said on Sunday. The 34-year-old accused, Anchit Chawla, often duped women, especially widows and divorcees of several lakh of rupees by posing as a businessman. He met these women through matrimonial sites, an officer said. The matter came to fore when a woman filed a complaint at Ashok Vihar police station alleging she was duped of Rs. 17 lakh by a man named Mudit Chawla, who she met in December 2018 on a matrimonial site. She alleged that Chawla claimed to own a bedsheet factory in south-west Delhi’s Palam and dealt in renting luxury cars to tour and travel agencies. She said the accused started interacting with her through e-mails, calls and WhatsApp. He used to demand small amounts from her, which he duly re-paid to win her confidence. He later convinced her to take personal loans from different banks to recover his business losses, the police said. When she insisted on marriage, he started avoiding her. Different names Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said based on the information provided by the complainant, intelligence was gathered and details were collected from the matrimonial website. It was found that the accused used many profiles with different names to evade arrest. “With the help of technical surveillance, our team managed to trace the accused from Palam Vihar Extension in Gurugram on Friday,” the officer said. During investigation, he was found to be previously involved in four other similar cases, the DCP said. Duped doctor of Rs. 15 L The police said Chawla had in the past posed as Security Chief of the Special Protection Group in PMO and duped a doctor of Rs. 15 lakh on the pretext of getting him a government job. In another case, he claimed to be the Personal Security Officer (PSO) of a political leader and duped him of many jewellers, police said. Recoveries made A laptop, two mobile phones, car and Aadhaar cards have been seized from his possession, they added.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Developer told to refund homebuyers||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has ordered the developers of Greenopolis housing project in Sector 89, Gurugram, to refund around Rs. 13 crore to 15 homebuyers for failing to deliver houses despite the bookings being made in 2012 and possession being due in 2015-16. The Commission also ordered the developers to complete the construction work and handover the flats to another 10 homebuyers before September 30 this year. It noted that the possession was to be given in 2016. “However, the construction is not yet complete,” it said.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC casts first pier of Phase IV work||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said it has achieved a construction milestone in its Phase IV work as the first pier on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg Metro corridor was cast on Saturday night. “The pier was cast at Keshopur on the elevated stretch between Keshopur and Mukarba Chowk last night. This major construction milestone has been achieved despite a severe shortage of manpower and other logistical challenges because of the ongoing pandemic,” the DMRC said. It added that the average height of the piers on this corridor is 10 metres with the height going up to 20 metres at Madhuban Chowk and 25 metres at Haiderpur Badli Mor. “At Haiderpur Badli Mor, the rail level is going to be the highest [28 metres] in the history of Delhi Metro. Currently, the highest point is at Dhaula Kuan where the Line 7 viaduct passes at a height of 23.6 metres,” the DMRC said. The 28.92-km-long Janakpuri West-R. K Ashram Marg corridor is an extension of Magenta Line and will come up with 22 stations. While 21.18 km of this corridor will be elevated, 7.74 km will be underground. The construction work on this particular section had started in December last. Under Phase IV, 61.679 km of new Metro lines will be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. Out of this, 22.35 km will be underground.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for fleeing with over Rs. 6L cash||A 29-year-old man was arrested for allegedly fleeing with over Rs. 6 lakh cash, which his employer had asked him to deposit in a bank in Kalkaji, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Rinku —, a driver, was arrested from U.P., they said. The matter came to notice after the owner of M/S Vishal Enterprise approached the police on July 18. The complainant alleged that he handed over Rs. 6,62,000 in cash to Rinku to deposit the amount in a bank. He left the shop on a motorcycle but neither did he deposit the amount nor did he return. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said Rs. 3,80,000 has been recovered from him. The accused said that last year, his family took a loan of Rs. 3.5 lakh for his sister’s marriage. He committed the crime as he was unable to repay the loan amount that increased to Rs. 5 lakh.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost in the lockdown||On the 13th day after her Ammama’s passing, chef Ruchira Hoon cooked her grandmother’s favourite foods – 18 dishes for a traditional pandigai sapaad (celebratory food, in Tamil). As she was coordinating with Dunzo to have it delivered all over the city, in lieu of the large family meal at home, her husband, a Christian, and her friend, a Muslim, sat down to attend a pooja on Zoom. All that the “flummoxed” priest in Uttarakhand could say was, “ Aap kar hi lo, kaise bhi ,” she recalls. Her only thought was for her mother, who had to grieve in isolation, given that she had COVID-19: “I was traumatised for her.” Between her and her Mama (mother’s brother) they decided that though he was in the city, he wouldn’t come when they heard of the death, because his wife was unwell and had low immunity. The situation meant the family had to coordinate with the Janakpuri RWA and make calls to the Indian Council of Medical Research and the police to understand protocols, given that the house had a member infected by the virus. “What makes it unusual is that we were not able to grieve together,” says Ms. Hoon, adding that she put the immediate family on a WhatsApp video when the last rites were done and the funeral pyre lit. In an extension of how online tech can connect, they fixed a date and time with people across the world in a sarva dharma prarthana (multi-religious prayer), where friends and family from across the world prayed for the departed soul. Instead of feeding Brahmins, a tradition her mother, who runs an NGO, and she didn’t see the point of, they distributed dry rations to the needy and fed the children of a slum area in the vicinity. New rituals and rhythms The sharing of uncooked food is something the Sikh community is increasingly doing. Instead of the langar that would happen with a number of people in attendance, after a death, people are reaching out to the less fortunate, says Gurvinder Pal Singh, the general secretary of Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha in Malviya Nagar. Since members of the community can no longer organise an Akhand Paath Sahib (a complete reading of the Guru Granth Sahib), “The Sukhmani Sahib (a part of the holy book) is performed by family members, either amongst a few, or on Zoom,” he says. With people unable to move freely even between States, let alone countries, Zoom prayer meetings are now par for the course. Dr. Meenakshi Ahuja, from Greater Kailash II, who lost her father-in-law to health complications related to kidney disease in the first phase of the unlock, says the family held the chautha ceremony with people across the world on the online platform – they found that 4-5 p.m. IST was the most convenient for people across time zones. She feels in some ways it was better: “The fact that it was everyone’s experience with my father-in-law, rather than our own sorrow, took the focus off us and put it on him.” She adds that it was in fact a period the family came closer and felt more bonded, spending time with each other, since people couldn’t come over. It hasn’t been that way for everyone. Vasant Kunj resident Dhananjaya Sharma, who lost his father, brother, and maternal grandmother during the COVID crisis, says what was most disturbing, besides the shock of losing three close relatives, albeit to reasons other than the virus, was that “the emotional support which the family needs through loved ones is not there.” His father’s ashes lay in the crematorium, like many others, for almost a month, and that “was an uncomfortable feeling”. To immerse the ashes, he found it hard to get an e-pass to cross borders and only managed to reach Garh Mukteshwar, not Haridwar, where he would have liked to have gone. There, finding a priest was also difficult, because of the fear of infection. Amidst procedural struggles, the constant news of COVID deaths, and a palpable silence and gloom all around, Mr. Sharma immersed his father’s and brother’s ashes together, something he had never thought he’d have to do.   Sorrow and fear  The fact that people can no longer say goodbye in the way they want to, can be disturbing. Rev. Mohit Hitter, presbyter-in-charge of the Cathedral Church of the Redemption on North Avenue, says that bodies are no longer taken to church for people to pay their last respects, and prayer meetings to comfort families and remember those who have passed cannot be held. It’s also the little inconveniences that can take on huge proportions at a time of loss. “Earlier, when someone died, I used to call up the graveyard and someone would make the arrangements there. The family [of the diseased] was not troubled. Now, for those who have died due to the infection, there’s a lot of paperwork and running around, so the support structure has been rendered useless, which is a problem, especially for nuclear families,” says Rev. Hitter. He adds that because there’s only one designated burial ground for Christians, in Mangolpuri, it can become a logistic complication. The fear is palpable at funerals – even when someone hasn’t died of COVID-19, people wonder whether the person could have been asymptomatic. This results in a hesitation to touch the body or even volunteer as pall-bearers, he says. At the site of the grave, where earlier books would have been used to sing and pronounce the liturgy, printouts are now taken, so they can be disposed of immediately after. The lack of pall-bearers in the initial days of the lockdown is something Dharamveer Pandey, a pandit at the Lodhi Crematorium, also registered. Where once there would have been about 50, or even 100 family members, friends, and colleagues coming in for support, today, there are no more than 20, and they’re mostly family; colleagues rarely come. Rallying around  Anil Kumar Kaul, from Malviya Nagar, whose wife was COVID-19 positive and died of a heart attack, says he understands that it was best that not too many people came to visit. What he is cut up with is the way they were summoned to the hospital. “She was at home for three days, and was doing fine,” he says. Then they got a call from the DM’s office that seemed to be less advice and more threat. “They told us you have to decide immediately, or we will send you to a hospital of our choice.” Mr. Kaul feels the hospitalisation was unnecessary, considering his wife’s was a mild case. She was transferred to Taj Vivanta, and passed away there. He says the family didn’t face any trouble with the cremation or any stigma – the calls pouring in are a testimony to this. Many have asked people not to come home. Kavita Khanna, from RK Puram, says her daughter drafted a note on her grandmother’s death, asking people to stay at home and safe. Even as her grandmother was in the hospital with lung trouble, father and daughter had slept in the car a whole month, because Apollo Hospitals, where she was admitted, had COVID-19 patients. To ease the hassle of paperwork and processes, Ms. Khanna and her family opted for a company that offered funeral services, Antim Yatra, but she still remembers the hassle of crossing the border in Uttarakhand. The difficulty with borders is something Murad Ali Baig also recalls. His wife of 25 years, sick from cancer, couldn’t meet her brother who lived in Gurugram, traumatic for both of them. The lockdown also caused other disruptions, like a reliance on home delivery for medication and the fact that the 12-hour nurse had to stay with them 24 hours, making payment double. When his wife of over 25 years passed, the Lodhi Crematorium, “felt empty and bare and it lacked the warmth that family and friends bring,” says Mr. Baig, who had to ask many people not to come.  Micro celebrations   On her birthday, a couple of months after her passing, Mr. Baig, one of India’s first auto writers, says they had a socially distant “micro party” of four people at home “to celebrate Tannie’s life rather than mourn her death,” in accordance with her wishes. Mr. Baig’s granddaughter strung together a bunch of photographs of the couple’s travels around the world for a presentation, and the small group ate cake and drank some wine, reliving the cookbook author’s life and vivacity. In a very different situation, Mohammed Anjum Kamali took a bus to Muzaffarpur, arranged by the members of the Jeevan Stambh Foundation, a team of volunteers working on migrant travel. Mr. Kamali, who works as an electrician in Sarai Kale Khan, had run out of money through the lockdown. Sometime in the second week of June, desperate to get home with his family of six, to his father ailing from blood cancer, he called Sonam Chaturvedi, of the foundation, at midnight, asking for help to reach Bihar. His father had not able to make the monthly trip to Delhi for treatment and medicines because of the lockdown. “ Pahunchne ke do-chaar din baad mere father-in-law guzar gaye, aur uske baad mere papa ,” he says, grateful that the family could be by their side. “ Unhone itna help kiya ,” he says of the foundation. “ Jitni unki tareef karoon utna kam padega ,” says Mr. Kamali, who is now back in Delhi, where work has resumed.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Curbs on 65+ artistes not discriminatory’||The decision to restrain artistes above 65 years from attending shoots on film and television sets was taken in the interest of their safety and not to discriminate against them, the Maharashtra government informed the Bombay High Court in an affidavit on Saturday.  The affidavit was filed by Prasad Mahajan, under secretary, Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, in response to a petition filed by Pramod Pandey, a 70-year-old artiste, challenging the government’s guidelines issued on May 30 that no cast/crew member above the age of 65 years will be allowed to enter film and television shooting sets. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla will take up the plea for final hearing next week. The petitioner said he made a living by doing small roles in films and TV serials and had no other source of livelihood. He said though he is physically fit, he is not allowed to go to studios and participate in shootings.  ‘In sync with old orders’ The government in the affidavit said all its orders passed from time to time in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic specifically request senior citizens and children to stay at home and go out only for essential work and health reasons. “The said condition is not to deprive any cast/crew members above the age of 65 years nor can it be termed as discriminatory as interest of the cast and crew has been protected and balance is maintained by permitting them to either work from home or over videoconferencing or other video sharing apps,” the affidavit said. The government said artistes unable to go to the studios can work from home like employees of private offices and earn their livelihood. The affidavit said, “If this too is not possible, alternative arrangements should be adopted for earning livelihood and survival in this COVID-19 pandemic situation.” ‘Didn’t consider data’ The court on Tuesday had asked the government if it relied on any data or statistics before passing the order. Replying to it, the affidavit said, “No data/reports/statistics were taken into consideration before issuing the impugned guidelines.”  The government said the petitioner may be physically fit, but the fact remains that one never knows when a person can get infected by the virus. “If the Central government relaxes its guidelines pertaining to persons above the age of 65 years, then the State government would also adopt the same,” the affidavit said.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||Industrialisation has reduced Nag river to a cursed lady: HC||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently noted that the Nag river, from which Nagpur city derives its name, “used to be a vibrant and clear rivulet, reverberating with life and giving life force like a mother to her children, is now reduced to a cursed lady, thanks to industrialisation and urbanisation and alienation of the river by her own children.” A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and N.B. Suryawanshi was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation regarding the concern and sentiment of every citizen of Nagpur for the neglect of, and polluting and spoiling, Nag river. The court said, “Citizens of Nagpur have, over a period of time, suffered in silence as they witnessed transformation of the Nag river, gradually losing its pristinus, into a stinking channel of sewage, filth and industrial waste.” The court added, “Even the temples which stood tall, adorning the banks of the river, today wear a forlorn look, perhaps in sadness over the present state of the Nag river.” Nagpur Municipal Corporation informed the court that some efforts have been taken and some are still being implemented to clean up the river. The court however said, “We find that these efforts may not be enough, in as much as they are also temporary in nature. Something more making a permanent impact would have to be done, if the river is to be cleaned up and restored to its original position.” The Bench remarked that unless a comprehensive plan dealing with all aspects of the clean-up, beautification and maintenance of the river is drawn up, “no major success in restoring the river to its original state is going to be achieved”. The court said major sources polluting the river included industrial effluents, sewage water originating from slums, houses and establishments situated within the limits of the corporation, free roaming of pigs on the banks of the river and also in the shallow ponds formed along the course of river. Dumping of garbage directly into the river, washing of clothes, animals and vehicles on the banks of river, encroachments into catchment areas, and indiscriminate felling of trees were other pollutants. The court directed civic authorities to submit their comprehensive plan regarding the “preparation and sanction to revive the river”.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||Couple loses Rs. 2.35 lakh to remote access fraud||A 34-year-old school teacher and her husband lost Rs. 2.35 lakh from their savings accounts after they were conned twice in quick succession by a fraudster, according to a complaint registered with the Khandeshwar police. On July 20, while the complainant, a resident of Khanda colony, was taking an online class, she received a call. A caller ID app showed the number belonged to ‘Karan Srivastav KYC Center’ and the caller introduced himself with the same name. He had called to update her KYC for a Paytm account, he told her, and asked her to update her email address on the payment app. When she was unable to do so, he asked her to download Team Viewer quick support application and share an access code it provided. She was then asked to make a transaction of Rs. 1, at which she tried to disconnect the call. The caller, however, said that this would mean the process would remain incomplete, and asked her to stay online and make sure that her phone screen does not go blank. As per the complaint, after 10 minutes on the call, the caller said the process was over and disconnected. Later, the teacher saw various OTPs and transaction messages on her phone and realised that the accused had made five transactions worth Rs. 1.45 lakh from her account. The woman called back on the accused’s number, complaining about the money being fraudulently transferred out, to which he said he would send the money back if she could share a different account’s details. The money couldn’t be returned to her account, the accused claimed. The teacher then shared her husband’s bank account details, and was asked to download ICICI Bank’s netbanking application and another app called Any Desk. The accused also sought details of her husband’s debit card. He once again instructed that the phone screen should not be off and asked the woman to check if any money had been credited to her account. After a while, he disconnected the call saying that the money would be credited in a while. However, the complainant realised that Rs. 90,000 had been debited from her husband’s account as well. The two rushed to their respective banks and filled a dispute form and on July 23, registered a complaint with the police on the charges of cheating with personation. “The applications the accused asked the woman to download were remote access applications, which enabled the conman to access the other person’s phone sitting anywhere in the world. With the help of the cyber cell, we are investigating the case further,” said senior police inspector Shyam Shinde, Khandeshwar police station.
27 July 2020||Mumbai,||Ram temple bhoomi pujan can be done via video link: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya can be conducted through videoconferencing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Thackeray, who is also the president of the Shiv Sena, said, “This is not an ordinary temple. Today, we are fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic and religious gatherings are prohibited. I can go to Ayodhya for the ceremony, but what about lakhs of Rambhakts. Will you stop them? You can do e-bhoomi pujanthrough videoconferencing.” According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the bhoomi pujan ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple. “This is an event of joy, and lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony. Will we allow the spread of coronavirus?” Mr. Thackeray said, in an interview published in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on July 26. Mr. Thackeray recalled that the last time he had gone to Ayodhya, he was stopped from performing aarti at the Saryu river due to the outbreak of the pandemic. “Before that, I had seen huge crowds on the river banks. Ram Mandir is a matter of faith. How can you stop people from going there?” he asked. Mr. Thackeray had visited Ayodhya in March to commemorate 100 days in office. He assumed office as the Chief Minister of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on November 28 last year.  Lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony. Will we allow the spread of coronavirus? Uddhav Thackeray Chief Minister
27 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Woman gives birth at Igatpuri railway station||A 29-year-old pregnant woman travelling on a Mumbai-Varanasi special train, gave birth at Igatpuri railway station on Sunday. The woman, identified as Priyanka Singh, boarded the train from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and went into labour as it neared Igatpuri station at 2.50 a.m. Awadesh Kumar, deputy station manager, then called the railway health unit for assistance. A team led by Dr. Jyotsana, additional divisional medical officer, attended to the woman and advised her to alight at Igatpuri station. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, said, “Arrangements were made to rush Ms. Singh to hospital, but she delivered a healthy boy at the station’s medical room with the assistance of the medical team. The newborn and the mother were then shifted to the rural hospital in Igatpuri for postnatal treatment.” On June 25, Sony Devi (30), who was travelling to Patna by Lokmanya Tilak Patna Patliputra Express, delivered a baby in the train before it could reach Igatpuri station.
27 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra cases cross 3.75 lakh with 5th consecutive 9,000+ surge||Maharashtra reported 9,431 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 3,75,799. This is the fifth consecutive day that the State has recorded a spike of over 9,000 cases. The State also reported 267 more fatalities, pushing its cumulative death toll to 13,656. With 1,101 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has surged to 1,09,161, while 57 more deaths have raised its toll to 6,093. The city accounts for 22,536 of the 1,48,601 active cases in the State, said Health Department officials. The State’s cumulative tally of recoveries has gone up to 2,13,238, with 6,044 patients being discharged on Sunday. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “The State’s recovery rate has marginally risen to 56.74%, while its case fatality rate has dropped to 3.63%.” 2,500 new cases in Pune Pune district reported yet another massive surge of over 2,500 cases, taking its cumulative case load to 76,203. The district also recorded 55 more deaths, pushing its death toll to 1,793. There are 25,617 active cases in the district. Jalgaon district reported 15 deaths, pushing its cumulative toll to 476. The district, a major hotspot in north Maharashtra, also recorded 159 new cases, taking its total case tally to 9,084, of which 2,500 are active. Nashik reported a massive surge of 434 cases as its total case load rose to 12,618, of which 5,194 are active. Of the total cases, Malegaon, once a hotbed of the virus, reported just 11 cases. With five more fatalities being reported on Sunday, the district’s death toll has climbed to 426. The situation remained grim in Solapur district in the Pune division, which reported a spike of 342 cases, taking its total tally to 7,771, of which 3,706 are active. The district also recorded eight new fatalities, pushing its death toll to 443. Cases and fatalities continued to mount in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Thane reported another big spike of 514 cases as the district’s total case tally crossed the 31,000 mark. The district also reported 23 more deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 929. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 358 new cases, pushing its total case tally to 21,058. As many as nine new deaths were reported, raising the civic body’s total death toll to 377. Navi Mumbai reported a big surge of 406 cases to take its cumulative case load to 15,238. With eight more fatalities, the civic body’s death toll has surged to 402. Raigad district reported a huge spike of 309 cases, pushing its total tally to 8,173, while 12 deaths took its cumulative death toll to 147. Big spike in Aurangabad Aurangabad district saw a massive spurt of 263 cases as its total case tally reached 11,812. Of these, 4,901 are active cases. With nine more deaths reported across the district on Sunday, its death toll has risen to 444. “Till date, of a total of 18,86,296 laboratory samples, 3,75,799 (19.92%) have tested positive for the virus. Nearly 50,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said Dr. Awate. He said 9,08,420 people across the State are in home quarantine. while 44,276 are housed in institutional quarantine facilities.  The State’s recovery rate has marginally risen to 56.74%, while its case fatality rate has dropped to 3.63% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer
27 July 2020||Pune,||Pune to monitor bed shortage in hospitals||In an effort to reduce Pune’s COVID-19 case fatality rate and address the alleged shortage of beds, the Pune civic body has begun clinically monitoring hospitals. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has directed private hospitals to install an app called iHealWell Patient Care and update it regularly with data on all their critical patients. Speaking to The Hindu , Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said hospitals would be required to mandatorily update details on the status of beds available, the number of critical patients occupying those beds, and the treatment being administered to them on the iHealWell digital platform. Updates in four hours “The details are to be updated every four hours. Teams from the civic body will be conducting random checks at hospitals to ensure the details were being regularly updated on the software,” Ms. Agarwal said, adding that 20 private hospitals had already downloaded the civic body’s clinical monitoring app. She said all hospital staff are to be trained on how to use the app, while the details of all critical patients would be fed into it. “For this app to be effective, hospital staff have been instructed to capture at least one reading per shift for all critical patients. This would help us better understand the clinical outcome trends in real time,” Ms. Agarwal said.  With Pune witnessing an average daily surge of 1,200 cases over the past fortnight, the administration has been scrambling to ramp up the overstretched medical infrastructure. A rash of complaints from citizens have been directed against the allegedly poor planning and foresight of the district administration in recent weeks regarding the alleged unavailability of intensive care unit (ICU) or oxygen beds in the city’s major hospitals. To make matters worse, there have been cases of desperate citizens seeking treatment, but being turned away by hospitals owing to lack of beds, resulting in the death of a patient on occasion. Refuting suggestions of an actual shortage in critical care beds, Ms. Agarwal said, “It has been observed that 30% of the beds meant for critical care patients are being occupied by persons with mild symptoms. This has resulted in critically ill patients not receiving adequate treatment on time. We are determined to eliminate these problems and this digital platform will help us in resolving it.” As per the PMC’s own projected estimates, the city’s total case tally is likely to exceed 2.03 lakh cases by the end of August, with 91,000 active cases.  Massive shortfall The civic body’s data further projects a shortfall of 652 oxygen beds, 848 ICU beds and 374 ventilator beds by July-end itself. The city’s active case tally now stands at over 17,700, which is projected to rise to 27,000 by the end of the month. The city has seen more than 1,200 COVID-19 related deaths in the last four months, while nearly 700 patients are reportedly in a critical condition.
27 July 2020||Seoul,||N. Korea reports first case as global infections top 16 million||North Korea declared its first suspected COVID-19 case on Sunday, becoming one of the last countries to do so as the number of people infected worldwide passed 16 million. The isolated, impoverished state had until now insisted it had not detected a single COVID-19 case — even as the pandemic swept the planet, overwhelming health systems and trashing the global economy. At least 6,45,000 people around the world have succumbed to the respiratory disease, with the United States continuing to be the worst-hit country by far. “The vicious virus could be said to have entered the country,” leader Kim Jong-un said, according to the official KCNA news agency. Authorities locked down the city of Kaesong, near the frontier with South Korea, as state media said a defector who left for the South three years ago had returned and was suspected to be infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. But experts believe the contagion is likely to have already entered North Korea from neighbouring China, where the new disease emerged late last year. Uptick in most countries The pandemic’s spread is still accelerating, with more than five million cases declared since July — a third of the total number of cases since the catastrophe began. Even in recent days there has been an alarming uptick in infections, including in places that had appeared to have controlled their outbreaks. One of those was Australia, which on Sunday suffered its deadliest day since the pandemic began, with 10 fatalities and a rise in new infections despite an intense lockdown effort. “These things change rapidly, but we have to say these numbers are far too high,” said Daniel Andrews, Premier of Victoria State, where the latest outbreak is centred. Around a quarter of the world’s 16 million confirmed COVID-19 cases are in the United States, which recorded more than 68,000 new infections in the past 24 hours. After a drop in transmission rates in late spring, the country has seen a virus surge — particularly in California, Florida and Texas, which is also bracing for the first Atlantic hurricane of the year. Daily U.S. fatalities have exceeded 1,000 for the past four days, rapidly increasing the country’s death toll to more than 1,46,000. “I’m still concerned that America doesn’t take it as seriously as the rest of the world,” said British golf star Lee Westwood, voicing his hesitation to travel there despite a new quarantine exemption for professional golfers. In Latin America and the Caribbean, which also count for a quarter of total cases, governments are not planning a return to normality any time soon. New Year’s Eve celebrations on Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro have been cancelled as Brazil grapples with a spiralling virus crisis. “There is no great reason to celebrate, with more than 80,000 deaths” from COVID-19 in Brazil, said an official. U.K.’s rule for Spain Meanwhile, Europe has reported around three million infections — despite being largely open for summer holidays within the continent. However in a snap decision, Britain’s government said passengers arriving from Spain will have to self-isolate for two weeks, after a surge in cases in the Mediterranean country, with health officials pointing to night life as a possible culprit. The move, effective from Sunday, has reportedly caught out its Transport Minister Grant Shapps who is holidaying there. “Various government Ministers would have known in advance there was a possibility of imposing a quarantine on holidaymakers returning from Spain,” tweeted Opposition MP Diane Abbot. “But apparently no-one bothered to tell @grantshapps,” she joked. It marked another hit to Spain’s tourism industry, which is desperately seeking a rebound after lockdowns and border closures pushed around 13% of bars, hotels and restaurants to permanently close. It mirrors the fiscal pain wrought around the world by the pandemic, particularly in precarious economies where livelihoods are fast crumbling.
27 July 2020||Dubai,||‘Whitening’ undergoes a makeover but colourism stays||The world’s biggest cosmetics companies have been selling a fairy tale that often goes something like this: if your colleagues dismiss you at work, if your talents are ignored, whiten your skin to turn your love life around, boost your career and command centre stage. No company has had greater success peddling this message across Asia, Africa and West Asia than Unilever’s Fair & Lovely brand, which sells millions of tubes of skin lightening cream annually. The 45-year-old brand earns the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate Unilever more than $500 million in yearly revenue in India alone, according to Jefferies financial analysts. Following decades of pervasive advertising promoting the power of lighter skin, a re-branding is hitting shelves globally. But it’s unlikely that fresh marketing by the world’s biggest brands in beauty will reverse deeply rooted prejudices around “colourism,” the idea that fair skin is better than dark skin. ‘Glow & Lovely’ Unilever said it is removing words like “fair”, “white” and “light” from its marketing and packaging, explaining the decision as a move toward “a more inclusive vision of beauty.” Unilever’s Indian subsidiary, Hindustan Unilever Limited, said the Fair & Lovely brand will instead be known as “Glow & Lovely.” French cosmetics giant L’Oreal followed suit, saying it too would remove similar wording from its products. Johnson & Johnson said it will stop selling Neutrogena’s fairness and skin-whitening lines altogether. The makeover is happening in the wake of mass protests against racial injustice following the death of George Floyd. At the Skin and Body International beauty clinic in South Africa, owner Tabby Kara said she sees a lot of people inquiring about going one or two shades lighter. “It’s a general demand in Africa,” she said. “People do want to be a bit fairer simply because society expects or is more interested in the fairness of a person.” India’s cultural fixation with lighter skin is embedded in daily matrimonial ads. The Hindu caste system has helped uphold some of the bias. Japanese, Korean brands In Japan, pale translucent skin has been coveted since at least the 11th Century. So-called “bihaku” products, based on the Japanese characters for “beauty” and “white,” remain popular today among major brands. The high-end Tokyo-based skin care brand Shiseido says none of its “bihaku” products contain ingredients that bleach skin, but do reduce melanin that can lead to blemishes. The company says it has no plans to change its product names, including the “White Lucent” line. In South Korea, the words “whitening” or “mibaek” have been used in about 1,200 kinds of cosmetics products since 2001, according to the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety.  Alex Malouf, a Dubai-based marketing executive, said companies had been playing to different audiences around the world but are now paying attention to the societal changes happening in the U.S. and Europe, where shareholders are primarily based. L’Oreal tweeted last month it “stands in solidarity with the Black community and against injustice of any kind.” Its products in the U.S. include the Dark & Lovely brand, aimed at black women. Outside the U.S., however, the company was marketing its “White Perfect” line for a “fair, flawless complexion.”
27 July 2020||Kabul,||Afghan forces are re-arresting freed prisoners, says Taliban||The Taliban accused Afghan security forces on Sunday of re-arresting insurgents who had been released as part of a crucial prisoner swap meant to kick-start peace talks. It said the National Directorate of Security (NDS) had detained an unspecified number of insurgents released under the exchange programme, warning Kabul would “bear responsibility for the consequences”. “They are incessantly raided, detained and put behind the bar by NDS of the Kabul (administration),” Taliban political spokesman Suhail Shaheen said on Twitter. Javid Faisal, the spokesman for Afghanistan’s National Security Council, said the claim was “incorrect”. “It is their way of sabotaging the peace efforts and the peace talks that should start,” he said. The prisoner swap has been a major stumbling block in getting Kabul and the Taliban to start peace talks. Under a deal between the U.S. and the Taliban, the Afghan government is supposed to release 5,000 insurgent prisoners while the Taliban free 1,000 government inmates. Kabul has released most of the 5,000 but the NDS has said some of the Taliban inmates are returning to the battlefield. Peace talks were originally supposed to begin March 10 but the deadline passed amid political disarray in Kabul and as the prisoner swap stalled. In the months since, violence levels have soared across Afghanistan, with the Taliban carrying out near-daily attacks against security forces.
27 July 2020||Seattle,||1 killed during Texas Black Lives Matter protest||One person was killed when several shots were fired amid a Black Lives Matter protest in downtown Austin, Texas, on Saturday, authorities said. Footage posted during a Facebook Live showed the moment when several shots rang out in the Texas capital as about 100 people marched and chanted, “Fists up! Fight back!” Austin police and emergency medical services said on Twitter that one person was killed during the shooting. There were no other deaths or people shot, according to the EMS department. Initial reports indicate the suspect was carrying a rifle and shot the victim, who was in his car, police said. The suspect has been detained, they said. Protests against racism and police brutality were sparked worldwide following the May killing of African American George Floyd, who died in police custody in Minneapolis. Meanwhile, police in Seattle used flash-bang grenades and pepper spray on Saturday against protesters who set fire to construction trailers outside a youth jail, amid a wave of public anger over President Donald Trump’s planned “surge” of federal agents into major cities.  The Seattle Times newspaper quoted police as saying 16 people were arrested on suspicion of assault against officers, obstruction and failure to disperse. The latest spasm of violence came after police and federal agents fired tear gas and forcefully dispersed protesters further south in Portland early on Saturday, also in anger over Mr. Trump’s heavily-criticised “surge” of security forces. Mr. Trump announced on Wednesday a “surge” of federal agents to crime hotspots. Agents deployed will partner with local law enforcement, not riot control forces as seen in Portland.
27 July 2020||Colombo,||Advance polling for people under quarantine||Sri Lanka has set July 31 as the date for advance voting for persons under quarantine, National Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya said on Sunday ahead of the August 5 vote. Over 16 million voters are registered to vote on August 5 to elect a 225-member Parliament for a 5-year term. “The pandemic has forced the election authorities to set an advance polling day for those under quarantine,” Mr. Deshapriya said. “Now those under quarantine would be allowed to vote on July 31,” he said. Mr. Deshapriya said the identities of the voters under home quarantine would not be revealed to the media. This will be the first ever election in Sri Lanka to have an advance polling date other than the postal voting for persons on election duties. Sri Lanka has already extended the polling time for the twice-postponed August 5 parliamentary elections by one hour after conducting several mock polls. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on March 2 dissolved the Parliament, six months ahead of schedule, and called for snap polls on April 25. However, the Election Commission in mid-April postponed the elections by nearly two months.
27 July 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||24 feared drowned off Malaysia||A Rohingya migrant is feared to be the only survivor from a boat carrying at least two dozen asylum seekers that is believed to have run into difficulty off the Malaysian coast near Thailand, a coast guard official said on Sunday. Mohamad Zawawi Abdullah, coast guard chief for the northern States of Kedah and Perlis, said Nor Hossain was detained by the police after he swam to shore on the island of Langkawi. “Based on information from police, the migrant had jumped off the boat that had 24 others and he was the only one who managed to swim to shore safely,” said Mr. Zawawi. It is not clear what happened to the boat.
27 July 2020||Dar es Salaam,||Dar es Salaam, July 26, 2020 (AFP) -||Former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa was suffering from malaria and died of a heart attack, his family said on Sunday, scotching rumours that he succumbed to COVID-19. Mkapa, who ruled the East African country for two terms from 1995 to 2005, died early Friday aged 81.AFP
27 July 2020||London,||London, July 26, 2020 (AFP) -||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to roll out a £10 million anti-obesity campaign, including junk food advert bans, following his own brush with death that he partly blamed on his weight. Mr. Johnson will announce his “Better Health” campaign on Monday.AFP
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The chilling effect of criminal contempt||These are strange times we are going through right now. The pandemic has brought all activities to a virtual standstill. Even as workplaces and institutions are slowly and tentatively getting back on their feet, the focus is on ensuring that the more important things get done first. Priorities are being identified accordingly. For the Supreme Court of India, identifying priority cases to take up first (in a pandemic-constricted schedule) ought not to be very difficult: there are dozens of constitutional cases that need to be desperately addressed, such as the constitutionality of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the electoral bonds matter, or the issue of habeas corpus petitions from Jammu and Kashmir. It is disappointing that instead of taking up matters of absolute urgency in these peculiar times, the Supreme Court chose to take umbrage at two tweets. It said that these tweets “brought the administration of justice in disrepute and are capable of undermining the dignity and authority of the institution... and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular….” Its response to these two tweets was to initiate suo motu proceedings for criminal contempt against the author of those tweets, the lawyer and social activist, Prashant Bhushan. This need to “respect the authority and dignity of the court” has monarchical origins from when the King of England delivered judgments himself. But over the centuries, with this adjudicatory role now having been handed over to judges, showing extreme deference to judges does not sit well with the idea of a democracy. The U.K. Law Commission in a 2012 report recommending the abolition of the law of contempt said that the law was originally intended to maintain a “blaze of glory” around courts. It said that the purpose of the offence was not “confined to preventing the public from getting the wrong idea about judges... but that where there are shortcomings, it is equally important to prevent the public from getting the right idea”. A wide field in India The objective for contempt is stated to be to safeguard the interests of the public, if the authority of the Court is denigrated and public confidence in the administration of justice is weakened or eroded. But the definition of criminal contempt in India is extremely wide, and can be easily invoked. Suo motu powers of the Court to initiate such proceedings only serve to complicate matters. And truth and good faith were not recognised as valid defences until 2006, when the Contempt of Courts Act was amended. Nevertheless, the Delhi High Court, despite truth and good faith raised as defences, proceeded to sentence the employees of Mid-Day for contempt of court for portraying a retired Chief Justice of India in an unfavourable light. It comes as no surprise that Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer famously termed the law of contempt as having a vague and wandering jurisdiction, with uncertain boundaries; contempt law, regardless of public good, may unwittingly trample upon civil liberties. It is for us to determine what is the extent of such trampling we are willing to bear. On the face of it, a law for criminal contempt is completely asynchronous with our democratic system which recognises freedom of speech and expression as a fundamental right. An excessively loose use of the test of ‘loss of public confidence’, combined with a liberal exercise of suo motu powers, can be dangerous, for it can amount to the Court signalling that it will not suffer any kind of critical commentary about the institution at all, regardless of how evidently problematic its actions may be. In this manner, the judiciary could find itself at an uncanny parallel with the executive, in using laws for chilling effect. Besides needing to revisit the need for a law on criminal contempt, even the test for contempt needs to be evaluated. If such a test ought to exist at all, it should be whether the contemptuous remarks in question actually obstruct the Court from functioning. It should not be allowed to be used as a means to prevent any and all criticism of an institution. Obsolete abroad Already, contempt has practically become obsolete in foreign democracies, with jurisdictions recognising that it is an archaic law, designed for use in a bygone era, whose utility and necessity has long vanished. Canada ties its test for contempt to real, substantial and immediate dangers to the administration, whereas American courts also no longer use the law of contempt in response to comments on judges or legal matters. In England, too, from where we have inherited the unfortunate legacy of contempt law, the legal position has evolved. After the celebrated Spycatcher judgment was delivered in the late 1980s by the House of Lords, the British tabloid, the Daily Mirror , published an upside-down photograph of the Law Lords with the caption, “You Old Fools”. Refusing to initiate contempt action against the newspaper, one judge on the Bench, Lord Templeton, reportedly said, “I cannot deny that I am Old; It’s the truth. Whether I am a fool or not is a matter of perception of someone else.. There is no need to invoke the powers of contempt.” Even when, in 2016, the Daily Mail ran a photo of the three judges who issued the Brexit ruling with the caption “Enemies of the People”, which many considered excessive, the courts judiciously and sensibly ignored the story, and did not commence contempt proceedings. But Indian courts have not been inclined — or at least, not always — to display the same maturity and unruffled spirit as their peers elsewhere. An exception lay in Justice S.P. Bharucha’s response to Arundhati Roy’s criticism of the Supreme Court for vacating the stay for constructing a dam: although holding that Ms. Roy had brought disrepute to the Court, nothing further was done, for “the court’s shoulders [were] broad enough to shrug off [these] comments”. But this magnanimity was sadly undone when contempt proceedings were initiated against the author for leading a demonstration outside the court, and filing an affidavit, where she said “it indicates a disquieting inclination on the part of the Court to silence criticism and silence dissent, to harass and intimidate those who disagree with it. By entertaining a petition based on an FIR that even a local police station does not see fit to act upon, the Supreme Court is doing its own reputation and credibility considerable harm”. For “scandalising its authority with mala fide intentions”, she was punished for contempt of court, and sentenced to a day’s imprisonment, with fine. It is regrettable that judges believe that silencing criticism will harbour respect for the judiciary. On the contrary, surely, any efforts to artificially prevent free speech will only exacerbate the situation further. As was pointed out in the landmark U.S. case of Bridges v. California (1941), “an enforced silence would probably engender resentment, suspicion, and contempt for the bench, not the respect it seeks”. Surely, this is not what the Court might desire. Two observations and a link Simultaneous with the Indian Supreme Court’s decision to commence contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan, the Pakistan Supreme Court hinted at banning YouTube and other social media platforms, for hosting what it termed ‘objectionable content’ that ‘incited hatred’ for institutions such as the army, the judiciary, the executive, and so on. The eerie similarity between the two sets of observations raises concerns about which direction the Indian Supreme Court sees itself heading. One can only hope that these fears are unwarranted. Justice A.P. Shah is retired Chief Justice, Delhi and Madras High Courts, and former Chairperson, Law Commission of India
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The fall of Hong Kong||In 1982, when they were discussing Hong Kong’s fate, Deng Xiaoping said to Margaret Thatcher, “Horses will still run, stocks will still sizzle, dancers will still dance.” London’s 99-year lease over most of the colony was to expire 15  years later. Hong Kong Island and part of the Kowloon Peninsula, though, had been ceded to Britain in perpetuity. Deng wanted to bring the whole territory under Chinese control in 1997. His line about horses, stocks, and dancers was meant to convince Thatcher that the city could become part of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) without losing its distinctive features. Offering an an attractive vision Deng died a few months before the Hong Kong handover of July 1, 1997. While he never got to see the territory of the PRC expand, he did live to see two documents drafted that spelled out how the brashly capitalist city was to function as part of a Communist Party-run state. First came the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration. It explained that a “one country, two systems” structure would take effect in 1997 and last 50 years. Hong Kong would enjoy a “high degree of autonomy” as a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China. The local “way of life” would continue, while Beijing oversaw defence and diplomacy. Then came the detailed 1990 Basic Law. It seemed to offer Hong Kong’s people an attractive vision of life from 1997 until 2047. They would no longer be colonial subjects, but they would retain appealing parts of the status quo: a more independent judiciary, a freer press, and stronger rights of assembly and speech than mainland cities. An official selected locally would head Hong Kong’s government; over time, residents would even get to choose this Chief Executive. The big question was whether Beijing would keep the promises enshrined in these documents. In 1984, Deng was taking China in a liberalising direction, so it was easy to feel hopeful about Hong Kong’s future. A year before the Basic Law was finalised, however, soldiers gunned down civilians in Beijing, crushing 1989’s protest wave and raising doubts about Deng’s trustworthiness. Thatcher was among those who did not lose faith — or, at least, did not admit to doing so. A year after 1989’s June 4th Massacre, she said that, while appalled by that event, she was heartened that Deng continued to embrace the economic liberalisation that, she remained sure, would bring political liberalisation. She also said that China’s leaders would surely respect their pledge to allow Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy after 1997. For they’d want the “forum of the world” to consider them people of their word. After the 1997 handover, hope persisted that Thatcher was right. Hong Kong’s courts remained fiercely independent. Its newspapers criticised national as well as local policies. A popular satirical television show, “Headliner,” shifted from mocking colonial authorities to mocking representatives of the new order. Democracy was elusive (fewer than 2,000 people got to vote for the Chief Executive, and then just for candidates vetted by Beijing), but it seemed possible that could change. One ideal date to appraise Hong Kong’s distinctiveness became June 4. Each year, the local government gave organisers permission to hold a large vigil honouring the victims of 1989’s massacre, while public commemoration of the killing was forbidden across the mainland. In 2020, for the first time, the June 4 commemoration was banned. Officially, approval for the vigil was withheld because of the pandemic. However, COVID-19 was largely under control in early June, religious gatherings were being allowed, and the police were turning a blind eye to big parties at bars. The real key difference this June 4 was Beijing’s announcement in May that, tired of waiting for the local government to pass an anti-sedition law, it was going to impose one. The National Security Law (NSL) makes it possible for not just various actions but also various forms of expression to be treated as proof that someone is subversive. Undermining Basic Law Now that the NSL is in place, it is likely that there will be no more legal June 4 vigils. More broadly, the NSL shatters the “one country, two systems” framework, except insofar as there remains a separate system for making and spending money. It now seems that instead of taking Deng’s 1982 statement seriously, it should have been taken literally. Going forward, Hong Kong will remain a place where horses, dancers, and stocks behave in distinctive ways, but little else differentiates it from mainland cities. “The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall enact laws on its own [our emphasis] to prohibit any act of treason, secession, sedition, subversion against the Central People’s Government,” Article 23 of the Basic Law states, yet Beijing has usurped the authority to do the enacting. This would provide perfect fodder for a “Headliner” skit — but the show has been cancelled. Local courts have continued to dismiss charges against some activists arrested before the NSL went into effect, but in the new order, alleged violators of vaguely defined decrees can be whisked across the border to be tried by courts that virtually never fail to convict those deemed dissidents. The “high degree of autonomy” until 2047 promise has run out more than 25 years early. Beijing presents the NSL as responding to the 2019 protests that roiled Hong Kong. Its goal, the official media says, is to restore law and order. Only a small number of radicals advocating independence or bent on destruction will be affected. But these assertions fly in the face of recent history. Even before the NSL passed, some local residents were pointing out that many features of the imaginary tightly controlled Hong Kong of 2025 portrayed in the 2015 film Ten Years could be seen in the current city. On July 1, nearly 400 protesters were arrested, 10 of them specifically for breaking the brand new NSL. Hundreds of Hong Kong Twitter users have raced to delete their accounts, fearing that a tweet quoting a now-taboo slogan or song title could lead to them disappearing into a mainland prison. Newspapers are eliminating political cartoons. And the law was no sudden response to 2019. It is the most extreme, but just the latest, move that undermines Basic Law guarantees. In 2018, the Kowloon West train station opened with a section controlled by mainland security forces. In 2016, a Hong Kong court was considering whether two members of the local legislature should be disqualified for their behaviour. Beijing stepped in and decided the matter. And so on. But “horses still run,” as Deng promised. As the spring racing season ended, The Standard celebrated the conclusion of “an incredible season for the Hong Kong Jockey Club.” If we accept the idea that “one country, two systems” means that Hong Kong is like a mainland city, but with horse racing, that will conform with President Xi Jinping’s vision. Perhaps Beijing is no longer concerned with appearing trustworthy in the “forum of the world,” or feels this forum is so eroded as to be irrelevant. Mr. Xi does not seem to feel beholden to protect a true “one country, two systems” framework — the kind in which Hong Kong would enjoy “a high degree of autonomy,” retain “executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication,” and be nothing like a colony. By contrast, a colonial city is what it is again, or resembles, just with Beijing rather than London calling the shots. James Carter teaches history at St. Joseph’s University and Jeffrey Wasserstrom teaches history at UC Irvine
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A motorcycle and the art of court management||Mr. Prashant Bhushan, senior lawyer and indefatigable campaigner for public causes cum thorn in the flesh for the other side, recently put out a tweet with a photograph where he criticised Mr. Justice S.A. Bobde, the current Chief Justice of India (CJI), for riding an expensive motorcycle at a time when the Court is under lockdown. No one can accuse Mr. Bhushan of moderation, and clearly he was off the mark here. The Courts are shut because the world is in lockdown; the Chief Justice of India is hardly to blame for this. And the photograph only showed him, clad in casual wear, sitting on a stationary motorcycle to get the feel of it. It was no doubt an unusual sight, since we are so used to seeing the head of the judiciary only in the most formal settings and attire. But for that same reason, it was refreshing to see an august personage in a rather human light. Many of us have pleasant recollections of our motorcycle days with the wind at our face and the world at our feet; perhaps the CJI was going back down memory lane to happier days. He could be forgiven for this brief respite from the cares of his office, even if he was unmasked momentarily. And who knows – if you remember Robert M. Pirsig’s Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance , a motorcycle may give you some insights into how to navigate through the fog and treacherous roads that now lie before us. Series of actions If matters had been left alone, this picture and tweet would have merited a two-minute attention in this current chaotic and fast-moving world. However, on Wednesday last, the Supreme Court of India upended the frame, picture, narrative and discourse. A three Judge Bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, took suo motu notice of it and issued notice of contempt of Court to Mr .Bhushan “for undermining the dignity and authority of the Institution of Supreme Court in general, and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular”. The Bench coupled to this another tweet of Mr. Bhushan in which he says that in the last 6 years, democracy has been destroyed in India, and that historians will mark the role of the Supreme Court in this, especially the last 4 CJIs. It followed it up on Friday by listing yet another citation of contempt against Mr. Bhushan, this time in a 11-year-old case where he allegedly said in 2009 that half of India’s last 16 Chief Justices were corrupt. So now we have causes célèbres , given the issues and the players. Going by his record, Mr. Bhushan will not back down. Indeed, he may well welcome the centre stage he is now getting, and one can be sure he will train his guns on the narrative of corruption within the judiciary. We may be in for a slugfest of mammoth proportions, leaving the Indian Premier League far behind. For the judiciary to consider But let us Pause. The Wise say that that should be done before taking momentous steps and treading on troublesome paths. And ask a few (six) questions: Is the Court being needlessly reactive? Across international jurisdictions, a far more liberal view is taken, with courts preferring to display broad shoulders and rest their protections on the surer moorings of public confidence rather than seek cover under the law of contempt. Is this about being protected from criticism or genuinely wanting to examine the serious complaints about the functioning of former judges? If some allegations do pass a threshold test, will the Court go the whole way of inquiry and strong action, or will it just sweep them under the carpet and deposit the carpet in a Pandora’s box? Will the latter be readily accepted, given that there is a general perception that integrity levels have markedly declined in the last score of years.  Is this the right Bench size, composition and leadership for this set of cases? The issue of corruption infecting the topmost judiciary is as serious as can be. Should not a larger Bench, with more senior judges, hear these matters? Justice Mishra and Mr. Bhushan have had frequent confrontations in Court, and in a 2019 contempt case relating to appointment of the Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation, Mr. Bhushan has even petitioned that this Judge should not hear the matter. Memories still exist of an unprecedented press conference held in 2018 by the four seniormost Justices of the Court expressing their unhappiness at assignment of sensitive cases to Justice Mishra. There are perceptional difficulties in thinking that this is the best Bench for this case.  Is this the right time for these issues to be taken up? COVID-19 has brought forth a standstill of the courts, which even before this were grappling with a gargantuan mass of cases. Salvaging and securing the administration of justice ought to be uppermost in minds of the apex judiciary, and there is no shortage of urgent and pressing issues which desperately cry out for the Court’s attention. Why this now?  How will the Bar respond? It will be carefully watching whether one of its own is receiving fair treatment from the Bench. Lawyers have ideological and personal divides, but the Bar has an astonishing capacity to join ranks against authority that exceeds bounds; it is after all in the DNA of the common lawyer to keep arbitrary state authority in its place, for which this country must be ever grateful. Will the Court’s international institutional standing be enhanced or lowered if it takes up this case in this manner at this time? Think and act Contempt of court cases are usually between Court and Contemnor. Others do not have much of a say where an order has been disobeyed; there is little to do beyond establishing the fact, and enforcing punishment. But when it comes to a charge of scandalising the Court and interfering with the administration of justice, and when such charge proceeds on the expression of an opinion, on a matter which is undoubtedly one of public interest, matters are not quite so simple. One must tread carefully, or not at all. Or, perhaps, even more apt in the present context is the following quote oft ascribed to an anonymous source: “When you are standing at the edge of a cliff, progress is a step backwards.” Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining journalism: a way forward||I received nearly 11,000 words from readers to aid my task of re-imagining journalism for contemporary times. It is an unenviable task to extract and paraphrase that to about 700 words to spell out a way forward for journalism. It is an ethical imperative to look at readers as active citizens and not passive subjects. The idea is to reconcile the two fundamental tasks of journalism — making sense and bearing witness — with the challenges posed by technological disruptions. Ten key suggestions I have extracted 10 key suggestions from our readers in reworking the modes of journalism. They are: 1) Engage citizens; 2) Effectively change revenue models; 3) Deploy multi-media nodes — videos, podcasts, interactive maps and explanatory infographics — in journalism; 4) Publish more investigative stories and increase long-form reportage; 5) Bring about diversity in newsrooms; 6) Increase media literacy; 7) Make newspapers more interactive; 8) Harness the presence of the newspaper in social media platforms not only to increase reach but to counter disinformation and misinformation; 9) Expand the idea of explanatory journalism beyond FAQs; and 10) Find the right balance of local, national and international news. Internal discussions reveal that this newspaper has already implemented some of these ideas for its print and online editions. For instance, it has developed different newsletters such as The View from India (major developments in world affairs from an Indian perspective), The Morning Filter (daily news agenda), The Evening Wrap (a round-up of the day’s top news), The Daily Digest (top articles from various sections),  Today’s Cache (top five technology stories of the day), The Hindu on Books (books of the week, reviews, excerpts, new titles and features), First Day First Show (news and reviews from the world of cinema and streaming), a political analysis newsletter, Breaking News (when something big breaks), The Margazhi Newsletter (a seasonal newsletter on dance and music during the Margazhi season), In School At Home (from March 30, 2020 to July 15, 2020, containing trivia, puzzles, and worksheets for schoolgoers), and The Hindu Data newsletter (data stories). The newsletters are part of a conscious engagement process. They are not marketing tools, but journalistic products. Media researchers have documented the effectiveness of these newsletters. They often argue that newsletters are a tool to engage with audiences in a brief and intimate way. One way to increase this engagement is to have web-based chats with journalists who are tracking the key stories of the week. Engagement could mean a conversation with the Science Editor on COVID-19 or with the Diplomatic and Strategic Affairs team on the happenings along the Line of Actual Control. The desire to speak to writers flows from citizens’ quest for truth. Some legal stories, op-eds, and editorials generate immense interest, and a follow-up interaction with readers will create a stronger bond between the newspaper and its readers. From the Supreme Court’s judgment on the demolition of Babri Masjid to the recent Rajasthan High Court order, interactions will help to counter the cacophony of partisan TV debates and the toxicity of social media platforms. Engaging with readers Initially, there was a fear that interacting with readers may erode the editorial integrity of a story and the independence of the press. However, more evidence about the digital information ecology shows that initiating dialogue with readers is a crucial media literacy programme. What do we mean by readers’ engagement? It is a way to invite people to talk; debate; think about how news is collected, processed and delivered, and how it can become more effective. It is about talking with primary partners rather than talking to them. The Notebook section on the op-ed page is part of this media literacy programme. The digital team said that there is a move to do more voice-over videos following feedback from many readers. They have also decided to play up some of the best comments from readers online. This is all part of a broader plan to reinvigorate our relationship with readers as contributors and partners. I am confident that the editorial team will implement the suggestions of the readers using the resources they have during this time. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A revolution in policy mindset||As lockdowns ease in countries across Asia and the Pacific in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, one thing is clear — a return to business as usual is unimaginable in a region that was already off track to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The virtual High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development recently convened governments and stakeholders to focus on the imperative to build back better while keeping an eye on the global goals. Asia was the first to be hit by COVID-19 and feel its devastating social and economic impacts. Efforts to respond to the pandemic have revealed how many people in our societies live precariously close to poverty and hunger. Many countries are taking bold actions to minimise the loss of life and economic costs. As attention shifts from the immediate health and human effects of the pandemic to addressing its social and economic effects, governments and societies face unprecedented policy, regulatory and fiscal choices. The SDGs — a commitment to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development, globally, by 2030 — can serve as a beacon in these turbulent times. Grounds for optimism The pandemic has exposed fragility and systemic gaps in many key systems. However, there are many workable strategies that countries have used to accelerate progress related to development goals and strengthen resilience. Countries have taken steps to extend universal health care systems and strengthen social protection systems, including cash transfer and food distribution systems for vulnerable households. Accurate and regular data have been key to such efforts. Innovating to help the most disadvantaged access financing and small and medium-sized enterprise credits have also been vital. Several countries have taken comprehensive approaches to various forms of discrimination, particularly related to gender and gender-based violence. Partnerships, including with the private sector and financing institutions, have played a critical role in fostering creative solutions. These experiences provide grounds for optimism. Responses to the COVID-19 crisis must be centred on the well-being of people, empowering them and advancing equality. Driving change in the people-environment nexus to protect the health of people and natural resources is key to a future that does not repeat the crisis we are in today. A revolution needed We need a revolution in policy mindset and practice. Inclusive and accountable governance systems, adaptive institutions with resilience to future shocks, universal social protection and health insurance, and stronger digital infrastructure are part of the transformations needed. Several countries in Asia and the Pacific are developing ambitious new strategies for green recovery and inclusive approaches to development. South Korea recently announced a New Deal based on two central pillars: digitisation and decarbonisation. Many countries in the Pacific are focusing on “blue recovery,” seizing the opportunity to promote more sustainable approaches to fisheries management. India recently announced operating the largest solar power plant in the region. China is creating more jobs in the renewable energy sector than in fossil fuel industries. Institutions such as the United Nations and Asian Development Bank have mobilised to support a shared response to the crisis. Now it is vital that we enable countries to secure the support they need to go beyond, to achieve the SDGs. Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana is UN Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific; Kanni Wignaraja is UN Assistant Secretary-General and Director of the Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific, UNDP; and Bambang Susantono is Vice-President for Knowledge Management and Sustainable Development, Asian Development Bank
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A Governor’s test||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra could have sought a floor test in the State Assembly to ensure that the government of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has a majority, as soon as a rebellion in the ruling Congress cast a shadow on it. Far from that, Mr. Mishra now appears to be bending over backwards to delay a trust vote. The Governor has cited six reasons for his procrastination in calling an Assembly session. But the Supreme Court has settled that the Governor has no discretionary powers in summoning a session of the Assembly, and he or she is bound to act according to the aid and advice of the CM and the Council of Ministers. The Governor can require the CM and the Council of Ministers to seek a trust vote if he or she has reasons to believe that they have lost the confidence of the Assembly. Either way, the only appropriate way forward for Mr. Mishra is to convene the session and allow the democratic process to take its course. Now that the State cabinet has reiterated its demand for a session, specifying a date and an agenda as demanded by the Governor, he should not look for more excuses and bring embarrassment to the high office he holds. The CM has said the Governor is acting under pressure from the Centre, as he took the battle to the streets. Congress MLAs supporting the CM held a dharna at the Governor’s residence, and a public protest is to be held on Monday. It is instructive to compare Mr. Mishra’s conduct with that of Lalji Tandon, the former Governor of Madhya Pradesh, when similar sabotage brought down the Congress government led by Kamal Nath in March. Mr. Nath had said Congress MLAs were held captive, and the voting could be vitiated, but the Governor declared that the failure to take an immediate floor test would be presumed as a lack of majority. Mr. Mishra wants to ensure that all MLAs are free to move around before a session could take place, though there is no public knowledge of anyone complaining to him being restrained. He requires the government to take into consideration the spread of the novel coronavirus, but in Madhya Pradesh, the reasoning was the opposite — the Governor did not want any delay on account of the pandemic. These arguments of two Governors four months apart in two States certainly appear contradictory, but also partisan in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP’s imprint is unmistakable in the crisis in Rajasthan, its denial apart. The Raj Bhavan should not be a tool of the BJP to dislodge and install governments as and when it wants. Mr. Mishra too has a test to pass, of constitutional morality.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Scandalising as contempt||The initiation of proceedings for criminal contempt of court against lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan has once again brought under focus the necessity for retaining the law of contempt as it stands today. In an era in which social media are full of critics, commentators and observers who deem it necessary to air their views in many unrestrained and uninhibited ways, the higher judiciary should not really be expending its time and energy invoking its power to punish for contempt of itself. While it may not be reasonable to expect that the courts should ignore every allegation or innuendo, and every piece of scurrility, there is much wisdom in giving a wide latitude to publicly voiced criticism and strident questioning of the court’s ways and decisions. Mr. Bhushan is no stranger to the art of testing the limits of the judiciary’s tolerance of criticism. He has made allegations of corruption against judges in the past, and has been hauled up for it. The latest proceedings concern two tweets by him, one a general comment on the role of some Chief Justices of India in the last six years, and another targeting the current CJI based on a photograph. How sensitive should the country’s highest court be to its outspoken critics? What would be more judicious — ignoring adverse remarks or seeking to make an example of some principal authors of such criticism to protect the institution? The origin of this dilemma lies in the part of contempt law that criminalises anything that “scandalises or tends to scandalise” the judiciary or “lowers the court’s authority”. It may be time to revisit this clause. Few would disagree that contempt power is needed to punish wilful disobedience to court orders (civil contempt), as well as interference in the administration of justice and overt threats to judges. The reason why the concept of contempt exists is to insulate the institution from unfair attacks and prevent a sudden fall in the judiciary’s reputation in the public eye. However, it has been recognised by jurists that each time the offence of ‘scandalising’ the court or lowering the court’s authority is invoked, some tend to believe that the court has something to hide. It was believed in 18th century England that it was necessary “to be impartial and universally thought so”, so that the “blaze of glory” around judges would stay undiminished. However, the contempt doctrine fell into disuse, and England abolished the offence of “scandalising the court” in 2013. In contemporary times, it is more important that courts are seen to be concerned about accountability, that allegations are scotched by impartial probes rather than threats of contempt action, and processes are transparent. Unfortunately, in a system in which judges are not expected to disclose the reason for recusing themselves, and even charges of sexual harassment are not credibly investigated, it is only the fear of scandalising the judiciary that restrains much of the media and the public from a more rigorous examination of the functioning of the judiciary.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||India will benefit more from IDA||With the proposed doubling of the resources of the International Development Association, India will be able to borrow considerably more from this soft loan window of the World Bank than before. But it is learnt that while in absolute terms, India will be able to obtain more aid from this source, it will necessarily not receive proportionately the same as before as the I.D.A. will naturally take into account the increasing needs of other developing countries in Africa and Latin America. But it is pointed out that even an absolute increase in aid from the I.D.A. will benefit India in more than one way. First it will act as a cushion against shortfalls in aid from such countries as the U.S. Secondly the new accent on multi-lateral aid will lessen the unavoidable friction that the bilateral aid relationship creates. Thirdly I.D.A. assistance will be much cheaper than bilateral aid extended on the best possible terms. Sir Dennis Rickett, Vice-President of the World Bank, has also been able to eliminate from the lending operations the element of “tying” that was a feature of the last replenishment.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Col. Lawrence’s warning (From an editorial)||Colonel Lawrence touched a crucial point when he said that Mesopotamians resented being treated to military domination instead of self Government which they expected. The Colonel, it will be remembered, helped more than all, to win over the Arabs to the English side, and his analysis of Arab psychology and his proposals based on it should certainly carry weight in the settlement. Apart from the cost, the keeping of an army, whether Indian or British, under the pretext of weaning the Arabs into civilisation is ridiculous enough. The British public objects to pay for the troops in Mesopotamia; India is none too anxious that her sons should still risk their lives in far-off lands and for other men’s purposes; and the Mesopotamians evidently revolt against being bound down. From all quarters, therefore, the call for a non-military policy, for the evacuation of British-Indian soldiers, for according to the natives the major share in the administration, seems insistent. It therefore stands to reason that England should inaugurate, in spite of any temptations on account of oil, a policy more consistent with the avowed purpose of the mandate.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||More cover against misfortune||Choosing the right insurance plan is one of the most crucial decisions one needs to make in life. You must take time and explore well before buying a term life policy and a health insurance plan as it is very important to opt for the right coverage. At the same time, it is equally important to know about the optional riders or add-ons that make the policy much more comprehensive. The prime purpose of choosing a rider or add-on along with your term and health policy is to enhance the protection provided by the insurer and provide a cover against a specific risk. The right choice of add-ons and riders can significantly help you and your family at the time of making a claim. Based on specific requirements of policyholders, insurers give the option of customising policies with add-ons and riders. They are basically like accessories that can be attached to the main insurance cover to enhance its overall value and functionality. They are bought along with the basic policy.  Health add-ons: OPD cover In India, out-of-pocket healthcare expenses account for more than 62% of total medical expenses. Considering this, it is very important to have an OPD cover rider in the health insurance policy as it takes care of the outpatient department (OPD) expenses of the insured. Some major expenses covered under this head include pharmacy bills and consultations. Hospital cash benefit Under the rider, the insured receives a fixed cash benefit in the event of hospitalisation. Regardless of the healthcare expenses borne by you, the hospital cash benefit rider helps you with a daily cash benefit. For instance, assume you have a rider that pays Rs. 1,000 per day in case of hospitalisation. Now, whether your per day hospitalisation bill amounts to Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 2,000, the rider will pay you for the pre-decided figure, i.e. Rs. 1,000. If the hospitalisation entails admission into an intensive care unit (ICU), the insured is eligible for twice the daily cash benefit. Moreover, the insured is even eligible for a lump sum benefit in case of an extended surgery for any specific medical condition. Cancer care plan It is important to have a disease-specific rider added to your health insurance such as a cancer care plan that provides a cover beyond in-patient hospitalisation. The total cost of treatment in India may cross Rs. 15 lakh in some cases. Such plans provide an immediate lump sum amount irrespective of the expenses incurred on the actual medical treatment. As per policy terms, 50% of the total sum insured is paid during the early stage of the disease along with an additional payout of 100% during major/advanced stage. The plan demands a survival period of seven days. Term riders: Critical illness Some major critical illnesses such as cancer and kidney failure can surely wipe out a person's finances if there is no adequate cover in place. For all such situations, it is best to have a term plan with a critical illness (CI) benefit as a rider. Under the CI rider, on diagnosis of a particular critical illness, the policyholder is provided with a lump sum benefit up to the entire sum assured. Waiver of premium rider This rider keeps the term insurance plan active even if the policyholder is not able to pay the premium due to an unexpected event such as partial or complete disability of the policyholder due to an accident. The rider waives the premium, but the policy remains active until the end of tenure and it reduces your financial worry of paying future premiums. The policy is best suited to those with a risky lifestyle. Accidental death rider In India, over 1.5 lakh people die each year in road accidents. These numbers are higher than in most developed auto markets across the globe, including the U.S. However, roads are just another example of sites at which accidents often happen; construction sites, homes, and other potentially safer places witness accidental deaths, as well. Under this rider, the nominee is given an additional sum assured when the policyholder dies due to an accident. The sum assured provided to the policyholder is different from the death benefit. For instance, assume someone bought a term plan with Rs. 1 crore sum assured along with an additional accidental death benefit rider of Rs. 20 lakh. In case the policyholder dies due to an accident, dependents will receive Rs. 1 crore sum assured from the term plan and Rs. 20 lakh from the accidental rider death benefit taking the total amount to Rs. 1.2 crore.  (The author is Health Business Head, Policybazaar.com )
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fixed deposits offer cash flow stability||The fortunate among us have the same income as last year. The less fortunate have either seen a significant decline in income or a job loss. Adding to the woes are the current interest rate levels. Most banks offer interest rates between 5.5% and 6%. The consumer price inflation for June 2020 was just over 6%. Even if inflation were to come down in the near term, fixed deposits do not seem to offer decent returns. What should you do? Uncertainty factor When your income is stable, you are saving for the future to achieve goals such as buying a house or going on a vacation. But, when your income is uncertain, you may have to depend on your existing investments to support your living expenses. You have uncertain income if you have lost or run the risk of losing a significant portion of your current income. All of us have an uncertainty threshold when it comes to taking decisions. This threshold is driven by our income levels, current wealth, intermediate goals and age. If your income is uncertain, you will be reluctant to take on investment risk. So, it is natural for you to turn to bank fixed deposits. Yet, bank deposits do not seem to offer attractive returns. What should you do? Unfortunately, your investment choices may be limited. Equity is too volatile to fit into your investment portfolio. Real estate is a lumpy investment and illiquid too. Gold may seem pricey at the current levels. That leaves you with no choice but to look at bank deposits. Cash flow stabiliser You may have accumulated savings over the years. You are now forced to depend on these savings, although temporarily, to support your monthly expenses. You have two choices — either consume some amount of your investment each month or consume only the income from the investment. Clearly, the latter seems to be a better choice because your capital is preserved. That narrows your choice to monthly income bank deposits. These are deposits that pay you monthly interest instead of an annual interest. Typically, these deposits are meant for retirees who are looking to substitute active (salary) income with passive (investment) income. Now, given the low interest rates, why should you still invest in bank deposits? You have two sources of cash flows. One is your income, and the other, your investments. Your income is currently uncertain. So, your investment should provide stability to balance your total cash flows. Deposits offer stable cash flows. So, the low interest rate you earn is a trade-off for the stability deposits provide for your financial well-being. Conclusion You may have significant equity investments. The high volatility in equity can be balanced by bank deposits, which is a stable-income asset. So, whether your income levels are uncertain or not, you may have to invest in bank deposits. If low interest rate levels are here to stay for a while (if not for long), it is time you look at bank deposits as a stabiliser for your otherwise volatile cash flows or for your portfolio that is heavily invested in equity. The alternative is to keep the money at home or in savings account, both of which are less attractive than bank deposits. Banks understand this well. Perhaps, that explains why they did not waste time before cutting interest rates when RBI lowered repo rate from 5.15% this February to 4.4% in March and then to 4% in May.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Free from vagaries of inflows and outflows||What are closed-end funds? Closed-end funds are those in which investors can buy units via the New Fund Offer by a fund house. No fresh units are available once the offer closes. How are they different from open-end funds? Units in open-end funds can be bought directly from the fund house on an ongoing basis. What is the stated USP of closed-end funds? Closed-end funds are propositioned as being ideal for those with a long-term investment horizon. Since purchase of units happens via a New Fund Offer, investments in the form of systematic investment plans will not be possible. What if I need to liquidate my holdings? You won’t be able to sell the units you hold, back to the fund house in a closed-end fund. But these are listed and traded on stock exchanges, much like shares and exchange-traded funds. You will be able to sell units to other investors on the exchange. The value you realise will not only depend on the fund’s performance, but also on the demand for those units. Total expense ratios (TER) are higher for closed-end funds. Recently, the regulator placed a cap on TERs for closed-end funds. What benefits do such funds claim to offer? Fund houses promote closed-end funds as not being subject to the vagaries of inflows and outflows that you could see in open-end funds. In the latter, investors can sell units back to the fund house. If panic sentiment triggers redemption by a large number of investors in an open-end fund, the fund manager may be forced to sell assets at prices lower than might have been realised had the panic not set in. The value of the units may hence drop precipitously, leading to quick erosion of wealth for all investors. Closed-end funds do not face such a problem as investments stay locked till maturity. This ostensibly allows fund managers the freedom to stay invested in, or choose assets they consider would give long-term returns.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask us||Q.I am 30 years old and a permanent employee of a PSU. I have been investing Rs. 15,000 a month for two years now for a long-term goal. I invest Rs. 10,000 in PPF and Rs. 5,000 in a mutual fund. I want to know if this is a wise decision or if I should modify my plan? My target is to earn a minimum of Rs. 50 lakh after 15 years. My risk profile is medium. Madhusmita Mohapatra A.You have made a good start by investing in simple and transparent products. Rs. 10,000 in PPF is an ideal option to fulfil your tax deduction need and save regularly in a zero-risk option. You should continue that. But, please be aware that PPF carries floating rate viz. the interest rate can go up or down during the tenure of your investment. We do not know whether you are investing in equity mutual funds. If so, you have a good combination of equity (through funds) and debt (through PPF). Assuming your PPF earns 7% p.a over your tenure on an average and your mutual funds earn say, 9%, you should be able to reach Rs. 50 lakh in 15 years. However, as you get some surpluses, consider increasing some amount in mutual funds to better your chances of reaching your goal, with higher return from funds. Keep your equity mutual funds simple — a tax-saving fund (if you need tax deduction) or a simple Nifty-based and Nifty Next 50-based equity fund, some 10% exposure to gold funds or similar exposure to U.S.-based index funds should do. Do this when you increase your MF investments. This diversification will ensure your portfolio swings less during volatile periods. Q.I am 28 years old and earn Rs. 28,000 per month. I have opened a PPF account by depositing Rs. 3,000 per month at an interest rate of 7.9%. But now, this has dropped to 7.1%. Will this affect my maturity amount? Vinayak Gopal A.Yes, PPF rates and many other small-saving schemes from the government are reviewed every quarter and can be raised or lowered based on the interest rate scenario. In low-interest cycles, there can be times when the PPF does not beat inflation. Hence, it will be good for you to supplement this with other higher returning (with higher risk) products such as equity mutual funds for the long term. Please note they do not give fixed returns and can also slip into losses in the short to medium term. But, they have shown to deliver superior returns over 10 years or more. Q.I am a 23-year-old post graduate. I will be taking up my first job with an annual package of Rs. 12 lakh. Can you recommend some long-term investment plans? Inchara Manjunatha A.Congratulations on your first job! This is the right time for you to kick-start your investments and you can do it at a gradual pace. First, take a good, pure term cover on your life if you have dependent parents and your income is vital. Else, take the term cover if/when you marry or settle down. Do not go for any other complex investment-cum- insurance products. For investments, you can start with zero-risk products such as PPF (please read the query above to know about PPF) that will offer you tax deductions. This can be 50% of your investments. The rest can be in tax-saving mutual funds (if you need tax deduction) or monthly investments in equity mutual funds. If you find it difficult to pick one, simply pick what is called as an index fund — based on the Nifty 50 index. Gradually, you can add some mid-cap funds and international funds based on the U.S. index. This way, you will be able to gradually build a diversified portfolio. You need to do these things: invest regularly, invest only in products you understand and diversify gradually. ( The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
27 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Broad rips through WI||England increased its lead over the West Indies to a substantial 258 runs, as openers Rory Burns and Dom Sibley built a steady partnership to take it to 86 for no loss in the second innings, at tea on the third day of the third Test on Sunday. With the prospect of Monday’s play being curtailed by rain, England will want to leave enough time to bowl the West Indies out again and win the series 2-1. Picking all four England began its second innings just before lunch after Stuart Broad continued his dominant role in the Test by grabbing four quick wickets in the morning to dismiss the West Indies for 197. Broad ended with six for 31 in 14 overs, mopping up the tail to give England a 172-run first-innings lead. But it took a frustrating 54 minutes for England to make a breakthrough on Sunday after the West Indies had resumed on 137 for six, facing the possibility of being asked to bat again. Captain Jason Holder led the fightback as he scored 46 vital runs to help his side avoid the follow-on. He and Shane Dowrich added 41 to the overnight total before the Windies skipper was trapped leg-before by Broad. The 34-year-old England pacer trapped Rakheem Cornwall for 10, Kemar Roach followed three balls later and Dowrich was the last to fall for 37. Dowrich was hit by a ball in the face while keeping wicket in the afternoon and had to leave the field for treatment, while Holder also had to be attended to after taking a blow to the thumb.  England 226 for two decl. England declared at 226 for two in its second innings, with Burns (90), Sibley (56) and Root (68 not out) coming good.
27 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Deepak Punia delighted to resume proper training||After overcoming the death of his mother, World championships silver medallist wrestler Deepak Punia has got back to serious training. Punia, whose mother Krishna Devi died of heart-attack in April, spent three months of the lockdown period at his village Chhara in Jhajjar district of Haryana before moving back to his usual training centre, the Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi, about three weeks ago. Big shock “My mother’s passing was a big shock for me. Slowly I got back to my training. When I was in my village I trained at a local akhara, maintaining social-distancing norms. After returning to the Chhatrasal Stadium, I am able to train properly,” Deepak told The Hindu . The 21-year-old, a reigning World junior champion, was happy to be back among his friends, including close buddy and room-partner Worlds medallist and Asian champion Ravi Dahiya. “Even though 25-30 wrestlers are training at Chhatrasal at the moment, it is always nice to be among friends and train in a good environment. “Training alongside two-time Olympic medallist and our idol Sushil Kumar is a big motivation. He encourages us, shares his experience and explains finer details of the sport,” said Deepak, who bagged a bronze medal in the Asian championships in Delhi earlier this year. Deepak, who booked a quota place in men’s freestyle 86kg when he took the silver medal in the World championships in Nur-Sultan last year, said his focus would now be to shine in the Tokyo Olympics in 2021. “There is no concrete plan as of now. But I will work on my technique and speed to get better,” said Deepak.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Returning to action is Hima Das’ top priority||In a changed sporting world, where uncertainty is the rule, Hima Das has decided to keep expectations aside and concentrate on just getting back to action. Hima, who has resumed training at the National Institute of Sports, Patiala, told The Hindu : “I have been running on the track for the last 45 days. I am not sure of the situation outside, but inside the NIS, the Sports Authority of India has made all arrangements. No issues “They also talk to us regularly to know if there are any issues. In fact, there are no problems here in terms of following rules or training except the heat. To beat that, we train only in the morning.” The 400m National record-holder is yet to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics and an injury-marred 2019 did not help her chances. Since the back injury that saw her pull up at the Asian Championships in 2019, Hima has struggled to run her favourite distance. She ran a series of 200m in Europe but could not go under 23s while the qualifying time for Tokyo is 22.80. In the 400m, although her personal best of 50.79 seconds in the 400m is better than the qualifying mark of 51.35, she has not been able to go under 52s in 2019. Hima has left the decision on whar distance to run in future the to the Athletics Federation of India and coach Galina Bukharina, refusing to even comment on whether she feels physically ready. “I have not run the 400 in a long time, but I am mentally fit. I only want to qualify for the Olympics. “Which event, how, when are all questions I have left to the coach and AFI,” she insisted. Sponsor support The World junior champion is also thankful for the support from her sponsor Adidas during this time. “They have been a big help in staying mentally fit and focused. The film ‘What’s One More’, part of Adidas’ ‘Ready for Sport’ campaign, is an attempt to keep athletes ready till the Olympics next year. It explores how the cancellations have affected their physical and mental wellness and stresses the importance of being positive and resilient,” she signed off.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Victory against Xuerui the turning point: Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu termed the win over the then Olympic champion Li Xuerui in 2012 in the quarterfinal of the China Masters as the turning point of her career. “That win boosted my confidence by miles and made me work even harder,” she said during a webinar ‘In The Sportlight’ with table tennis player Mudit Dani on Sunday. The Rio Olympics silver medallist said her resolve grew stronger after that big win despite a few tough losses during her transition to the senior circuit. The champion shuttler also revealed that she was a big fan of 2004 Olympic gold medallist Taufik Hidayat’s backhand and the two-time Olympic champion Lin Dan’s style of play. Surprise gift “I fondly remember a surprise gift I received from one of my ardent fans on my arrival from the Rio Olympics, which was his one-month salary,” she said. “It was so touching that I remember it even today. I wrote him a letter and sent him some money too,” said the World No. 7 Sindhu. Sindhu is currently training at home and said she was picking up new skills like painting. “I am also cooking and baking and it is really interesting because it was only badminton earlier and [now] I am learning different but creative stuff.” The 25-year-old shuttler also spoke of the importance of support for rising stars to excel. “Support from the ecosystem like Khelo India is as essential as support from the parents,” she said.
27 July 2020||MILAN,||United, Chelsea seal CL spots||Manchester United and Chelsea sealed Champions League places on a dramatic final day of the longest Premier League season. United finished third after a nervy 2-0 win in a Champions League shootout against Leicester while Chelsea ended in fourth spot after beating Wolves 2-0 thanks to two goals on the stroke of half-time. Leicester, in fifth spot, will play in the Europa League where it will be joined by Tottenham, which drew 1-1 with Crystal Palace. Mason Mount whipped in from a free-kick to give Chelsea the lead and the home side went further in front almost immediately, when Olivier Giroud slid home. United broke the deadlock in the 71st minute, when Bruno Fernandes scored from the penalty spot. Jesse Lingard scored late to seal the win. Arsenal put it past Watford 3-2, Liverpool beat Newcastle 3-1 to finish with 99 points and Manchester City routed Norwich 5-0 to reach 102 goals. Leicester’s Jamie Vardy won the Golden Boot with 23 goals.  The results: Premier League: Southampton 3 (Adams 50, 71, Ings 84-pen) bt Sheffield United 1 (Lundstram 26); Newcastle 1 (Gayle 1) lost to Liverpool 3 (Van Dijk 38, Origi 59, Mane 89); Manchester City 5 (Jesus 11, de Bruyne 45+1, 90, Sterling 79, Mahrez 83) bt Norwich 0; Burnley 1 (Woods 44) lost to Brighton 2 (Bissouma 20, Connolly 50); Arsenal 3 (Aubameyang 5-pen, 33, Tierney 24) bt Watford 2 (Deeney 43-pen, Welbeck 66); Crystal Palace 1 (Schlupp 53) drew with Tottenham 1 (Kane 13); Everton 1 (Kean 41) lost to Bournemouth 3 (King 13-pen, Solanke 45+1, Stanislas 80); West Ham 1 (Yarmolenko 85) drew with Aston Villa 1 (Grealish 84); Leicester 0 lost to Manchester United 2 (Fernandes 71-pen, Lingard 90+8); Chelsea 2 (Mount 45+1, Giroud 45+4) bt Wolves 0   Serie A: Brescia 1 (Dessena 62) lost to Parma 2 (Darmian 59, Kulusevski 81); Genoa 0 lost to Inter Milan 3 (Lukaku 34, 90+3, Alexis Sŕnchez 82); Napoli 2 (Hisaj 8, Allan 90+3) bt Sassuolo 0 .
27 July 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Actor John Saxon is no more||Actor John Saxon, whose good looks won him not only legions of female fans but also a wide array of roles, passed away at his home in Tennessee on Saturday, according to the Hollywood Reporter . He was 83. The entertainment news outlet quoted Saxon’s wife, Gloria, as confirming that the actor died of pneumonia on Saturday. He was best known for starring with Bruce Lee in Enter the Dragon and appeared in several Nightmare on Elm Street movies. Born Carmine Orrico, the son of Italian-American parents in NY, he flew to Hollywood as a teenager, where he was signed by Universal. According to IMDB, Saxon appeared in nearly 200 roles in films and on television in a career that stretched over seven decades since he made his big screen debut in 1954.
27 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||A window of hope, says Siraj||Pacer Mohd Siraj is viewing the proposed IPL in UAE this September as a window of hope. Training at a private ground in Shamshabad with a couple of his Hyderabad teammates, the 26-year-old Siraj said he was really keen to come up with some special performances in the IPL and earn the India cap again. “I have been making a critical review of my bowling in the nets after each day [by] having a look at the videos,” Siraj said in a chat with The Hindu on Sunday. “I am working a lot on my strengths — the yorkers and the back of length deliveries. I am putting in a lot of effort and it is never easy during such a long break to find the same kind of rhythm which you have when everything is normal,” he said. “Fortunately, I bought gym equipment and maintained the desired fitness level.” Siraj played his only ODI in January 2019 and the last of his four T20Is in March 2018 and is keen to be part of Indian team again. A privilege “It has been a privilege to play for RCB led by Virat Kohli. It has been such a huge learning curve. I definitely feel that another good season with the team in this IPL should help my cause a long way,” he said. “My target is to be good in both formats — white and red ball cricket. I still believe Test cricket is the best and most challenging. So, I am keen to be part of the Indian Test team and want to back my claim with the desired performances,” he said. “The biggest challenge for me was to be mentally fresh during the four-month long COVID-19 break. It has been really frustrating that we cannot even go out confidently because of the virus threat. So, I was just keeping myself busy doing every small thing at home,” Siraj said.
27 July 2020||COIMBATORE,||TNBA confident of bouncing back||The Tamil Nadu Badminton Association exuded hope that the sport would bounce back soon from the COVID-19 induced hiatus. At an interactive online session organised by the Coimbatore Badminton Association (CBA) and the Tirupur District Badminton Association (TDBA), V.E. Arunachallam, the TNBA Secretary, said: “We can bounce back as badminton is a 365-day sport and has many followers. “Players may not be mentally and physically fit as they were 120 days back. They would have lost out on an age category or a championship [but] it’s the same for everybody. We need to stand up to the situation,” he added. Request to govt. Arunachallam said that TNBA President Anbumani Ramadoss had requested the State government to consider a one-time grant of Rs. 5000 to all sports trainers. Dr. Ajith Shinto of Apollo Hospitals, also a former player, Ajith Haridas, Chief Mentor of Hatsun Badminton Centre, Sivakasi, Vinoth Kumar, owner of Kovai Knockers, and Swetha Krishnamurthy, CBA Secretary, spoke on the occasion.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand battles to share the honours||Viswanathan Anand was in a spot of bother before he went on to hold overnight joint leader Ian Nepomniachtchi in the first game of the sixth round in the chess24 Legends of Chess on Sunday. After Peter Leko bounced back to beat Anand 3-2 in the fifth round, the Indian produced a series of fine defensive moves to keep the Russian at bay after being down a pawn. Eventually, the game ended after 53 moves following perpetual checks. On a day when Magnus Carlsen defeated off-form Ding Liren 2.5-1.5 in a match rescheduled four hours before the normal starting time and maintained his all-win record, Peter Svidler and Vladimir Kramnik lost. Vassily Ivanchuk, who took a point off Carlsen in the previous round, stunned fourth-placed Svidler while Boris Gelfand outsmarted Kramnik. Leko and Anish Giri played out a draw. On Saturday, Anand was a draw away from winning his match against Leko but the Hungarian won twice in succession to deny the Indian. In the fourth game, Anand suffered a mouse-slip, ended up retreating his bishop and resigned immediately. In the tie-breaking Armageddon game, Anand played black but just could not make his moves fast enough and lost on time.  The results: Sixth round: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 2.5-1.5.   Game One: Viswanathan Anand drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr) bt Peter Svidler (Rus); Boris Gelfand (Isr) bt Vladimir Kramnik (Rus); Peter Leko (Hun) bt Anish Giri (Ned).   Fifth round: Leko bt Anand 3-2; Carlsen bt Ivanchuk 3-2; Nepomniachtchi bt Svidler 3-1; Giri bt Gelfand 2.5-1.5; Kramnik bt Ding 2.5-1.5 .
27 July 2020||KOCHI,||WADA launches new e-learning course||Athletes have often come up with strange and novel defences when they fail dope tests. A couple of years ago, an American sprinter claimed his girlfriend’s sinus medication had entered his body after a kiss. A few years before that, a Dutch cyclist had argued that a pigeon pie — the bird was doped — was the reason for his positive test. In India, athletes often put up the ‘I didn’t know’ excuse when they are caught. With a year to go for the Olympics, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has launched a new interactive education course on its Anti-Doping eLearning Platform (ADeL) for athletes and coaches aiming to go to Tokyo. ‘ADeL for Tokyo 2020 Olympics’, developed by WADA in collaboration with the International Olympic Committee and the International Testing Agency (ITA) which will independently manage the anti-doping programme during the Games on behalf of the IOC. Contents The course will offer athletes and coaches an understanding of the Tokyo Olympics anti-doping rules, procedures and requirements, including how to check medications and apply for a Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE), how to provide whereabouts information, and explanations of the athletes’ rights and responsibilities during the testing process.  “This sort of course will be very useful to all,” said P.T. Usha. “Often, the big excuse is that athletes are not aware of the medicines they are taking. This will certainly help them.”
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||IPL in UAE will make task easier: ACU||Taking the IPL to the UAE will be quite a logistical challenge for the organisers, but BCCI’s Anti-Corruption Unit chief Ajit Singh says the move will make monitoring the event “slightly easier” as it will be restricted to just three venues. IPL is likely to start in UAE from Sept. 19 to Nov. 8, with Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi hosting the games. “It will be slightly easier (monitoring ACU activity) as there are only three grounds compared to eight venues in India. That’s not an issue at all. Once the schedule comes, we will decide the workforce,” said Ajit.
27 July 2020||Bengaluru,||India’s women’s blind team to be selected||The first ever Indian women’s blind cricket team is set to be selected, with the Cricket Association for the Blind in India (CABI) accepting an invitation from Blind Cricket England and Wales (BCEW) for a women’s tour in July 2021. The imminent selection of a national team adds significance to the women’s national championship to be held later this year. At the CABI AGM, it was also announced that the Nagesh Trophy men’s nationals, and the visit of the South African team for a bilateral series against India, will be held some time this season. The AGM also granted provisional recognition to newly formed associations in Chandigarh, Assam, Sikkim, Nagaland and Meghalaya.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sangakkara backs Ganguly for top ICC post||Sri Lanka legend Kumar Sangakkara has backed Sourav Ganguly for the ICC chairman’s post, saying the BCCI president’s “astute cricket brain” and vast experience as an administrator make him a “very suitable” candidate for the role. Sangakkara said the former India captain has an international mindset which is necessary to remain unbiased in an important position. “Quite a big fan of Dada not just because of his stature as a cricketer but I think he has a very astute cricket brain,” Sangakkara told India Today .
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Hurdles to salvation||Ignorance of the basic dichotomy between body and the atma is the greatest hurdle for the jivatma. He easily identifies with the body and until he is made to believe that his true identity is the atma and not the body, he continues in this pitiable state of samsara. The next difficulty is to contest against the strong team of the five jnanendriyas and the five karmendriyas along with the mind. The natural tendency of indriyas is to chase wrong objects. Under their influence the mind remains disturbed and restless. It is filled with desires that prompt the jivatma to act for their fulfilment. Along with all this is the stumbling block in the form of the sense of ahamkara and mamakara that attaches itself easily to the self in each being. In such a helpless situation, when there seems to be no question of his reaching anywhere near salvation, acharyas, preceptors and the azhwars have stepped in to render invaluable help to the jivatmas, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. By virtue of their intuitive perception of the sastras, they establish the truth of the Supreme Lord as the sole master of the entire creation and of all beings in it right from Brahma to the smallest ant. They show that the evils of samsara can be overcome by placing faith and respect for the dharma taught in the sastras. This alone can help man to attain perfection in life. It confers peace of mind and helps to strive for the supreme state of salvation. Assimilation of their teachings is sure to bring a change in the jivatma’s review of his position in the world. Krishna has declared that one who has no respect for the sastras and follows his own rules to lead life, is neither happy in this life nor is he destined to any better fate in his next birth.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 09:00 IST,||Sudoku - July 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A letter to medicine hopefuls||Dear Parents and Students,  The time for college applications and the final preparation for NEET and other competitive examinations, is here. But before you decide on taking up medicine, know a few things from someone who has been there. Reality bites I believe there is a contradiction between expectation and reality, which begins very early in our professional lives. For most students like me and a few of my close friends, opting for medicine is not because of an interest in the subject, but because it seems to guarantee a secure future. I chose the medical stream as early as Class XI, because I was lured by my father’s respect in society and the money he earned. From the time they were very young, my friends’ parents kept hammering into them that the way to mansions and luxurious cars is through medicine. In my batch at medical school, a lot of students enter college after years of hearing:‘Bas yeh exam pass kar lo, phir maje hi maje hain’(Just pass this exam and then it’s just a fun life). Others thought that life in a medical college, away from home, would be full of booze and fun. The reality is a huge syllabus, weekly tests, and tyrannical professors. Ragging and bullying When I had to fill in the choice of colleges, I was fearful of putting down the names of a few due to ‘Strip Badminton’ as part of their ‘induction’ culture. Now, ragging has been renamed PDP (Personality Development Programme). Seniors feel that an interaction with them will help juniors sail through the tough years. They’ll mark important questions from hefty books, help you cheat, give you their notes, or teach you. In return, you should be ready to entertain them anytime, anywhere — when they are abused by their seniors, or have had a fight with their girlfriends, or fail or even pass. Bullying is not only limited to your introduction with head and neck bent, but goes on to you having dummy-sex with a chair, or being called meetha (gay). Some of my friends, who looked strong on the outside, came out crying after this night-long session. It is not as if the college authorities are not strict — you can find large hoardings with ‘Say No to Ragging', so there is no physical ragging; it’s at an emotional and psychological level. Day in and day out Another important factor to consider is the heavy workload on doctors. Residents often work five days on the trot with little sleep, unhealthy food, and sometimes no bath. They are sleepy in the OPD, get easily get agitated, and start making mistakes. They fall sick and many have low immunity, contracting tuberculosis easily. Medicine and surgery — the core branches of our profession — are said to have bright prospects, but they are the most strenuous. How can a doctor who has no self-care take care of a patient? During our college fest, I met a photographer who told me that he had dropped out from AIIMS just because he was more interested in photography. I joked, “Had you told me earlier, I would have tried to get your seat.” He asked me, “Getting into AIIMS was my dream too, but, at what cost?” I had no answer. My relatives enrolled their son into medical coaching the year I got selected. He did Class XI under stress, but failed intentionally in the exams. Eventually, his parents realised their mistakes, but it cost him an entire year. I ask all students who choose medicine: Come from a place of fascination for the process of healing or the desire to bring positive change in others’ lives. My father says, “No one can eat money.” I couldn’t agree more. Look for a profession that makes you happy. Money, for a decent living, will always follow.  The writer is in his second year of MBBS at a college in Delhi.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Q & A||Does heart attack lead to depression? My 47-year-old brother is no longer as cheerful after he got his attack. I want to help him but don’t know how. Heart problems and depression frequently co-exist but that is more common in the elderly than at your brother’s age. It is likely that he is upset by the fact that he had a heart attack at a relatively young age. That may have eroded his confidence. ‘Why me?’ is an initial reaction that can turn into self-doubt on the ability to lead an active and productive life. Sometimes, medicines advised as part of long term treatment after a heart attack may also darken the mood. He needs to be counselled both by his doctor and his close family members that he can still lead an active and productive life. Depression will only reduce the quality and even the quantity of life in the years ahead. As far as your role is concerned, try to make him feel normal. Gently draw him out so that he can unload his anxieties and concerns. Boost his confidence by giving him information about how others have done well after a heart attack. Get his doctor to talk to him about his concerns. Persuade him to take a nice holiday with you to get him out of an environment that painfully reminds him that he is a ‘heart patient’. Get a good assessment of his medical status from his doctor.  What is the right heart-healthy diet? If you are a heart patient, is it okay to occasionally eat what you enjoy?    Thoughdietary advice on a heart-healthy diet has often been contradictory or confusing because researchers focus on specific single nutrients or single food items, there is general agreement that a composite heart healthy diet has the following characteristics. A diverse and mostly plant based diet; lots of vegetables (especially legumes and greens) and fruits (especially berries). Whole fruit should be consumed, rather than fruit juices; nuts are good, especially tree nuts like walnuts, pistachios and almonds but should be consumed in a limited quantity as they are rich not only in nutrients but also in calories. For non-vegetarians, fish is better than fowl and fowl is better than flesh. Have red meat only occasionally, if at all, but have fish twice or thrice a week. Limit the intake of salt and sugar. High salt intake is associated with high blood pressure which increases the risk of heart attacks and strokes (brain attacks). Refined carbohydrates, especially sugars, have been convincingly shown to increase the risk of heart and blood vessel disease. Consume healthy fats in a moderate quantity. Choose healthy cooking oils. Avoid partially hydrogenated oils which have high levels of trans-fats. Cooking oils which are rich in mono or poly unsaturated fatty acids should be preferred. The choice of the specific oil or mix of oils depends on local availability and cost. If you are generally disciplined in having a healthy diet, you can occasionally indulge yourself with something which you enjoy but are cautioned not to have too much of anything. Moderation, not martyrdom is the mantra of a good diet. Also make sure you maintain a healthy weight, through a prudent diet and adequate exercise.   Dr.K Srinath Reddy  is the President of Public Health Foundation of India; former president World Heart Federation; former Head of  Cardiology  at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi   Nothing in this column is intended to be, and is not, a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Please seek independent advice from a licensed practitioner if you have any questions regarding a medical condition. Email us your questions at mp_health@thehindu.co.in
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Lack of rationale||Recently, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the rationalisation of the classes XI and XII syllabus by 30% for the academic year 2020-2021. This was due to the shorter academic season and loss of instructional hours caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision to drop certain chapters in each course has been welcomed by some and criticised by others. Many think the move reduces the course load on students and frees them from stress. Some are sceptical because they think that the reduction will affect students who prepare for competitive exams such as NEET and JEE. Some of those opposing the move feel that certain chapters removed from the classes IX and X Social Science syllabus are essential for students to understand society and that this deletion will impact them negatively. What’s out The deleted portions include chapters on population, democratic rights, food security in India, everyday life, culture and politics, print culture and the modern world, forest and wildlife, democracy and diversity, gender, religion and caste, popular struggles and movements, and challenges to democracy. The deleted topics in the classes XI and XII Political Science course include federalism, citizenship, nationalism, secularism, social movements in India, planning commission and five-year plans, and India’s relations with its neighbours. Looking at the deletions makes one ask: Why were these chapters/topics removed? Is it a democratic decision? Is it a productive ‘curriculum rationalisation exercise’ as claimed by the CBSE? How important are these topics? What impact will the scrapping of these chapters from the syllabus have on education? What is the purpose of education? About a year ago, the CBSE was severely criticised by academicians for its decision to scrap the chapters on ‘Democracy and Diversity’, ‘Popular Struggles and Movements’ and ‘Challenges to Democracy’ from the class X Social Science syllabus for the academic year 2019-2020 in the name of ‘curriculum rationalisation’. The opposition forced it to clarify later that “no chapters have been deleted from the syllabus of Social Science class X by the Board. All the chapters will be studied by the class X students in due course of time and also evaluated.” It seems that the government is allergic to the terms democracy, diversity, popular movements, and does not want students to know, study and discuss these vital topics. The purpose of education is to create well-informed citizens who know how a society functions, what values are important in a democratic society, how in the past people struggled to protect their rights, how they formed popular movements and tried to overcome challenges to democracy, and so on. It is important for students to reflect on concepts such as equality, justice, tolerance, inclusion, and human rights and have informed views in order to function effectively as responsible citizens. Syllabuses and curriculum should be designed and, if necessary, modified by experts in various fields and educationists without political interference. A country with informed citizens will progress in all aspects. The writer is an academic, columnist and teacher educator. rayanal@yahoo.co.uk  The purpose of education is to create well-informed citizens who know how a society functions...
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Act quickly and appropriately||Bullying in schools is bad enough but, with the advent of social media, it has taken on another brutal avatar: cyberbullying. Sadly, the toxicity doesn’t seem to end. Today, even teachers are being victimised by their students. Many teachers say that online classes have ruined classroom decorum. Students, they claim, often take on fake IDs to make inappropriate remarks during class. There are reports of students sleeping in class, giving themselves celebrity names, morphing teachers’ pictures to troll them, switching off their cameras and changing their account name to hurl abuses or send inappropriate memes to teachers. Being bullied by one’s students can make educators re-think their decision to become a teacher. But e-learning is here to stay and cyberbullying is a pressing issue that needs to be addressed. Here are some possible solutions that can help schools and teachers:  1. Master virtual classroom management: Students are able to take control of the online classroom because they are tech-savvy. Therefore, teachers have to equip themselves with the skills required for the respective learning platform and know its nuances. There might be a bit of difficulty in the beginning, but one can ace it with a bit of exploring and practice. For instance, if you are using Zoom, learn how to mute and unmute participants, to share documents, to stop annotations, to manage the chatbox, and so on. You can also check the disabling options and disable whatever is necessary to avoid any disturbances from the participants. The common complaint of students changing their names while in class can be easily resolved by this. Don’t hesitate to ask your colleagues, friends, or family for help.  2. Maintaining decorum: The role of managing mischief cannot be single-handedly managed by a teacher. The school must step in and assign a co-teacher to watch the students. In case such extended support is lacking, schools can always resort to stringent rules. As there is a complete shift to virtual classrooms, there also needs to be a revised framework of behaviour and discipline guidelines, which has to be shared with both students and their parents. Outline what is acceptable and unacceptable and the consequences for the latter. Make both parties acknowledge the guidelines; this will make students adhere to the rules and parents accept the consequences. Most importantly, follow through with the consequences so that students take the protocols, and the teachers, seriously. Also, revisit the guidelines every 2-3 months to check if any changes are needed as virtual learning is still evolving.  3. Stay connected with students: Take immediate action in case of unruliness. Use private chat to communicate with students instead of public shaming. Whatever the nature of the offence, be positive and respectful. Quick action will show students that the teacher is in control. If necessary, include both parents and school authorities in a meeting with the students. E-learning is helping teachers break new ground. Don’t lose heart when your students exhibit challenging behaviours. Instead, try to understand the reasons and take quick and appropriate action. The writer is co-founder and Chief Marketing Officer at Learning Matters Pvt. Ltd, a Bengaluru-based ed-tech company. contact@learningmatters.xyz  Many teachers say that online classes have ruined classroom decorum
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning voyages||“I’m not a nostalgist,” says a writer in an interview, referring to the city he lives in and commenting on how much it has changed. A nostalgist is often defined as someone who has a sentimental longing for something in the past. These days, many of us also seem to long for the pre-COVID world, the freedom and privileges we perhaps took for granted. As inevitable as this may be, I think what is more pertinent is to look forward to the new world beyond this temporary phase (because that’s what it is — temporary). There seem to be a million ways we can prepare ourselves to welcome this world. We could Netflix our free time towards that, as we indulge in documentaries about countries and cultures we always wanted to visit. And then, perhaps prepare a holiday list for later. We could equally nourish our minds by reading with abandon. Or we could pick up innumerable new skills that would help us in that new world. The future will always be uncertain, but at least we know we are preparing ourselves in productive and fruitful ways. In this process, we could recall our respective ‘learning voyages’ and how we may have stumbled, but then eventually mastered an art or a skill. Perhaps how we learnt to ride a bicycle, use a digital device, or a design software for the very first time. And perhaps here, there’s no harm in being a nostalgist, as we hark back to how we started something new. Because that nostalgia motivates us, fuelling our ambitions to meet the new world. In the current context, many have picked up video-conferencing skills for the very first time. Some of us even have senior family members who have slowly learnt to use and adapt such conferencing apps to stay connected with loved ones all over the world. Back to fundamentals At the end of the day, it seems to boil down to the fundamentals of learning. The process takes patience, unwavering determination, courage and humility to learn from mistakes. I still remember how I started to drive, after I finished my driving lessons. I took the wheel, nervously wondering what I was supposed to do and how to go about it. And though I held a license, here was the moment of truth. The various parts of the car confused and mocked me, as I stuttered through the quiet road tentatively. Eventually, with guidance, practice and a certain inexplicable confidence, I started to drive. The possibilities are endless, even in these times when events seem to overwhelm us. The weight of the present could seem to bog us down, but the promise of the new future is far more powerful, in my view. This optimism isn’t unfounded, especially when we discuss professional careers and aspirations. We are at the cusp of a revolution, as most research points out. But future outcomes depend on how we approach the present. As they, say, we will reap what we sow. The work place in many sectors across the world has already adapted itself very quickly. The question is: have we adapted our minds to the workplace of the future? The writer is a literary journalist. She also heads Corporate Communications at UST Global. Views expressed are personal. Twitter: @anupamaraju
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Blockchain, the legal way||Commercial litigation in India is largely based on reconciliation of differences in the ledger entries of two parties. Ledgers are independently maintained by parties resulting in a higher chance of different entries. Blockchain technology is fast emerging as a tamper-proof universal ledger. The success of blockchain emerged with the success of crypto-currencies. It has the potential to further transform e-payment, legal contracting, electronic medical records, education credentials and more and become a way to store information electronically in the future. This will eradicate the need for many adjudicating/third-party bodies such as stock/commodity exchanges, central banks, registrars, and impact transactions. Safeguards in place Blockchain technology acts as a decentralised public ledger, which is a storehouse of financial transactions. To minimise risks of data breach and tamper, each transaction is supported with unique user id details. This technology has maximum safeguards in place for greater verification making it a go-to tool for most industries. This new-age technology can revolutionise mundane legal tasks such as:  Smart contracts: Law  firms draft contracts that have a repeated function and similar template on a regular basis. With effective use of blockchain technology, one can simply automate the set of terms and conditions of contracts like lease agreements, standard memorandum of understandings, rental agreements, and others. It will help simplify the process of entering into contracts with more than one party and also reduce pending cases related to proving documents in courts. Once documents are saved on an online ledger, there is little chance of them being tampered with.  Public ledger of information: Many governments are looking to adopt this technology to store information about their citizens and the census. By providing a decentralised platform to safely store data regarding birth, death, and crime record, governments can effectively curb fraudulent activities. Even our judiciary can benefit by using this platform to store court judgements, making our legal system more transparent and accessible to litigants.  Changing the nature of ownership of assets and managing titles: Every year, the government spends large resources on managing and registering land titles. By providing a safe platform to store land titles and allowing transfer of property through digital means, citizens can effectively transfer and acquire their land rights at lower costs.  Intellectual Property Rights: Blockchain technology creates a consolidated platform where trademark and copyright filings can be stored. With entries that cannot be tampered with and accurate time stamps, the number of disputes concerning intellectual property rights may well decrease.  Universal repository: Blockchain is a decentralised platform that cuts across borders and is a universal repository of information across all jurisdictions. This unique feature can easily allow for international contracting seamlessly between parties. Application in law schools For new-age lawyers to effectively use these revolutionary technologies, it is imperative that they have foundational knowledge of technology and its applications. Higher Educational Institutions must focus on integrating technology in their curriculum to make their students industry-ready. Law schools should include an interdisciplinary learning between law and technology to deliver applied knowledge of both disciplines. Students must be taught all about smart contracting supported by blockchain technology along with the tools to use it efficiently. The writer is member, founding team, Vijaybhoomi University  Blockchain technology acts as a decentralised public ledger, which acts as a storehouse of financial transactions.
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Analysing NIRF 2020||India has been witnessing an unprecedented increase both in the number of Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and the volume of students entering them. This is bound to impact the quality of education. Various statutory bodies such as UGC, AICTE, and MCI have made periodic prescriptions to improve quality of education. Apart from the mandatory accreditations, in 2016, the Government of India instituted the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), an annual report card on the performance of the HEIs. The most recent edition saw the participation of over 3,700 institutions across different categories. The NIRF ranks institutions based on five parameters: Teaching Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcome (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI)and Perception. According to the 2020 rankings, 18 universities from Tamil Nadu figured in the top 100 in the University category. Of these, eight are government institutions while the rest are private. The results indicate that public universities fare better in research, professional practice, and graduation outcome and perception. While the scores in TLR and OI do not vary much among government universities, the variation in ranks is mainly due to scores in RPC and perception parameters. Rising to the top Among the colleges in Tamil Nadu, 32 fall in the top 100. Among these are four Government Arts colleges and nine women’s colleges. Presidency College, Chennai, has been ranked fifth nationally. In the Engineering category, 17 institutions, including prestigious ones like IIT Madras and NIT Trichy and seven private deemed-to-be universities, are in the top 100. Among the 400+ self-financing colleges in the state, only three found a place in the top 100; a reflection of the trend in admission to engineering programmes in recent years. Eight management institutes made it to the list compared to 10 in the last edition of NIRF. Seven medical institutions are listed, with Christian Medical College Vellore being ranked third at the All India level. No law institution from the state found a place in the topper’s list in 2019 or 2020. Three architecture institutions, four dental institutions and nine pharmacy institutions were in the top institutes list in their respective categories. The dominance of institutions from Tamil Nadu in the NIRF is mainly due to the awareness of the latest educational trends, timely and proper conduct of exams, fruits of reservation percolating down and the perception of employers. For institutions to improve their ranking, they should ensure cent per cent enrolment of students, adequate experienced and qualified faculty (with a faculty:student ratio of 1 : 15), enrolment of students from other states and countries, increased number of women students and faculty, scholarships, more quality research publications and funded research projects, higher pass percentage in the exams, facilities for physically-challenged and good reputation among employees and academic peers. Another point to note is that only 14% of the top ranked institutions are from the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. It is time that institutions in Tamil Nadu focus on employability of students, quality research and augmentation of infrastructure in government institutions so that the state can reap the benefits in the coming years. Institutions in the state should further improve their standards to get into the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) and Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings (QS) so that they can be recognised globally. The writer is a professor of Chemistry and Director, R&D, Gandhigram Rural Institute, Gandhigram. Email mgsethu@gmail.com
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Freshers, stop worrying||Businesses have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions taken by the government to contain it. Some like the travel industry are facing what is possibly their worst crisis. Many companies have laid off employees and stopped hiring. Students who have just graduated and are looking for jobs now believe that their chances of being employed are slim. But all hope is not lost. There are still a few fields that are still hiring, especially in technology and marketing. Companies are looking for employees with niche skills such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Science, Internet of Things, and Digital Marketing. Let us take a look at the opportunities currently available. Technology Despite the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, many technology-based careers have seen a steady rate of hiring. According to data, job postings for cybersecurity engineers rose by a whopping 20% between February and March, as pandemic-themed phishing and cyber-attacks began to increase. Job postings for .NET developers and system engineers have also risen by 12% and 11% respectively, between February and March. This indicates that companies have realised their current technological limitations and are figuring out how they need to evolve in order to survive. This suggests that many employers are focusing their efforts on their core product offerings and infrastructure maintenance. Some in-demand jobs in this sector are Information security/cyber security engineer; Database administrator; Web developer; Network and systems administrator and Data scientist. Marketing Each company has a product/service and the company doesn’t grow if there is no marketing to back it. The pandemic has made clear that marketing will always be needed and that companies will have to upgrade digitally. Now more than ever, the demand is for frontline sales and digital marketing profiles, as the pandemic and lockdown restrictions have caused consumers to start buying online. Companies will need to increase budget allocation to online marketing and hire full-time employees across all digital marketing areas. Furthermore, the marketing and advertising industries are the ‘most ready’ for remote working so they haven’t been affected as much as the other industries. Some in-demand jobs in this sector are Marketing data analyst; Content marketing specialist; Social media marketer; Advertising coordinator; and Growth marketing specialist. Ultimately, freshers who are interested in pursuing technology and marketing have a higher chance of being hired, even during this global pandemic. The writer is Co-Founder, Board Infinity.
27 July 2020||Nikhil M Babu,||Capital shame||On July 19 morning, the day the Capital received its first generous spell of monsoon showers, locals pulled out a 56-year-old driver from a waterlogged stretch under Minto Bridge where his van got stuck in the heart of the city. But they were too late — he was already dead. A green-coloured Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus was also half-submerged in the water from which the driver’s body was fished out and fire service personnel had to rescue the people in it. At the same spot, about two years ago, on the morning of July 13, another DTC bus had met a similar fate. In the aftermath of the July 19 van tragedy, newspapers splashed photographs of cycles and vehicles submerged under the Minto Bridge as far back as 1987 and 1993. The bridge and the photos tell the story of urban water flooding in the Capital, and of political apathy that has resulted in no respite for the people despite different governments in power. Experts toldThe Hinduthat different parts of Delhi get flooded every year due to multiple reasons such as over-concretisation, disappearing waterbodies and encroachment at many points on over 3,700 km of storm water drains, which are supposed to take away rainwater. Also, untreated sewage flowing into these drains and the multiplicity of agencies managing them add to the woes. Despite the gravity of the problem, a ‘Drainage Master Plan for NCT of Delhi’, seen as a possible solution, is yet to be implemented by the city government. The plan was commissioned by the Congress-led Delhi government in 2012 and a final plan submitted to the Aam Aadmi Party government in July 2018 by IIT-Delhi. The last drainage master plan of the city was prepared in 1976, when the population of the city was 60 lakh. Since then the population of the city has increased about four times, according to official figures. “We have played with the drainage system and we are now suffering its result. This was expected,” said Manoj Misra, former IFS officer and convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, a civil society initiative for the river’s rejuvenation. “I don’t think either the municipal corporation [run by BJP] or the Delhi government [run by AAP] has done anything to solve waterlogging,” said C.R. Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems of Delhi University.  Unplanned growth Mr. Misra said Delhi is “lucky” to have a topography which aids flow of excess rainwater. “It has an undulating terrain and apart from the trans-Yamuna region [east Delhi], the rest of the city, which is the original Delhi, doesn’t have any reason to get flooded,” he said. “From the central ridge there is a gradual slope towards the east and the west. So, when it rains, water in the storm water drains in the east of the ridge directly flows into the Yamuna. And towards the west of the ridge, water in smaller drains flow into the Najafgarh drain, which goes around and finally empties into the Yamuna,” said Mr. Misra. The former IFS officer said things changed in the 1980s. “It was then that things got worse. The population started to increase and there was a lot of construction but no planning. The DDA [Delhi Development Authority] was formed in the 1950s, but did not do anything,” he said. Prof. Babu said it was in the 1990s that flooding became a problem in Delhi. “There used to be a lot of open spaces. In the late ’90s, there was a lot of urbanisation happening and these areas were constructed upon. The change can be seen in the maps of the city from different times,” Mr. Babu said. Most of the storm water drains, which are supposed to carry excess rainwater, were actually natural drains bearing water from the Aravalis to the Yamuna, according to experts. Plan in cold storage Among the master plan’s top recommendations were no encroachment on storm water drains, no sewage flow into them, rejuvenation of waterbodies and a single agency managing such drains. But two years after the plan was submitted to the government, these recommendations remain only on paper. For instance, the 10-m-wide Najafgarh drain, one of the largest storm water drains in the city, is blackish in colour and smelly as untreated sewage and waste are dumped into it. At the point where it finally flows into the Yamuna near the Signature Bridge, it changes the river’s colour to a darker shade. “Due to waste and sewage, the water-carrying capacity of these drains has been reduced,” said Mr. Misra. In the past, rainwater also flowed to waterbodies in low-lying areas of the city. Here, part of the water used to percolate and recharge the groundwater and the rest stayed as surface water. But over the years many of the waterbodies have disappeared due to construction and encroachment, experts said. “There is no area for rainwater to percolate into the ground due to the level of concretisation. Pedestrian paths have been paved. Instead of this, grass and trees should be planted. Also, avenue trees, which are trees planted along the roadside, have been felled in the name of construction of roads and flyovers. The canopy of these trees absorb water. A lot of that water then drips back into the soil. We need to plant more trees along our major roads,” Mr. Babu said. Unkept promises A.K. Gosain, Professor Emeritus of IIT-Delhi who headed the team that came out with the master plan, had submitted a draft report to the Delhi government in 2016. After the government gave its comments, a final report was submitted in July 2018. Mr. Gosain said in 2018 he had given a presentation to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal about the plan and he was happy with it. “The Chief Minister has directed the departments concerned to take concrete steps for the implementation of the report which mentions in detail the specific reasons for waterlogging and flooding during monsoon,” an official statement issued by the Delhi government on August 1, 2018, on the master plan said. About two years later, an expert committee is still vetting it for feasibility. “The expert committee had asked for our comments and we replied. They have been asking for more comments, but it has not gone beyond it,” Mr. Gosain said. Currently, the storm water drains fall under 11 different agencies, including the Delhi government’s Irrigation and Flood Control Department and Public Works Department (PWD) and the BJP-ruled three municipal corporations. “No one cares about the IIT report. No one even remembers it. It is only remembered when there is flood and for the rest of the months, the government just sleeps,” Mr. Misra said. After the driver’s body was fished out on July 19, by 1 p.m. Mr. Kejriwal said that waterlogging was cleared from the Minto Bridge area and shared a photo on twitter. “We are keeping an eye on more such places in Delhi. Wherever water is collected, it is being pumped immediately,” he said in the tweet. “Pumping out water and desilting are just temporary solutions. We need systemic changes and the IIT report is the way forward. It has to be implemented,” Mr. Misra said. COVID shadow In its 2015 election manifesto, AAP had promised: “Discharge of untreated water and industrial effluents into the Yamuna will be strictly prohibited.” The Chief Minister said that this year, all agencies, be it the Delhi government or the municipal corporations, were trying to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. “This is not the time to blame each other. Everyone has to fulfil their responsibilities together,” he said. But in the days that followed, his party leaders blamed the BJP and the latter blamed the former. “The system has to be looked at as a whole. There is no point working in some segments and trying to solve the issues, it won’t work. Also, all drains have to be brought under one agency. Right now there is no accountability,” Mr. Gosain said. Maintenance work The PWD has jurisdiction over the largest length of drainage in the city, including 1,037 drains. According to a senior PWD official, as many as 454 complaints pertaining to waterlogging have been received by the agency so far in July, while 196 were received in June. In addition to the desilting of the drains under its jurisdiction, the PWD is also responsible for pumping of excess water from the roads under it through drainage pumps installed at underpasses and low-lying areas as well as through utilisation of mobile super sucker machines, which can be dispatched and utilised at points witnessing heavy waterlogging. “The leaves of all field staff engaged in maintenance work have been cancelled and the situation at vulnerable points across the city, including the Minto Bridge, is being monitored on real-time basis,” said a PWD official. The three municipal corporations claimed to have completed the cleaning of most of the drains under them. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation reported to have removed 117% of the estimated silt from 223 drains running 123.6 km. The North body reportedly cleaned 100% of estimated silt from its 192 drains running 112.62 km. The South corporation has reportedly cleaned around 28,000 metric tonnes of silt from its drains out of a target of around 31,000 metric tonnes, based on last year’s estimates. A senior corporation official said desilting of the drains is the main intervention that can be carried out by civic bodies. This includes cleaning entry points to drains from road surfaces, removal of silt from drains, the official explained. Most major drains in the city belong to the PWD and are the channels that flow into the drains of the Flood and Irrigation Department, municipal officials pointed out. These drains, the officials claimed, have not been cleaned and as a consequence of that drains owned by the civic body also get clogged. On Friday, mayors of all three municipal corporations attacked the Delhi government, placing the blame for waterlogging on it. (With inputs from Jatin Anand and Sidharth Ravi)
27 July 2020||July 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Vitamin C matters||Say Vitamin C and you almost immediately think of oranges and lemons. But did you know that a single red guava has over 200 mg of the nutrient in 100 grams, which is almost over thrice as that in an orange. You get just about 64 mg from 100 gm of orange and 48 mg from 100 ml of lime juice according to the Indian Food Composition Tables. “Vitamin C, also called ascorbic acid, is a water soluble vitamin that helps to improve immunity, aids in the synthesis of collagen (skin protein), and production of certain neurotransmitters (the body’s chemical messengers). It is not stored in the body and requires daily intake,” says Bengaluru-based Dharshini Surendran, dietician. While 100 gm of gooseberry provides 247 mg, others like bell peppers (yellow, red, green: 120 mg), bitter gourd (50 mg), and raw mango (50 mg), can also provide the vitamin. Though it’s not possible to eat 100 gm of chillies, it’s good to know that they contain 90 mg of the vitamin. The daily Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of Vitamin C for adults is 65 to 90 mg per day. “We need Vitamin C to help in the absorption of iron from food,” says Gayathri V, a dietician based in Kochi. “A balanced diet, for example dosa or idli and sambar with seasonal vegetables for breakfast; a lunch platter of rice, green vegetables, and dal; a guava or papaya for dessert, ensures that you not only get Vitamin C, but also carbs, proteins, and fats.” Avoid caffeine as it inhibits Vitamin C absorption, stay hydrated, and cut down on meat, especially after you consume Vitamin C rich foods, advises Pradeepa Saravanan, dietician based in Coimbatore.“Include at least one serving of fresh fruits and vegetables per day in your diet. For example, a papaya salad with pomegranate, bell peppers, or banana. Vitamin C evaporates when exposed to heat, that’s why I recommend consuming 500 mg every day, not just during the pandemic but for life, to make up for the nutrient loss while cooking.” One way of starting your day with a Vitamin C shot is to churn either three or four amla (gooseberries) or half a bitter gourd in the mixie with a handful of coconut bits and a jaggery to taste (nothing over a tablespoon). Mix with a little water, strain, and drink on an empty stomach. Here are a few recipes to help up Vitamin C levels.
27 July 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal gas survivors demand interim relief for COVID-19||Groups working for Bhopal gas tragedy survivors on Sunday appealed to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to provide interim relief to survivors during the COVID-19 pandemic. Writing to Mr. Chouhan, the Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sanghathan and the Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti demanded relief for each survivor “who are facing a torrid time during the present pandemic” at Rs. 3,000 every month and to each widow and orphan Rs. 5,000 a month. The groups contended that the survivors were forced to live in such terrible conditions when compensation was due to them. “By the Government of India’s own submission in the curative petition, which is currently pending before the Supreme Court of India, the Government has sought Rs. 7,728 crore (which is a gross underestimation) as additional compensation from Union Carbide and its present owners, the Dow Chemical Company,” they wrote. There was no justification, the groups said, for delaying the additional compensation to survivors. “It may be recalled that Rs. 200 was paid as interim relief per person/per month to 500,000 residents of 36 gas-affected wards of Bhopal in 1990-1996 by the Central government due to delay in payment of compensation,” they added. Demanding the interim relief, the groups said it should be paid until the disbursement of additional compensation and the amount of relief might be subtracted from the compensation due. It should be transferred to their bank accounts. The 1984 leak from a pesticide plant here killed hundreds and left thousands crippled. The groups further contended the condition of nearly 5,000 widowed survivors, who have been deprived of pension of Rs. 1,000 a month since December 2019, was the most pathetic. ‘Cong. govt. to blame’ Blaming the previous Congress government for stopping the pension, Vishvas Sarang, Minister, Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief & Rehabilitation told The Hindu , “We started the scheme during the previous tenure which was for a time period and was continued later. After reviewing the scheme, we will try to restart it.”
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 count crosses 1.3 lakh||The Capital recorded 1,075 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hour, pushing the total number of cases to 1,30,606. In the same period, 21 deaths were reported taking the total deaths to 3,827, according to a heath bulletin released by the Delhi government. It added that 1,807 people recovered, the total number of recoveries now being listed at 1,14,875. There are currently 11,904 active cases in the Capital. Commenting on the numbers, the Delhi government said that a detailed analysis of deaths due to COVID-19 in Delhi carried out by the Health Department for the period June 1-12 and July 1-12 has revealed a 44% decline in deaths – from 1,089 to 605. “The analysis revealed that deaths in Delhi government- run COVID hospitals saw a 58% reduction from early June to July – from 361 deaths to 154 deaths. In comparison, deaths in private COVID hospitals saw a 25% reduction from June to July and deaths in Central government- run hospitals saw a 55% reduction,” the government said. The government added that hospital-wise analysis of deaths revealed that the percentage of death rate (total deaths vis-à-vis total admissions) in Central government’s RML Hospital was 81% in June, which dropped to 58% in July. In Safdarjung Hospital, the percentage of death rate dropped from 40% in June to 31% in July and in Lok Nayak Hospital, it dropped from 28% in early June to 16% in early July. Crucial initiatives The government attributed the turnaround to Chief Miniser Arvind Kejriwal’s emphasis on timely implementation of crucial initiatives to prevent deaths. It said that initiative that were key to reduction of deaths in Delhi included widespread testing, providing oximeters to patients under home isolation, a responsive ambulance system, display of beds on the Corona app and a focus on ICU beds. “From an average of 5,500 tests per day, Delhi scaled up its testing to reach an average of 21,000 tests per day in early July. As on date, Delhi’s current testing rate of 50,000 per million is by far the highest in the country,” the Delhi government said, adding that it has ensured that COVID-19 patients could access testing facilities easily and reach hospitals before their condition gets serious. The government said that its home isolation programme had been a success as with the help of oximeters that were provided free to patients, they could monitor their vitals and request transfer to a hospital if their condition deteriorated. Apart from adding the number of beds available for COVID-19 patients and its display of the Corona app, the government said it set its focus on expanding the number of ICU beds. “From less than 500 ICU beds in early June, Delhi today has over 2,200 ICU beds in COVID hospitals, about 1,400 of which are vacant,” the government said.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP hits out at BJP-run SDMC over proposal for new taxes||AAP on Sunday attacked the BJP over the proposal of new and certain increased taxes set to be introduced at a House meeting of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Sunday. As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, people are suffering from a massive economic crisis, said AAP convener Gopal Rai. In such a situation, increasing four types of taxes was “very saddening and unfortunate”, he said. Among the taxes proposed, include a professional tax, which would be levied on professionals such as doctors, engineers, architects and others, a higher tax on unauthorised colonies, a property transfer tax, levied during purchase and sale of properties, and increase in the electricity tax, which is collected by electricity distribution companies, Gopal Rai said. These taxes were proposed in the Budget of the corporation earlier and had been accepted by the Standing Committee as a means of increasing the revenue of the civic bodies. These would be implemented only after the approval from the House.  Mr. Rai said that AAP councillors would raise their voice against the proposal and not allow it to pass, adding that if it was not rolled back, then party members would go door to door in protest. He also questioned the usage of funds by the civic bodies, alleging that councillors dealt in corruption and called for the release of a white paper on funds used by the civic bodies.
27 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Citizens wait for Hamirpur’s mobile medical service to resume||Fifty-five-year-old Sushil Sharma at Badhera village in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur district has been eagerly waiting for the next visit of the asptal (hospital), a mobile medical van, to his tiny village. “Medical consultation by a doctor and the facility of several medical tests from a vehicle right at my doorstep, and that too free of cost, is of great help. Earlier, if anyone from the family had to undergo a medical check-up or tests, we had to travel about 5 km to the nearest town, Kangoo. It’s never easy travelling in the hills, especially during the winters and the rainy season,” said Mr. Sharma, a farmer. Paryas Society, an NGO, started the ‘Asptal – Sansad Mobile Swasthya Seva’ (mobile medical service through a vehicle) initiative to provide free primary healthcare in the remotest locations of the Hamirpur parliamentary constituency. “The van visits our village or a nearby village once in 40 days or so. My wife, who is diabetic, got her medical tests for ‘sugar’ done when the van had last come to our village. Owing to lockdown restrictions, the service has come to a standstill. Everyone here wants it to resume as soon as possible,” added Mr. Sharma. ‘Save time, money’ Neelam Devi, 31, of Yoh village in Sarkaghat, who got herself medically examined a few months ago, said, “Before, I had to shell out Rs. 200-250 to check uric acid, sugar, glucose tolerance etc., at a private lab in the town of Sarkaghat. But now, with the mobile van service, I save money and time.” “With the COVID-19 outbreak, there’s fear among people due to which many have stopped going to hospitals. In such a situation, I think it’s all the more important that the mobile van should regularly visit the village to extend medical services,” she said. She, too, wanted the service to resume as soon as possible. In Jahu Khurd village, 60-year-old housewife Anita Devi agreed: “During the monsoon season, it rains heavily here, and at times it’s incessant. In such a situation, going to a private lab or even a government healthcare centre, which are about 3 km from my house, is quite a task. Elders and children in the family have to suffer the most.” Vandana Kumari, also from Jahu Khurd, said, “In March this year, I availed of the service of a mobile van for the first time. I was examined by a doctor and got medicines and a few tests done, all free of cost. Earlier, I use to walk 8 km up and down to get tests and check-ups done at a private facility in the town of Jahu.” Counsel patients Dr. Vikas Singh, who coordinates the movement of medical units for the NGO, said that one of the focus areas of the service was listening to patients, especially senior citizens. “At times, patients do not get the required attention of a physician in hospitals due to heavy rush. At mobile van camps, apart from conducting tests etc, our team members counsel people to instil a sense of security about health,” he said. Avnish Parmar, treasurer at Paryas Society, said the Asptal service offers around 40 medical tests, including for creatinine, uric acid, sugar, glucose, hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C. Medicines are provided free of cost when patients are not able to afford them. “The brainchild of local MP and Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, the service was started with three mobile units, now increased to 17 and covering all 17 Assembly constituencies. Within a span of two years, over 2,00,000 people have benefited from the service. Each mobile medical unit is equipped with an experienced team, including a doctor, a nurse, a lab technician and a driver,” said Mr. Parmar. COVID-19 assistance Since lockdown restrictions led to the service being stopped, Asptal has been assisting government functionaries. “Over the past two months, our teams have been deployed at inter-State borders for the initial screening of each individual entering the State. We have screened over 62,000 people to determine symptomatic vis-a-vis asymptomatic people in order to decide on the further course of action,” he added. Bilaspur district Chief Medical Officer Dr. Prakash Daroch said the Asptal model ensures the best last-mile primary healthcare for remote locations.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC fines Bengal govt. for failing to relieve IPS officer||The Delhi High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 20,000 on the West Bengal government for not relieving an IPS officer of the State cadre, despite a lapse of nearly three years since the Centre issued a notification permitting the cadre transfer from West Bengal to Odisha. The High Court gave the order on a plea by Ms. Loganayagi Divya V., an IPS officer of 2013 batch, who was allotted to West Bengal cadre. Ms. Divya, in her plea, stated that on a representation made by her stating that she married an IPS office of Odisha cadre, the Home Ministry had on September 12, 2017, issued a notification for change of her cadre from West Bengal to Odisha. She had contended that more than two years have elapsed since the cadre change was notified, but she was not being relieved by the West Bengal government, thereby defeating the very purpose of seeking the change of cadre. Taking note of the plea, a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said that “there can be absolutely no justification for the State of West Bengal not relieving the petitioner (Ms. Divya) to enable her to join the IPS Cadre in the State of Odisha”.  ‘Complete apathy’ “This shows complete apathy on the part of the State of West Bengal — which cannot be countenanced,” the High Court said. The court also noted that the change of cadre was sanctioned after prior approval of both — the West Bengal and the Odisha government, and of the Union of India as well. Ms. Divya had even approached the Central Administrative Tribunal which passed the order in her favour. Despite that, she was not relieved. Following which, she moved the High Court. Her counsel stated that she has delivered a child on June 12, 2020, and that the delivery was pre-mature and the child needs extra and special care. “We declare that the petitioner [Ms. Divya] stands forthwith relieved from her post in the IPS cadre of the State of West Bengal. No further orders would be required to be passed by the State of West Bengal in this regard,” the High Court ordered. “We direct the State of Odisha to treat this order as a relieving order of the petitioner to enable her to join her post in the IPS cadre in the State of Odisha,” it added.
27 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to launch job portal today||Minister for Employment, Development and Labour, Gopal Rai said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal would launch a job portal on Monday to generate employment opportunities and revive Delhi’s economy that had been hit due to the pandemic. The portal, he said, would give an opportunity to people looking for jobs to connect with companies looking to hire them. The starting of the job portal, the Delhi government said, was the first in a slew of measures that the Mr. Kejriwal will be announcing during the course of the week for the economic revival of Delhi. Given the COVID-19 crisis, a Delhi government spokesperson said, the focus was now on getting the economy back on track and getting people their livelihoods back by restarting all business activities. The Chief Minister had sought suggestion from businessmen, economists and representatives from trade and industry and had received many ideas on how to restart the economy, the spokesperson said.
27 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam teachers’ association seeks change in question paper pattern||A teachers’ association in Assam has advised the State government to change the pattern of Class 11 and 12 board exams as the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the 2020-21 academic year. The All Assam Higher Secondary Teachers and Employees’ Association (AAHSTEA) has also suggested providing free android mobile phones and suitable data packs to poor students who have been missing out on their online classes. According to the AAHSTEA, half of some 4 lakh Class 11 and 12 students in Assam have not been able to attend online classes for the lack of android mobile phones. “School and junior college teachers are posting notes and videos of their classes on WhatsApp, Facebook and other social media outlets. It is beyond the means of thousands of students to access them,” the association’s president Himadri Jyoti Dutta said. “Many areas of Assam have network issues. Even if some rural parents can afford android phones, they cannot connect because of poor or no internet services,” he added. Syed Anisur Rahman, the association’s general secretary, said the government should consider providing second-hand or refurbished android phones if it was low on resources. Free data packs and periodic recharging could be factored in as some kind of scholarship, he felt.  ‘Not the solution’ The association also said reduction of syllabus, as proposed by the government, would not solve the problem students have been facing in the current academic session. “The Education Department should rather tweak the pattern of question papers for the board exams. Among the changes, we have suggested increasing the number of one-mark questions and greater marks for multiple-choice questions,” Mr. Rahman said.
27 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 15 virus deaths, Haryana three||Punjab recorded 534 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported 15 deaths, taking the tally to 306, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 13,218. The major chunk of new cases, 95 and 83, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 4,102 and 8,810 patients have so far recovered. In Haryana, 794 new cases surfaced, taking the tally of cumulative cases to 31,332. The State also reported three deaths, taking the tally to 392. The major chunk of new cases, 219 and 121, were reported from Faridabad and Gurugram districts respectively. The active cases are 6,556 and 24,384 patients have so far been discharged, said a State’s Health Department statement. Panchkula district reported its first COVID-19 death, while one fatality each was registered in Hisar and Kurukshetra districts.   (With PTI inputs)
27 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Call for special prayers in Assam to rid world of virus||After church leaders in Mizoram and Nagaland, heads of ‘satras’ in Assam have sought divine intervention on July 30 for ridding the earth of the novel coronavirus that claimed 100 human lives in the Northeast till July 26 morning. A ‘satra’ is a monastery of the Vaishnav order that the 16th century saint-scholar Srimanta Sankaradeva had propagated. Assam has some 900 ‘satras’ that are central to the Assamese culture. The heads of at least eight major ‘satras’ and 16 religious organisations, including the apex Assam Satra Mahasabha, have sought 15 minutes of time from the people for praying at their homes on July 30. “Scientists are working on a vaccine. There is no harm in praying for their success and for delivering the earth from this deadly virus,” said Jyotirmoy Prodhani, president of the Mahasabha. The abbots of the monasteries have chosen 6.45 p.m. as the “auspicious time” for the prayers to start. On March 28, churches of all denominations across Christian-majority Mizoram organised special prayers after the State recorded two COVID-19 positive cases. The State has so far recorded 361 positive cases, of which 178 are active. Churches in Nagaland followed suit on April 12. Three deaths reported in Nagaland on July 25 took the COVID-19 casualty count across the eight northeastern States to 100. According to the State-wise data, Nagaland is fourth on the list of deaths due to the pandemic. Assam heads the list with 77 dead followed by Tripura with 11, Meghalaya (5), Nagaland (4) and Arunachal Pradesh (3).
27 July 2020||Etah,||36 inmates of U.P.’s Etah jail test positive||As many as 36 inmates of the district jail here have tested positive for COVID-19, an officer said on Sunday. Jailor Kuldeep Singh Bhadauria said that in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the district and jail administration have set up a temporary jail at a school here.  On Friday, 225 inmates of Ballia jail had tested positive for COVID-19.
27 July 2020||Aizawl,||Heroin haul in Mizoram, two arrested||A man and his son were arrested with 1.9 kg heroin in Mizoram’s Hnahthial district near the Myanmar border, police said on Sunday. The heroin, worth around Rs. 1.54 crore in the local market, was smuggled from Myanmar, they said. Duhkima (62) and his son Remthangpuia (33) were arrested with the drugs on Friday night from Ngharchhip village, police said. They also dropped about 280 grams of heroin, worth Rs. 15 lakh, while swimming across a river as they tried to flee from the police. According to police, the seizure was believed to be the biggest heroin haul in the State.
27 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief||Members of the Transport Workers’ Association — Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh — on Sunday met MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri to make various demands related to their service. They have called for hiking the DTC bus fares, regularisation of salaries of contract employees, provision of regular pension and cashless medical service among other demands.
