27 August 2020||New Delhi,||At Opposition meeting, CMs plan to move SC on JEE, NEET||States ruled by BJP rivals are likely to file a joint review petition in the Supreme Court against the Union Education Ministry’s decision to go ahead with the JEE and NEET in September. This decision was taken at an online meeting of seven Chief Ministers, who also bitterly attacked the Centre and demanded a revisit of the GST framework if the Union government is unable to pay compensation. Congress president Sonia Gandhi attended the meeting along with Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V. Narayanasamy (Puducherry). In her opening remarks, Ms. Gandhi said the meeting had been called owing to pressing issues that impinged on Centre-State relations. She cited delayed GST payouts, ordinances issued on agricultural marketing, the draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020, auction of coal mines, privatisation of public sector assets and the National Education Policy. All the Chief Ministers stressed the need to meet regularly instead of having event-based meetings. Ms. Banerjee said students were going through a period of “uncertainty” and “mental agony”. “How will students reach the examination centres, considering the curtailed transport facilities in many States due to the pandemic? It is my request to all the State governments, let us go together to the Supreme Court and request them to postpone the exams,” she said. The Punjab Chief Minister endorsed her proposal. Mr. Soren suggested that the Opposition parties could first approach President Ram Nath Kovind or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But the suggestion was shot down by Ms. Banerjee and the others. They said letters to Mr. Modi had gone unanswered. Mr. Thackeray said his government had postponed exams in June because of the spiralling cases and now the spread had only increased. “If we were not in a position to hold examinations in June, now the numbers have gone far higher,” he said. He cited the example of the U.S., which saw a hike in COVID-19 cases after reopening of schools. Ms. Gandhi mentioned the Finance Secretary’s submission at a meeting of the Standing Committee on Finance that the Centre was not in a position to pay the mandatory GST compensation of 14%. She said this was nothing short of a “betrayal of trust of the people of India” by the Centre.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC hits out at Centre on loan moratorium scheme||The Supreme Court on Wednesday criticised the Union government for “hiding behind the Reserve Bank of India” without making its stand clear on the loan moratorium scheme introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic. The top court wanted to know whether the deferment of loan interest to prop up borrowers through their financial crisis during the national lockdown would lead to accrual of further interest once the freeze is lifted on August 31. The government is yet to file its affidavit. The court noted that the issue had been pending indecisively for some months now and advised the government against adopting a blinkered vision, focusing only on matters of business of banks and not looking at the plight of the people financially dented by the “problems created by your lockdown”. It said the government was empowered to take an independent stand under the Disaster Management Act. “The problem was created by your lockdown... It appears the Union of India is not taking an independent stance and is relying on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)... This is not the time to look after business only, consider providing relief,” a Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Striking a balance Mr. Mehta said the government was working in tandem with the central bank and it was unfair to say it did not have an independent view. The court gave the Centre time till September 1 to file a detailed affidavit, laying bare its stand. The court has been trying to strike a balance between the interests of the banks and the borrowers. “We are trying to balance. Whether there can be a system worked out... Our concern in these proceedings is only whether the interest that has been deferred will be added to charges payable later and whether there will be interest on the interest,” the Bench maintained. The debate was sparked by the RBI’s response in court that it would be imprudent to go for a forced waiver of interest, risking the financial viability of the banks it was mandated to regulate and putting the interests of the depositors in jeopardy. The court is hearing a petition filed by Gajendra Sharma challenging the charging of interest rate on loans even during the three-month moratorium period declared amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the national lockdown. The central bank, in its affidavit, had said its regulatory package introduced amid the lockdown was “in its essence in the nature of a moratorium deferment and cannot be construed to be a waiver”.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||3,018 test COVID-positive in Telangana||Telangana Health department’s drive to increase the number of tests has led to the detection of more COVID-19 cases. On Tuesday, 61,040 tests were conducted and 3,018 tested positive, the highest in a day so far. Over 40,000 tests were conducted on a daily basis from August 21. In the five days (August 21-25), 2,34,016 samples were tested and 12,297 of them were found COVID-positive. Results of 1,176 more samples are awaited. Officials from the State Health department said that they will continue to conduct more number of tests for early identification, isolation, and treatment of COVID-19 cases. On Tuesday, 10 districts recorded over 100 cases. The new cases include 475 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 247 from Rangareddy, 204 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 190 from Nalgonda, 161 from Khammam, 139 from Warangal (Urban), 136 from Nizamabad, 127 from Karimnagar, 103 from Mancherial, 100 from Jagtiyal. a clear indication that cases are on the rise in districts. The toll reached 780 as 10 more COVID-19 patients succumbed on Tuesday. The total 1,11,688 cases include 25,685 that are active, 85,223 who have recovered, and 780 people who died. In the 42 State government hospitals, 583 ICU beds and 3575 oxygen beds were available on Tuesday. ICU beds for COVID-19 patients were completely occupied in District Hospitals in Kothagudem, Gadwal, Sircilla Government General Hospital in Suryapet. In case of 170 private hospitals, 1036 ICU beds and 2057 oxygen beds were available.
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||WB will develop Tajpur deep port: Mamata||The West Bengal government will develop the Tajpur deep sea port on its own, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. Companies which will partner the State government for the deep sea port will be decided through bidding, she said, after the State Cabinet gave its nod to the much-awaited project. Ms. Banerjee’s announcement comes months before the State Assembly polls due in April-May 2021. The project when executed will help in employment generation, export and import and generate business, she said. “We have been trying to build a deep sea port at Tajpur for several years. We had requested the central government to build the port, but because of its dilly-dallying attitude two years have been wasted and finally they did not undertake the project,” she said. “In fact we had agreed to the Centre’s proposal of 74:26 share to construct the Tajpur port. In exchange we had requested it to build an iron bridge at Ganga Sagar. The Centre had intially agreed to it but then withdrew. So we have decided to develop it on our own. The Cabinet approved it on Wednesday,” Ms. Banerjee said at the State secretariat. The Chief Minister had said in January that the State was planning to develop the port alone on public-private partnership model after delays by the Centre. The Cabinet also approved building a cable landing station in Digha and the West Bengal State Broadband Policy, 2020. Ms. Banerjee said the State government has been awarded for its Kisan Credit Card Information Monitoring System. A statement issued by the government said due to its uniqueness and excellence, the KCC Information Monitoring System, a project of the finance department has received the prestigious Indian Express Group Digital Technology Sabha Awards 2020 under the Analytics/Big Data Category. The award was conferred on August 25, the statement said. A record 12 lakh non-loanee farmers, who did not have KCC and could not avail bank credit, were provided with the cards in a record time of 84 days with the cooperation of the agriculture and cooperation departments, banks and district administrations, officials said.
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||State to ease flight restrictions from Sept. 1||The West Bengal government on Wednesday announced that the restriction on domestic flight arrivals from six cities to Kolkata will be eased from September 1. The restrictions on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad were imposed from the first week of July. The State said the curbs will continue till the end of August. “We have received several requests to resume flight operations from six COVID-19 hotspot cities. So from September 1, flight services from these six States can resume thrice a week,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said at the Secretariat. She said schools and colleges will continue to remain closed till September 20. Ms. Banerjee said her government is willing to allow one-fourth of suburban trains services and full Metro services to resume with adequate safety protocols, including social distancing, from September 1. She said the State government will review the situation on September 17. Ms. Banerjee said the railways’ authorities should speak with the State government officials to work out the modalities regarding the resumption of train services. The State government also extended the bi-weekly lockdown till the middle of September — 7, 11 and 12. 55 more deaths The State recorded 2,974 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking its total case tally to 1,47,775. The State also recorded 55 deaths, pushing its total toll to 2,964. Of the latest victims, 19 were from Kolkata and 10 from North 24 Parganas district. The State’s recovery rate has improved to 79.75%. The number of new cases recorded in Kolkata was 554. A spike of 512 cases was reported in North 24 Parganas district.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Handloom sector copes with new realities||From taking tentative steps towards launching full-scale online marketing to introducing a range of new products, the famed handloom weavers of Chendamangalam are trying to cope with the new realities imposed by the lockdown, which followed on the heels of two consecutive floods in 2018 and 2019. “Attempts are now being made so sell handloom products through our Facebook pages,” said Ajit Kumar Gothuruth of Karimpadam Handloom Weavers’ Society H-191 on Wednesday, as he tried to explain how weavers were coming to terms with the unprecedented times. “We hope to make our online presence felt from next year,” he said, pointing out that courier and even the postal service had suffered severe disruptions owing to the lockdown. P.A. Sojan, a veteran of the handloom sector, said it achieved around 70% of its sales during the Onam season. But this year, the lockdown resulted in people being mostly confined to their homes in the days ahead of the Onam shopping season. Paravoor Handloom Weavers’ Society (3428) president T.S. Baby said the handloom sector in Ernakulam had not come to a standstill as in other parts of the State due largely to innovative interventions that followed the devastating floods of 2018. “We look to new products, including colour saris and ready-made shirts, which are helping prop up sales,” he said. According to weavers’ societies, shortage of yarn has stood in the way of achieving normal production levels even among those who worked from home during the lockdown. The handloom industry in Ernakulam is dominated by the Paravoor and Chendamangalam regions, which are together known as the Chendamanalam industry. There are around 167 looms under the Paravoor Weavers’ Society; 70 under the Paravoor Town Weavers’ Society; 103 under the Chendamangalam Handloom Weavers’ Society; 60 under the Karimpadam Weavers’ Society; 20 under Kuriappilly Weavers’ Society, and 16 under the Chengamanad Weavers’ Society. With nearly 450 looms, weavers earn between Rs. 400 and 500 a day on an average. But their earnings depend largely on the volume of work they are able to carry out. An official of the Department of Industries said following the lockdown, there was severe shortage of yarn, which prevented dozens of weavers from doing their normal quota of jobs during the period up to August. Yarn is mostly brought from Tamil Nadu, and movement of parcels has been restricted, he added.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID testing to be doubled in Delhi, says CM||The daily COVID-19 tests in the national capital will be doubled from 20,000 to 40,000 and stringent enforcement of pandemic-related guidelines will be ensured in view of the “marginal rise” in the number of cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said following an emergency meeting here on Wednesday. “The situation of coronavirus in Delhi is under control for the last one and a half months. There is a decline in the number of positive cases and deaths, and the recovery rate has considerably improved. But since August 17, the number of daily cases has been around 1,200-1,500,” he said in a digital briefing. ‘City fully prepared’ Reiterating that Delhi was fully prepared to handle the crisis, Mr. Kejriwal said there were 14,130 beds in city hospitals of which 10,448 remai-ned vacant. “A meeting was held today [Wednesday] and I have directed the officials to increase the number of tests. Around 20,000 tests are conducted in Delhi today, which will be increased to 40,000 tests in one week,” he said.  According to Mr. Kejriwal, the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in Delhi was more than 90%. The death rate in August so far has been 1.4%, he said, which is among the best in the country.  “Our strategy to test and isolate will remain the same. Coronavirus patients will be aggressively marked and isolated,” said Mr. Kejriwal. The AAP government has, he said, also decided to supply oximeters to patients who have recovered. If their oxygen levels continue to remain low, oxygen concentrators will also be installed at their homes for free, he said. “We have also instructed that enforcement must be made stricter. I request everybody to wear masks and practise social distancing. I am happy that the confidence of the people of Delhi has increased in the last few days but there should be no complacency because of this confidence,” he said.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||State provides relief to sectors hit by lockdown||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday took a slew of decisions to provide relief to real estate developers, farmers, fisherfolk and transporters facing economic losses owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. In a bid to attract property buyers, the State Cabinet has decided to slash the stamp duty on property sale to 2% from the existing 5% of ready reckoner rates from September 1 to December 31, and to 3% from January 1 to March 31, 2021. State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said, “A boost to the real estate sector can help revive the State’s economy. Poor demand in the market has hit the sector. We hope slashing the stamp duty will attract more buyers.” According to analysts, the new stamp duty rates will now be one of the lowest in the country. New Delhi, Gurugram and Noida have rates between 5% and 7%, while in Chennai it is 7%. In other south Indian cities, the rates are between 5% and 8%. In a significant relief for the transport sector, the government has decided to exempt commercial and goods vehicles from paying tax from April 1 to September 30. The waiver will be applicable to goods carriers, tourist vehicles, school buses, and commercial vehicles. The State Cabinet also approved a proposal to set up a separate Slum Redevelopment Authority (SRA) for eight municipal corporations and seven municipal councils, excluding Mumbai, in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with a budgetary allocation of Rs. 200 crore. An IAS officer will head the SRA and its headquarters will be in Thane. Mr. Awhad said, “A group has been formed to study the feasibility of setting up such SRAs in other big cities in Maharashtra.”  To support dairy farmers, the Cabinet has decided to continue buying milk from them at Rs. 25 per litre and convert it into milk powder till October. “The State exchequer will incur a burden of Rs. 200 crore due to this decision,” said Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar. The Cabinet has allocated a special grant of Rs. 65 crore for fishermen who suffered losses due to cyclones Maha and Kyarr. The amount will be credited to their bank accounts through direct benefit transfer. The State has also decided to set up seven posts of Health Services Director in urban areas to help local civic bodies with their vaccination drives and other awareness campaigns. Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar said all exams conducted by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission will be postponed and the revised exam schedule will be declared soon. The Cabinet also extended support to the demand to postpone the NEET and JEE exams.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||2,476 more test positive as spike continues, death toll rises to 257||Kerala’s COVID-19 tally registered 2,476 new cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s cumulative case burden till date to 64,355. The number of recoveries reported was 1,351. The cumulative death toll in the State reached 257, with the Health Department confirming 13 deaths which occurred between August 17 and 24 as due to the virus. Of these, 12 deaths were recorded in Thiruvananthapuram and one in Kannur With total recoveries reported till date reaching 41,690, the number of persons currently being treated for COVID-19 in hospitals across the State now stands at 22,344. Of these, 183 patients are in a critical condition in ICUs and another 44 are on ventilator support. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday 93% – 2,313 out of the 2,476 new cases – are locally acquired infections. These include 69 health-care workers who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. In 175 cases, no epidemiological link for the infections could be established. Thiruvananthapuram “regained” its spot as the district with the maximum number of fresh cases daily, with 461 cases, of which all except seven are locally acquired infections. Malappuram reported 352, Kozhikode 215, Thrissur 204, Alappuzha 193, Ernakulam 193, Pathanamthitta 180, Kottayam 137, Kollam 133, Kannur 128, Kasaragod 101, Palakkad 86, Idukki 63, and Wayanad 30.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Protected agri zone rules notified||The State government on Wednesday notified the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Rules, 2020, which prescribed four new functions for the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Authority. The rules notified on Wednesday provided for constituting a seven-member technical committee that would assist the authority to recommend to the government whether to omit or include industries under the Second Scheduled provided in the Act, within the zone. The committee would be headed by the Agricultural Production Commissioner and Secretary to Government in Agriculture Department, who would be the ex-officio chairperson. The other newly-included functions of the authority headed by the Chief Minister would be “to suggest measures to safeguard the natural surface, soil and water, suggest preventive measures to safeguard the livelihood of the agriculturalists in the protected agricultural zone, recommend the area for inclusion in the protected agricultural zone.” Additional role One of the four newly-included functions of the Authority was to “suggest and recommend the agro-based and allied industries that may be established in the protected agricultural zone.” A senior officer told The Hindu : “The rules have been notified only to provide legal strength to the Act in its implementation. It has included some more functions for the Authority, which was provided for in the Act.” The Director of Agriculture (Member Secretary), the Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Chairperson of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, the Director of Industries and Commerce, the Director of Animal Husbandry, the Director (Research) in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University are the other ex-officio members of the technical committee. On February 21 this year, the State government enacted the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020, with objectives to use the available agricultural lands for sustainable development of agriculture and ensure that the agricultural activities were not unduly constrained by non-agricultural use or other development and several other objectives. The Director of Agriculture (Member Secretary), the Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, Chairperson of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, the Director of Industries and Commerce, the Director of Animal Husbandry, the Director (Research) in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University are the other ex-officio members of the technical committee. On February 21 this year, the State government enacted the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020, with objectives to use the available agricultural lands for sustainable development of agriculture and ensure that the agricultural activities were not unduly constrained by non-agricultural use or other development and several other objectives.
27 August 2020||Pune,||New peak in Maharashtra: 14,888 cases in a day||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 14,888 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day surge yet, taking its cumulative tally to 7,18,711. The State also recorded 295 more deaths, pushing its total toll to 23,089. This is the fourth time in less than a fortnight that the State has recorded more than 14,000 cases in a single day. The previous highest spike was 14,492 cases. While the number of active cases has risen to 1,72,873, the tally of recoveries has surged to 5,22,427, with 7,637 patients being discharged. The State’s recovery rate has improved to 72.69% and its case fatality rate has dipped to 3.21%. Pune reported more than 3,000 fresh cases to take its total case load to 1,58,269, while 46 more deaths pushed its toll to 3,869. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases was less than 31,000, with the district’s recovery rate at 76.97%. Mumbai recorded a spike of 1,854 cases, taking its cumulative cases to 1,39,537, of which 18,979 are active. With 28 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has climbed to 7,505. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 525 new cases, pushing its total case tally beyond the 44,000 mark, while eight more deaths saw its cumulative toll rise to 1,413. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 517 fresh cases to take its tally to 30,699. With five deaths, its toll has risen to 626. Nagpur district reported 656 new cases and 36 more deaths. The total case tally has now reached 22,378, of which 9,688 are active, while the death toll has surged to 582. Sangli reported 20 deaths to push its toll to 339. A spike of 442 cases raised the district’s total case tally to 10,108, of whcih 4,028 are active. Solapur district, the worst-hit in the Pune division after Pune district, reported 20 deaths to push its toll to 717. A surge of 193 cases saw its cumulative tally rise to 17,738, of which 4,347 are active cases. Kolhapur reported 386 new cases, taking its tally to 19,076, of which 5,949 are active. With 15 deaths, its toll has gone up to 535. Nashik district reported a spike of 987 cases as its total tally touched 34,615, of which 10,736 are active. With 17 more deaths, the district’s total toll has risen to 781. “Of a total of 37,94,027 laboratory samples tested so far in the State, 7,18,711 (18.94%) have tested positive. Over 70,000 samples were tested across Maharashtra in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||Tour operators in Darjeeling hills await go-ahead||Stakeholders in the tourism industry are keen to restart business in the Darjeeling hills in the coming Durga Puja and Deepavali season, but they are not being able to guide prospective visitors as the authorities have not decided about allowing hotels to resume operations, tour operators said. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), an autonomous district council, has banned the entry of outsiders in Darjeeling and Kalimpong to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus. An association of tour operators on Wednesday said that thousands of people linked to the tourism industry have been out of work for the last several months in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. “We are getting queries for booking for the Durga Puja and Deepavali season, but unless there is a decision by the GTA on allowing tourists to the various spots in the hills, we are unable to guide them properly,” Raj Basu, Convenor of Association for Conservation of Tourism, said. He said that a meeting was held earlier this week with all stakeholders, including owners of hotels and homestays, and vehicle operators of the region to chalk out a roadmap for reopening of the tourism sector. “The stakeholders will give a representation to the GTA chairman this week seeking a decision on reopening of the tourism sector since it is a major source of livelihood in the region,” he said. Mr. Basu claimed that at least one member from almost every family in Darjeeling hills is associated with the tourism sector. A section of the local people are apprehensive that the virus would spread in the hills if tourists are allowed, and they should be informed of the measures to be taken to ensure their safety, he said. The measures include keeping rooms empty and open for at least a day between checking out of a guest and checking in of another, Mr. Basu said. He said that homestays, resorts and hotels have reopened in the neighbouring Dooars region after taking local people and other stakeholders into confidence about safety measures. “Several destinations in the forested and tea garden- surrounded Dooars have reopened a month back and tourists, including those from neighbouring Bihar, have started visiting those areas,” he said. Shankar Roy, a resort owner in the region, said while some visitors are coming by special trains, others are reaching the spots in their own or hired vehicles.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SC refuses to set aside HC order in ‘3 capitals’ case||A week after Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justice Rohinton Nariman recused themselves from the ‘three capitals’ case in quick succession, the Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the Andhra Pradesh government’s plea to vacate the High Court’s status quo order on the matter and hoped that the case would be dealt with in an expeditious manner by the lower court. A three-judge Bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said they were disinclined to interfere with the High Court order at this juncture as the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts are scheduled to be heard (by the High Court) on August 27 (Thursday) when the status quo expires. The High Court first granted status quo on the impugned legislation for 10 days on August 4 in response to a petition filed by aggrieved farmers and subsequently extended it till August 27. Adjourned twice The State government then filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court appealing for lifting the status quo imposed by the High Court, but to no avail as the matter was adjourned twice following the recusal of the Chief Justice of India and Justice Rohinton Nariman on the ground that their family members (Justice Bobde’s daughter Rukmini and Justice Rohinton’s father Fali S. Nariman) appeared for some petitioners in the High Court in the same case. In its SLP, the State government contended that through its status quo order, the High Court has effectively stayed the implementation of the said Acts without proper justification. The constitutionality of a statute is presumed to be upheld until proven otherwise, but the High Court overlooked this principle, the government insisted. It may be noted that the government proposed to develop Amaravati, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam as legislative, judicial and executive capitals respectively by claiming that its meagre resources do not permit the construction of a greenfield capital in Amaravati and the three capitals would facilitate balanced development of the coastal districts and Rayalaseema.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav flags need to protect federalism||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the federal structure of the country must be protected and appealed to Opposition Chief Ministers of six States to unite and voice their problems to the Central government. “We all have to decide whether we fear or fight [the Centre]. Otherwise, all these meetings are meaningless and a mere formality. If we are going to fight, then yes, we are. Whatever happens. We are for Satyamev Jayate and not Satta [power] Jayate ,” said Mr. Thackeray at a virtual meeting convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. The meeting was also attended by the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Puducherry. Mr. Thackeray said he is a fighting son of a fighting father. “We will have to raise our voice in unison. There has to be a systematically planned programme. It is our responsibility to raise people’s voice together,” he said. ‘Protect the Constitution’ Mr. Thackeray said the Constitution was framed keeping the federal structure in mind. He said, “If we are not going to respect it, then it will raise questions on democracy. Our Constitution is supreme in democracy, which guarantees federalism. We have the responsibility of running the government and protecting the Constitution is a part of it.” Mr. Thackeray said decentralisation of power is a key issue in a federal structure. “It does not mean centralisation of power with a single person. If that happens, then State governments won’t be required. One person will rule the country and we will keep nodding our heads.” Mr. Thackeray also said the States need to evaluate if the old tax structure was better than the Goods and Services Tax regime. He said he constantly sends reminders to the Centre, but often does not get a response. “We need to see if the old structure was good or if there is any middle path,” he said. The Chief Minister said if the States do not get money from the Centre, then how will they provide services to the people.
27 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC steps in for man accused in CAA case||The Allahabad High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to a person who was booked under the Gangsters Act by the Uttar Pradesh government for his alleged involvement in the vandalism during the anti-CAA, NRC protests last year. Mohammad Shoaib had filed a petition for quashing the FIR against him dated June 20 under Sections 2 and 3 of the U.P. Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act at Qaiserbagh, Lucknow. He was arrested in connection with the vandalism in the Qaiserbagh area on December 19, 2019, but was granted bail by a local court. However, on June 20, the Lucknow police booked him and 14 others in a fresh case, claiming that they worked as a criminal gang. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that he was not part of any gang. The court observed that the petitioner shall not be arrested till the submission of the report under Section 173 (2) of the Cr.PC, provided he cooperated in the probe.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Baby steps||
27 August 2020||Pune,||2 get Oxford vaccine shot in Pune||The second phase of the clinical trial of the eagerly anticipated University of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, being manufactured by the city-based Serum Institute of India, commenced at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday. Hospital authorities said that two male volunteers, aged 32 and 48, were administered the first shots of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine. The trial began around 1 p.m. and the volunteers were discharged after half-an-hour of being administered the vaccine.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Pending bills put pvt. hospitals in a spot||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association has said its members will be unable to pay salaries to their staff for September as the Karnataka government has not reimbursed the bills of COVID-19 patients referred to private hospitals.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases cross 3 lakh mark, deaths 5,000||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State crossed the 3 lakh mark and deaths owing to the pandemic crossed 5,000 on Wednesday. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 8,580 COVID-19 cases were reported on Wednesday.
27 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||10-year-old girl raped, murdered in Palwal||A 10-year-old speech and hearing impaired girl was raped and murdered in a village in Palwal here. The police suspect the culprit could be a fellow villager. The girl was found murdered on the outskirts of the village on Tuesday evening, a day after she had gone missing.
27 August 2020||chandigarh,||23 Punjab Ministers and MLAs test COVID-positive||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said 23 State Ministers and MLAs have tested COVID-19-positive two days before the Vidhan Sabha session on August 28. He, however, did not disclose how many legislators and Ministers have recovered from the infection so far.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||Narwal bail plea: HC to examine police case diary||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it will first examine the police case diary of the north-east Delhi riots before deciding on the bail plea of Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal. The court asked the police to submit the case diary in a sealed cover.
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||BSF apprehends 7 Bangladeshi nationals from near border||Seven Bangladeshi nationals were apprehended by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel from near the Indo-Bangla border in West Bengal’s Nadia district on Wednesday, a BSF statement said. The Bangladeshi nationals crossed over to Indian side along an unfenced stretch of the border near Ganja village on Tuesday midnight. They had assembled at a deserted spot of the village this morning when a quick reaction team of the border guards spotted them and handed over to the police when they failed to produce any Indian identity documents.PTI
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||Tathagata Roy meets Dilip Ghosh, expresses desire to work for BJP||Former Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy on Wednesday met West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and expressed his desire to work for the party. Mr. Roy had earlier this week met BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and had said that the priority should be to defeat the TMC government in the Assembly polls due next year. The former governor had said that he had informed the BJP leadership a long ago that he wished to return to active politics and was willing to accept any role the party entrusted him with. “Today I met Mr. Ghosh. I told him that I want to work for the party. I had already joined the party through the party’s missed call campaign,” he said.PTI
27 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahad tragedy: techie helps save 20 lives||The presence of mind of Avesh Chichkar, a 25-year-old IT professional and cricket coach, helped save lives of at least 20 people of the B wing in the Tarique Garden building in Mahad, which collapsed on August 24. After around 40 hours of rescue operation, 16 bodies were found, while two persons were found alive beneath the rubble. Nine have been injured in the collapse. After the rescue operation ended, the survivors rushed to the spot to search for their belongings. The Mahad police have arrested the RCC contractor of the building, Bahubali Dhamane, from Navi Mumbai.
27 August 2020||Pune,||Rajesh Tope stresses on increased contact tracing||Increased contact tracing is imperative in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies to bring down the number of cases and fatalities, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday, after inaugurating Pune district’s second jumbo COVID-19 facility at Pimpri-Chinchwad. The 816-bed facility was set up in less than 20 days.
27 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad records eight deaths, Belagavi five||Belagavi on Wednesday recorded 283 COVID-19 positive cases, while Dharwad registered 255. Dharwad recorded eight related deaths and Belagavi five. Meanwhile, 170 patients were discharged in Belagavi, and this number was put at 135 in Dharwad. Bagalkot recorded 154 cases and five deaths, Vijayapura 131 cases and two deaths, Gadag 124 cases and two deaths, Haveri 164 cases and two deaths, Uttara Kannada 129 cases and one death, Davangere 233 cases and five deaths, Chitradurga registered 78 cases.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Engineering admissions merit list on Sept. 17||The merit list for admissions under single window counselling by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission committee will be released on September 17, said Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan while releasing the random number for all applicants on Wednesday.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. COVID-19 tally close to 4-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu added another 5,958 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking its overall tally closer to the four lakh-mark. Chennai recorded 1,290 cases, while the surge in cases continued in Coimba- tore and Salem as 400-plus tested positive for the infection in the two districts.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,||State govt. urges Centre to scrap NEET this year||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has written to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan, requesting the Centre to dispense with NEET this year in view of the pandemic. He urged that medical admissions be based on the Class 12 marks.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Cases in Tamil Nadu inch closer to 4 lakh-mark||It was 10,830 new COVID-19 infections in Andhra Pradesh, the highest in a single day, and 81 deaths reported on Wednesday. Earlier, 10,820 cases were reported on August 9. Telangana’s drive to increase testing led to the detection of more COVID-19 cases, seen in Tuesday’s 61,040 tests and 3,018 cases, the highest in a day so far. Results of 1,176 samples were awaited. Telangana Health department officials said they would continue higher testing for early identification, isolation, and treatment of cases. The new cases included 475 from Greater Hyderabad, 247 from Rangareddy, 204 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 190 from Nalgonda, 161 from Khammam, 139 from Warangal (Urban), 136 from Nizamabad, 127 from Karimnagar, 103 from Mancherial and 100 from Jagtiyal. The death toll was 780 as 10 more patients succumbed. The total of 1,11,688 cases included 25,685 active cases and 780 deaths, besides recoveries. Kerala’s tally rose with 2,476 new cases on Wednesday to 64,355. The death toll touched 257, with the Health department confirming 13 deaths that occurred between August 17-24 to be due to COVID-19. Of these, 12 were recorded at Thiruvananthapuram and one in Kannur. There were 22,344 people being treated in hospitals and 183 were in a critical condition in ICUs and another 44 on ventilator support. Of the active cases, 5,776 were in Thiruvananthapuram, 3,244 in Malappuram and 2,068 in Alapuzha. Also, 93% of new cases from Wednesday – 2,313 of 2,476 – were locally acquired infections. This included 69 health care workers, and in 175 cases, no epidemiological link could be established. Thiruvananthapuram again had the maximum number of fresh cases, with 461 among districts. Kerala tested 40,352 more samples. The Andhra Pradesh tally rose to 3,82,469, while the death toll was 3,541. The number of active cases stood at 92,208. So far, 34.18 lakh samples were tested, including 61,838 in the previous 24 hours. The positivity rate of tests was 11.19% and tests per million were 64,020. The toll in Chittoor district increased to 360, and it reported eight deaths. The toll and the new fatalities in other districts were: East Godavari (354 and 11), Guntur (350, 4), Kurnool (342, 5), Anantapur (299, 6), West Godavari (270, 6), Visakhapatnam (262, 5), Krishna (260, 5), Prakasam (252, 9), Nellore (238, 5), Srikakulam (220, 4), Kadapa (185, 8) and Vizianagaram (149, 5).  Karnataka’s Health and Family Welfare department said new cases on Wednesday stood at 8,580 and the tally was 3,00,406. With 133 more deaths, total fatalities were 5,091. Shalini Rajaneesh, nodal officer in charge of testing, said total tests were a record high on Wednesday at 67,066. While 25,886 were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RT-PCR and other tests.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Opposition to build on ‘Janta Parliament’ ideas||Opposition leaders from the Congress, Left and other non-BJP parties have asked civil society leaders to work together with them to develop a common minimum agenda, based on resolutions framed during a virtual “Janta Parliament” held over the last week. Important demands which could be included are universalisation of the public distribution system (PDS), the right to healthcare, opposition to the government’s agriculture marketing ordinances and the possibility of a universal basic income. Such an agenda could provide input into Opposition strategy in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. “From the resolutions you have made here, it would be helpful to resolve a common minimum agenda and identify the most important priorities that can be agreed on by most Opposition parties also,” said K. Raju, bureaucrat-turned-Congress politician, who is a close aide of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, speaking at the closing session of the event. “With the economic slowdown and COVID-19, the worst sufferers are the poorest of the poor. From the beginning, Congress has been demanding that the government put money into the hands of the poor in the form of a universal basic income. That is the most urgent collective demand,” said Mr. Raju, who was formerly the member secretary of the National Advisory Council in the United Progressive Alliance government. He added universal PDS, problems caused by Aadhaar verification, right to healthcare legislation, environment impact assessment draft, and the agriculture ordinances as other major priorities. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sitaram Yechury initially proposed the idea of working together with civil society to develop a common agenda. “We need to have a joint action plan to raise these issues within Parliament and outside,” he said. The Congress’ chief whip in the Lok Sabha Kodikunnil Suresh said the party would work to take up the major issues mentioned in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. “We should strategise together so there is convergence between Parliament House in Delhi and this Janta Parliament which has gathered voices from the ground across the country,” said Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, promising that his party would also take a cue from the civil society demands during upcoming Bihar elections. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh and CPI leader D. Raja also spoke at the event, slamming the ruling BJP government for its handling of the COVID-19 crisis and failure to convene Parliament.
27 August 2020||Pune,||Two get Oxford vaccine shot in Pune||The second phase of the clinical trial of the eagerly anticipated University of Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, being manufactured by the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), commenced at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday. Hospital authorities said that two male volunteers, ages 32 and 48, were administered the first shots of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine. The trial began around 1 p.m. and the volunteers were discharged after half-an-hour of being administered the vaccine. “Doctors at the hospital administered a 0.5-ml dose of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine to both volunteers after their COVID-19 and antibodies test results returned negative. Their temperature, blood pressure and heartbeat parameters were checked before the vaccine was administered them,” said Sanjay Lalwani, Medical Director of Bharati Vidyapeeth’s Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre. He further said that a second dose would be given to both volunteers after 28 days, while they would be summoned to the hospital after a period of 180 days. Authorities said that only after this six-month period could the success of the vaccine be properly ascertained. In all, five volunteers had enrolled themselves for the Phase 2 clinical trial after the vaccine doses were received from the SII on Tuesday, Dr. Lalwani said. “The COVID-19 and antibodies tests were conducted on all five volunteers. However, the antibodies test report of three of them returned positive, rendering them ineligible for the trial,” he said. According to Dr. Lalwani, a further 25 volunteers would be administered the vaccine over the next seven days. The 32-year-old volunteer, who works for a private company, said he had come to know of the trials at the Bharati Hospital through social media and expressed happiness on being declared eligible to be given the dose after his tests returned negative. Talking about the trials, Maharashtra Minister Dr. Vishwajeet Kadam, who is also pro-Vice-Chancellor and Secretary, Bharati Vidyapeeth, said: “I think it is indeed a historic moment that self-declared volunteers are to be administered the first dose of the Oxford vaccine being manufactured by the SII at the Bharati Hospital”. The SII has signed an agreement to manufacture the ‘Covishield’ vaccine, which is being developed by the University of Oxford in collaboration with the British-Swedish pharmaceutical major, AstraZeneca.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urged to set up 11-judge Bench to review cap on quota||The Supreme Court on Wednesday was urged to set up an 11-judge Bench to reconsider its 50% cap on reservation. The push for it came while the court was hearing a challenge to the Maratha reservation law. A bunch of petitions contended that the law, which provides 12% to 13% quota for the community in Maharashtra, breached the 50% cap on reservation declared by a nine-judge Bench of the court in 1992. Lawyer Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the respondent Maharashtra government and lawyer Kapil Sibal appeared for an applicant supporting the State government. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, the senior advocates asked the court to refer the case to a numerically superior Bench of 11 judges. This Bench should, rather than restricting itself to the Maratha law, set about reconsidering the 50% ceiling itself. Mr. Sibal reasoned that 28 States had granted reservation exceeding 50% to their respective backward classes. He suggested that the court should hear all these States. “Eighty-five per cent in Maharashtra belong to backward classes, so is it in many States,” he submitted. The 50% limit in reservation declared by the nine judges on the Bench in the Indira Sawhney case was nearly 30 years old, he noted. The lawyers submitted that the court should revisit the percentage of reservation, taking into consideration the recent developments in the front, including the 10% quota for economically weaker sections introduced recently through the 103rd Constitutional Amendment. Amendments recalled Mr. Sibal said the amendments made to Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution entailed both “empowerment” and “employment” to the backward classes. Empowerment of backward classes was a different concept from mere employment. Indira Sawhney preceded these amendments. “Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) have not been interpreted in the context of Indira Sawhney [judgment]... There are still a large number of people who are still backward,” he submitted. The appeals have been filed by individuals from all walks of life and NGOs against the High Court decision upholding the Maratha law. They argued that the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act was born under “political pressure” and in “full defiance” of the rule of law and equality. “The Maharashtra government has made a mockery of the rule of law. It has also used its constitutional powers arbitrarily and purely for political gains”, the petitions said. One of them argued, “The High Court erred in concluding that the mere fact that other OBCs would have to share their reservation quotas with the Marathas [if the Marathas were simply included in the existing OBC category] constitutes an exceptional circumstance warranting a breach of the 50 per cent ceiling limit set by Indira Sawhney”.
27 August 2020||Srinagar,||J&K police book many over slogans during procession||The police on Wednesday lodged a case against those who raised pro-azaadi(freedom) and anti-India slogans during a Muharram procession on the outskirts of Srinagar. A police official said the Parimpora police station took “strong cognisance” of a video that surfaced on social media platforms. The video, apparently filmed on Tuesday, showed scores of peoples raising pro-freedom and anti-India slogans during the congregation. “The police acted swiftly and identified the location, situated 2.5 km from the main road at the end of Hokersar-Nowpora Bund [near Srinagar]. The area is isolated and there was no history of organising any such unlawful gathering before”, the police said. Two youths were arrested in midnight raids and “further arrests are expected”, the police said. The police lodged a case in the incident under Section 13 UL(P) Act and Sections 143, 188, 269 of the Indian Penal Code. The police said they had identified youth from the adjoining areas of Budgam “who took advantage of the area”. The government has banned the remembrance processions on certain traditional routes since the 1990s.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Jaish role established with FBI help’||The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) helped Indian security agencies in establishing the role of the Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in the Pulwama terror attack, a senior official of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said. The FBI, he said, tracked the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the device from which the video of the suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar, a local, was uploaded. The video was released on WhatsApp minutes after the terror attack to local media channels in the Valley. The IP address was traced to a camp in Muzaffarabad in Pakistan. The video was released by one Mohammad Hussain, who introduced himself as a Jaish spokesperson. The phone number from which the WhatsApp message was sent was registered in the name of a fictitious woman in Jammu and Kashmir, the NIA said, adding that, in the video, Dar, sitting against the backdrop of a black and white flag, says that “by the time the video is released, he will be in heaven”. A battered Samsung phone lying at a police station in South Kashmir was also a key to cracking the 2019 Pulwama terror attack case, the NIA said. It said that from the phone it recovered an audio note that was sent by Jaish chief Masood Azhar to motivate the suicide bomber. Dar had on February 14 last year rammed a car laden with 200 kg of explosives into a CRPF bus killing 40 personnel at Pulwama on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. In the voice note, the Jaish chief mentioned that because of the mujahideens (fighters), the U.S troops were withdrawing from Afghanistan and reminisced how the group defeated the Soviet Union in the past. A senior government official said there were no direct calls or chats from Azhar to the members of the group. Earlier this year, Pakistan had claimed before the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) that the UN-designated terrorist and his family were “missing”. The findings are part of a 13,500-page chargesheet filed by the NIA in a Jammu court on Tuesday against 19 accused, including Azhar. The damaged phone recovered from an encounter site on March 29, 2019, where the main planner Mohammad Umar Farooq (24) was killed, was kept at the Nowgam police station till November last year. Farooq was a nephew of Masood Azhar. His father Ibrahim Ather is one of the main accused in the IC-814 Kandahar hijacking case of 1999 and looks after a joint training camp of Al Qaeda-Jaish in Afghanistan. It was at one of these camps that Farooq received training in assembling bombs and exploding buildings in 2016. After groping in the dark for months, the NIA later decided to scan all the cases related to Jaish terrorists. While scanning one such case, it came across the phone. All data on the phone, which had double layered encryption, had been deleted, a government official said. The NIA then requested the local police to send the device to the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) in Delhi for forensic analysis. On February 5, 2019, when the Jaish members, including Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, were addressing a rally in Pakistan on the occasion of Kashmir Solidarity Day, Umar Farooq sent them pictures of the two bombs.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||NSUI begins strike against JEE, NEET||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) started an indefinite hunger strike on Wednesday against the conduct of the scheduled Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) during the pandemic. The student wing of the Congress said that despite the opposition and concerns raised by the students’ community, the government is moving forward with the decision of conducting the ill-scheduled exams when COVID-19 cases are rising. NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan, who started his hunger strike demanding the postponement of the NEET and the JEE, asked the government to consider conducting exams using alternative methods. “We demand the postponement of NEET, JEE and NET considering the safety and security of students and their family members and waive off the fees for at least six months, considering the economic distress due to the lockdown,” Mr. Kundan said. He added that the NSUI was afraid that conducting examination would deny the constitutional promise of equal opportunity to the aspirants as many parts of India are still under the lockdown, making accessibility a major problem. Alternative method Apart from the NSUI, Delhi’s Education Minister Manish Sisodia also reiterated his stand on the conduct of the NEET and the JEE exam, and called for its postponement. In a letter to the Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Mr. Sidodia said that he was not calling for a zero academic year but for the government to find an alternative method for selecting students in engineering and medical competitive entrance examinations.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘An effective vaccine must be useful against the entire diversity of the virus’||Partha Majumder , president, Indian Academy of Sciences, and scientist at the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, believes that without herd immunity to a certain level, it may not be possible to contain the transmission of the novel coronavirus in a large, democratic country like India. Edited excerpts:  Could you bring us up to speed on how many different strains or types of SARS-CoV-2 exist? Your own work in April had reported that one of them, called A2a, had become dominant globally. First, these should not be called ‘strains,’ but as lineages or clades or subtypes. Earlier, there was the ancestral type — the Wuhan virus type, from which 10 lineages had evolved. By reconsidering the mode and tempo of evolution of the virus and also to time-stamp a lineage, the earlier lineage definitions have been revised. Today, a lineage is given a name if its frequency reaches 20% globally. Further, an evolved lineage is given a separate identity if it differs from the existing lineages by at least two DNA changes (mutations). Based on the revised time-stamped nomenclature, there are now five lineages: 19A, 19B, 20A, 20B and 20C. The first two digits reflect the year in which the lineage evolved. Lineage 19 is an ancestral lineage that was present in China in 2019; subsequently, in 2020, three other lineages arose. A defining mutation of the former A2a lineage was D614G; meaning that at the 614th position in the viral sequence there was an amino acid substitution from aspartic acid in the pre-existing lineage to glycine in the evolved A2a lineage. In the new nomenclature, A2a is non-existent. The lineages 20A, 20B and 20C all have the D614G mutation. The D614G lineages have become dominant across India. But, interestingly, in the northern and eastern regions of India, the 20A lineage is dominant, while in southern and western India the 20B lineage is dominant. Even though both 20A and 20B contain the D614G mutation, there are other mutations that separate these two lineages. These mutations have been identified, but their impacts on the functional characteristics of the virus are not known yet. You have in a paper described the D614G mutation and how it has a modification that allows it to take better hold in Europeans and North Americans but not as much in East Asians. However, there was a report from Malaysia recently that the D614G imported from an Indian had taken root in that country. So how worried should we be about D614G? Are there other prominent mutations inviting scientific attention? The D614G mutant viruses are super-rapid spreaders. They transmit very efficiently. Our observation that the D614G mutant viruses have outcompeted and replaced all other lineages in Europe and North America with extreme rapidity, but have not done so in East Asia still holds true. This does not mean that the D614G mutant does not exist in East Asia. It did and still does, together with some other lineages. There is no cause of worry. The SARS-CoV-2 is a kind virus. It infects but does not usually kill. A vaccine must be efficacious to protect vaccine recipients against the entire diversity of the virus. Otherwise, it will afford limited protection. Is there evidence that certain types are demonstrably more likely to kill? Interestingly, even though scientists have looked, they have not been able to find credible evidence that different lineages are associated with different rates of mortality. As far as we can tell, all of the lineages are roughly similar in terms of their ability to cause death upon infecting a host. Can chains of virus transmission really be broken or is it inevitable that countries of a certain size will see at least half of their populations infected? Also, is there anything in the structure of the virus that makes it seem impervious to the effects of temperature and humidity, or is it too early to take a call on that? Without herd immunity to a certain level, I don’t see how one can contain the transmission of the coronavirus in a large, democratic country like India. I have not seen any credible data to show that temperature, humidity and other such environmental factors may have an impact on transmissibility of the virus. Recently, Russia has announced the completion of phase-1 and phase-2 trials of a potential vaccine on a human adenovirus platform. The Oxford vaccine candidate (ChAdOx1) is based on a chimpanzee adenovirus vector. Do you think adenovirus platforms are a dependable bet for a virus of such novelty and infectiousness as SARS-CoV-2? Honestly, I do not know much about vaccine vectors and therefore cannot give you any confident view on this question. Adenovirus-based vectors are excellent for delivering gene or antigens as vaccines. These vectors offer several advantages over other viral vectors because they can be manipulated easily, and accept large insertions in their genomes, and have the ability to induce specific antibody responses. They are also amenable to large-scale production. They are also known to produce inflammatory responses, which is a disadvantage. We have had several viral outbreaks and epidemics before. Some like the Ebola virus and MERS (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome) virus have far higher mortality rates. Some like H1N1 (that causes swine flu) did appear more infectious. However this is also a unique situation in that a virus was sequenced so rapidly, aiding the rapid development of rapid RT-PCR-based (Real Time Rapid Polymerase Chain Reaction) diagnostic kits and giving a large number of nations the ability to detect the virus. But science doesn’t seem to have evolved commensurately quickly to develop new remedies or approaches to vaccine development. Does this mismatch contribute to the state of global panic that COVID-19 has triggered? We have never faced a pandemic after 1918, when the Spanish flu was declared to be a pandemic. Ebola and MERS were outbreaks of infections. Those viruses were far more efficient killers. Yes, we have been able to deploy RNA sequencing far more rapidly in the context of SARS-CoV-2, thanks to the development and spread of high-throughput sequencing technologies. However, the ability of scientists to develop treatment or vaccines do not always depend on availability of technologies, even if technologies can and do provide considerable amount of relevant data. There are many factors involved in the development of treatment or vaccines. Too many variable factors and uncertainties that preclude rapid development. I do agree that the lack of availability of treatment or vaccine has hugely contributed to the fear of infection and the resultant panic. There is research under way trying to answer why mortality rates in India are relatively low in spite of the high number of infections (even adjusting for under-reporting and our relatively more youthful demographic)? Can exposure to other endemic coronaviruses and influenza strains imply a more vigilant and responsive immunity? I am not aware that the mortality rate in India is lower than in other large geographical regions. I am not aware of any epidemiological study with a large sample size that has provided this evidence. The mortality rate is about 2% of all infected individuals in India, as in most other large geographical regions. Yes, prior exposure to other coronaviruses and related viruses can have an impact on lowering infection rates, but I am not sure about the impact of prior exposure on mortality. As President of the Indian Academy of Sciences, what are your views on how effectively the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has managed to communicate, since March, the evolution of the pandemic in India and the extent of risk posed? I believe that ICMR has done its best and has done well. The only time that the Academy got worried was when ICMR announced that India will make a vaccine within our Independence Day. The Academy protested.  Prior exposure to other coronaviruses and related viruses can have an impact on lowering infection rates...
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Secretariat fire: BJP, Cong. protest across Kerala||Opposition parties in Kerala took to the streets on Wednesday accusing the government of having attempted to set fire to the Secretariat to erase incriminating evidence of the “role” of the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in “abetting” the illegal import of gold via air freight addressed to the UAE consulate here. Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party workers disregarded the COVID-19 protocol, marched to the Secretariat, and attempted to topple the police barricade in front of the gate. Police turned pressurised water jets on the protesters. They swung batons and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the demonstrators. Several persons sustained minor injuries in the melee. The Secretariat and neighbourhood resembled a strife zone. Iron barricades and police officers in riot gear protected the gates. The central part of the capital was cut off to vehicles and pedestrians for the better part of the day. The Congress and the BJP were observing “black day” and “protest day” across the State. They had organised street protests in Kannur, Kochi and Kollam. The Social Democratic Party of India also joined the fray by organising anti-government demonstrations across the State. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the fire was an act of sabotage. It had consumed records relating to foreign trips of Ministers and bureaucrats, their interactions with foreign entities, classified political files, and granting of VIP status to persons. The fire had occurred soon after office hours on Tuesday. BJP State president K. Surendran said the sabotage was pre-scripted by the government. As a precursor of the subversion, the government procured a certificate from safety auditors that the Secretariat was a fire risk. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said Mr. Surendran and Mr. Chennithala arrived on the scene minutes after the fire broke out. They seemed to have a premonition of the fire. Mr. Balakrishnan said their role in the blaze appeared suspicious and warranted an inquiry.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cancel panel meet on Internet shutdown, BJP MP tells Tharoor||BJP MP and member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, Nishikant Dubey, in a letter to the panel’s Chairman and Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, has demanded that the meeting on suspension of Internet services in various States and Union Territories including Jammu and Kashmir, scheduled for September 1, be cancelled since the subject is sub judice . Mr. Dubey’s letter came a day after Speaker Om Birla issued an advisory to the Chairmen of all parliamentary panels asking them to adhere to rules while conducting meetings. “Since this issue is presently pending before the Supreme Court, any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant rules/directions as well as disregarding the recently issued advisory of the Speaker,” Mr. Dubey wrote. He had earlier in a letter to Mr. Birla demanded Mr. Tharoor’s removal from the Chairman’s post. He was backed by another BJP member Rajyavardhan Rathore who accused Mr. Tharoor of going public with the decision to summon Facebook on the controversy regarding them going easy on pages affiliated to the BJP carrying hate speech. Confidential proceedings Referring to the Speaker’s instructions, Mr. Dubey said the advisory has clearly said the proceedings shall be treated as confidential and the panel may not take up those issues which are pending in courts. “Therefore, [I] appeal to your good-self that the sitting of the committee on information technology convened for the aforementioned purpose may be immediately revoked.” He requested Mr. Tharoor to not take up those issues for deliberation which are of national importance as otherwise, the panel would again be showing discourtesy to the desire of the Speaker.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to review charter of DRDO labs||With a focus on indigenous development of futuristic technologies, a five-member expert committee has been constituted to review the charter of duties for all laboratories of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The committee was constituted by G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence Research and Development (DDR&D), who is also the Chairman, DRDO. “As lots of new technologies have come into existence over the decades, we are working on the charter of duties of labs so that they are up to date and non-overlapping,” a Defence official said on condition of anonymity. The five-member committee is headed by Professor V. Ramagopal Rao, Director, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. According to a letter dated August 24, the terms of reference are: to study and review the charter of duties of all the labs of the DRDO, to redefine the charter of duties of the labs on the current and futuristic defence and battlefield scenario, and to minimise the overlap of technologies amongst the labs. The committee has to submit its report within 45 days, the letter states. The other members include include S. Somnath, Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre; Air Marshal Sandeep Singh, Deputy Chief of Air Staff; Dr. Samir V. Kamat, Director General-Naval Systems and Materials; and Benjamin Lionel, Director, Instruments Research and Development Establishment.
27 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Death toll rises to 16 in Raigad building collapse||After a rescue operation that went on for around 40 hours, a total of 16 bodies have been found from the debris of a residential building that collapsed at Mahad in Raigad district of Maharashtra. Two persons were found alive from the rubble. Nine were injured. The Mahad police arrested Bahubali Dhamane, RCC contractor of the building, from Navi Mumbai on Wednesday. The first casualty was Sayyed Hameed Sameer (45), resident of an adjoining building who got hurt after debris hit him. He died after a heart attack on the way to hospital. Fifteen bodies were recovered by National Disaster Response Force personnel. Timely alert Avesh Chichkar, a 25-year-old IT professional and cricket coach, said he had alerted people after noticing damage to one of the pillars on the parking lot while returning from the gym. He went home on the fifth floor and sat on the dining table in the kitchen. “The fridge was just beside the place where I was seated to have my snacks. I sensed a sudden movement of the fridge. I felt there was something wrong and a disaster was waiting to happen and I asked my parents and brother to leave the house immediately,” he said. While going down, he raised an alarm and knocked on each flat asking the occupants to vacate their flats. The five-storey society had four flats in each floor in both wings. “We all reached down the parking lot and clicked a photo of the pillar that was damaged and suddenly we heard a sound and saw another pillar breaking. That’s when we all ran to the nearby Bismillah Complex. Within a minute after reaching the nearby complex, we saw Tarique Garden collapsing like a pack of cards,” Mr. Chichkar said.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Four more held in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested four more persons in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case and searched the premises of three jewellery shops and the houses of the accused. The agency has so far arraigned 25 persons as accused in the case. Of this, 20 have been arrested, said a communication issued by the agency. The arrested were identified as C. V Jifsal of Kozhikode; P. Aboobacker of Malappuram; Muhammed Abdu Shameem of Kozhikode; and P. M. Abdul Hameed of Malappuram. They were booked for conspiring with other arrested and accused persons for financing smuggling of gold through import cargo addressed to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. They were also involved in receiving smuggled gold and proceeds from the smuggling, according to the agency. Houses searched The agency also conducted searches at the houses of these accused in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts as well as at Malabar Jewellery owned by Aboobacker; Ameen Gold in Malappuram owned by Abdul Hameed; and at Ambi Jewellery, Kozhikode, owned by Shamsudheen. During the searches, the agency seized several digital devices and incriminating documents, the communication said.
27 August 2020||Srinagar,||Man killed in landslip triggered by heavy rain in parts of J&K||A man was killed in a landslip triggered by heavy rain in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. An official said Shoket, a resident of Rajouri in the Pir Panjal Valley, was killed after he came under a landslip, triggered by torrential rain, at Kotli village in Manjkote. “Local people managed to retrieve the body,” officials said. The district administration has alerted its workers and machinery in Rajouri after water levels rose in the Saktoh and Dharhali rivers. The Rajouri administration has sounded an alert, and asked “people to contact the police for help”. Three vehicles were damaged in the Surankote area in Poonch district in heavy rain. Heavy downpour reported from south and central Kashmir but “there has been no casualties”, according to officials. Kashmir’s main Jhelum river witnessed a sudden rise in the water level due to the rains. The Srinagar-Jammu highway, connecting the Kashmir Valley with the Jammu region, remained closed due to the landslips. Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing heavy rain since Tuesday night. “It has been raining at many places of central and south, south-west of the Jammu region. The present system is most likely to continue for next 24 hours. All are requested to remain alert to meet any eventuality, such as flash floods and landslips, during the next two days,” said Sonam Lotus, director of the meteorological department.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: panel sends notices to police, hospital||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission on Wednesday sent show-cause notices to the Mumbai Police and Cooper Hospital at Juhu for allowing actor Rhea Chakraborty to enter the hospital’s mortuary when Sushant Singh Rajput’s post-mortem was being conducted. The Commission’s chair told The Hindu , “notices have been issued asking under which provision was Rhea Chakraborty allowed in the mortuary despite the presence of police there. The hospital management was not supposed to allow anyone enter the premises. The notices are returnable on August 31.” Dr. Pinakin Gujjar, Dean of Dr. R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital said, “I cannot confirm receiving any notice.” Ms. Chakraborty, along with three others, was seen at Cooper Hospital for 45 minutes on June 15 a day after Rajput died. The CBI is currently probing the actor’s death after directions from the Supreme Court. Money laundering The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating a money laundering case against Ms. Chakraborty and her brother Showik and looking into the start-ups owned by the duo and Rajput. After the ED ‘found drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant’, the Narcotics Control Bureau joined the investigation. Ms. Chakraborty’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, has said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime and she is ready for a blood test any time.” On July 28, Rajput’s father, KK Singh, registered an FIR against her at the Rajiv Nagar Police Thana in Patna. She has been booked under sections 341 (Wrongful Restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft), 406 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). On August 7, the CBI registered an FIR against Ms Chakraborty, her brother and four others. The FIR has been filed under sections 306, 341, 342, 380, 406, 420, 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Loss at Srisailam plant put at over Rs. 100 cr.||The damage and loss suffered by the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station (SLBHES) in the major fire accident on the night of August 20 has been primarily estimated at about Rs. 100 crore after the internal panel of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) went round the plant and examined the impact on Wednesday. It was learnt that the maximum loss is in the fourth unit, which was affected the most in the fire. “After a detailed exterior examination of the fourth unit by the internal committee of the power utility, it has been assessed that its generator, the main component of the unit, has been badly damaged in the fire,” sources in the power utility told The Hindu.  As observed by the internal committee initially, another round of examination of the plant on Wednesday made them come to a conclusion that units one and two could be revived in two weeks time for resuming power generation after restoration of power supply and automatic de-watering system to pump out seepage water frequently in the underground power house. Committee members also reiterated their opinion on units three and five that they too could be revived for resumption of power generation in four to six weeks time. Among the equipment and installations that were badly damaged are control panels, battery back up system, and air-conditioning system. The fire ignited in the sixth unit panel board had spread to other units and the fourth unit was impacted the most.Meanwhile, Chairman and MD of TS-Genco D. Prabahakar Rao, who visited the power plant on Wednesday, examined the service bay, generators of all the six units, transformers, control panel units, indoor gas sub-station and the main control room. He also held discussions with the internal panel inquiring into the fire mishap at the project site near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district. Later, Mr. Rao spoke to about 200 staff employed and assured them that the organisation would take measures for their safety.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Taking the lead in becoming plasma donors||At a time when the government and medical fraternity are finding ways to encourage more people who have recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma for the treatment of other patients, a batch of 80 police personnel who are registered donors are awaiting their turn. This is in addition to the 15 KSRP and KSISF personnel who donated plasma in the city on Tuesday. This is probably the first such organised plasma donation process set up in the country, said Alok Kumar, Additional Director- General of Police. He said this was started in June after five personnel recovered and donated plasma. Though plasma therapy’s efficacy is yet to be certified medically, a majority of the patients who received plasma benefited and showed some improvement, Mr. Kumar said.“Soon after the first plasma donation, hospitals approached us seeking help, and we have agreed, saying that the donated plasma should be given to the poor and the underprivileged and also to doctors and members of the medical fraternity,” he added. The number of donors in the battalions began to swell as many personnel recovered from the infection and volunteered to donate so that they could help in the fight against the pandemic. Muthanna, 59-year-old KSRP constable who recovered from the infection and is due for retirement in a few months, is among the donors. Head constable Rajiv B. Kollapuri, 45, from the 4th battalion, went to Mangaluru to donate plasma for his colleague Ravi Rai from the 7th battalion. Now, Mr. Rai has recovered and is willing to help others. Lauding the effort of the police personnel, Praveen Sood, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police, said that being first responders, many police personnel were infected while on duty and recovered. The donors have been felicitated by Mr. Kumar. “Considering the enthusiasm among the personnel, we want to take this to the next level to make it a big success,” he said. A 12-km cyclothon has been organised on Sunday where donors are participating to encourage and motivate others about plasma donation.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Colleges in Karnataka to reopen from Oct. 1||After conducting the SSLC exam, the pending II PU exams, and the Common Entrance Test (CET), the State government has now announced that degree colleges will reopen on October 1. The academic year, however, will commence from September 1 through online classes. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said here on Wednesday that the government was awaiting Central guidelines regarding the resumption of offline classes. He also said that once the academic year began, final-year exams would be scheduled for all undergraduate, diploma, and engineering students, and the backlog exams would also be conducted. “In accordance with the current UGC guidelines, we have already made comprehensive preparations for starting classes. The State government will follow any additional directions from the Central government as they come,” he tweeted. Mr. Ashwath Narayan also said that those opposing the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), scheduled to be held on September 13, had “vested interests” and that the State would coordinate with the Centre for conducting the NEET successfully. ‘Consult stakeholders’ The announcement has been met with mixed reactions. Sithara H.M., district president, All-India Democratic Students’ Organisation, said that such decisions should be taken only after consulting various stakeholders, including students, parents and teachers, apart from health experts. “They just announce such important decisions in haste and create panic among students and parents. It is unfortunate that they are thinking of reopening colleges in October when the State is reporting over 5,000 to 6,000 new COVID-19 cases per day,” she said. Another student urged the government to request the UGC to defer exams for final year students. “At least for the sake of public good amid a pandemic, such issues should be decentralised and be based on a State-to-State basis,” the student said. However, Bangalore University Vice-Chancellor K.R. Venugopal said that preparations were already on for conducting exams for terminal semesters students. “As a continuation of that, we will also begin preparations for the resumption of offline classes,” he said, and added that that was ample of time for them to prepare. He also said that the COVID Care Centres that have been established at the campus would be withdrawn or shifted from the campus within a day or two. “We have requested the government in this regard so that we have time to sanitise it and keep it ready before students start coming,” he added.
27 August 2020||Thrissur,||Tigers to dance in cyberspace this Onam||Pulikkali, or tiger dance, is a colourful part of Onam celebrations in Thrissur. The hallmark street pageant of the State’s cultural capital usually brings the curtains down on the festival celebrations. Human tigers, their bodies painted bright yellow with black stripes akin to the big cat, prance around to the accompaniment of rousing drum beating and roaring fans. The tiger faces painted on their bellies vibrate rhythmically, producing contorted expressions along with the dance moves. Even amidst the lockdown and restrictions in the wake of COVID-19, the tigers will reach residents’ homes with their wild dance. But this time, it will be online, for an hour from 3.30 p.m. on the fourth Onam day. The Ayyanthole Desham Pulikkali team is bringing the Pulikkali online. Around 20 painted tigers in costumes will enthral on-screen. Each tiger participant will perform from home too. People can watch the performance on the Facebook page of the Ayyanthole Desham Pulikkali Samiti, said organising Samiti president Rajesh Pattayath on Wednesday. Shakthan Tampuran, the ruler of yore, introduced Pulikkali over two centuries ago as a street art form. Sidelined initially as obscene, it won acceptance with the introduction of guidelines and rules.
27 August 2020||Kolkata,||From the kitchen to his real love – books||After 23 years when he worked as a cook in a State-run school, celebrated writer Manoranjan Byapari can now work amidst books. On Tuesday, the West Bengal government accepted his petition to relieve him of his job in the school and decided to transfer him to a library at Amtala in South 24 Parganas district. Mr. Byapari, who has emerged as an important figure in the literary circles of Bengal, learnt writing in a correctional home in Kolkata. Popularly known as the first Dalit writer from West Bengal, his autobiographical book Interrogating my Chandal Life (‘ Itibritte Chandal Jiban ’) had won the The Hindu Award for Non-Fiction in 2018. A chance encounter with renowned writer Mahasweta Devi while plying a rickshaw sent Mr. Byapari on a new journey as a writer. Devi, who turned out to be the writer’s mentor, published his first essay ‘ Rickshaw chalai ’ (‘I pull a rickshaw’) in her non-fiction magazine Bartika in 1981. Late on Tuesday, the West Bengal Information and Cultural Affairs Department said that the writer had requested Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to relieve him from the arduous work that his job as a cook at the Hellen Keller Badhir Vidyalaya of the Mass Education Department entailed. “Chief Minister intervened and directed the Mass Education officials to place the writer at the Vidyanagar district public library, South 24 Parganas, as applied for by the ageing writer,” the communication said, adding that Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had spoken to the writer and told him of the government’s decision. “I have taken up several jobs but this was my first formal job with a salary of Rs. 2,500,” the writer told The Hindu on Wednesday. Mr. Byapari said he had made the request long ago as, after a knee operation, he was unable to perform the heavy lifting for cooking. “I have not been getting a salary for the past several months and the school is also closed due to the lockdown,” he said. In an interview to The Hindu in February, Mr. Byapari said that he might have “become a regular at fashionable literary events but life will never really change for people like me. That is the impossible truth.” The writer said he likes the idea of working amidst books but does not think the job involves the responsibilities of a librarian. “I don’t think my job will be that of a librarian; the government order is not clear about it. I am a Group D staff. Maybe I will be moving books from one place to another or dusting them,” he said, expressing satisfaction over the development. The library job will involve a long commute and the writer plans to rent a place not very far from work.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||State officials will help with exams, says NTA||On a day when two political parties allied with the ruling BJP joined the Opposition voices calling for a postponement of the scheduled Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the Education Ministry has reiterated the importance of holding the examinations to ensure that an academic year is not lost. The National Testing Agency (NTA) called upon State officials to help ensure the safe conduct of the examinations and noted that lakhs of students have already downloaded their admit cards. “If the examinations are postponed again, the year will be lost. There are those calling for the examination to be held after Diwali, but that is followed by the Chath festival in eastern India on November 26. If the exam is held in the first week of December, then results will not come until January and 2020 will be lost,” said Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare, noting that other undergraduate admissions will be pushed further if professional college admissions are delayed again. NTA Director General Vineet Joshi told Doordarshan News that the agency has received representations from large groups of students who want the examination to be postponed as well as those who do not, and had decided to go ahead in the interest of the students’ academic career. Of the 8.5 lakh students who have registered for JEE, 7.4 lakh have downloaded their admit cards over the last week. NEET admit cards were made available on Wednesday, and 6.8 lakh candidates (of the 15.9 lakh registered) downloaded their documents in the first five hours. Onus back on States Mr. Joshi said the NTA is working with the State police and local officials to ensure smooth movement of students on the examination date and make safe arrangements to let students arrive and leave examination centre venues, putting the onus back on States. On Wednesday, the Tamil Nadu government has communicated its unwillingness to conduct the medical entrance examinations.
27 August 2020||Srinagar,||One killed in landslip as rain lashes J&K||One person was killed in landslip triggered by heavy rain in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. An official said Shoket, a resident of Rajouri in the Pir Panjal Valley, was killed after he came under a landslip, triggered by torrential rain, in Kotli village of Manjkote. “Locals managed to retrieve the body,” officials said. The district administration has alerted its men and machinery in Rajouri after water levels rose in the Saktoh and Dharhali rivers. The Rajouri administration has sounded an alert and asked “people to contact the police for help”. Meanwhile, three vehicles were damaged in the Surankote area in Poonch district in a major cloudburst. Multiple cloudbursts were reported from south and central Kashmir but “there has been no casualties,” according to officials. Kashmir’s main Jhelum river witnessed a sudden rise in the water level due to the rain. The Srinagar-Jammu highway, connecting the Kashmir Valley with the Jammu region, remained closed due to the landslips. Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing heavy rain since Tuesday night.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli riots: HC declines plea for uploading details of accused online||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday declined to entertain a PIL petition seeking a direction to the city police to publish the names and details of those arrested in connection with the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities on the official website of the Bengaluru city police. Petitioner Khaleel Ahmed H.M., a resident of Hebbal, had alleged that the city police are not following the law and guidelines issued by the apex court in relation to rights of accused persons, thereby violating their fundamental rights. However, a Division Bench said publication of names and details of the arrested on the official website of the city police may result in the names and particulars going viral on social media affecting the right to privacy of the accused persons. Pointing out that Section 41C of the Code of Criminal Procedure mandates the police to display the names and addresses of the persons arrested and the name and designation of the police officers who made the arrests on the notice board kept outside the control rooms at every district, the petitioner said such details need to be published on the website so that family members of arrested persons could seek legal remedy. The Bench, however, observed that the plea for uploading details of arrested person does not benefit the accused even though the petitioner has claimed that he has been working for the benefit of deprived sections of society and to protect the rights of the arrested. The Bench made it clear that the issue of alleged violation of rights of the accused raised in the petition has been kept open to be decided in appropriate proceedings.  ‘Publication of names and details of the arrested on the official website of the city police may result in the details going viral on social media’
27 August 2020||MYSURU,||Elephant rescued from cattle-proof trench||A 30-year-old tusker which had fallen into a cattle-proof trench (CPT) on the outskirts of Hanur range of M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary was rescued by a Forest Department team and released back into the wild on Wednesday. The incident took place near Arkanalla village and the elephant fell into the trench created to prevent cattle from crossing into the forest for grazing. Local community members who spotted the elephant struggling to climb out of the trench, informed the authorities who reached the spot and levelled the ground to create a path for the elephant to move out, according to Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Yedukondalu. He said the elephant, which struggled for a long time to come out of the trench, had collapsed owing to exhaustion. The excavator used to level the ground was used to nudge the elephant so that it could stand up. After repeated efforts, the elephant, which was disoriented, managed to stand and turned around as if to charge at the excavator. But after prodding and repeated nudging, it walked out of the trench and moved into the forests. Fire and Emergency Service personnel sprayed water on the animal to calm it down and created a pool to quench its thirst. The forest personnel trailed the elephant from a safe distance to observe for any debilitating injury but found none, according to the official.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Swapna kept me in the dark, Venugopal tells ED||Venugopal Iyer, the Chartered Accountant who was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act case booked against Swapna Suresh and others, said he was answerable to the cash and valuables kept in the bank locker as he was a joint holder of the locker with Swapna. At the same time Mr. Venugopal said Swapna had not informed him about the source of cash and gold that she had kept in the locker, according to the ED. The statements of the Chartered Accountant were part of the remand extension report filed by the ED in the court on Wednesday. Swapna kept the proceeds of the crime in the bank locker jointly opened with the chartered accountant as instructed by former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister M. Sivasankar, the statement said. P.V. Vinod, the director of Sane Ventures, gave a statement to the officials stating that he did not pay any commission to Swapna as part of the project for building homes under Life Mission. Giving out the details of the foreign travel made by Swapna and Mr. Sivasankar together, the agency repeatedly noted that she had considerable influence in the office of the Chief Minister.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka pvt. hospitals hit by shortage of funds||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) has said that they will be unable to pay salaries to their staff for September as the State government has not reimbursed the bills of COVID-19 patients referred to private hospitals. As the number of COVID-19 patients was on the rise, in July the State government made it mandatory to reserve 50% of beds in private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients referred by public health authorities. They also fixed a cap on the treatment charges. The association claims that nearly Rs. 35 crore towards reimbursement of bills of COVID-19 patients referred by public health authorities is pending. Fund crunch R. Ravindra, president of PHANA, said private hospitals would be unable to pay the salaries of doctors, nurses, and other health care workers and added thatthe day-to-day functioning of hospitals would also be affected as they were facing a fund crunch even to pay the suppliers of essential items. He also said that many of their overhead costs had increased during the pandemic. The association wrote to the Executive Director of the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) last week stating that the financial position of private hospitals continues to be grim. “This needs urgent attention of the trust and release of due payments and faster clearance of the submitted bills will be highly appreciated,” the association stated in the letter. It said that as 50% of the beds have been reserved for COVID-19 patients to be treated under the government quota, they are not utilising the beds for other patients even though there is demand. They have urged the government to provide a nominal 25% of the cost for unutilised beds so that they can meet the costs. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that although the government was facing financial constraints, they were clearing bills, but it was taking time because of verification.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SC hits out at Centre on loan moratorium scheme||“Banks are commercial entities that intermediate between depositors and borrowers. They are expected to run on viable commercial considerations,” the affidavit said. It had reasoned that banks were custodians of the depositors’ money. Central to the challenge in the petition was the RBI notification of March 27. “The interest charged during moratorium period would be added up into the EMIs at the end of three-month forbearance. It will have to be paid in one go or be equally divided in all future EMIs. The monthly bill for customers will increase… In the present scenario, when all the means of livelihood has been curtailed by the Government of India by imposition of lockdown and the petitioner has no way to earn a livelihood, the imposition of interest will defeat the very purpose of permitting moratorium on loans,” the petition contended.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pranab’s renal parameters decline||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s renal parameters have shown a decline while he continues to remain in coma, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) hospital here said on Wednesday. “Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters are slightly deranged since yesterday. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support,” the hospital said in a statement. On August 10, Mr. Mukherjee underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot and has since been on ventilator support. He had also tested positive for COVID-19.
27 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Vandalism accused gets interim protection||The Allahabad High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to a person who was booked under the Gangsters Act by the Uttar Pradesh government for his alleged involvement in vandalism during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed nationwide National Register of Citizens (NRC) last year. Mohammad Shoaib, who is out on bail in the case, had filed a petition for quashing the FIR against him dated June 20 under Sections 2 and 3 of the U.P. Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act at Qaiserbagh, Lucknow. He was arrested in connection with the vandalism that took that place in the Qaiserbagh area on December 19, 2019, but was granted bail by a local court. However, on June 20, the Lucknow police booked him and 14 others under the Gangsters Act in a fresh case, claiming that they functioned as a criminal gang. Counsel for the petitioner submitted in court that the petitioner was not part of any gang. The court observed that the petitioner shall not be arrested till the submission of the report under Section 173 (2) of the CrPC, provided he cooperated in the investigation.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan rejects NIA’s Pulwama chargesheet||Pakistan on Wednesday rejected the chargesheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) regarding the February 14, 2019 Pulwama terror attack, which blamed Pakistan-based Masood Azhar and his relatives for the bombing. The statement from the spokesperson for Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) said: “India failed to provide any credible evidence for its invective and has instead been using the attack for its malicious propaganda campaign against Pakistan.” The statement referred to the pre-election “timing” of the Pulwama attack and said the explosives for the incident were procured from inside the Jammu and Kashmir region.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Draft policy on health data open for feedback||The National Health Authority (NHA) has released the draft Health Data Management Policy of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) in the public domain. The draft has been released on the website of the NDHM and will be available for public comments and feedback till September 3. The policy will be finalised after receiving suggestions from the public. NHA Chief Executive Officer Indu Bhushan said, “The draft is the maiden step in realising the NDHM’s guiding principle of ‘Security and Privacy by Design’ for the protection of individuals’ data privacy. It encompasses various aspects pertaining to health data such as data privacy, consent management, data sharing and protection etc.” Main objectives One of the main objectives of the draft policy is to provide adequate guidance and to set out a framework for the secure processing of personal and sensitive personal data of individuals who are a part of the national digital health ecosystem. This will be in compliance with all applicable laws and international standards that define the set of frameworks of consent for the collection and processing of health data by healthcare practitioners and other entities, and other relevant standards related to data interoperability and data sharing, said a release by the NHA.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||RS Chairman writes to panel heads on rules||A day after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla wrote to chairpersons of parliamentary standing committees advising them to ensure confidentiality of panel meetings, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu too wrote an advisory on similar lines. Writing to heads of eight standing committees that come under the Rajya Sabha purview, Mr. Naidu said the committees were mandated to carry out a detailed scrutiny of legislative proposals which was not feasible for Parliament to do so in transaction of its day-to-day business. While commending the standing committees, he wrote, “However, for some time now, it has been observed that the media has been found quoting, in their reportage, the proceedings of the committees related to the subject matters or the legislative Bills under their consideration and examination”. He reiterated the rules and procedures that govern the meetings of the parliamentary panels. The meetings are confidential and “it is not permissible for a member of the committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate, directly or indirectly, to the media any information regarding its proceedings, including any part of the report or any conclusions arrived at by the committee finally or tentatively before the report has been presented to the House”. Violation of this would tantamount to “breach of privilege of the House,” Mr. Naidu said. Rule 270 On Tuesday, Mr. Birla, in a letter, had sought to remind the panel chairpersons to Rule 270 of the ‘Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha’, which says that a “Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records”. However, “if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final”. Mr. Birla’s letter came days after BJP MPs wrote to him demanding removal of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the parliamentary panel on IT, after he summoned Facebook.
27 August 2020||NALGONDA,||Eight crest gates of Nagarjunasagar lifted||Eight crest gates of the Nagarjunasagar project were lifted to a height of five feet on Wednesday, a second time in the year, with increasing flood in the upstream projects. Officials were preparing to release water on Thursday, however, with brimming levels, the gates were lifted at around 8.15 p.m. According to an earlier alert by Nagarjunasagar project Superintending Engineer I. Madhusudan in the afternoon, it was said that the gates would be lifted on Thursday, and one lakh cusecs would be released downstream. All departments concerned and the villages along the banks of river Krishna too were alerted. At 6 p.m., the water level was at 588.80 feet, inches away from the full reservoir level of 590 feet. And the storage was 308.46 tmc against the gross 312 tmc capacity. However, with the inflows rising, just before the operation of the gates at around 8 p.m., the water level rose to 589.20 feet. According to the bulletin, close to 2.75 lakh cusecs being the inflow from Srisailam project, 1.08 lakh cusecs was discharged downstream. This year, the gates of NSP were opened on Friday and the reservoir reached its full capacity within four days, by Monday night. Last year, the project achieved more filling, with record inflows, in just five days, and all its 26 crest gates were lifted.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Important to protect right to freedom of speech’||Retired Supreme Court judge Jasti Chelameswar on Wednesday said it is important to protect the right to freedom of speech, and once it is demolished, nothing much will remain of the fundamental rights under the Indian Constitution. Mr. Chelameswar (67) was speaking at an online discussion, “Judicial Criticism, Contempt and Democracy” organised by the progressive students’ forum of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. In 2018, he was one of the four judges who held a press conference against the functioning of the then chief justice of India, Dipak Misra. Mr. Chelameswar has delivered landmark judgements like Aadhaar, upheld freedom of speech, and struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act. He said, “In a democracy, free speech is believed to be the right to talk against all organs of the government. Without free speech, there is no freedom to find out the truth and only when free speech is allowed will we know the truth.”He added, “This does not mean that one can speak whatever comes to one’s mind. One has to follow norms of decency and morality even when one is talking to one’s neighbour. There always has to be some degree of restraint.” Talking about contempt of court, he said, there is civil and criminal contempt, and it is decided upon the subject matter of contempt. Citing an example, he said, “If a particular judge is found driving in violation of traffic rules and if he is caught by the police and given a chalan, I don’t think that is contempt. Judges are not exempted from the laws.” “Britain has abolished the contempt of court Act. Whether India should continue it or not it is for parliament and the Supreme Court to decide,” Mr. Chelameswar said. When asked if he will pull up someone who criticises him, he said, “For every case that I decided in 21 years, I made one enemy because one party had to lose. The most charitable comment the losing party can say is, ‘I don’t know the law’, and I would accept that. I will not haul someone who calls me corrupt.”
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||States may move SC against JEE, NEET||“The GST was enacted as an example of ‘cooperative federalism’. The GST regime came into existence because the States agreed to forgo their constitutional powers of taxation in the larger national interest and on the solemn promise of compulsory GST compensation for a period of 5 years,” she noted. The Chief Ministers expressed the helplessness of the States in fighting the pandemic with limited resources. Ms. Banerjee said the States were being treated like beggars by the Centre. “It is our funds, we deserve it, we shouldn’t beg for it.” Mr. Thackeray said if the Centre could not pay the dues, then there was an urgent need to revisit the present framework and evolve a devolution method midway between the past taxation regime and the GST. This suggestion was endorsed by Mr. Baghel, who suggested that tax collection be reverted to the States. Mr. Soren accused the Centre of hiking the excise tax on fuel at a time when international crude oil rates were at the lowest to put its own balance-sheet in order, while the States struggled to make the ends meet. “In fact, GST compensation should have been increased,” he said. Captain Amarinder Singh listed out the shortfall in revenue over the past few months. He said Punjab was staring at a revenue shortfall of Rs. 25,000 crore. If the situation continued, he would not have the money to pay salaries to the government staff. “We are in a serious financial crisis. I think all of us should collectively meet the Prime Minister. We have given all our power of taxation to him by way of the GST and now they are saying they can’t pay us. So let them tell us how we should run the State.” He added that the Centre owed GST dues of Rs. 7,000 crore to the State. Mr. Narayansamy said if the Union government could not give the compensation within 15 days, “let us raise our own revenue”. All the Chief Ministers criticised the Centre for its unresponsiveness and for attempting to concentrate all powers. Mr. Gehlot alleged that letters written by Chief Ministers were often ignored.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Laudable qualities||Lord Krishna tells Arjuna about those who have daivim sampath. Such people are blessed to have had the Lord’s kataksha at birth. That is, he is seen by the Lord, when he is born, and the Lord’s glances are enough to make him seek moksha, said Valayapet Ramachariar, in a discourse. Among the many qualities, which such divinely blessed people have, is the quality of akrodah. Akrodah is the opposite of krodah. Anger leads us to torment others. A person who has daivim sampath, does not harass others. The Lord says that those with daivim sampath have santih and damah. It might seem that both are the same. Both deal with control of the senses. Why then should both words have been used by the Lord, if they are merely repeating the same idea? Actually, there is a subtle difference in meaning between santih and damah. Damah is control over the senses, but santih goes beyond this. It is not just controlling the senses, but it means directing the senses in the proper path. Streamlining the senses, and controlling the mind — that is santih. Control over the senses does not mean that your eyes no longer see, or your ears no longer hear. The sense organs will continue to perform their functions. What santih means is that we ensure that the eyes do not see unnecessary and undesirable things. Santih means putting the sense organs to proper use, always keeping in mind the ultimate goal of moksha. Krishna speaks of satya as one of the qualities that a person with daivim sampath has. But Krishna Himself told many lies. How can He preach truthfulness, we may ask. Krishna’s lies were harmless. They were told playfully, not with an intent to hurt anyone. His lies were unbelievable exaggerations, and were amusing. In the Gita, Krishna is not talking of such lies, when He talks of satya.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Give students from hotspots time to pay fee: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that children in COVID-19 containment zones, hotspots, and clusters be given adequate time to pay their school fee. The commission directed that parents of students whose fee was due should be informed as per law before their wards were asked not to attend school or online classes. The General Education Secretary, Director of General Education, and the CBSE Regional Officer should issue circulars in this regard, a division bench comprising commission chairperson K.V. Manojkumar and member K. Nazeer said. The commission clarified that it was not questioning the right of private educational institutions to charge fee as per law. However, before a student was barred from school or online classes for non-payment of fee, the parents should be given an opportunity for explanation. Throwing students out of school or online classes without any notice was against the principles of natural justice and child rights. The commission’s intervention follows a complaint from a parent that his child was barred from school for not paying fee from June to August. The commission directed the school management to allow payment of fee for one month immediately. The remaining fee could be paid within 10 days. The child should be readmitted to school and allowed to attend the online classes, the commission said.
27 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat to bring law to punish land grabbers||The Gujarat government on Wednesday decided to bring a strict law, with provision of up to 14-year jail term, to curb land grabbing activity in the State. A proposal to bring a new law, called “the Gujarat Land Grabbing Prohibition Act”, with stringent provisions was approved at a meeting of the State Cabinet, Revenue Minister Kaushik Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar. Since the Assembly is not in session, the government will bring an ordinance to make provisions of the proposed law operational with immediate effect, an official release said. Under the proposed legislation, special courts will be set up to ensure that such cases are disposed of within six months, the release said, adding the burden of proof will be on the accused. Those found guilty of land grabbing will be liable for 10 years to 14 years of imprisonment and penalty, it said.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||S-G declines consent to plea against Swara||Solicitor-General (SG) Tushar Mehta on Wednesday refused consent to criminal contempt action against actor Swara Bhasker. Mr. Mehta told the complainant, Usha Shetty, a Karnataka resident, and her lawyers that it was “misconceived” to approach him when Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal had already declined them consent on August 21.  Ms. Shetty had sought the consent of the Solicitor-General, saying she “respectfully differs” with Mr. Venugopal. In her complaint, she accused Ms. Bhasker of “scandalising” the Supreme Court and referred to the actor’s public address at a meeting organised by the Mumbai Collective, following the top court’s verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi title dispute case last year.
27 August 2020||SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT GUWAHATI,||Tarun Gogoi tests positive for COVID-19||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi has become the 13th legislator in Assam to have tested positive for COVID-19. “I have been tested Covid-19 positive yesterday (August 25). People who came in contact with me during last few days they should go for Covid test immediately,” he tweeted on Wednesday. Congress spokesperson Rhituparna Konwar said Mr. Gogoi had been complaining of weakness after attending a few meetings. “Doctors are attending to him at his official residence,” he said.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mental health helpline soon||A toll-free helpline for access to mental health resources would soon be launched, the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry said on Wednesday A Ministry source said the trial for the helpline had started. In a statement on Wednesday, the Ministry initially said the helpline would be launched on Thursday. However, it issued another statement later in the day postponing the launch. “Kiran” mental health rehabilitation helpline 1800-599-0019 would provide the callers “support for early screening, first-aid, psychological support, distress management, mental well-being, preventing deviant behaviours, psychological crisis management etc,” the statement said. With 660 volunteer clinical/rehabilitation psychologists and 668 volunteer psychiatrists, the helpline would be run from 25 centres by 75 experts who could handle 300 callers an hour, the statement said. Services would be offered in 13 languages.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCB files case against actor Rhea||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has registered a case under the NDPS Act against actor Rhea Chakraborty in the investigation into the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. An NCB team is expected to arrive in Mumbai from Delhi on Thursday. The ED had shared information with the NCB and the CBI on the drug angle, after it came across evidence indicating that some persons dealing in banned or controlled drugs were in touch with the suspects in the death case. The information was based on the mobile phone data extracted by ED officials. The ED, which has recorded the statements of accused Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, father Indrajit and former manager, Shruti Modi, has now summoned a talent manager named Jaya Saha.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ASI creates 7 new circles||The Union Ministry of Culture on Wednesday announced the setting up of seven new administrative circles of the the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in order to improve the management of monuments. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the decision was taken in accordance with “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to facilitate and strengthen the process of preservation and registration of archaeological monuments, along with registration of artefacts with self-declaration”. New circles in Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh), Tiruchi (Tamil Nadu), Jhansi and Meerut (Uttar Pradesh), Hampi (Karnataka), Raiganj (West Bengal) and Rajkot (Gujarat) have been created. The Hampi mini circle has been upgraded to a circle, and the Delhi mini circle has been merged with the Delhi circle.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Open 4 roads to Karnataka, says Kerala HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Kasaragod district administration to open the Perla, Jalsoor, Panathoor and Manimoola-Bandaduka roads leading to Karnakata from Thursday. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar said the disaster management authority was empowered to impose conditions for travel of persons and transportation of goods along these roads. The court passed the directives on a writ petition filed by K. Sreekanth, member of the Kasaragod panchayat, seeking to open all roads leading to Karnataka to facilitate travel.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Accused in CMDRF case chargesheeted||The City C Branch that is investigating the case of diversion of funds from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF) has filed a chargesheet at the Vigilance Court in Muvattupuzha against Vishnu Prasad, who was a clerk at the Ernakulam collectorate. The chargesheet pertains to alleged fund misappropriation for which a second case was registered against him. Prasad figured as the key accused in the first case in which he was arrested in March, but was released on bail in June. The case is that the accused had misappropriated Rs. 68 lakh.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Fair distribution of COVID-19 vaccine will be a challenge’||Scaling and distribution of COVID-19 vaccine, which should be out by early 2021, fairly around the world will be a challenge, Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organization (WHO), has said. At the valedictory programme of the International Conference on Public Policy and Management,hosted by the Centre for Public Policy at the Indian Institute of Management - Bangalore (IIMB), she said, “But India is in a good position because many companies are working on vaccine development, either on their own or in collaboration, and India is a manufacturing hub for vaccines.” Responding to a question on how long the COVID-19 pandemic wouldlast, Ms. Swaminathan said while the WHO had no crystal ball, it would be safe to say that eradication was not possible and development of vaccine would protect vulnerable populations. “The pandemic has exacerbated inequalities. And it has proved to be a learning opportunity for us to improve resilience and strengthen public health systems,” she was quoted as saying in an IIMB press release on Wednesday. The mortality rate is not going up in the second wave of the pandemic, and this is probably related to demographics and other factors, but it is not yet known why South Asia and Africa have lower mortality rates than Europe and the Americas, she added. There have been many warnings for pandemics and health emergencies — some localised like the Nipah virus, encephalitis, and diarrhoea, and unless we have a system of strong surveillance, it can quickly go out of hand, she said, adding that the Integrated Disease Service Programme in India helps to have surveillance at the district level and below, but what we do not have is “public health cadre that is devoted to not just detection and response but also prevention, management, training and capacity building.”
27 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland doctors on strike over assault||Most healthcare services shut down across Nagaland for 24 hours from 6 a.m. on Wednesday to protest police assault on doctors in the State. This call followed the alleged assault on Dr. Atoka Wotsa by Indian Reserve Battalion personnel at Dimapur on August 21. Two other doctors – Mongshithung and Nosezol Sezo – had earlier been assaulted by the police.
27 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Brahmaputra ropeway suspended following a snag||The 1.82-km Brahmaputra ropeway in Guwahati, said to be the longest in India across a river, has been suspended within 48 hours of its official launch on August 24 due to malfunctioning of the motor that powers it. An official of the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said, “The motor was installed in 2011, two years after work on the project had begun. Lying idle for years, it performed well during the trial run after the completion of the project in 2019 but could not take the load of commuters after a few runs.”
27 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram to go ahead with rural and local body polls today||The Mizo National Front (MNF) government has stuck to its plan of conducting the village council and local body polls on Thursday despite protests from the rival Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party in view of a spike in COVID-19 cases. The State Election Commission said polling would be held later in areas declared as containment zones.
27 August 2020||Agartala,||Manik Sarkar, workers defy lockdown restrictions, detained||Former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar, senior CPI(M) leaders and a few hundred party workers were arrested following an attempt to hold a rally here on Wednesday against the “anti-people” policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre and the State. Former CPI(M) MPs and several Ministers of the erstwhile Left Front government joined the protest. They were released after a brief detention. The police said the CPI(M) had not sought permission for holding the protest.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED files charge sheet in Muzaffarpur shelter home case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against prime accused Brajesh Thakur and others in connection with the money laundering probe in the case of sexual abuse of minor girls at a Muzaffarpur shelter home in Bihar. The agency also urged the court to allow confiscation of assets worth Rs. 8.3 crore, which were in the name of Thakur, his family members and other suspects.
27 August 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Probe into custodial death case over: CB-CID||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Wednesday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the investigation into the 2019 Madurai custodial torture and death case of a 17-year-old boy had been completed and the agency was awaiting forensic reports. Taking cognisance of the submission, Justice R. Pongiappan directed the Forensic Department to send the forensic reports within two months so that the CB-CID can file a chargesheet. The court was hearing the petition filed in 2019 by the mother of the boy, who alleged that her son was kept in illegal custody for three days and subjected to custodial torture by S.S. Colony police. He was picked up for inquiry into a case of jewel theft. Later, he succumbed to his injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital. Earlier, while ordering a CB-CID probe into the case, the court observed that it was unhappy with the way the case was handled by the police. It said that it would monitor the course of the investigation. The court had pulled up the police, the GRH and the Juvenile Justice Board for not acting fairly in the case. No post mortem was conducted nor a case was registered till the intervention of the court. The mother had sought a CB-CID probe. The case was adjourned till November 2 for further hearing.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State COVID-19 tally close to 4-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu added another 5,958 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking its overall tally closer to the four-lakh mark. Chennai recorded 1,290 (including three imported) cases while the surge in cases continued in Coimbatore and Salem as 400-plus persons tested positive for the infection in the two districts. Another 5,606 persons were discharged and 118 persons died. The State’s COVID-19 statistics is 52,362 active cases, 3,38,060 discharged and 6,839 deaths. Of the 118 persons who died, 107 had co-morbidities. This included two 26-year-olds — a woman from Tirunelveli who died at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on August 24 due to chronic kidney disease with carotico cavernous fistula, acute pulmonary edema due to congestive cardiac failure and chronic renal failure, and COVID-19 and a man from Villupuram who died on August 25 due to obesity, type 1 respiratory failure, COVID-19 and myocarditis. Four nonagenarians too were among the dead. Of the fatalities, 20 died in Chennai and 10 in Coimbatore. Kancheepuram and Salem recorded eight deaths each. Four more private laboratories were approved for COVID-19 testing — Healthcare Diagnostics Services, Dharmapuri; Thangam X-Rays and Computerised Clinical Laboratory, Namakkal; Samrutha Diagnostic, Namakkal; and Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, Coimbatore.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai, a rich amalgamation of various architectural styles||From monumental structures and residences to public buildings that make up the fabric of a city, buildings play a key role in rendering architectural identity to a city, and impact the daily lives of its residents. In its journey of transformation from Madras to Chennai, the bustling metropolitan city has also witnessed several changes in its architectural styles and landscapes. Chennai is a myriad mix of heritage structures and modern buildings and has imbibed various architectural styles as it evolved over the decades. Every period in its history reveals a specific style of architecture. Though the city is home to several styles such as Portugese and French, the indo-saracenic style of architecture predominant particularly in the public buildings, has defined the essence of the city. Describing Kamarajar Salai as the heritage corridor of the city, officials of the Buildings Centre and Conservation Division, Public Works Department, noted that the arterial road along the Marina beach had magnificent buildings lined up, including the Chepauk Palace, the University of Madras and the Madras High Court. Built in 1768, Kalas Mahal was part of the Chepauk Palace. The locality Chepauk was named after the palace that was said to have had six gardens. R.F. Chisholm, one of the pioneers of the indo-saracenic style, had designed several such iconic red buildings that had well-ventilated large halls surrounded by courtyards. The Victoria Public Hall and the historic bookstore Higginbothams were also designed by him. “He had blended Mughal and Indian vernacular styles of architecture and used local construction techniques of brick, lime mortar and wood. Imported iron columns were later used in interiors of the structures,” the official added. During the early 1900s, several buildings constructed in neo-classical and art deco style dotted the urbanscape, including the iconic Ripon building that houses the Greater Chennai Corporation and EID Parry’s building, also called Dare House in George Town. The early 20th century also saw the rise of some of the pioneering modern architects such as L.M. Chitale and Bennett Pithavadian, who contributed to many landmarks of Chennai. Mr. Chitale had designed several structures that withstood the test of time, including A.C. College of Technology, Raja Annamalai Hall, Esplanade and the towering Life Insurance Corporation building on Anna Salai. While R.R. Sharma was instrumental in designing the Madras University Centenary Auditorium, the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium was one of the landmarks designed by Pithavadian and Partners during Bennett Pithavadian’s time. Private buildings Private heritage buildings and residences also play a significant role in defining the character of the neighbourhoods. Ashmitha Athreya, Head (Research and Operations), Madras Inherited, said many private residences also had influences of British-European architecture like the Luz House. Places like T. Nagar and Gandhi Nagar had many art-deco style houses with emphasis on curves and vertical lines. “There has been literary evidence that merchants tried to emulate the Indo-Saracenic style in residences in George Town as well. But we are losing out on such private structures,” she said. By the time of the post-liberalisation era and with the advent of IT companies, the city’s architecture moved away from aesthetic style and lacked a sense of neighbourhood, according to urban designers. Biju Kuriakose, urban designer and architect from Architecture Red, said many of these large buildings with glass facades were constructed without a response to the climate or context of the city. They don’t define the character or distinct flavour of the locality like the structures along Rajiv Gandhi Salai. However, after 2005, there has been increased consciousness about the environment and socially sustainable buildings. “We need to have better building regulations, insisting on environment-friendly structures with features like green roofs,” he added.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 history-sheeters held in Pulianthope, Otteri||The city police have arrested 11 history-sheeters from the Pulianthope and Otteri police station limits. Four murders were reported under the Vyasarpadi, Kodungaiyur and MKB Nagar police station limits recently. More than a dozen assault and robbery cases were also reported. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Pulianthope) Rajesh Khanna instructed the Assistant Commissioners and inspectors to form special teams and nab those who had a history of crime and had non-bailable warrants pending against them. A special team, led by Pulianthope inspector K. Krishnamurthy, rounded up A. Joseph, 27, of Pulianthope; Suresh Kumar alias Sura, 26, of Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar; Suresh alias ‘Olai’ Suresh, 42, of Pulianthope; P. Nagaraj, 35, and V. Appu alias Silambarasan, 33, of Kannigapuram and three others. The Otteri police arrested three more suspects. “All have cases against them in police stations in north Chennai as they were involved in robberies and assault. They will be remanded in judicial custody,” said a senior police officer.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Architecture involves study of humanities, technology’||Architecture is a multi-disciplinary subject, said Habeeb Khan, president, Council of Architecture, New Delhi. Mr. Khan was speaking during a webinar on “Current and emerging opportunities in architecture” on August 26. This was part of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling series, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. In architecture, one has to learn about humanities, histor and economics as well as more technical subjects, he added. “If you are good in design or have artistic abilities, you can become an architect. But architecture also involves technology. Without technology, architecture cannot exist.” Speaking on the role of architects in shaping society, he pointed out that they could improve the quality of life through direct or indirect design of spaces or buildings. P. Satheesh Kumar, dean, School of Architecture and Interior Design, SRM IST, Chennai, introduced various courses as well as different specialities within the field such as Digital Architecture, City Planning, Urban Design and others. A. Srivathsan, executive director, Centre for Research on Architecture and Urbanism, CEPT University, Ahmedabad, said there was a tendency to equate architecture with monuments and palaces but “this isn’t always the case,” he said. “Architecture is a part of everyday life. Whenever something is created with great care, attention to function, how it looks, comfort, the environment, the place it is located, then the building qualifies as architecture.” He highlighted the importance of architects in a nation such as India, where there was a growing demand for better infrastructure, well-designed environments, cities and so on. The speakers answered questions from participants on how the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the field and how architecture could be revolutionised for the future. The scope of rural and urban architecture, interior design with respect to architecture and the importance of collaborating with other fields like civil engineering were also discussed.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 test results to be communicated through SMS’||In two weeks from now, all government medical college hospitals in the State will start communicating COVID-19 test results through SMS in 24 to 36 hours. The work on uploading the software to facilitate the system is on in full swing, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. After hospitals in Madurai and Salem, the facility was launched at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Chennai, on Wednesday. Launching the automated system at RGGGH, the Minister said, “Till now, people had to come to the facility first for giving their swabs for testing and later to collect the result. This system will change that.” At RGGGH, a total of 18,000 persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 had recovered, he said, adding, “The hospital has a recovery rate of 85%. It has established a zero-delay COVID-19 ward and a pre-arrival intimation system. A total of 12,500 persons have utilised the services of the zero-delay ward.” As many as 174 patients have undergone convalescent plasma therapy at RGGGH. Noting that Chennai has a population of nearly 85 lakh, he said cases were under control in the city. While measures for controlling the transmission of the disease were being taken, the livelihood of the people was also important and should not be affected, he said. The Minister said less than 10% of the overall deaths were due to COVID-19, and the government was making continuous efforts to reduce fatalities further.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court refuses to quash charge memo issued to District Judge||The Madras High Court has refused to quash a charge memo issued to a District Judge (now under suspension) after suspecting foul play in his 2016 judicial order to reinstate a dismissed workman of a private firm. It observed that only a detailed inquiry will prove whether his act was a judicial misconduct or a mere error in judgment. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy held that it would not be appropriate to disable the High Court administration from proceeding with the inquiry since the alleged misconduct, if proved to be true, would entail serious consequences leading to imposition of a major punishment on the suspended district judge. “We find this to be a premature stage for the petitioner to raise a plea with regard to any infirmity in the initiation of the disciplinary proceedings or the issuance of the charge memo to which a reply can be given by him explaining his stand. We do not find any procedural error substantial enough so as to warrant interference at this stage,” the judges said. It was on June 28, 2016 that the petitioner, while presiding over the first Additional Labour Court in Chennai, had passed an order to reinstate a dismissed workman with continuity of service and 25% of back wages. The management challenged the Labour Court’s order by way of a writ petition before the High Court and pointed out several deficiencies. On perusing the case bundle, a single judge of the High Court found that the Labour Court had drawn an adverse inference after mentioning in its order that the management had failed to submit the proceedings of the inquiry conducted by it though the workman himself had submitted in court a photocopy of the entire proceedings running to 105 pages. “The Labour Court would have no occasion to lose sight of the voluminous inquiry report. Therefore, this court has got every reason to believe that the learned judge for some other unknown reason has given such a finding… The matter is directed to be placed before the administrative side of this court to take departmental action against the said officer,” the single judge ordered. Though the Labour Court judge made a plea in 2017 to expunge the remarks made against him in the October 2016 order, the single judge refused. However, when he took the order on appeal, a Division Bench of the High Court, on February 19 this year, expunged the remarks on the ground that they had been made without hearing the Labour Court judge. The Division Bench left it open to the High Court administration to take an appropriate decision on the issue without being influenced by the single judge’s order and the court administration, in turn, suspended the District Judge from service on March 11 and issued the charge memo, that had been challenged now, on June 26.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Where greenery and industrialisation go hand in hand||Perambur was not quite a sleepy town, but rather, as old-timers remember it, “a perfect mix of verdant surroundings and industrialisation”. Though the locality has witnessed rapid infrastructure development, especially in the Binny Mills complex, it still retains its greenery in most pockets, according to long-time residents of the area. “Perambur was earlier teeming with people working in different industries and establishments, including the ICF, Perambur Carriage Works, Binny Mills and Railway offices. Now, the floating population in the locality has increased. Earlier, there were a lot of cycles around. Now, they have been replaced by motorised transport,” says 88-year-old K.A. Thirumalai, a retired railway official. He has been a resident of Perambur since 1955. “There were no proper roads in the locality, and water stagnation was common in the area when it rained. Now, roads have improved, but the locality is still infamous for flooding during the monsoon. There used to be waterbodies in the area, but they have all disappeared,” he says. He recalls that Perambur used to have a large Anglo-Indian community. “They used to work in the Railways. Now, their numbers have dwindled,” he says. But people like Thirumalai are happy about the improvements to the Perambur railway station. “Now, most trains stop here. Earlier we had to get down at Chennai Central and return to Perambur. The facilities at the station have also improved,” he says. But has Perambur changed? “It has for the better. Open grounds have become parks. Though many buildings have come up, the locality has retained its greenery,” Mr. Thirumalai adds.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13-year-old boy injured in police custody; SHRC calls for report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday called for a report from the Coimbatore Police Commissioner over an incident in which a 13-year-old boy was assaulted by the police after he, along with two others defying the complete lockdown, were seen riding on a two-wheeler on Sunday last. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss took suo motu cognisance of a media report over the incident and called for a report from the Coimbatore Police Commissioner within three weeks. The boy was caught by the police and taken to the police station. When his parents took him home, he had injuries on his limbs. According to the media report, constable Durgaraj, attached to the Singanallur police station, was transferred to the control room after the incident.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Survey finds support for COVID-19 warrior certificates||With no instance of re-infection among recovered patients in this part of the country, they must be allowed to travel and man frontline jobs, an expert has said. A survey has found that people who have recovered from COVID-19 infection want a certificate that would allow them to travel and work without being quarantined. Many State governments have mandated that inter-State travellers must be quarantined for a certain period of time to prevent the spread of the infection. This results in people having to be quarantined for several weeks even when they make a day’s visit outside their current location. LocalCircles, an organisation which describes itself as “social media for communities and governance”, recently conducted the survey among over 16,000 persons in 212 districts across the country to assess the reception for COVID-19 warrior passes that would enable them to travel freely without restrictions, even to hotspot areas. While 67% respondents were men 33% were women. Around 51% respondents were from tier-1 cities, 33% from tier-2 and 16% from tier-3 and 4 towns and rural districts. The idea of COVID-19 warriors was mooted by Abdul Ghafur, coordinator, Chennai Declaration on Anti Microbial Resistance, and consultant, infectious diseases, at Apollo Hospitals. Dr. Ghafur said people who had recovered from the infection could resume work and be deployed as frontline staff to protect those who had not been exposed to the virus. The survey found that 69% of those who had recovered were willing to return to travel and work if they were given a certificate. The survey also asked how the certificate should be linked. As much as 61% of the respondents said it could be linked to the Aadhaar card. Dr. Ghafur said linking the certificate to Aadhaar would not be a problem as the government had the details of all the infected persons. This strategy would help the economy recover, he said. Ex-CBI chief’s plea Former director of the Central Bureau of Investigation R.K. Raghavan has, in a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, appealed for the withdrawal of all restrictions from September 1. “The virus danger is still very much there, and we cannot throw caution to the wind,” he said. He, however, pointed out that many other States, including a few neighbouring ones, had withdrawn restrictions “with minimal negative repercussion”.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nexus between AIADMK and BJP in shielding gutkha scam accused’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday questioned the reason behind the delay in filing the final charge-sheet in the gutkha scam and wondered why the CBI was moving at a snail’s pace even though there were tonnes of evidence in the case.  In a statement, he said the CBI, which would proceed with speed even if there was an iota of evidence, continued to maintain silence. “Who has prevented the CBI from moving ahead with filing the final chargesheet?” he asked. Mr. Stalin questioned the alliance between Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the BJP government at the Centre and alleged that there was a nexus in protecting those involved in the gutkha scam. “What is the power that prevents the CBI from proceeding against State Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and former DGP Rajendran? The people of the country should know the secret nexus between the AIADMK and the BJP government and the doubts in their minds should be clarified. Otherwise, these doubts will remain in the minds of the people as facts,” he said. Pointing out that the files handed over to the Chief Secretary in connection with the case had disappeared and Additional DGP Manjunatha, who investigated the case, had been transferred, Mr. Stalin said even IAS officer V.K. Jeyakodi, who probed the case, was transferred after five months. He said when the Madras High Court ordered a CBI inquiry into the scam, a lower-level government employee Sivakumar filed a petition against it in the Supreme Court. “But the Supreme Court granted permission for a CBI inquiry. The government delayed 20 months for sanctioning permission to proceed against government employees Sivakumar and Senthil Murugan. However, it turned a blind eye to the involvement of Mr. Vijayabaskar and Mr. Rajendran,” Mr. Stalin alleged.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commerce top choice among Class 11 students||Ever since admissions for Class 11 began, schools in the city are seeing a high demand for the Commerce group, followed by the Science group with Computer Science as a subject. Since last year, schools have been seeing a high demand for the Commerce group and teachers attribute this to students becoming more aware of the career options available. “Over 55% of students who have approached us have applied for the Commerce group and the rest have evinced interest in the Computer Science group,” said B. Purushothaman, correspondent, Everwin Group of Schools. The Class 10 board exams this year were cancelled in Tamil Nadu, and students were given marks based on their quarterly and half yearly exam scores. “We are considering students for admission keeping in mind that several schools set very tough internal question papers for these exams. During any other academic year, we admit them based on a cut-off fixed for their board exam marks,” Mr. Purushothaman said. Prince Matriculation Higher Secondary School has seen a dip in the number of students opting for the Biology group, said its chairman K. Vasudevan. “Commerce is the top pick, followed by Computer Science. There is not much of a shuffle when it comes to students switching boards for their higher classes this year as well,” he said. Government and aided schools, too, started the admission process for Class 11 on Monday. An official from the School Education department said that most government schools had seen a considerable number of students applying for admission and they expected the process to go on till the end of the month. “Out of 138-odd applicants we have had, nearly 10% to 15% are from private schools,” said G. Shanmughavel, headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, M.G.R. Nagar. He said students joining government schools opted for Biology group as they offered free NEET coaching.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Uber launches 24x7 auto rental with safety screen||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic when safety in public transport has become a major concern, Uber on Wednesday launched “24x7 Auto Rental” service, with plastic safety partitions between the driver and passengers, in Chennai. Through this new feature passengers can book an auto and its driver for several hours with the liberty to make multiple stops along a journey. Apart from Chennai, the service is available in cities including Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Delhi NCR and Pune. The price starts at Rs. 159 for one-hour/10 km package and can be booked for a maximum of eight hours. The ride-sharing company said that all autos will observe strict safety guidelines and hygiene standards. Nitish Bhushan, head, Marketplace and Categories, Uber India and South Asia, said: “As our cities reopen, we understand that our riders will have different needs, one of which is to book a ride by the hour to help get all their errands done in one go. Autos are one of the most popular modes of transport for Indians and we want to provide riders the ultimate convenience and flexibility on their favourite mode, all at affordable prices. All rides will conform to health guidelines, along with providing the highest possible safety standards.” Uber said it has launched a comprehensive set of safety measures for passengers.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK urges govt. to move SC against NEET||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the AIADMK government to take a cue from the seven States that have decided to file a petition in the Supreme Court to postpone the NEET and file a similar petition. In a statement, he said though the Centre had failed to control the pandemic caused by the COVID-19, it was keen on conducting the NEET. “The country will welcome the objection raised by the seven State governments,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Jharkhand and AICC president Sonia Gandhi, who took the initiative, deserved appreciation. “What will be the stand of the AIADMK which is claiming to oppose NEET. If it is really serious, it should approach the Supreme Court like the other States,” he said.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu government urges Centre to cancel NEET||Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has written to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan requesting the Centre to dispense with the conduct of NEET this year as it would put the lives of students attending it at “great risk” of COVID-19 infection. Mr. Vijayabaskar requested Dr. Harsh Vardhan that admissions to medical/dental courses for the academic year 2020-21 be based on the earlier pattern of admissions depending on the marks secured by the students in the Standard XII examinations, for which results have already been announced. Pointing out that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had already addressed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, Mr. Vijayabaskar asked the Centre to allow the State to admit students on the basis of Standard XII marks, and “direct the Ministry to promulgate an Ordinance to keep in abeyance relevant sections of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, and Dentist Act, 1948, and connected regulations governing the medical and dental college admissions”. “You may well be aware that Tamil Nadu, as a matter of policy, has been consistently opposing NEET and has been taking all legal and legislative steps to overcome this. In the current year, the Government of India and all State governments, including the government of Tamil Nadu, have actively engaged themselves in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic for the past several months,” he said. “Conducting the NEET examination at this point would put the lives of the students attending it at great risk of infection, even if all precautions were taken. In the current scenario, it would be very difficult for the students to actively prepare or take part in the NEET exam this year, “ the Health Minister said.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. rolls out app for telemedicine||The Greater Chennai Corporation has tied up with Vidmed to bring out a free telemedicine application that residents can access free of cost for video-based medical consultation. The app, GCC Vidmed, can be downloaded from Google Playstore. Patients will be connected to experts based on their health issues. The app will felicitate timely treatment via virtual care, a release said.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineering admission merit list on September 17||The merit list for admission under single window counselling by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission committee will be released on September 17. Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, who released the random number for all applicants on Wednesday, said the release of merit list had been postponed as the results of students who had sought re-totalling of their Class 12 marks would be known only on September 8. “We had earlier planned to release the merit list on September 7. Since we have to accommodate these applicants, the merit list release has been postponed,” he said.  The Minister released the random number for all applicants who had paid the registration fee. Of the 1,60,834 candidates who had registered initially, 1,31,436 candidates had paid the registration fee. Random number will be used to arrive at inter se merit when more than one applicant has the same cut-off and date of birth. The greater number is given priority in such instances. There have been instances when random numbers have been used for 20 to 30 students. Fewer colleges So far, 458 colleges are participating in counselling and the number of seats under government quota for single window counselling is 1,61,877. Last year, 480 colleges with 1,73,360 participated. The Minister said the number of seats could change as some colleges were yet to provide the final numbers.  “We had earlier planned to release the merit list on September 7. Since we have to accommodate these applicants, the merit list release has been postponed
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB stable, on ECMO support||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam’s condition is stable, and he continues to be on ventilator and ECMO support in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), a health bulletin said on Wednesday. The legendary singer was admitted to MGM Healthcare earlier this month after testing positive for COVID-19. The hospital said that he was conscious and responsive, and continues to be closely monitored by its multidisciplinary team. His son S.P. Charan, in a video update, said he had met the medical team treating Mr. Balasubrahmanyam and had also seen the singer. “He is doing much better than when I saw him on Monday. The doctors have told me that there is a slight improvement in his lungs,” he said. Thanking everyone for their prayers and wishes, he said that everyone was positive about Mr. Balasubrahmanyam’s recovery.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report over police inaction in rape case||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday called for a report from the Commissioner of Police over reported police inaction on an alleged gang rape of a disabled woman even 13 days after the crime was committed. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss took suo motu cognisance of a media report over the crime and called for a report from the Commissioner within three weeks. According to the media report, the police had not acted even 13 days after a complaint at the Kilpauk Women Police Station, which alleged that a 22-year old disabled woman of T.P. Chathiram was gang-raped at knife point. Though a case was registered against an anti-social element and others in connection with the crime, there was no police action and hence a representation was handed over to the Chennai Collector a few days ago, the report added.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No arrears exams except for final semester’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that students who are due to appear for arrear exams (except for papers in the final semester) in arts and science, engineering and MCA programmes and polytechnics in Tamil Nadu would be exempted from having to take the exams. For students who had paid their exam fees and are due to appear for the tests, marks would be awarded based on the relevant guidelines laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Mr. Palaniswami said. The decision followed “representations from students [and it was taken] for their welfare and was based on the recommendations of the high-level committee constituted by the State government”. The Chief Minister had, last month, exempted undergraduate and postgraduate students in arts and science, engineering and MCA programmes and those studying in polytechnics from appearing for the semester examinations.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encounter: 4 constables transferred||Four police constables who were part of the team that gunned down notorious criminal Shankar last week were transferred from the Ayanavaram police station on Wednesday. Last Friday, Shankar, 48, who was involved in more than 50 criminal cases, was gunned down by the Ayanavaram police on New Avadi Road when he was taken to recover ganja and attempted to escape after attacking police constable Mubarak. A judicial magistrate conducted an inquiry into death of Shankar. As per protocol, the case was transferred to the CB-CID. On Wednestay, four police personnel in the team — Jaya Prakash, Vadivel, Mubarak and Kamesh Babu — were transferred by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kilpauk.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker to hold video inquiry with some of 11 MLAs||Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal is set to hold a video conference inquiry with some of the 11 AIADMK MLAs who, led by O Panneerselvam,had voted against the motion of confidencemoved by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on the floor of the House on February 18, 2017. The AIADMK faction comprising these MLAs has since merged with the Palaniswami faction. A source said at least two of the MLAs have been informed that there would be a separate session for them later. The DMK had sought disqualification of the 11 MLAs under the anti-defection law. In June, the DMK had yet again moved the Supreme Court over the delay on the part of the Speaker in taking a decision on the issue.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marriage hall owner held for violating social distancing||Police have registered an FIR against the owner of a marriage hall in Tiruvallur in which over 500 persons took part in a reception without following proper personal distancing. According to the police, the marriage hall is in Rajajipuram. On Monday, a reception was held in its premises. More than 500 persons took part in the function and personal distancing was not followed. The Tiruvallur town police received information about the event and checked the premises. The police have also registered a case against the owner of another hall where a marriage was held on Sunday despite being a complete lockdown.
27 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly park developed near Vellalore tank||A garden that waterbody conservation NGO Kovai Kulangal Pathugapu Amaipu developed near Vellalore tank to attract butterflies has started attracting not only the insects but visitors as well. The garden that has become the butterfly park has over 20 species of butterflies, says the NGO's founder R. Manikandan and attracts a few dozen visitors everyday. The idea to start the park sprang after the NGO took up cleaning Vellalore tank. As part of the efforts to develop the tank front, it planted saplings of fruit-bearing and flowering trees and plants in February 2018. As it continued working, the volunteers engaged in conservation work noticed that the tank's environment had a number of butterflies and decided to develop the garden to turn into a butterfly park, he recalls. The decision led the NGO to study butterflies to identify the plants they frequent and create the right environment. And, with the help of sponsors – both individuals and companies – the NGO developed the garden on a 10,000 sq.ft. on the eastern periphery of Vellalore tank. The result of the NGO’s effort is that the park now attracts common rose, crimson rose, common mormon, lime butterfly mottled emigrant, plain tiger, common crow, common castor and many types of butterflies, he adds. As a result, at least a few dozen people are visiting the park everyday, particularly children and photography enthusiasts, he adds.
27 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at Coimbatore airport, couple held||Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence arrested a couple who returned to Coimbatore from Dubai by flight and had smuggled in 2.6 kg of gold, worth Rs. 1.15 crore. According to a press release, working on intelligence inputs, the DRI officers of Coimbatore, led by Deputy Director G. Satish kept surveillance of passengers arriving from Dubai by Air India Express flights operated under the ‘Vandhe Bharat’ Mission. About a couple of weeks ago, the officers of DRI identified and suspected a couple, aged 46 years and 33 years, who came out of the green channel after completing the immigration, medical, and customs formalities. The couple is from Palladam in Tiruppur district. They had gone to Dubai two or three months ago and had returned two weeks ago. On enquiry at the airport on arrival, they denied carrying gold. As the passengers appeared to be uncomfortable and nervous, the officers segregated them and they were subjected to a personal search with the help of women officers from CISF and Customs. The search was done keeping COVID-19 protocols in mind. The officers recovered heavy packets stitched on to the basic garments that the couple were wearing. It was found that the six packets recovered from them contained gold in paste form, weighing 2.61 kg. “Carrying gold in ‘paste form’ is the new way adopted by smugglers to dodge metal detectors and X-ray machines installed at various international airports, and the gold paste is difficult to detect once it is covered with some chemicals,” the press release said. Since the passengers were returning from Dubai there were in quarantine for 14 days. They were summoned on August 25 and arrested under the Customs Act, 1962. Further investigation of the case is going on to nab the main culprit, the release added.
27 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teenager held for sexual assault||Coimbatore city police arrested a 17-year-old boy for alleged sexual assault on a minor girl on Wednesday. The police have identified the accused as a diploma student of a private college who is also the neighbour of the girl. The police said that the accused allegedly took photos of the girl when she was collecting water from a public tap, a few months ago. They said that the accused allegedly threatened the girl that he would upload her photos on social media, if she refused to spend time with him. The accused allegedly took her to a vacant site behind her house and attempted to assault her sexually. However, the girl left the spot. As per the complaint filed by the girl, the accused compelled the girl to visit him at an isolated location. The girl told the incident to her parents, following which a complaint was lodged with the police. The police arrested the boy under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act and the Information Technology Act.
27 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dalit outfits protest demanding arrest of ruling party member||Members of various Dalit and rationalist outfits staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore South Taluk office on Wednesday demanding the arrest of an AIADMK man for allegedly using casteist slur against a Dalit woman panchayat president. The Negamam police had registered a case against the ruling party member, Balasubramaniam, based on a complaint from the president of J. Krishnapuram Panchayat K. Saritha. The protesters led by the general secretary of Adi Tamizhar Peravai, ‘Kovai’ Ravikumar, said though the police had registered a case under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, they were yet to arrest Balasubramaniam. Balasubramaniam, with the help of his party colleagues, continued to threaten and abuse Ms. Saritha, Mr. Ravikumar said and went on to add that the casteist forces in the Panchayat did not allow the woman to even sit in the panchayat president’s chair. Demands The protesters’ demands were that the police should immediately arrest Balasubramaniam, district administration should provide police protection to the woman and extend help to ensure that she functioned in a fearless environment. The protesters left the venue by noon after the Coimbatore City Police said it had denied permission for the protest. Mr. Ravikumar said over 50 members from Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam, May 17 Movement, Tamizhar Vidiyal Katchi, Untouchability Eradication Front and a few others participated.   Though a case has been registered under the provisions of SC/ST Act, the police are yet to arrest AIADMK member Balasubramaniam  ‘Kovai’ Ravikumar  General secretary of Adi Tamizhar Peravai
27 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police teams to check racing at night||Coimbatore City Police have formed two special teams to check motorists from involving in racing at night. An official said the police had received complaints of racing involving car and two-wheelers. The special teams would conduct vehicle checks from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., and vehicles found to be involved in racing would be seized. Recently, an autorickshaw parked on the side of the road at Saibaba Colony was damaged after a speeding car rammed it. The police found that a luxury car rammed the vehicle and damaged the gate of an educational institution before coming to a halt.
27 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Panruti AIADMK MLA tests positive||AIADMK MLA from Panruti assembly constituency, Sathya Panneerselvam, has tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources, as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is scheduled to visit Cuddalore on Thursday, the AIADMK MPs, MLAs, government officials and party members likely to participate in the COVID-19 review meeting at the Collectorate, were asked to undergo screening for the infection. Ms. Panneerselvam gave her throat swab samples for testing and the results returned positive on Tuesday evening. She has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai.
27 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Head constable stabbed during vehicle check at Kanniwadi||A police head constable, Tirupathi, attached to Kanniwadi police station in the district was stabbed by a man riding pillion on a bike during a vehicle check on Wednesday. Mr. Tirupathi has been admitted to the Government Hospital here. In a bid to check unnecessary movement of people, Dindigul Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya had ordered vehicle checks under all police station limits during daytime too. When vehicles were stopped at the police check-post under Kanniwadi limits, a man riding pillion on a bike suddenly stabbed Mr. Tirupathi with a knife, the police said. When Mr. Thirupathi fell on the ground, he raised an alarm, following which the other policemen stationed there chased the assailant. But they could nab only the bike rider. During questioning, the police came to know that the rider was Manikandan (22) from Kottainatham in Melur taluk in Madurai district. The pillion rider’s name was given as Muthulingam, a postgraduate. Mr. Tirupathi was rushed to the hospital. Later, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul Range) M.S. Muthusami and the SP visited the hospital and conducted inquiries with the injured policeman. A special team has been formed to nab Muthulingam.
27 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered||A man, who attempted to hunt rabbit in Anthiyur Forest Range was levied a fine of Rs. 10,000. During patrol, forest personnel found L. Thomas (52) attempting to hunt rabbit. A case was registered and the District Forest Officer imposed the fine on him.
27 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Traffic hit as lorry falls on its side||Movement of vehicles on Dhimbam Ghat Section was disrupted for over two hours after a paper-laden lorry fell on its side at the sixth hairpin bend on Wednesday. The lorry from Kerala was on its way to Sathyamangalam on the Bengaluru – Dindigul National Highway 948. A recovery van removed the lorry from the road.
27 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Breakthrough in chain snatching cases||The police have arrested three persons in connection with chain-snatching incidents. Othakannu alias N. Pandiarajan, 35, of Thanakkankulam used to hand over stolen gold chains to K. Kottai Eswari, a lawyer, and her husband, S. Stephen Varghese, a conductor in TNSTC (Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation). “We have arrested the couple for harbouring the accused,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime), K. Palanikumar. The police have solved 25 cases of chain snatching and mobile phone snatching – 17 in the city and eight in rural district, and recovered 10 mobile phones, 15 sovereigns of gold chains, two motorbikes and some weapons from them. “We tracked Pandiarajan through his mobile number signal. We were confused when the signal showed his location at the advocate’s house,” he said. He escaped when the police knocked at the lawyer’s house. The cases were reported between May and August. A search is on to nab kingpin of the gang, ‘Tools’ Pandi. Besides, three others were arrested by the rural police. While Pandiarajan was involved in 34 cases, his associate Abbas was involved in 17 cases. “The accused would target those who were on a morning walk, going to ATMz or milk booths. They used weapons to threaten victims,” he said. The police have increased patrols in the city between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. and 9 p.m. to prevent crimes. R. Shiva Prasad, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said the city police were keeping vigil against smuggling and sale of banned tobacco and narcotics drugs.
27 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp decline in number of cases in Madurai||Madurai district saw a sharp decline in the number of cases as 31 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Wednesday. The tally of cases as on date is 13,621. All the 31 cases were indigenous cases, according to the State Health Bulletin. With 94 persons discharged from the district’s various COVID-19 treatment facilities, the total number of discharged persons rose to 12,343. One person succumbed to the disease raising the death toll to 341. The total number of active cases as on date was 937.  However, four more persons died in Virudhunagar district taking the death toll to 183. Three men and a woman, aged 69, have succumbed to the infection. All the four, including the men, aged 53 years to 71 years, died between August 19 and 25. Meanwhile, with 79 fresh positive cases, the total number of positive cases increased to 12,128. As 94 more patients got discharged (11,552 discharged till date), the number of active cases has come down to 393. Theni recorded 184 fresh COVID-19 cases, which took the district’s tally to 12,048. The number of patients discharged from hospitals was 222. Dindigul recorded 37 new cases with which the tally moved to 6,027. Hospitals discharged 110 people. Ramanathapuram accounted for 39 cases with which the tally stood at 4,523. The number of people discharged was 58. Sivaganga had 15 fresh cases with which the tally stood at 3,841. There were 68 discharges from hospitals. Kanniyakumari reported 159 new cases that took the tally to 8,994 and the number of active patients to 1,485 after 149 patients were discharged. Tirunelveli had 156 fresh cases and its case load stood at 8,911. Active cases stood at 1,283 as 145 patients were discharged. In Thoothukudi, 105 new cases were reported which took the tally to 10,909 and the number of active cases stood at 752. Tenkasi had 98 new cases and the district’s tally moved up to 5,037 and active cases went up to 932. A total of 90 patients were discharged from hospitals. The four districts lost 16 patients on Wednesday: Tirunelveli – 6; Kanniyakumari – 5; Tenkasi – 3 and Thoothukudi – 2.
27 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on theory classes in polytechnic colleges||The Directorate of Technical Education announced that polytechnic colleges across the State should begin online classes from August 17 but theory lessons are given more importance in the Tamil Nadu Government Polytechnic College and the Government Polytechnic College for Women. Four hours of theory classes and three hours of practical classes were conducted per subject every week in the previous years. Now, practical classes have taken a back seat. With online classes being the norm, teachers have been increasing the number of theory classes for each subject in order to ensure that the stipulated seven hours are covered every week . A staff from the Tamil Nadu Government Polytechnic College said the DOTE is yet to tell them on which medium online classes should be conducted. Each teacher has been customising platforms as per their own convenience, a staff said. ‘Some use Zoom, others use WhatsApp video calls while some use Google classroom because we have not received any communication regarding a standard platform.’ They have been increasing the number of theory classes to seven hours instead of four per week in order to complete portions. ‘We have been providing necessary inputs for practical subjects so that the students can write their record notebooks. When they attend college, they can do experiment and write observation. Though many subjects like Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Plastic and Polymer courses depend on practical learning, we hope that students will catch up,’ the staff says. Another staff from the Government Polytechnic College for Women says that teachers perform experiments and show them to students during online classes. ‘Students write records and make observations based on teacher’s experiments.’ ‘Many students depend on practical learning to get jobs in companies. We hope we tide over the pandemic and students are well equipped with practical knowledge before they enter the field. Computer practicals are easy but students of other departments suffer,’ she says. S. Kavitha, a student of Government Polytechnic College for Women, says that only 70% of students in her class have access to the Internet. ‘Sometimes, the connection is weak. Many students often end up finishing their data early and cannot pay huge amount every day even though classes are functioning in full swing. Though teachers can understand their plight, the tough prospect of getting a job lingers in the minds of students. A senior official from the administration of Tamil Nadu Government Polytechnic College said they were awaiting instructions from the Directorate of Technical Education regarding conduct of practical classes. Many teachers are demonstrating important practical experiments. Students will be able to catch up, he said. Educationist R. Murali says that conducting online classes would be purely ritualistic and would not contribute to extensive learning as students are yet to focus on practical learning which contributes to 40% of their course. Lack of practical simulation may cause a dent in learning for subjects conducted in polytechnic colleges. If theory-based classes alone are conducted, there could not be any proper assessment. Education should be looked at as an enrichment but many families are struggling to make both ends meet,’ he says.
27 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Devanga Arts College case adjourned||Taking a serious view of the allegation of fraudulent appointment of teaching staff to the Devanga Arts College in Aruppukottai, Virudhunagar district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday observed that corruption was a menace to the society. Justice B. Pugalendhi wondered why the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption had chosen to refer the matter to departmental proceedings instead of an inquiry or investigation based on complaints received on the allegations. The Prevention of Corruption Act was enacted to eradicate corruption from the society. The principle of honesty, integrity and devotion to duty was slowly vanishing from public servants, mostly because of delay in the process of investigation and trial, the court said. Taking a broader view, the court directed the State government to furnish details of such complaints at the stage of approval as required under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the mechanism adopted for the grant of sanction. The case was adjourned to September 8.
27 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Probe into custodial death case completed, CB-CID informs HC||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Wednesday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the investigation into the 2019 Madurai custodial torture and death case of a 17-year-old boy had been completed. The agency was awaiting forensic reports. Taking cognisance of the submission, Justice R. Pongiappan directed the Forensic Department to send the reports within two months so that the CB-CID can file a chargesheet in the case. The court was hearing the petition filed in 2019 by the mother of the minor boy, who alleged that her son was kept in illegal custody for three days and subjected to custodial torture by the S.S. Colony police. He was picked up for inquiry in a case of jewel theft. The boy succumbed to his injuries at the Government Rajaji Hospital. The court had pulled up the police, Government Rajaji Hospital and the Juvenile Justice Board for not acting fairly in the case. No post-mortem was conducted nor a case was registered till the intervention of the court. The case was adjourned to November 2.
27 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Put off classes’||The Madurai Kamaraj University Private Colleges Management Association sought postponement of classes for first year students to September 15. In a petition to the Tamil Nadu Higher Education Minister K. P. Anbalagan, its president R. Lakshmipathy, general secretary S. Rajagopal and treasurer G. Mariskumar said many colleges were yet to complete the admission process. There has been a drop in the number of students seeking admission from nearby districts. Lack of computer facility and transport also affect students.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanta seeks SC nod||Vedanta Ltd. on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court’s rejection of its plea to re-open the Sterlite Copper smelting plant at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. The plant was closed in May 2018 following an order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board over pollution concerns. Protests against the plant saw 13 people die in police firing. Senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa, representing Vedanta, said High Court decision on August 18 to keep the plant closed was a “retrograde step”. “Instead of being self-sufficient in copper, a situation has been created by which India now imports copper worth $2 billion from China,” Mr. Sundaram said reacting to the High Court decision. Mr. Sundaram argued there was no notice or complaint of pollution prior to the closure of the plant. In February last year, the Supreme Court had set aside the National Green Tribunal decision to re-open the plant. The tribunal had directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to pass fresh orders of renewal of consent and issue authorisation to Vedanta Ltd., which owns the plant, to handle hazardous substances. However, at the time, the Supreme Court had not delved into the merits of the case while peremptorily setting aside the tribunal decision on the ground of maintainability alone.
27 August 2020||PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Bank customers demand return of jewellery as news of theft spreads||Hundreds of customers assembled in front of Canara Bank branch at Manjur near here on Wednesday and demanded immediate return of their jewellery as it was said that gold jewellery pledged with the bank branch had been stolen. The bank customers got suspicious when one person was turned down by a bank employee who said that he could not redeem his pledged jewellery last week. When the customer lodged a complaint with senior bank officials, an internal inquiry was launched, police said. Investigations suggested that assessor Manikandan of Ramanathapuram had allegedly indulged in malpractice, and he was suspended three days ago, a bank official told reporters. On Wednesday, the customers thronged the bank and demanded immediate return of their jewellery as they were ready to remit the entire loan amounts with interest.  Police called As the situation turned tense, the police were called. Accompanied by revenue officials, the police convinced the customers that the bank would hold an inquiry and make arrangements to return their jewellery. The bank branch has been functioning at Manjur for about 40 years, and people, mostly farmers, pledge their jewellery for agricultural activities. When contacted, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar said that the bank officials informed the District Crime Branch police that they would ascertain the exact quantum of missing jewellery and lodge a complaint in a day or two. A senior officer suspected that gold ornaments worth about Rs. 50 lakh were missing.
27 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three-member ICMR team calls on Puducherry Health Minister||A three-member team from the National Institute of Epidemiology, (NIE), Chennai, deputed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on Wednesday met Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and discussed measures to contain the spread on novel coronavirus in the Union Territory. Mr. Rao told The Hindu that he had a very constructive discussion with the scientists deputed by the ICMR. “I have asked the team members to give concrete suggestions to bring down the number of novel coronavirus cases in the Union Territory. The health department will provide all cooperation to the teams deputed by the Central government,” the Minister said. The UT government wants the Central government to prevail upon Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research to provide more medical facilities to COVID-19 patients in the Union Territory, he added. “From our part we have decided to increase testing, contact tracing and improve medical facilities in government hospitals,” Mr. Rao said.
27 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll in U.T. rises to 180||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 180 with eight more deaths on Wednesday, while 511 new admissions took the overall tally towards the 12,000 mark. Puducherry recorded five deaths, Yanam two and Karaikal one. The fatalities in Puducherry alone touched 150, followed by Yanam (18) and Karaikal (12). The cumulative case count for Puducherry stood at 10,481. The new cases were detected from testing 1,296 samples, representing a positivity rate of about 40%.
27 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gas leakage at cold storage facility||Leakage of ammonia gas from a cold storage facility at Nattamangalam in Kondalampatti caused panic among people on Tuesday. The facility, with a storage capacity of 6,000 tonne, is used to store cereals, vegetables and flowers. When workers were involved in changing the oil in the compressor, ammonia gas started to leak from a cylinder. Efforts to stop the leakage failed as all the workers rushed out of the facility and fire and rescue services personnel were alerted. Fire tenders from Shevapet fire station brought the leakage under control within an hour.
27 August 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||A surprise check conducted in a godown near Surandai led to the seizure of Rs. 17 lakh-worth banned tobacco products on Wednesday. Sources in the police said a surprise raid was conducted in a godown in Parankuntrapuram near Surandai in the district on Wednesday morning following information about stocking of banned tobacco products. The raid, led by Inspector, Organised Crime Intelligence Unit, Chendur Kumar, led to the seizure of Rs. 17 lakh-worth tobacco products and a cargo autorickshaw. The police team picked up Rajan, 48, of Parankuntraapuram, and Gnanakumar, 38, of nearby Marudhupuram, for interrogation.
27 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Doubts over adequacy of water for samba cultivation in delta districts||Anxiety over the prospects of the samba season has crept into the minds of delta farmers in view of what they perceive as ‘not so comfortable’ storage position in Stanley Reservoir at Mettur. A section of farmers, however, has advocated effective micro-level water management. They believe a normal northeast monsoon could see the samba crop through. Though crop cultivation in the delta region for the current water year began on a positive note with farmers taking up kuruvai cultivation even in ayacut areas where dependency on surface water was high, a sense of insecurity arose during mid-July when the water level at Mettur dam went down substantially. However, timely rain brought in by the southwest monsoon and sudden heavy inflow of over one lakh cusecs of water into Stanley Reservoir for a few days extending from July-end to this month could bring them relief. Now, as the preparations for samba has gone half way on a brisk note across the delta districts, the current storage level of below 70 tmcft would suffice only for another two months, coinciding with the onset of northeast monsoon. This situation has once again pushed farmers into a state of uncertainty about sustenance of the crop. Finding fault with water management measures adopted by the State government, G. Sethuraman, president, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur, points out that a major portion of cultivable lands in Vennar and Vettar sub-divisions depend on monsoon and surface water for irrigation. Thus, samba cultivation with the hope of adequate rainfall during the northeast monsoon is a gamble farmers can ill-afford in view of the reforms initiated in the agriculture finance system. The only solution that will ensure a safe samba crop like last year will be to maintain a storage level sufficient enough to meet any exigencies that might arise in case if the northeast monsoon fails to bring enough rain in delta districts during the crucial days of samba crop, Mr. Sethuraman says. Endorsing Sethuraman’s view, Adhisivam of Umaiyalpuram says a minimum of 60 feet of storage should be maintained at Mettur during November-December so that the standing crop can be saved if nature fails. Hence, the State government should initiate necessary steps to get Tamil Nadu’s rightful share of Cauvery water beforehand instead of waiting for the distress situation to unfold. Stating that formation of depressions during the northeast monsoon season with potential to impact the rainfall pattern at a crucial juncture of samba crop can not be ruled out, S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, says effective monitoring of distribution of water for irrigation is the need of the hour. Teams of retired agriculture/public works department officials can be formed to inspect and ensure proper distribution of water across the delta region to ensure sufficiency of water for irrigation, he adds. P. Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Association of Delta Districts also stresses the need for effective water management system at the micro-level and suggests formation of regulator-level apolitical farmers committees to monitor proper distribution of water.
27 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi reviews development works||Member of Parliament K. Kanimozhi reviewed the progress of the development works being executed in the port town under the Centre’s smart city programme. The rainwater drainage channels under construction along the 60-feet-road in the State Bank Colony for the past two years, smart road laying work at Anna Nagar, construction of a park in front of VOC College and the drainage channel work at Meelavittaan were inspected. Officials were told to complete works before the onset of northeast monsoon.
27 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Minister gives Rs. 5 lakh to wife of slain constable||Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju visited the family of constable P. Subramanian of Alwarthirunagari police station, who was brutally murdered by a history-sheeter at Manakkarai on August 18 with a country-bomb when he tried to nab him. After consoling S. Bhuvaneshwari, wife of Subramanian, Mr. Raju gave Rs. 5 lakh from his personal funds to the young widow. As announced by the Chief Minister, solatium of Rs. 50 lakh and a government job would be given to Ms. Bhuvaneshwari shortly, Mr. Raju said. Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar accompanied the Minister.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Further delay in completion of escalators project in Tiruchi||The raging COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown clamped to curb spread of infection have led to further delay in completion of the escalators project at the Tiruchi railway junction. With civil engineering works pending, the commissioning of the two escalators at the railway junction is expected to take some more time. Major junction Tiruchi railway junction — a major station in Southern Railway zone — was sanctioned two escalators. One was to be installed near the station’s main entrance and the other at the second entry at Kallukuzhi. Funds to the tune of Rs. 2.6 crore was sanctioned by Southern Railway for creation of the facility, which was aimed at further improving passenger amenities at the junction. The railway station already has a subway and an end-to-end foot overbridge connecting all platforms. Preliminary works began last year with provision of one escalator adjoining the foot overbridge close to the parcel office located near the station’s main entrance and the other close to the foot overbridge at the Kallukuzhi second entry. The entire project was planned for completion by March 2020, said a railway official. However, the project had to be extended by a few more months. The announcement of lockdown in March-end due to COVID-19 pandemic resulted in further delay in completion of the project. The official said the electrical portion of the escalators project had been completed, while civil engineering works were pending on both sides. Labour shortage Also, the progress of the project had become slow due to non-availability of skilled labourers. Nearly 80% of the works had been completed at present with civil engineering works pending, the official further said. Divisional railway authorities hope to complete the remaining works in the near future. The movement of escalators coming up on both sides would be in an upward direction. Tiruchi railway junction’s first escalator connecting platforms 2 and 3 from the subway was commissioned in February 2016.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Schoolteachers reach out to hungry students and their families at Thennur||Led by the headmaster, teachers of Subbiah Memorial Middle School in Thennur have been contributing a part of their salary over the last five months for providing groceries, vegetables and other essentials to the struggling families of their students. Each month, around Rs. 60,000 is collected, with the headmaster K.S. Jeevanandhan contributing nearly half of the amount to purchase essentials including rice, wheat, semolina, sugar, spices and other necessities. Along with it, vegetables are also handed over to the parents of the 150 students in the school. “We began the initiative in March after realising that more than half of the students were unable to eat even one meal a day as their parents, who worked as daily wage labourers, had lost their livelihood,” Mr. Jeevanandhan said. The lockdown has not only hindered the students’ learning but has also affected their nutrition intake. The students had been entirely dependent on the school for their nutrition needs. They even used to take home leftover food from the noon meal to eat at home for dinner. Donors would provide breakfast, milk and other health drinks for breakfast. The school had, during February, introduced ‘Atchayapathiram,’ an initiative to provide greens and leafy vegetables to the students as a supplement to the noon meals. However, with the lockdown in place, the children are unable to derive the utility. “Even though we are distributing groceries, I wish the authorities allowed the students and their families to come and eat their meals at the school itself,” said Mr. Jeevananthan. “At a time when they have no earnings, the school which is equipped with all utensils and LPG gas can provide for them,” he said. The teachers have also come together to provide cooked food for around 30 families around Thennur. “When we went to visit some of our students, they referred us to families in their neighbourhood who are facing difficult times and have no help. A total of 30 such families were identified and from Thursday onwards, lunch will be provided for them,” said M. Uma, a teacher at the school. “Hungry children cannot focus on anything else. Only if we satiate their hunger can we ask them to study. We are operating on this motto,” Ms. Uma said.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Absence of buses, trains has led to overcrowding in share autorickshaws in Tiruchi||Overcrowded share autorickshaws have emerged as potential cause for spread of COVID-19 virus in Tiruchi. In the absence of public transport such as buses and trains, share auto rickshaws are the main option for commuters, particularly short distance travellers in the city. Since it is one of the cheapest modes of transport, daily wage labourers, domestic workers, construction workers and vegetable vendors in particular tend to travel in share auto rickshaws. They are in high demand ever since the State government suspended public transport to check the spread of COVID-19. Prior to the lockdown, share auto rickshaws used to wait for some time to get sufficient number of passengers. Now-a-days, the waiting time has reduced drastically. The capacity is reached within very less time. As per the rules, 3:1 is the permitted limit of passengers in a share auto rickshaw. If the passengers are children, it is 5:1. But, no one seems to be following the rules in Tiruchi. There are share auto rickshaws that carry more than 10 to 15 passengers. Passengers can even be found sitting on the lap of other travellers. Some travel rather dangerously by sitting on the safety bars. Most of the passengers wear face masks and many of them understand the risk of travelling in overcrowded shared autorickshaws. Yet, they go through the risk of contracting the deadly virus in the absence of other options. “Had the bus transport been restored, the crowding in share auto rickshaws could have been prevented. I cannot afford to pay Rs. 60 to Rs. 80 to travel just one or two km in auto rickshaws. I know that it is dangerous to travel in over-crowded share auto rickshaws particularly when novel coronavirus spreads rapidly. But, I have no other option except this cheapest mode,” says M. Palaniandi, a construction worker travelling in a share auto rickshaw on Rockins Road to K.K. Nagar route on Wednesday. Due to heavy rush, it is learnt that operators of shared auto rickshaws make use of the situation and try to complete as many trips as possible for a day right from early morning to late evening. When contacted, Alagarasu, Deputy Transport Commissioner, Tiruchi, toldThe Hinduthat the complaints would be looked into. Action would be taken against those flouting passenger norms as well as COVID-19 safety norms, he said.  I cannot afford to pay Rs. 60 to Rs. 80 to autorickshaws to travel a km or two M. PalaniandiConstruction worker
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||632 test positive, 15 die in central districts||The central region on Wednesday recorded 632 new COVID-19 cases. A sharp rise in deaths — 15 in a single day — was also recorded. Six of them were from Thanjavur, four from Pudukottai, two each from Tiruvarur and Ariyalur, and one from Karur. Fatalities In Thanjavur, men aged 45, 65, 49, 65 and 60 and a 70-year-old woman succumbed to the viral infection. The patients suffered from comorbidities including diabetes and hypertension. In Pudukottai, men aged 60, 53, 52 and a woman aged 55 died from the infection. The woman suffered from comorbidities including acute kidney infection and diabetes, while in Tiruvarur, a 73-year-old woman with no comorbidities and an 82-year-old woman suffering from kidney disease diabetes, hypertension, pneumonia died of COVID-19. A 50-year-old woman and a 45-year-old man died of the infection in Ariyalur, while in Karur, a 56-year-old man with lung infection died at Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. Meanwhile, Pudukottai recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region on Wednesday with 143 new cases. Among the patients who tested positive were contacts of those who tested positive, antenatal mothers, and local cases whose contacts and travel history were yet to be traced. Inter-district travellers too tested positive. Thanjavur recorded 123 new cases among which were four healthcare workers comprising a staff member at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, a sanitary worker in Pattukottai, a microbiologist at TMCH and a doctor at TMCH. An assistant engineer of the Public Works Department, a ward counsellor, patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI), students and some vendors were also among those who tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded 105 new cases, an increase over the past few days, while in Tiruchi, 83 patients tested positive for the infection. Of the 83 in Tiruchi, many hailed from existing containment zones, while Krishnamurthy Nagar in Ward number 41 in the city was barricaded and declared a containment zone. In Nagapattinam, 84 patients tested positive for the infection. Of them, 22 were patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Thirty local residents with no travel history, one frontline worker, one doctor, 24 primary contacts, three secondary contacts and one antenatal mother also tested positive. A total of 44 patients tested positive in Ariyalur, including 12 hailed from Ariyalur town. Of the rest, three were from Thirumanur, nine from Sendhurai, seven from T.Palur, four from Andimadam and nine from Jayankondam. The addition of 44 patients further increased the total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district to 2,378. Karur district recorded 32 cases. In Perambalur, 18 patients tested positive. Of them, six hailed from Perambalur block, two from Veppanthattai, six from Veppur and four from Alathur block.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In this govt. school, a teacher takes to song and dance to teach the alphabet||A video clip of a teacher of a government primary school at Kavarapatti village in Pudukottai district teaching the TamilMei Ezhuthukkalthrough song and dance has gone viral on social media. M. Meena, who has been teaching in the panchayat union primary school at Kavarapatti for the past 15 years, hit upon the idea and shared the video clip on social messaging platforms. Viral video The three-minute video shows the teacher explaining how the idea emerged when the schools were closed due to spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The teacher is seen teaching theMei Ezhuthukkalof Tamil by singing and dancing at different paces. “Parents of class one students who came to admit their wards in our school a few days ago were worried as to when the schools would reopen in the current crisis situation and how their children would study,” she recalls. “This made me think. And upon reaching home, an idea struck me that I could teach the Tamil alphabet through song and dance,” says Ms. Meena, a resident of Manapparai. Ms. Meena feels that she will be able to kindle the interest of the class one students through her effort. She says she has been bringing out the latent talents and skills of her students by engaging them in different kinds of activities during lunch hour such as making them recite a song or narrate a story, paint or engage in craft work. The activities will be video recorded on the mobile phone and shared immediately in the Whatsapp groupChinnakuyilcreated by her. Parents of a few recently admitted class one students have also been added in the Whatsapp group, she says. Now that textbooks have been distributed to students, who will be taught by their parents, the video clip can also be of use to the children, feels Ms. Meena. She has brought out another video clip highlighting the importance of government schools and their salient features.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Admission counselling begins in college||Admission process for undergraduate programmes began at EVR Arts College on Wednesday. On the first two days, admissions through common counselling would l be carried out for special category applicants. Fourteen students were admitted to courses of their choice on the first day, Principal J. Suganthy said. The college received 12,853 applications online for 1,440 seats in various courses offered through 15 departments. There was a rise in the number of applications for B.Sc. Visual Communications and B.Sc. Statistics programmes, she said.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh batch of MBA students motivated by illustrious alumni||Interaction sessions with alumni members holding senior positions in leading industries motivated incoming batch of MBA students of Department of Management Studies, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) in no small measure, on Tuesday. The inauguration of online classes for the 42nd batch of students witnessed participation of Subramanian Natarajan Ezhil, Business Head, Saint Gobain; and Swaminathan Mani, Vice-President and Head Analyst, Tech Mahindra, both old students, highlighting the advantage of pursuing MBA course at NIT-T. The distinctive culture of the institution sets it apart from other institutions, they said. Presiding over, Mini Shaji Thomas, NIT-T Director, said the institution was on course to becoming a globally-recognised entity, citing the advantages of pursuing management degree in a multi-disciplinary institution. There were extensive opportunities to interact with stakeholders of other departments, she said. On online classes, Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said virtual access to e-books has been created for the students. The three day orientation programme encompassing various sessions and activities by reputed industry leaders will get to a close on Thursday. Ganesh Mahadevan, Director and Lead Consultant at Kanzen Institute Asia Pacific Pvt; and Rajini Sriraman Vice-President- HR, Esskay Structures Inc. engaged the students on the first day of the orientation programme. They presented insights into the current state of the corporate houses to the budding managers and entrepreneurs to understand and realize the wide-array of opportunities available at the very outset of their career. The interaction session witnessed the guest speakers explain impact of the pandemic across sectors and the way students should equip themselves to be industry-ready. The event was conducted in keeping with the safety guidelines of the government. The DoMS has been a providing a holistic educational experience to the students befitting the concentration accorded for managerial aspecgts by industries, Head of the Department P. Sridevi said.
27 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two rescued from bonded labour||Two male siblings employed as bonded labourershave been rescued from a sheep-rearing unit in Ariyalur by an NGO and a team of revenue officials. The boys aged 15 and 12 years belonging to Kuvagam village have been working as shepherds in lieu of a loan of Rs. 36,000 obtained from the unit by their parents. The older brother started working at the unit since March and the younger one for over a year. The incident came to light when an anonymous caller alerted ‘1098’ Childline. Officials of the revenue department and Irulapoo Selvakumar, president, Pazhangudi Irular Peravai, Tamil Nadu, and a State-level consultant on tribal issues, assisted the authorities in the rescue of the two children from Ramesh, from Wodaiyarpalayam. “When we located the boys and confronted the unit owner around 11 pm, he hid them. After further investigation, he handed them over,” Mr. Selvakumar said. The boys were rescued on Tuesday and sent to a children’s home nearby. An FIR has been registered against the unit owner.
27 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Air rifles, machetes seized from house of murder accused||In a predawn raid conducted in a house on the city outskirts, the police seized three air rifles and as many machetes and knives from the house of a murder case accused. Sources in the police said a surprise check was conducted in the house of Ramachandran in Karaiyiruppu under Thatchanallur police station limits, who is an accused in the murder of DYFI (Democratic Youth Federation of India) functionary Ashok, following information that lethal weapons had been kept in his house. During the raid conducted by the police team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, Satishkumar, 3 air-rifles, 3 machetes and 3 knives were seized. Subsequently, the Thatchanallur police registered a case against Ramachandran and his sons Poolpandian and Kumar for having kept the arms in their house. Efforts are on to arrest them. After Ashok, a Scheduled Caste youth from RSA Nagar near Karaiyiruppu, was hacked to death on June 12, 2019, following a caste feud, the enmity is still there after both the sides are flexing muscles. Moreover, the presence of a Scheduled Caste leader in this area along with his supporters round-the-clock keeps the tension alive, sources in the police said. The tension heightened when the supporters of this caste leader recently thrashed a youth from the opposite group and damaged his bike. Though the immediate police action led to the detention of a few supporters of this leader along with a huge cache of lethal arms, the opposite group suspects that their rivals might launch a major attack on them any time. “We suspect that the prevailing tension and the presence of the caste leader in Karaiyiruppu area with his supporters might have forced the opposite group to take precautionary measures to protect themselves from the possible unexpected attack on them,” said a senior police officer here. Further investigations are on.
27 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Officials review works under way in Tirunelveli||Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and Chief Executive Officer of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited V. Narayanan Nair jointly reviewed the progress of the ongoing construction of the Tirunelveli Junction bus stand and the multi-level parking facility coming up in the Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand on Wednesday. When the 64-year-old Tirunelveli Junction bus stand has become cramped owing to the increase in the operation of buses and started stinking without a proper drainage facility, the Corporation decided to reconstruct it under the Centre’s Smart City programme. The existing bus stand becomes waterlogged during rain, causing inconvenience to bus passengers and the crew. Encroachments all along the drainage channels have resulted in clogging and during rain, the water cannot drain into the nearby Tamirabharani river. After dusk, omni buses bound for Chennai, Bengaluru and other cities occupy the eastern side of the already cramped bus stand. As the proposal for the reconstruction of the bus stand got approved, the bus terminus, occupying an area of 4.25 acres with 27 bus bays and 148 shop, was demolished to be built at a cost of Rs. 78.99 crore with modern facilities, including a shopping mall and basement parking facility. “The new terminus would meet all requirements of passengers. As per the plan, a three-storey shopping mall will come up around the bus stand. It will have 144 shops to ensure minimum net revenue of Rs. 1.87 crore to Rs. 2 crore per annum against the present revenue of Rs. 1.64 crore. The basement parking facility can accommodate 106 cars and 1,629 two-wheelers,” said Mr. Kannan. “Work on the basement column has been completed and the basement ceiling concrete will be completed within a couple of weeks,” Dr. Nair said. A multi-level car parking is coming up at Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand premises at a cost of Rs. 11.75 crore. “The basement concrete is going on as per the schedule,” Mr. Kannan said. Mr. Kannan and Dr. Nair also inspected the ongoing work on the construction of the trade centre at Exhibition Grounds opposite the Corporation’s administrative office.
27 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rain drenches paddy procured from farmers||The sudden downpour in Ambasamudram area on Wednesday evening drenched the paddy procured from the farmers as the bags had been stocked on an open yard near the direct procurement centre at Ayansingampatti near Kallidaikurichi. As water is being released from the Manimuthar Dam, farmers of Manimuthar, Vairaavikulam, Ayansingampatti, Zamin Singampatti, Paappaankulam, Ermaalpuram, Kallidaikurichi and the adjoining areas had cultivated paddy and banana on over 10,000 acres. As the Tamil Nadu Government’s direct procurement centre has been established in the community hall at Ayansingampatti to procure the paddy being harvested in this region, the paddy procured from the farmers has been stocked there. Though the officials in the direct procurement centre have been instructed to buy up to 2,000 paddy bags per day, only 300 to 500 bags of paddy are being procured from the farmers, the cultivators complain. Based on the moisture content in the paddy, the farmers are getting up to Rs. 19 per kilogram. Since the community hall building is not spacious enough to store the entire quantity of paddy being procured from the farmers, the paddy bags had been stocked outside the community hall also. As it began to rain suddenly on Wednesday evening, the paddy bags and the heaps of paddy kept outside the building got drenched completely in the unexpected shower.  After the sudden rains, the officials took efforts to drain the rainwater stagnating around the paddy bags stocked on the ground.
27 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone showroom sealed||A mobile phone showroom that failed to ensure physical distancing among its customers who had gathered in large number in front of the shop to buy headset for Rs. 6 was sealed till August 31 by the officials on Wednesday. To celebrate the opening of its sixth showroom near Tirunelveli Junction, a mobile phone showroom had announced that it would sell the headset for Rs. 6 for the first 100 customers for six days from Wednesday.
27 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ward member held under SC/ST Act||Dharapuram police have arrested a ward member of the Kavandachipudur village panchayat in Tiruppur district under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on charges of threatening the president of the panchayat. S. Kuppusamy (40), member of Ward No. 6, and two other men threatened panchayat president R. Selvi (33) on August 14 to withdraw a police complaint that she lodged against him in May, the police said. The accused was already booked by the Dharapuram police under the SC/ST Act on charges of using casteist slur and issuing threats against the Dalit panchayat president. Ms. Selvi lodged a fresh complaint at Dharapuram police station on August 14 following this incident. Kuppusamy and his accomplices, Gopalakrishnan and Deva, were booked under Sections 3(1)(p) (institutes false, malicious or vexatious suit or criminal or other legal proceedings against a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe) and 3(1)(r) (intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view) of the SC/ST Act along with section 506(1) (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. After 10 days, a team from Dharapuram police station arrested Kuppusamy on Tuesday. He was admitted to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital after he was diagnosed with high blood pressure during a medical checkup. As of Wednesday, the accused was stable and undergoing treatment at the hospital, according to police. Efforts to arrest the remaining two accused are on, Dharapuram police said.
27 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman panchayat president, who faced harassment, came up the hard way||R. Selvi, president of Kavandachipudur village panchayat in Dharapuram panchayat union, on Wednesday described the arrest of the ward member, S. Kuppusamy, under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, as a “small light at the end of a long struggle.” A member of a Scheduled Caste (SC), she told The Hindu on Wednesday that she was working in an electric crematorium, within Dharapuram municipality limits, prior to becoming the panchayat president. “I was working as an operator in the crematorium for two years till the end of 2018,” she recalled. Her husband V. Ramesh was working as the manager in the crematorium, she said. Having quit her job in 2018 to look after the family, Ms. Selvi said that her husband encouraged her to contest the rural local body election announced in 2019, where Kavandachipudur village panchayat was announced to be reserved for SC women. “The people were already familiar with us and our service through the crematorium,” she said. Hence she decided to contest as an independent candidate in the local body election. Ms. Selvi alleged that after becoming the panchayat president, she experienced caste-based discrimination, particularly from S. Kuppusamy, member of Ward No. 6 in the village panchayat, who was from a dominant caste. She alleged that in May this year, he used casteist slurs and threatened her in the panchayat office. Ms. Selvi lodged a complaint at the Dharapuram police station and he was booked under the SC/ST Act. However, no action was taken against him, she said. Ms. Selvi further alleged that on August 14, Gopalakrishnan, an official at the electric crematorium where she used to work, threatened to file a case against her for an alleged chit fund fraud if she did not withdraw her complaint against Kuppusamy. As she attempted to record this in her smartphone, Gopalakrishnan and Kuppusamy allegedly snatched it from her. Distressed, she doused herself in kerosene in a self-immolation bid, but inadvertently ended up drinking a portion of the kerosene, leading to her hospitalisation on August 14 at Dharapuram Government Hospital. She signed the complaint petition from the hospital, based on which the Dharapuram police registered a fresh case on August 14 against Kuppusamy, Gopalakrishnan and an accomplice named Deva. Among the three accused, Kuppusamy was arrested on Tuesday. When contacted, Dharapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Jayaram said that the three accused were absconding initially. One has been arrested and the other two accused will be arrested soon, he said. Citing recent examples of SC women who were panchayat presidents in Tiruvallur and Coimbatore districts and were allegedly subjected to discrimination, Ms. Selvi expressed hope that getting justice in this case would encourage other SC women panchayat presidents in the State to stand up against caste-based discrimination. “I must somehow get justice in this struggle,” she said.
27 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Village panchayat member arrested under SC/ST Act||The Dharapuram police have arrested a ward member under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on charges of threatening the president of the Kavandachipudur village panchayat in Tiruppur district. S. Kuppusamy, 40, member of Ward No. 6 in the village panchayat and two other men, threatened panchayat president R. Selvi, 33, on August 14 to withdraw a police complaint that she had lodged against him in May, the police said. The accused was already booked by the Dharapuram police under the SC/ST Act on charges of using casteist slurs and issuing threats to the Dalit panchayat president. Ms. Selvi lodged a fresh complaint at the Dharapuram police station on August 14 following this incident. Kuppusamy and his two accomplices, Gopalakrishnan and Deva, were booked under Sections 3(1) (p) (institutes false, malicious or vexatious suit or criminal or other legal proceedings against a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe) and 3 (1)(r) (intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view) of the SC/ST Act along with Section 506 (1) (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. After 10 days, a team from the Dharapuram police station arrested Kuppusamy on Tuesday. He was admitted to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital after he was diagnosed with high blood pressure. The accused was stable and undergoing treatment at the hospital, according to the police.  After 10 days, a team from the Dharapuram police station arrested Kuppusamy on Tuesday
27 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CUCET dates announced||The Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET – 2020) will be held from September 18 to 20. According to sources in Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, the entrance test to various integrated/UG, PG and research programmes offered at 14 Central Universities and four State Universities across the country will be held at 141 centres, including seven in Tamil Nadu, for three days from September 18. The tests in the forenoon session will be held from 10 a.m. to noon and from 3 to 5 p.m. during the afternoon session.
27 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Submission of online applications for seats under RTE in schools begins today||Parents seeking admission for their wards for the entry-level classes like LKG and Class I under Right To Education in self-financed schools in Virudhunagar district can upload their online applications from Thursday. A statement said that the applications can be uploaded till September 24 throughwww.rtetnschools.gov.in/tamil-nadu Parents can make use of the internet facilities available at the schools, Block Resource Centres, Block Educational Offices, District Educational Offices and office of Chief Educational Officer without any fee. Parents should bring a passport size photograph of the child, its birth certificate, residential proof (family card, voter identity card, Aadhar card, driving license, bank passbook, telephone bills, PAN card and other identity cards issued by State and Central governments). Community certificates (for disadvantaged groups), income certificate (weaker sections), and relevant certificates for those who were seeking admission under destitute, third gender, children of HIV-affected persons, cleanliness workers, differently-abled children, should be produced. After scrutinizing the eligible applications for admissions, priority would be given to the children among disadvantaged groups. The rest of the seats would be filled up through draw of lots, if the number of applications is higher than the number of seats, in the presence of officials.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Subsidies to SC coffee growers enhanced||The Coffee Board has enhanced subsidies given to Scheduled Caste coffee growers and included more activities under the subsidy scheme for these growers. According to a press release from the Board here, subsidies were given to the growers during 2019-2020 and have been extended for 2020-2021. Under the replantation scheme, 90 % of unit cost is given to Scheduled Caste farmers who have up to two hectares land and 75 % subsidy to SC farmers who have two ha to 10 ha land. Subsidies are also given to these farmers who want to create infrastructure for irrigation or sink borewells. Subsidies are disbursed to growers who want to enhance the quality of coffee produced. Under the labour welfare measures, subsidies are given to children of SC workers employed in coffee plantations apart from educational incentive award and meritorious award. An official at the Board's extension centre here said nearly 40,000 ha is under coffee in the State, including 3000 ha in Valparai and 4800 ha in Gudalur. While most of the farmers are small growers with less than 25 acres, those in Valparai are bigger. The board has been supporting the growers through several schemes, the officer said. For details of the schemes and to apply, contact: the Deputy Director (Extension), Coffee Board, Coimbatore.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Screening of workers, monitoring of SOPs intensified in units, shops||In Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts, as workers return to industries and commercial establishments and COVID-19 positive cases are reported in some, officials are intensifying screening for the disease and monitoring of precautionary measures. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said workers are issued e-passes to return to the district. They should get tested before they join work. Though there were cases in some industries initially, “the industries are safe so far,” he said. In a move to intensify screening, the district administration has urged commercial establishments and industries to go in for random testing of workers (10 % to 15 %) every 10 days for COVID-19. This will give an indication whether there are positive cases in a unit or shop, he said. In case there are positive cases, contacts of the workers or employees are traced and tested and the shop or a particular section of the unit is closed for disinfection. The other workers need to be under quarantine at least for seven days to control the spread, said another official here. The administration will monitor strictly the main commercial areas to ensure that the workers and the shoppers wear masks, maintain personal distance and there is less crowd. If more cases are reported from a shop or industry, the district administration files complaint and will even shut down the unit, the official warned. In Tiruppur, it is estimated that nearly 70,000 migrant workers returned to their home States when lockdown restrictions were relaxed three months ago. About 30,000 have come back to the district. They are quarantined before they join work and if any industry violates it, action is taken. More fever clinics are opened at congested commercial areas to detect COVID positive cases, an official said. In the case of industries, Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that every Friday industries report to the district administration details of the workers screened. And, the administration checks the details provided. This is for the existing workers. It has also formed teams to inspect industries regularly to ensure they follow all the precautionary measures. Workers returning from other districts or States are tested before they resume duty. The industries have been co-operating for these steps, he said.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dt. records 484 cases, 10 deaths||As many as 484 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 12,954. The district also witnessed 10 deaths, taking the official toll to 262. As per the COVID-19 bulletin issued by the Health Department, 10 persons died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and private hospitals in the last few days. On Wednesday, 359 persons who recovered from the disease got discharged from various hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 97 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 2,241 cases. A 60-year-old man died at a private hospital in Coimbatore . On Monday, a 62-year-old man died at ESI Hospital and a 47-year-old man died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Sunday. Veerapandi police station was closed for fumigation on Wednesday after a 42-year-old police constable tested positive, sources said. A 50-year-old man, who is the Zone-III Assistant Commissioner with Tiruppur Corporation also tested positive. The swab samples of over 30 employees at Zonal Office in Nallur were lifted and the office was fumigated. Among the fresh cases, seven, including a 11-year-old girl, were reported from Weavers Colony on P.N. Road within corporation limits. A total of 182 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Out of the 2,241 cases in the district, 1,613 have recovered and 571 were active cases. The district reported 57 deaths as of Wednesday. Salem saw 451 new cases taking the district’s tally to 8,966. While 222 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 2,838 persons continue to be under treatment. Eight persons died, raising the toll in the district to 123. Erode district reported 102 new cases taking the district’s tally to 2,498. While 92 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 1,070 persons continue to be under treatment. Five persons died, raising the toll in the district to 38. Namakkal district reported 70 cases taking the tally to 1,739. While 28 persons were discharged on Wednesday, 482 persons continue to be under treatment. So far, 33 deaths were reported here. In the Nilgiris, four persons tested positive. With this, the total number of cases stands at 1,472, with 1,121 having recovered and 341 currently undergoing treatment. The administration confirmed that a tenth person, a 62-year-old man from the district had died from COVID-19.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of lake under way in Hosur||Desilting and deepening works are under way in Ramanayakkan Lake to make way for the project to pump in water from Kelavarapalli dam into the lake. The project conceived to restore and recharge the Ramanayakkan Lake will make use of the existing pipelines of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board. Earthmovers have been engaged to dredge the lake spread over a sprawling 80 acre expanse in the heart of the town. The lake that was once the main water source of the town had ceased to serve its purpose due to encroachments and depleted water sources. The lake was taken up for a ‘beautification project” in 2014. Now, a renewed proposal to pump water into the lake from Kelavarapalli dam has been taken up by the Hosur Corporation. The project envisions direct pumping of water from Kelavarapalli dam to fill up the lake as a restoration and ground water recharge project. Commissioner Balasubramanian told The Hindu the project was a temporary effort to recharge aquifers. The project has been taken up at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh from the Corporation’s general fund. “There were preexisting pipelines that were once used to supply drinking water to Hosur. Now, the same lines will be extended further to pump water directly from the dam into the lake.” While this is a temporary project, there are further plans for Hosur under the World Bank funded Model City project, Mr. Balasubramanian said. As of date, 40% of the works are completed in the lake.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops at Mettur dam||The water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur dropped from 96.80 feet on Tuesday to 95.92 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet here on Wednesday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m. the inflow was 6,204 cusecs when compared to the inflow of 6,957 cusecs on Tuesday morning. The storage was 59.68 tmc against the capacity of 93.5 tmc. The discharge was 18,000 cusecs for irrigation and 600 cusecs in Mettur East and West Bank canals.  Bhavani Sagar dam The water level at Bhavani Sagar dam stood at 100.90 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet here on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 2,180 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project canal and 200 cusecs at Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals. The storage was 29.436 tmc, as against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Firms told to get their employees tested||Coimbatore Corporation has started asking big and small commercial, industrial establishments in the city to get their employees tested. Following an announcement it made through a social media post on Tuesday, the sanitary supervisors and inspectors began issuing notices by hand on Wednesday. A senior officer supervising the task of issuing the notices, said each supervisor or inspector would serve the notice and get acknowledgement from the establishment concerned that it had been served. Within a few days of receiving the notice, each establishment should have all its employees tested and that included a small establishment employing fewer than 10 people to those that employ people in hundreds. The Corporation would send its officers or teams to each commercial establishment to check if they had had their employees tested. At the time of inspection, the establishment management should furnish the test report. If any establishment had not taken seriously the notice by failing to ensure that all its employees were tested and reported negative, the Corporation would immediately shut it down until the establishment management showed proof of compliance. If during the test, an employee or employees of commercial and industrial establishment reported positive for COVID-19, the Corporation would take over from there, the officer said. On rotation basis Thereafter, each of the establishments, particularly the big ones that employ people in 100s, should continue testing its employees in batches on rotation, every fortnight. This was to ensure that the establishments were COVID-19-free and that the managements got to know immediately of employees testing positive and they taking the precautionary steps, the officer added.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM to lay foundation for projects today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will lay foundation for developmental projects of various government departments to the value of Rs. 207.5 crore in Nagapattinam on Thursday. He will also inaugurate 13 projects completed at a cost of Rs. 43.6 crore . The Chief Minister will also hand over benefits under many government schemes before taking part in a review meeting with Collector Praveen P. Nair and other senior officials to take stock of the initiatives undertaken by the district administration for containing the spread of COVID-19 virus. Textiles Minister O.S. Manian and MPs and MLAs will also take part in the meeting. Later in the day, the Chief Minister will hold discussions with entrepreneurs, functionaries of farmers’ associations, and representatives of women self-help groups.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 3 lakh tested in Pudukottai: Minister||COVID-19 tests have been conducted on 3.25 lakh persons in the district as part of an effort to control the spread of the viral infection, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. So far, 3,954 persons who had contracted the infection had been completely cured due to quality treatment provided at the government hospitals in the district, Mr. Vijayabaskar said in a statement issued here on Tuesday. The Minister said even during the current COVID-19 pandemic situation, treatment was being provided without any interruption to patients suffering from other ailments across the State thereby saving the lives of many. Various measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 was being taken on a war-footing across the State and testings had been scaled up to identify newly infected persons, he further said.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Directive to grant pension||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed a tahsildar to grant relief to a widow and an aged woman from Thiruparankundram who were made to run from pillar to post for grant of pension. Justice G.R. Swaminathan heard the petitions of R. Manimegalai and S. Rasiya Begam. Taking into account their plight, the court directed the Tahsildar to grant relief from January 2020. They applied for relief before the authorities concerned in 2017. In her petition, R. Manimegalai, a mother of two children, said she had sent a representation seeking widow pension after she lost her husband in 2017. Though she was assured of pension by the authorities, they had not granted the same, she said. In her petition, S. Rasiya Begam said she had approached the authorities for grant of old age pension. Though she was assured pension, she was not given the relief.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine trials at two centres in Chennai||He said Tamil Nadu’s Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine was appointed the principal investigator. The trials would engage healthy individuals above 18 years of age. The initiative will be jointly carried out by the National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, and the ICMR. Official sources said the vaccine’s safety would be tested at RGGGH, while its immunogenicity would be evaluated at SRIHER. The institutes would have 150 participants each. The Minister said the vaccine stimulated a T-cell response in the body in 14 days. These T-cells, which are white blood cells, attacked the cells infected by the novel coronavirus. The vaccine prompted an antibody response in 28 days. “It is expected that the vaccine would be brought into use soon,” he said.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For a better morrow||
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature’s bounty||
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foreign Internships for Doctors||The Hony, Secretary, Indian Medical Association, Madras State branch, writes to say that Internships and Residencies in the United States and Canada are available for the year 1957 to recently qualified young medical graduates of Modern Medicine, who have completed their term as House Surgeons and who are willing to stay abroad for three or four years. The offer is open only to members of the Indian Medical Association. The appointments will carry a stipend, but the candidates will have to defray their own passage expenses. Applications should reach the Madras State Branch through the local branches of the I.M.A on or before the 10th September, 1956. Doctors in Government and Local Fund service must send along with their applications, the permissions obtained from the Head of the Department permitting them to apply for the Internships and Residences.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lighthouse inside Madras High Court||Last year, the city's second lighthouse turned a 175 years old. Located inside the Madras High Court premises, it was commissioned way back in 1844. It is 38 metres tall, and the structure is a fluted stone tower. It was renovated at a cost of Rs. 1.42 crore over a period of two years. Since it was lit with oil and wick, it had four storage rooms. A special cover to mark the 175th year was released by the Postal Department.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras and the Trigonometrical Survey||The great Indian Trigonometrical Survey, consisting of chains of triangles, extending from Cape Comorin to the borders of Tibet, Afghanistan and Burma, began around the year 1800. The original base line joining all these millions of triangles was a straight line drawn along Mount Road between Madras and St. Thomas Mount. The line was approximately seven miles long.
27 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Many 2019 flood victims living in makeshift dwellings||Parasram Mitagar lives with three of his family members and three goats in a tiny makeshift hut that he has put up near the gram panchayat office in Bhooranki near Khanapur in Belagavi district. His house was destroyed in the floods of 2019 and he is yet to get relief, despite officials claiming the contrary. He parks his bullock cart near the hut. “Officials have threatened me with a police case if we do not clear the premises. But I keep telling them that I have nowhere to go,” he said. Just before his house collapsed, the gram panchayat officers shifted him from Maskyanatti village to a nearby village. Another farmer gave him shelter for a few months. “But how long can we keep troubling our host?” he asked. Despite several requests, the officers did not come to his house for inspection. Six months later, the tahsildar’s office staff told him that compensation for the damage to one room had been released to him. “But I had not got any amount. I decided to stay near the gram panchayat till I was paid proper relief,” he said. Jaitun Chandure and her eight family members are living in her house that has partially collapsed in Kallol village near Chikkodi. “Neither have the officers come to my house to inspect the damage nor have I got compensation. I have appealed to every leader I know — the gram panchayat, taluk and zilla panchayat members, and MLAs. But no one has helped us out,” she said. At Hosur village in Ramdurg taluk, six families are living in the nearby Shiva temple. These are not isolated cases. Several flood victims are still living in similar bad conditions. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa promised to release Rs. 5 lakh per family that had suffered house damage. But the victims have not got the promised amount, complains Jayashree Gurannanavar, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader. “Officers tasked with site inspection and house survey have committed blunders. They came under the influence of politicians and included undeserving persons in the list of beneficiaries. They have also wrongly categorised families who suffered greater damage as those who suffered minimal damage,” she alleged. Farmers’ leader Choonappa Pujari complained that officials had rejected the claims of over 9,000 people who had suffered house damage. “The government got applications and survey reports of around 54,000 families seeking relief. But the officers approved relief only for around 44,000 families,” he said. He is among the signatories who have sent a memorandum to the government extending the relief to all affected families. This issue was raised in the Chief Minister’s meeting in Belagavi on Tuesday. When Mahadevappa Yadavad, MLA, demanded immediate release of compensation for all those who had lost houses, the Chief Minister said the State government had released Rs. 448 crore to 44,156 families. Mahantesh Kavatagimath, MLC, requested the Chief Minister to add 9,000 more houses to the list of beneficiaries. ‘Amount released’ Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said compensation had been released to “all deserving families as per norms.” Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation had released an average of Rs. 95,000 per family that was willing to rebuild their houses. “Only those applicants who did not have proper documents or those who had built houses on encroached lands or those who had disputes about property have not been considered. We have forwarded requests from such persons to the government and asked for reconsideration,” he said.
27 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former Mayor dead||Siddanagouda Patil, Kannada activist and former Mayor of Belagavi City Corporation, died in Belagavi on Wednesday. He was 92. He was the first Kannada speaker to be elected as Mayor of the city in 1991. Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti and other Marathi groups had been ruling over the city corporation since the 1950s. He organised Kannada groups and led a campaign to elect Kannada-speaking members to the city corporation. He remained active in various movements led by Kannada associations in the district and in other north Karnataka districts.
27 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Meeting today||District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has convened a meeting of leaders of Kuruba and Halumata communities in Belagavi on Thursday, to resolve the issue of installation of Sangolli Rayanna statue in Peeranwadi village.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cycling Districts to come up across city||For a city that has struggled to maintain cycle lanes on its traffic-choked roads, the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has plans to create Cycling Districts across Bengaluru in a phased manner. This, the directorate says, would encourage more people to cycle – be it to their workplace or for rejuvenation purposes, and promote the culture of cycling in the city. V. Manjula, Commissioner, DULT, said that the first Cycling District will cover around 25 wards in and around the Outer Ring Road (ORR) stretch between Silk Board Junction and Lowry Memorial College Junction near K.R. Puram, Old Airport Road, parts of Indiranagar and Koramangala. Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., along with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), will take up the project. DULT has identified five layers for cycling with colour coding. They are: cycle to work routes: purple line, cycle to school routes: red line, cycle to transit routes: orange line, cycle to rejuvenate routes: green line, and cycle to shop routes (neighbourhood): blue line. Crowd-sourcing routes The DULT recently held a #MarkYourCycleRoute campaign, which was aimed at crowd-sourcing ideas and routes from enthusiasts and the general public. DULT received as many as 133 mapped routes from 109 people for various types of bicycle rides and lanes in the city. Apart from the general public, CycleToWork has also given various routes with data after mapping rides from 156 companies situated in and around the planned Cycling District 1. Ms. Manjula said that apart from crowd-sourced maps and data, DULT got inputs from Yulu, a bike sharing operator, for cycle lanes and on user preferences. The routes that were identified by the public were marked or mapped using tools such as GPS visualiser, Mapunity Draw, Google Maps or tracking tools such as Strava and mapmyride. “Hence, they have been done with some expertise and professionalism, and are viable options,” an official said. Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran told The Hindu that colour coding of cycle lanes would help in easy identification of routes and also in way-finding. “Such initiatives help in quick recognition of cycle lanes, which would otherwise be difficult to do using Google Maps or other webmapping services,” he said, adding that it would immensely contribute towards making Bengaluru a cycle-friendly city. Smart City project Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Managing Director, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., said that various stretches being developed under the Smart City project will have cycle lanes depending on availability of road width and demand. “Around 30 km of roads are being developed under Smart City projects. We are in the process of identifying stretches for cycle lanes,” she said. Cubbon Park would get a few stretches of cycling tracks. “The stretches within Cubbon Park are yet to be identified. They will be designed keeping in mind children and senior citizens,” she said. DULT has constituted a Committee for Cycling in Bengaluru (CCIB) to involve the government departments concerned, cycling enthusiasts and civil society groups to encourage adoption of cycling. Bus lanes across State In an effort to promote sustainable transport modes across the State and promote bus priority lanes in urban local bodies (ULBs), Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has come up with ‘Cities on the Move Challenge – Where there is a bus, there is a way’ initiative where ULBs, along with public transport agencies, can submit proposals for bus priority lanes of minimum of 5 km within their limits. More information is available at:http://www.urbantransport. kar.gov.in/notifications.html
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases breach 3 lakh mark, deaths 5,000||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State crossed the 3 lakh mark and deaths owing to the pandemic crossed 5,000 on Wednesday. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 8,580 COVID-19 cases were reported on Wednesday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 3,00,406. Meanwhile, with 133 COVID-19 deaths reported on Wednesday, taking the total fatalities to 5,091. So far, as many as 19 infected people have died owing to non-COVID-19 causes. While it took four-and-a-half months for the first one lakh cases to be reported — from March 8 to July 27, the cases increased from 1 lakh to 2 lakh in just 17 days. It has taken 13 days for the number of cases to increase from 2 lakh to 3 lakh. Experts attribute the rise in the number of cases to the increased testing. On Tuesday, the number of tests conducted in the State crossed the 25 lakh mark. On Wednesday, as many as 7,249 patients were discharged, taking the total to 2.11 lakh. The recovery rate in the State is 70.46%. Out of the total 83,606 active cases in the State, 760 patients are admitted in intensive care units of different hospitals. As many as 3,284 new COVID-19 cases and 31 new deaths were reported in Bengaluru Urban on Wednesday. Shalini Rajaneesh, nodal officer in charge of testing, said the State conducted a record 67,066 tests on Wednesday. While 25,886 were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RTPCR and other tests. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that although the numbers of cases are increasing, the number of recoveries was on the rise and the mortality rate was coming down. “We need to test more and ensure that the number of deaths remains low,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar also said that according to experts, the number of cases would decline from the second week of October.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Give reasons for not increasing relief to non-healthcare frontline workers: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to submit the reasons for its decision against enhancing the accident coverage to Rs. 50 lakh from the present Rs. 30 lakh for police, Fire Services, and Home Guards personnel, anganwadi workers, pourakarmikas, sanitation workers, and sanitation-related vehicle drivers and loaders in case of their death during COVID-19 duty. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction as the Finance Department said it was not possible to enhance the amount to Rs. 50 lakh as offered by the Union government to the healthcare workers under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package. A note signed by an Under Secretary of the Finance Department, submitted before the Bench onWednesday, stated that the State was not in a position to enhance the amount to Rs. 50 lakh as a result of financial crunch owing to lack of revenue as the amount of Rs. 30 lakh is paid by the State government from its exchequer unlike the Union government, which offers Rs. 50 lakh through an insurance scheme. The department’s note also indicated that health workers deal with COVID-19 patients but the police, Fire Services, and Home Guards personnel, anganwadi workers, pourakarmikas, sanitation workers, and sanitation-related vehicle drivers and loaders were not directly engaged in duties related to COVID-19 patients and healthcare. However, the Bench directed that a responsible senior officer of the government must submit details of reasons cited for coming to the conclusion against granting Rs. 50 lakh compensation to non-healthcare personnel working in the frontline to check the spread of COVID-19. The Bench, earlier, had asked the government to consider enhancing compensation to non-healthcare workers on the lines of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Initiative to integrate bamboo craft of Medhar community into global market||Over 10 lakh traditional bamboo craftspersons of the Medhar community in Karnataka are set to piggyback on global brands such as Ikea with the help of the National Bamboo Mission. As a precursor to this, Industree Foundation, a non-profit organisation that aims to develop sustainable livelihoods for women artisans, and the U.S. Agency for International Development on Wednesday opened the Bamboo Research Centre in Channapatna, in partnership with the Karnataka chapter of the mission. To start with, the research centre that has come up at Channapatna Crafts Park will support over 100 Medhar families in the nearby areas. Supporting bamboo centres will also set up in Hunsur, Nanjangud, Koppa, and tribal areas of Karwar and Dandeli. Neelam Chibber, co-founder and managing trustee, Industree Foundation, said: “At a time like this when we are globally trying to deal with a pandemic, it is heartening to see multiple entities come together to support the creative sector, particularly women.” Sanjay Mohan, PCCF and Head of Forest Force, Forest Department, inaugurated the centre.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Weavers’ society closes as situation gets out of hand||COVID-19 has taken a toll on the largest naturally-dyed handloom fabric manufacturer in the country. On Wednesday, Heggodu-based Charaka, a weavers’ cooperative society that supported about 800 weavers, dyers, and tailors, stopped its activities owing to severe cash crunch. One of the success stories in the handloom sector, Charaka that markets its handloom products through Desi, a charitable trust, is now saddled with a whopping 87,000 metres of unsold fabric and about Rs. 16 lakh worth of garments in its stock. Desi, which runs 15 stores in Karnataka, is left with stock of garments worth around Rs. 1 crore. Charaka, which celebrated its 25th anniversary last year, has been reporting profits, including during the financial year 2019-20. The society’s monthly capacity is to produce about 30,000 metres of handloom fabric, and operates across seven districts in the State with Heggodu in Shivamogga district as its base. However, the economy that came to a grinding halt during the pandemic-related shutdown hit the finances hard. Irrespective of the shutdown and slow pace of economic activity during the last four months, the society continued to pay its weavers, dyers, and tailors. Both Charaka and Desi work on the “paid-up stock” model of business where they make payments irrespective of the sale.“Cash flow is now choked and we have collapsed. Our overdraft facility in the bank is closed. We have no choice. All the weaving and dyeing activities have been stopped while tailoring work is coming to an end. We cannot help them [weavers and dyers] because we are unable to help ourselves,” Charaka founder and social activist Prasanna told The Hindu . On Wednesday, he informed the bank about the decision to shut activities and sought interest waiver to bail out the society. In the last few years, on an average, Charaka reported an annual turnover of around Rs. 2 crore while Desi reported a turnover of about Rs. 5 crore. “If this can happen to a successful, profitable and model handloom society, it is a reflection of what is happening to the handloom industry,” Mr. Prasanna said. While Charaka has stopped purchase of fabric from weavers/dyers, its employees are now being deployed to take mud works in Heggodu.  Dues from govt. Mr. Prasanna, who has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa about the decision to close Charaka owing to cash crunch, also pointed out that over Rs. 1 crore that had been sanctioned by various governments over the last 15 years for various projects has not reached the society. “Except for two Centrally funded projects, funds have not reached us. This is not the story of Charaka alone. Probably all weavers or weavers’ societies have faced the same fate. This is due to the functioning of the Handloom Department that has not been reformed. Officials are not to be blamed,” he said in the letter on Wednesday. He also said that Mr. Yediyurappa had released Rs. 60 lakh for Pavitra Vastra project. He also warned that if any other weaving societies close, he would sit on a hunger strike.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Startups to be identified for business in Japanese market||A Japan-India startup initiative has been signed to promote startups in Karnataka and a startup hub has been established in Bengaluru by the Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO) to identify select Indian startups for the Japanese market, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said. Speaking at the inaugural session of the India-Japan Business Forum (virtual conference) here on Wednesday, Mr. Yediyurappa said the State has taken strong policy measures to promote the emerging startup industry ecosystem, and has enacted a law creating the Karnataka Innovation Authority in November 2019. The State has set up a Japanese Industrial Township at Vasanthanarasapura near Tumakuru. A total of 519 acres has been developed and made ready with infrastructure facilities such as roads, power, and water supply. Noting that India and Japan are “natural partners” and would like to strengthen the partnership further, he said to achieve more significant economic transformation, India encouraged FDI investment from Japanese companies in all sectors. The India-Japan Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement was a comprehensive deal covering both trades in goods and services, he added.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scholarship for lawyer||City-based lawyer and social entrepreneur Timothy Franklyn is among 11 people from across the world chosen for the prestigious Obama Foundation Scholars for the academic year 2020-21 at Columbia University, USA. Mr. Franklyn, who is the only Obama Foundation Scholar from India, is the founder of National School of Journalism (NSoJ), Bengaluru. According to a release, those selected for the Obama Foundation Scholars programme will participate in Columbia University’s Columbia World Projects, which mobilise researchers and scholars to work with governments, organisations and communities to create tangible solutions to real-world issues. Mr. Franklyn told The Hindu that he was looking forward to the programme to gain a perspective on pressing issues and their solutions. “The programme will give me an opportunity to create a global network and work with people across borders on various issues and help get many of our problems solved,” he said. “Scholars will gain real-world skills, tools and experiences, and develop an action plan that will enable them to scale their work and reinvest in their communities in their home regions,” a release from the Obama Foundation said.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath’s remark on Tipu puts BJP in a spot||By describing 18th century Mysore ruler Tipu Sultan as “the son of this soil”, BJP MLC and former Minister A.H Vishwanath seems to have put the BJP government, which cancelled Tipu Jayanti celebrations in the State dubbing him “anti-Hindu”, in an embarrassing spot. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, Mr. Vishwanth said: “Tipu Sultan does not belong to any party, caste or religion. He is the son of this soil. We should not reduce him to any one caste or religion.” He was reacting to a question on whether or not schoolchildren should study about the ruler in textbooks. “Children should study Tipu Sultan, Mahatma Gandhi and the like... This will instil a sense of pride for the country,” said Mr. Vishwanath, who quit the JD(S) and joined BJP last year. The BJP leaders have consistently derided the Mysuru king and besides cancelling his annual birth anniversary celebrations, the government also proposed to omit lessons on Tipu Sultan from school textbooks. Though an expert committee recommended against dropping the lessons, the demand has not died down. The previous Congress government led by Siddaramaiah started observing Tipu Jayanti, arguing that he was a freedom fighter who died fighting against the British. Reacting to Mr. Vishwanth’s statement, KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre said the BJP MLC had spoken the truth and exposed his party’s agenda of rewriting history.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Query on denial of admission||The High Court has asked the government to respond to an emial, sent to the office of the Chief Justice, by one Chikkanarasaiah, 70, of Bengaluru complaining about the death of his 37-year-old son-in-law Chethan Kumar as 15 to 20 government and private hospitals refused to admit him without COVID-19 negative report in July. Though a leading private hospital admitted him in the last minute, he died owing to delay in getting treatment, it was stated in the e-mail while pointing out that two conflicting COVID-19 report, one negative and one positive, added to the misery of the family. He has also narrated the difficulty in securing the body for cremation while seeking compensation to his daughter and her two young children from the government for its failure to provide treatment.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||H.K. Patil expresses surprise over audit proposal||H.K. Patil, Congress MLA and chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the legislature, has expressed surprise over the special audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) regarding procurements of COVID-19 equipment in the State being proposed to be included in performance audit of 2019-20. In a letter to E.P. Nivedita, Principal Accountant General (Audit-I), Mr. Patil said that most of COVID-19 related procurement in the Health and Family Welfare Department had occurred after March 2020. “It is obvious that will not be covered in the audit report of 2019-20,” he said in the letter.
27 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will hold a water adalat on August 27 between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. to address grievances pertaining to billing, delay in providing connections and other related issues.
27 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be disruption in power supply on August 29 between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in the following localities: Kodichikkanahalli, Deo Enclave Layout, Anugraha Layout, Abbaiah Layout, part of Supreme Residency, Vijayashree Layout, near Bhagya Grand Hotel, Lake City, Rotary Nagar, Vakila Marina, Doctors Layout, Kodichikkanahalli main road and surrounding areas.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trial run of metro starts today||The trial run of the extended Green Line on Kanakpura Road to Anjanapura will start on Thursday. The BMRCL recently revised its deadline to start commercial operations on the 6-km line from August to November. After the trial run, expected to last a month, the BMRCL will approach the Commissioner of Railway Safety seeking clearance to open the line for commercial operations. The 6-km extended Green Line – with stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talaghattapura, and Anjanapura – is likely to open on November 1. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said more relaxations are expected in September, and he hoped that Namma Metro operations could resume post that.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jumbo calf to be named after Sudha Murty||Bannerghatta Biological Park, Bengaluru, has announced that a calf born to elephant Suvarna will be named as Sudha. This is to acknowledge the contribution of Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty towards wildlife conservation. The executive director of BBP, in a release, said Dr. Murty has consented to the proposal.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Congress asks Centre to release Rs. 5,000 crore for rain relief||KPCC working president Eshwar B. Khandre has urged the Centre to release Rs. 5,000 crore to the State for providing compensation to the rain-affected people of north Karnataka. More than 80,000 hectares of standing crops, 3,000 houses, and 3,500 km of road were damaged in flood-affected 10,00 villages of 56 taluks, Mr. Khandre said at a press conference here on Wednesday. Though Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is representing the State in Parliament, she has not announced any relief to the State, he alleged. The State’s exchequer was facing the threat of bankruptcy and the government had to take a delegation to the Centre to seek funds. He estimated the rain loss at Rs. 10,000 crore. The BJP leaders have no courage to stand before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and seek aid from the Centre for undertaking relief and rehabilitation in flood-affected areas, Mr. Khandre alleged. Yatnal’s remarks At Belagavi, former Minister and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal alleged that the Chief Minister had withdrawn funds sanctioned for the development of Vijayapura city. Without naming B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Yatnal said: “The Chief Minister of a different party had sanctioned us Rs. 127 crore. But our party Chief Minister has withdrawn them in the name of the COVID -19 epidemic.”  Though Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is representing Karnataka in Parliament, she has not announced any relief to the State.Eshwar B. KhandreKPCC working president
27 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||153 more test positive||As many as 153 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 6,531. As many as five patients — three from Alur and one each from Arkalgud and Holenarsipur — died taking the toll to 172. So far, 4,382 patients have recovered. As many as 1,977 are undergoing treatment. Of these, 59 are in intensive care unit.
27 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Process to pay one-time financial aid to workers simplified, says Minister||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar has said that the process of disbursing one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to workers affected by the COVID-19-induced lockdown has been simplified now and the amount is being directly credited to bank accounts of workers. Chairing a review meeting in Gadag on Wednesday, Mr. Hebbar said that, after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, 80 % of industries had resumed operations now and already, 75 % of workers have returned to work The Minister said that while although assistance extended to workers was not sufficient, the Labour Department was making every effort to ensure the welfare of the working class. Assistance worth Rs. 1,140 crore in the form of food and health kits and accommodation had been provided to 18 lakh workers in the State, he said. Mr. Hebbar said that the State government had spent the highest funds in the country for the welfare of workers. “There are nearly 27 lakh workers in the organised sector and 85 lakh workers in the unorganised sector in the State. All efforts are being made to extend all necessary help to them,” he said. The Minister said that steps were being taken to fill vacant posts in the Labour Department and modernisation work had been taken up to transform the department through technology upgradation and other initiatives.  Skill centre Mr. Hebbar directed the officials to set up a skill development centre at the community hall of the Labour Welfare Board at Gandhi Nagar in Gadag-Betageri. He also asked the Deputy Commissioner to identify land for constructing a hostel for migrant workers in the district. Deputy Commissioner of Labour of Belagavi Division Venkatesh Sindihatti told the meeting that there were 25,080 construction workers in Gadag district and the financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 had already been credited to their bank accounts. A total of 3,239 applications from washermen and barbers had been received in the district and of them, 2,528 beneficiaries had already been extended a total assistance of Rs. 1.26 crore, he said. After the meeting, Mr. Hebbar distributed cheques of assistance to workers of various sectors. Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu and others were present.  Medicine Later, addressing presspersons, Mr. Hebbar said that there was no shortage of medicine in ESI Clinics and Hospitals in the State. “Medicine worth crores of rupees have been supplied to all ESI Clinics and Hospitals in all the districts. As many as 150 doctors have been appointed to ESI Hospitals to solve the problem of shortage of doctors. And, priority has been given to ESI Hospitals in North Karnataka,” he said. To a query, he clarified that out of the Rs. 10,900 crore to be paid to sugarcane farmers in the State, Rs. 10,736 crore had been paid already. And, the balance amount would be paid soon, he said.
27 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KLETU in Band A in nation-wide ranking||Hubballi-based KLE Technological University (KLETU) has been placed under Band A category of institutions in the nation-wide ranking done under Atal Ranking of Institutions Innovation Achievement (ARIIA). According to a press release, the university has won this recognition in the category of University and Deemed to be University (Private- Self Financed) across India. The Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievement (ARIIA) 2020 was announced on August 18. The university is among the top six-25 institutions in the country which places it in the Band A in a survey conducted by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) under the Union Ministry of Education. ARIIA is based on institutional focus on creating an environment to convert research into innovation.
27 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Eshwarayya Hiremath dead||Senior writer and principal of V.G. Women’s Degree College Eshwarayya Hiremath (57) died of a heart attack at a private hospital here on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife and two children. The last rites were conducted at his native village Devara Gonala in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district. Mr. Hiremath had a special interest in Sharana literature and was deeply involved in various literary activities in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. He has contributed many works to Kannada literary world.
27 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Class 10 girl found dead||A 16-year-old student is said to have ended her life at her residence in Udbal village of Chitaguppa taluk in Bidar district on Wednesday. The girl took the extreme step following an argument with her parents over buying a smartphone. The girl, a Class 10 student of a government high school, had sought a smartphone for herself so that she could continue her online classes. Based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s brother, Pattan Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)
27 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Four fishermen swim to safety as boat capsizes||Close on the heels of a deep sea fishing boat capsizing near Udupi on Monday, a traditional fishing boat capsized near Maravanthe Fishing Harbour in Udupi district on Tuesday. Four fishermen, however, swam to safety. Aadi Aanjaneya, the motorised traditional boat owned by Srinivas Kharvi of Gangolli, was put to sea early in the morning. However, the boat hit a sand dune after the fishermen onboard lost control over it due to rough sea waves. The incident occurred near Maharajaswamy Varahaswamy Temple of Maravanthe. In the mêlée, Srinivas Kharvi suffered injuries in his leg and was taken to hospital. Three other fishermen came out of the boat safely. Two outboard engines of the boat went missing in the sea. The boat too was completely damaged, according to the fishermen. On Monday, a deep sea fishing boat that left Malpe in Udupi district capsized in the Arabian Sea.
27 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Narayana S. Shimanturu, scholar, passes away||Yakshagana scholar N. Narayana Shetty Shimanturu passed away on Wednesday. He was 86. He is survived by his wife, three daughters and two sons. Mr. Shetty was from Nandikuru in Udupi district. The then Karnataka Yakshagana and Bayalata Academy honoured him with the State government’s Parthi Subba Award for 2012. The author of scholarly research work on Yakshagana, the “Yakshagana Chandombudhi”, he had written many Yakshagana prasangas, including Shree Kateelu Kshetra Mahatme, Deeksha Kankana, Raja Mudrika, and Tulu prasangas Birduda Bhairaver and Sorkuda Sirigende. He was an expert in prosody. Kannada University, Hampi, had presented him with honorary doctorate for his research work — “Yakshagana Chandombudhi”.
27 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Study on climate underlines need to change cropping pattern||A recent analysis of the last 58 years’ (1960 to 2017) weather data of Karnataka has indicated a considerable shift in rainfall pattern in the State, which has a bearing on agriculture and water security. It calls for changes in the present cropping pattern and agro plans in the light of the observed shift in rainfall and temperature variation that can lead to frequent recurrence of extreme weather conditions. The study titled ‘Climate Change Scenario in Karnataka: A Detailed Parametric Assessment’ was conducted by Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) and its findings have long-term implications for both food and water security. The core team which conducted the study was led by G.S. Srinivasa Reddy, former Director, KSNDMC, and the scientists involved in the project analysed the variations in the amount of rainfall, rainy days, frequency of rainfall events, dry spells, fluctuations in temperature, number of years when the rainfall was below normal etc. Dr. Reddy told The Hindu that the study shows a reduction in the amount of annual rainfall in Kodagu, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada, while there is an increase in rainfall over Shivamogga and Hassan districts. “There is also a shift in the rainfall pattern in July and the quantum of rainfall is increasingly getting concentrated for a few days in August, which leads to floods as being observed since the last three years,” Dr. Reddy added. He pointed out that the cumulative water storage in the four dams in the Cauvery basin in the State in the last week of July this year was nearly 40 tmcft against the gross capacity of nearly 115 tmcft. But the scenario changed due to heavy rains concentrated for a few days in the first two weeks of August, and the reservoirs are now full to the brim. He said most of the State’s agricultural and water resource management plans are drawn based on the data that was available before 1960. “Climate change has led to significant variation in the weather at the local levels and this should be factored in while conceiving crop pattern and water resource management,” Dr. Reddy added. The cropping pattern based on the pre-1960 rainfall data should be changed in the light of shift in rainfall pattern during the last 60 years, according to Dr. Reddy. The study showed that Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada and other catchment areas display a net reduction in the rains and Mr. Reddy pointed out that this has implications for water security of the State. He said even a 1% rainfall deficiency amounts to a decline of 30 mm to 40 mm of annual rains. Also, the State as a whole experiences a higher pre-monsoon rain, northeast monsoon and annual rainfall whereas southwest monsoon rainfall shows a decreasing trend as per the KSNDMC study. The rainfall shows a decreasing trend in majority of the taluks of the State in June and July and increasing rainfall is observed in August, especially in south-interior and north-interior Karnataka.  There is also a shift in the rainfall pattern in July and the quantum of rainfall is increasingly getting concentrated for a few days in August, which leads to floods as being observed since the last three years.G.S. Srinivasa ReddyFormer Director, KSNDMC
27 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. leaders release letter by ‘BJP MLAs’ against Vijayendra||Releasing copies of a letter containing allegations of corruption and interference in administration by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra, purportedly bearing signatures of “disgruntled BJP MLAs”, Congress leaders in Mysuru on Wednesday claimed to have gathered documentary evidence to support the charges. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M. Lakshmana said the party had gathered supporting documents, which will be made public in New Delhi in the second or third week of September. The letter, said to have been sent to BJP national president J.P. Nadda sometime ago, accuses Mr. Vijayendra of running a “parallel government” by appointing his people to manage the affairs of different departments and reducing the Ministers to “mere dummies”. The letter accuses Mr. Vijayendra of amassing benami wealth to the tune of Rs. 5,000 crore and lists the names and mobile phone numbers of 31 people assisting him. “We have found that the charges are by and large true. We have gathered supporting documents in the form of CCTV footage, audio conversations, video conversations, and photographs of exchange of money. A large sum of money has been amassed through transfers in various departments. We will be gathering more documents before going public,” Mr. Lakshmana said. The KPCC spokesperson, however, sought to clarify that these charges have been made by the BJP MLAs themselves. The Congress has only gathered documents to support the charges made in the letter, he said. Demanding a probe into the charges levelled by the disgruntled MLAs, Mr. Lakshmana said the government should order an enquiry into the matter either by a High Court or Supreme Court judge. The copies of the letter distributed to the media in Mysuru on Wednesday also had seven signatures, which the Congress leaders said belonged to the “disgruntled” BJP MLAs. Asked if the signatures were verified, Mr. Lakshmana said it was upto the government to probe the matter and trace the signatories. “The government cannot escape the responsibility of ordering a probe into the veracity of the charges made in the letter,” the Congress spokesperson said.
27 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Charges a bundle of lies’||Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa’s son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra has dismissed the charges of corruption and interference in administration levelled against him as a “bundle of lies”. After the Congress leaders in Mysuru held a press conference to highlight the charges against him, allegedly levelled by “disgruntled BJP MLAs” in a letter to the party’s national leadership, Mr. Vijayendra tweeted that the charges were not only hollow, but hilarious too. The Congress, he said, had hatched a political conspiracy to target him.
27 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger death: It’s a case of poaching, say officials||The tiger that was found dead in the Kallahalla range of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on Tuesday was shot dead by poachers and its claws were missing, according to officials in the Department of Forests. The carcass was found close to Tattekere haadi and the cause of death of the tiger could only be ascertained on Wednesday. Senior officials of the department who reached the spot on receiving information, waited for daybreak to pursue the case. Post-mortem The veterinary team that conducted the post-mortem found gunshot injuries and that the claws had been removed, according to Ajai Mishra, PCCF (Wildlife). Though there were speculations of foul play in certain circles, Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, had preferred to wait for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. Mr. Mishra said this was the first such poaching incident involving a tiger in Nagarahole in recent years and a team would be set up to investigate the case.
27 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Govt. ready to release compensation for rain damage, says Ashok||Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said that the State government is ready to release compensation to those who have faced crop losses and property damage owing to extensive rainfall. The government has already requested the Centre to release Rs. 4,000 crore for the purpose. He was talking to reporters in Shorapur taluk before visiting flood-affected areas on Wednesday. Mr. Ashok said that compensation for crop losses will be released to farmers under NDRF norms. “Under NDRF, the second instalment of Rs. 395 crore had already been released and further instalments will be released soon,” he added. To questions that there were irregularities in distributing compensation, he said, “I have directed officials to correct errors or irregularities, if any, and also asked them to ensure prompt release of compensation.” When asked about MLC H. Vishwanath’s remark on Tipu Sultan, Mr. Ashok said, “I don’t have any information about Mr. Vishwanath's remark on Tipu Sultan. But, our stand is very clear. I don’t know in what context Mr. Vishwanath made the remark. Leaving that part, that there were atrocities and religious conversion by Tipu Sultan are known to everyone. Thus, there is no change in the BJP’s stand.” He also refuted the allegations of corruption against B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and said that no such thing has happened. “It is not correct to make such statements,” he added.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hibernating hospitals revived for fight against COVID-19||Nearly four years after it was constructed by the BBMP, the four-storey hospital on Broadway Road was inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. The 130-bed super-speciality hospital, named Charaka Super-speciality Hospital, has been developed by the Infosys Foundation at a cost of Rs. 11 crore. The hospital will now be managed by the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and Research Centre. It will have 30 doctors, 10 specialists, a superintendent, two pharmacists, a dietician, six staff nurses and six lab technicians. After inaugurating the facility, Mr. Yediyurappa said that the super-speciality hospital had ventilators as well as an ICU. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said following the outbreak of COVID-19, the government approached Infosys Foundation to develop the hospital.  Facility in Mysuru Meanwhile, in Mysuru, the unoccupied Trauma Care Centre on K.R.S. Road, which was inaugurated long ago but remained unused for want of equipment, is being converted into the second-largest COVID-19 hospital. As the facility is being designed to cater to seriously-ill COVID-19 patients, who require oxygen support, an oxygen concentrator plant (which sources oxygen from atmospheric air) is being established in the hospital premises to overcome any shortage of liquid oxygen supply once it becomes functional. The trauma care centre comes under the control of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), which is currently running the designated COVID-19 hospital. The MMCRI has deputed its team of doctors and staff in addition to handling patients, especially affected by SARI and ILI, at the Jayadeva block in the K.R. Hospital premises.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Complaints prompt BDA to allow visitors in batches||Delay in allowing the general public to meet officials of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) angered many people on Wednesday. Citizens alleged that despite waiting for several hours, they were not allowed to meet officials. After BDA started auctioning corner sites, the number of people coming to the office for enquiries had increased. Meanwhile, some of the BDA staff tested positive for COVID-19 leading to offices being sealed for four days. In this backdrop, the Authority decided to impose certain restrictions on visitors. After Wednesday’s incident, the BDA issued a release stating that officials and staff were screened for COVID-19 and results are awaited. “Visitors were allowed inside in batches. On Wednesday, people had come in large numbers, which led to confusion,” states the release. Only 10 to 15 persons were allowed at a time. Once the first batch had exited the office, the next batch of visitors was allowed inside.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for fake police account||The CCB arrested a man on Wednesday for allegedly creating and operating a fake online account of the city police. A team led by cyber crime officials of the CCB arrested Pankaj Kumar Bachawath, 40, from Malleswaram and booked him under various sections of the IT Act. The accused has been taken into custody to ascertain the motive behind his act.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3 held for theft of Rs. 27.8 lakh from ATM||The Jalahalli police, on Wednesday, arrested three persons who had allegedly stolen Rs. 27.8 lakh from an ATM of a nationalised bank on MES Road on August 10. The police have recovered Rs. 17 lakh, a car, three two-wheelers, expensive mobile phones and clothes that the accused had purchased with the stolen money.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Working on aesthetics||
27 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||193 positive cases in Alappuzha||The district registered 193 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. While 163 people contracted the virus through local transmission, another seven health workers, seven who came from abroad, and 16 from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 163 contact cases, 35 were reported from Alappuzha, 29 from Punnapra, 11 from Kadakkarappally, and 10 from Panavally. Meanwhile, 95 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative for the virus. The district so far logged 4,909 COVID-19 cases.  2,763 recoveries While 2,763 people made a full recovery, 14 succumbed to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,132. Parts of ward 12 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 11 in Chettikulangara, ward 12 in Ambalapuzha North, ward 1 in Champakulam, ward 2 in Venmony, and parts of ward 5 in Cheruthana grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
27 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fish farm set up on houseboat||After the COVID-19 pandemic brought all houseboat operations to a halt, owners and employees are looking for new pastures to make a living. While some have turned to agriculture, launching cafes, and online fish sales, others have taken up odd jobs. In one such instance to tide over the crisis caused by the pandemic, a houseboat owner in Alappuzha has converted a swimming pool in one of his vessels into a fish farm. “The entire tourism industry has been shattered by the pandemic. We contemplated several ideas to fight and overcome the present crisis before settling on starting a fish farm in our houseboat’s swimming pool,” says Tomy Pulickattil, chairman of Pulickattil Houseboats.  Biofloc method Around 350 fingerlings of Tilapia were deposited in a 6,000-litre capacity pool atop the boat two months ago. The farming is done using biofloc method. Although fish farming in a limited way will not cover the huge losses suffered in recent months, the firm expects to make some income through pisciculture. “It is a pilot project. We expect the fish to grow 250-300 gram before the harvest in November,” says Tobu Pulickattil, managing director of the firm. Mr. Tobu says that through pisciculture, they are able to engage the employees of the houseboats which remain anchored since March. “We are assisted by experts and government officials in this new venture. Our plan is to start farm tourism in the boat when houseboat operations are resumed post pandemic,” he says. Many more houseboat operators are expected to follow suit as they try to stay afloat. According to operators, the houseboat sector is staring at an uncertain future following the outbreak and subsequent lockdown dealing a hammer blow. There are 1,500 houseboats in the State, a majority of them in Alappuzha. Thousands of people are directly attached to the sector and many thousands indirectly. A majority of them have already lost their jobs.
27 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Disinfecting floor mats to be distributed||The district panchayat will distribute 1,000 Sani Coir Mat (disinfecting floor mat) developed by the Kerala State Coir Corporation. The Coir Corporation launched the mat in June with an aim to sanitise feet and prevent the spread of COVID-19. The mats will be distributed as a kit, which includes a tray, mat and a sanitising solution. According to officials, the disinfectant will be poured over the mat until saturated. When a person, barefoot or wearing shoes, steps on the mat, the disinfectant will sanitise it.  Five models Sani Coir Mat is available in five different models. The rates range from Rs. 850 to 5,000.
27 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man held for sexual assault||The Chengannur police on Wednesday arrested a 42-year-old man on charges of attempting to sexually assault a woman. The arrested has been identified as Suresh of Chengannur. The alleged incident happened on Monday.
27 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||50 of 63 Idukki cases through local contact||Of the 63 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday, 50 persons contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of three persons remain untraced. They are from Thankamani, Kanchiyar, and Gavi in Pathanamthitta district. Those who contracted the disease though local contact include residents of Adimali, Devikulam, Elappara, Kanchiyar, Kattappana, Karinkunnam, Kumaramangalam, Kumily, Mariyapuram, Rajakumari, Thodupuzha, Udumbanchola, and Vannapuram.
27 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Pass system for travel to Karnataka withdrawn||Kasaragod District Collector D. Sajith Babu has withdrawn the need for obtaining passes for daily travel to Karnataka and back. The pass was introduced following an increase in the case of people with COVID-19 travelling to the neighbouring State. The decision to withdraw it was taken at a meeting conducted through videoconferencing. The Collector said that from now on, people would have to register themselves on the COVID-19 vigilance portal along with the negative certificate obtained after the antigen test. The District Medical Officer would arrange for the necessary check-up at the Thalappadi check-post. The details of all the passengers would be recorded. More routes In addition to the existing National Highway 66 (Thalappadi check-post), permission would be given to travel to Karnataka through Panathur, Manimoola, Perla, and Jalsur main roads.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. extending step-motherly treatment to corpn.: Dy. Mayor||Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar has alleged that the State government is adopting a step-motherly attitude towards the Kochi Corporation. Replying to a debate at the corporation council meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Premakumar said the government had denied the civic body permission to take an overdraft from banks to clear the bills of contractors. Repeated attempts by the corporation to secure permission failed. However, it is mobilising its own resources to partly clear the bills, and Rs. 5 crore will be paid to the contractors in the first week of September, he said. Incidentally, the contractors are on a strike demanding clearance of bills. The Deputy Mayor unleashed an attack on the Corporation Secretary for what he termed as “red-tape approach” of the official. “The lethargic attitude of the official has been slowing down welfare activities of the civic body. He has also been causing unwarranted obstructions and threatening some corporation officials. The official is unfit to hold the post. However, the civic body will overcome all obstacles and discharge its duties,” he said. V.P. Chandran, LDF leader in the council, said the corporation had not cared to improve its performance after taking into consideration the reports of the Local Fund Audit wing. Despite the reports pointing out flaws in the system, the civic authorities have not been willing to rectify them. K.J. Antony of the CPI(M) said the Mayor had lost her moral right to continue in office. The High Court had repeatedly reprimanded the civic administration for its various deeds, he added. Earlier, the LDF councillors exhibited placards inside the meeting hall and at the portico of the building, demanding the resignation of Mayor Soumini Jain and the Deputy Mayor for what they termed as “failure of the civic administration in addressing the needs of the city.” Security deposit The controversial agenda for returning the security deposit to the contractor of Rajeev Avas Yojana housing project was passed by the council through voting which was held late in the evening. The council decided to put the agenda for voting after the LDF asked for a head count. While the ruling front polled 23 votes, including the casting vote of the Mayor, the LDF polled 21 votes. The meeting was held at the Ernakulam Town Hall, probably the first such meeting held outside the corporation office. The venue of the meeting was shifted to the town hall in line with the physical distancing norms suggested by the Health authorities.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Commuters cry foul at cut in ferry services to Fort Kochi||Ferry commuters, especially those who relied on fast but cost-effective mode of commute to Fort Kochi, are among those severely hit by curtailment of trips by the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) following the pandemic situation. With numerous wards in West Kochi having been declared as containment zones, the department suspended operation of ferries to Fort Kochi a month ago. “We have considerably scaled down operations, with two ferries operating to Vypeen and another to Mulavukad,” said an SWTD official. The cancellation of services has resulted in regular commuters, most of them from economically-backward areas, having to share the autorickshaw fare to reach Thopumpady. They then take bus to reach the city, spending upwards of Rs. 30 per trip. They need to spend only Rs. 6 if ferries are available, said Govind Madhav Mallya, who relied on ferries to commute to the city till the lockdown. The SWTD has always given a step-motherly treatment to West Kochi commuters, while it operates adequate number of trips to Vypeen. It has also been citing doubtful reasons like shallow waterway for ferries not calling at the Mattancherry Jetty for over a year. The same department is operating ferries through similar waterways in Alappuzha, Mr. Mallya said. SWTD officials, on the other hand, explained how they were forced for curtail trips very often due to poor patronage. “Most ferries had hardly a dozen passengers, except during peak times. This resulted in total revenue from ticket fare falling from Rs. 75,000 during pre-COVID-19 days to around Rs. 10,000. This is one reason why the department is not operating Vega-120 , the fast ferry that operated in the Vaikom-Ernakulam-Fort Kochi sector,” they said. On its part, the department has readied hand-washing facilities at its terminals. The Fort Kochi-Vypeen (roll-on roll-off) ro-ro service too has been cancelled in view of containment zone regulations.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Teachers to be upskilled for effective online training||The online teaching and learning process amid the pandemic crisis has encouraged teachers and administrators under the General Education Department in Ernakulam to undertake capacity enhancement programmes for effective online teaching. A team of nearly 100 teachers, trainers, and administrators has joined a free coaching programme that will help them get trained in using audio-visual technologies and educational software towards online teacher professional development. “Each participant is given a task as part of the daily sessions. It may be coming up with an educational video or making short films for the benefit of students. They get adequate time to complete the task, which will be evaluated by experts offering the training programme,” said Gopakumar T.V., Principal, District Institute of Education Training. Need for support The need for such capacity building programmes emerged on the inference that many teachers required additional support and training to improve their online teaching methodologies. “The relevance of such training is not confined to the ongoing online learning mode, but it will help teachers scale up their potential even in traditional classrooms that had turned hi-tech with the introduction of smart technologies,” said Mr. Gopakumar. Usha Manatt, District Project Co-ordinator of Samagra Shiksha Kerala, said the online teaching and learning process that emerged following the COVID-19 crisis had prompted faculty members and resource persons to familiarise with the innovative tools available for better teaching and evaluation. “The classroom experience can be enhanced by adopting these techniques to improve student learning,” she added. The Education Department has plans to develop a team of teachers capable of providing better learning experience to students online. They will be training other teachers and resource persons as part of the forthcoming sessions. Teachers will also encourage students to join the interactive learning process in the coming days.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Register maintenance at shops loses steam||The practice of keeping registers at shop entrances to record details of customers for possible contact tracing seems to have lost steam, with several traders finding it difficult to ensure compliance. With merchants trying to cash in on Onam sales, the sight of visitors entering shops without providing their names, contact numbers, and places of stay has become common in Ernakulam. A major chunk of traders had started maintaining registers after the authorities tightened vigil in the wake of the worsening COVID-19 situation. However, shop owners now cite logistical hurdles and manpower shortage as reasons for failure to ensure compliance. “We can only hope that customers cooperate with us by entering their contact details properly in the registers. Only a few bother to do so,” said a retailer at Aluva. Traders pointed out that continued monitoring required additional manpower, which was not practical amid the festival season business. “Sales have already been hit by the pandemic crisis, and we cannot deploy people exclusively to ensure maintenance of registers,” said the manager of a bakery outlet at Edappally. Traders can alert the health authorities in case any customer turns positive. They can also alert others who had visited the shop and suggest necessary follow-up measures, if required. Online ledger system Meanwhile, Snehil Kumar Singh, Sub Collector, said the district administration had plans to introduce an online ledger system that would help traders collect details of visitors without using paper and pen. The finer details of the QR-code-based system are being worked out, he added. It is learnt that the pen-and-paper mode will be available along with the digital system to collect the details of those not having smartphones. The QR-code-based system will be an exact replica of the pen-and-paper mode, with customers requiring to fill in their names, contact numbers, and places of stay.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC for speedy disposal of case against ex-MLAs||The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that the case registered against some former LDF MLAs in connection with the destruction of properties inside the Assembly amidst the bedlam during the 2015 Budget session of the Assembly could not be kept on hold indefinitely. The court made the observation while disposing of a petition filed by M.T. Thomas of Kottayam and another person seeking a directive to the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram, to take a call on a petition filed by the government prosecutor to withdraw the case against the former MLAs. The court said that merely for the reason of filing an application for withdrawal, the case could not be kept on hold indefinitely. The Supreme Court had already issued directives to ensure speedy disposal of cases against sitting and former legislators. The court directed the magistrate court to take a final decision on the withdrawal applications in two months from the date on which the court resumed normal functioning. The prosecutor sought permission to withdraw the case against former LDF MLAs K. Ajith; V. Sivankutty; C.K. Sadasivan; K.T. Jaleel, who is now Higher Education Minister; K. Kunjammed; and E.P. Jayarajan, who is now Industries Minister.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NOC for assigned land: HC dismisses govt. plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by the State government against a single judge's directive to extend to the entire State the requirement of obtaining a no-objection certificate from the Revenue Department by owners of assigned land in Idukki district for getting building permits. The government in its appeal said that taking note of the environmental issue and indiscriminate constructions in Munnar, a single judge had ordered that NOC from the Revenue Department was mandatory for getting building permits for constructions on the assigned land. Later, the Idukki district administration had issued an order making a certificate from the village officer concerned as a condition for getting building permits in the district.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Virtual expo of start-ups gets good response||The ongoing virtual exhibition of technology start-ups organised by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) to provide a platform for industry to tap post-COVID-19 opportunities by leveraging products and services from the start-up ecosystem at affordable costs has received a good response, according to a communication. The five-day expo is aimed at augmenting opportunities for start-ups and connecting them to industry. The show features a wide array of products and services from edutech, fintech, and enterprise tech sectors. The best products required for educational institutions were on display on the first two days, followed by the turn of startups from fintech (Aug. 27) and enterprise technologies (Aug. 28 and 29) sectors. To view the exhibition, visit: https://business.startup   mission.in/demoday  from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Interactive platform||The third year students of the School of Engineering (SOE) at Cusat have launched an “SOE Uncut” initiative to bring back campus memories as students continue to be at their homes due to the pandemic crisis.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Surge continues in Ernakulam as 193 test positive||COVID-19 positive cases have continued to hover above the 150-mark in Ernakulam over the last four days. On Wednesday, 193 persons tested positive. The corresponding figures for August 23, 24, and 25 were 200, 165, and 163 respectively. As many as 41 of the 193 cases on Wednesday were in the age bracket of 20 to 30 years. Some places that reported cases above 10 included Cheranalloor, Thrikkakara, Fort Kochi, Vengola, and Varappetti, according to the Health Department. As many as 191 persons tested negative on Wednesday. The number of patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals stands at 1,971. The condition of seven patients being treated at the intensive care unit of the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, continues to be critical. Over 850 persons remain admitted at the 11 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district. Meanwhile, the district administration has asked traders in the Aluva market to comply with the regulations to contain the spread of the disease. All safety protocols should be followed. ‘Stretch timings’ Traders at the market urged the District Collector to stretch the daily timings when the market will be allowed to function in view of the possible increase in business ahead of Onam. A decision on their request will be taken after holding consultations with the police and Revenue officials as well as people’s representatives.
27 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Case tally in Kollam crosses 1,000 as 133 more test positive||The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district crossed 1,000 with 133 more persons, including two health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. While the number of recoveries is 58, around 20 new cases have been reported from Alappad. The health workers include a 53-year-old Ayalamon resident attached to Punalur Taluk Hospital and another 52-year-old Kuppana resident who has been working at the Community Health Centre. Kollam district currently has 13,190 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 43,244. While 383 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 14,623 primary and 4,774 secondary contacts of the cases. Kollam currently has 1,066 active cases and seven COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) at Valakam, Sasthamcotta, Chavara, Asramam, Vilakudy, Veliyam, and Chandanathope are functioning in the district. With the district reporting over 100 cases a day, the Health Department has recommended home isolation for asymptomatic patients. Positive cases coming in Category-A with no symptoms would be monitored at homes, said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. Training for caregiver The department will ensure that they have the required self-isolation facility at their residence while a caregiver (family member) will provide assistance and monitor the patient for the department. Children below the age of 10, elderly persons above the age of 60, expectant mothers, and those with other ailments will not be permitted to stay in the same house. The caregiver will be trained in using pulse oxymeter and daily reports will be taken and regular check-ups will be conducted. The patients will also be briefed on the need to take a balanced diet and lots of fluids. If the patients feel any kind of physical discomfort, they will be shifted to FLTCs. Those with no symptoms will be discharged after a week following an antigen test. The caregiver will also be required to take the test.
27 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Majority in UDF wants KC(M) Mani faction out||With a major section in the United Democratic Front (UDF) taking umbrage at the decision of the Kerala Congess (M) led by Jose K. Mani to abstain from the no-confidence motion against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, speculations are rife about the party moving out of the coalition. According to sources, a meeting of the UDF on September 3 is most likely to formalise the decision to expel the Mani group, except for any dramatic developments. The UDF, which is exasperated over the abstinence of two faction MLAs in the voting on the floor, is coordinating the move to oust the faction. The Mani group, on the other hand, appears unfazed considering that the coalition had already announced its decision to expel the party. “We had no other option as the UDF convener had already announced the decision to keep us out. Further, there was no initiative to bring us back into the coalition. Having ousted from the UDF, we were left with no option but to abstain from the proceedings,” said a Mani group leader. Move to LDF Meanwhile, a section in the Mani faction is keen on migrating to the LDF camp. A statement by N. Jayaraj, MLA, a Mani group leader, is regarded as a pointer to this. “The KC(M) need not have to learn anything about the political legacy of K.M. Mani from anyone else. The party has taken a stance which clearly upheld its political identity. It was the UDF which unilaterally ousted us from the coalition,” he said. The MLA also sought to dismiss a warning by the UDF convener that there would be no more softening of stance towards the faction. “Let time decide on whether the stance they had adopted towards us ever since the Pala byelection was indeed soft in nature,” he added.
27 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MG varsity to set up international campus||With a view to opening new satellite campuses and academic cities in districts such as Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, will soon approach the State government seeking land for establishing the facilities. A meeting of the Syndicate here on Wednesday decided to seek 100 acres of land for establishing an international campus within its jurisdiction, besides setting up satellite campuses in Ernakulam by establishing new study departments. The meeting, presided over by Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas, also decided to conduct a special examination for students who were unable to appear for the sixth semester examination owing to the deepening COVID-19 crisis. Further, a direction will be issued to the various self-financing colleges under the university to disburse the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff during the lockdown period.
27 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||137 cases in Kottayam||The strict containment measures imposed by the authorities notwithstanding, the number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam rose by 137 on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 134 persons, including a health worker at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, contracted the disease through local transmission. Kottayam municipality continued to lead the tally with 35 cases and of these, 27 cases belonged to the Mullankuzhy region. Kidangoor reported 14 cases, followed by Erattupetta and Thiruvarpp with nine cases each. As many as 58 persons recovered from the disease.
27 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation to go ahead with controversial bus terminal project||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation in its first ever online council meeting made several controversial decisions despite strong protest from opposition councillors. The first decision was to go ahead with the bus terminal project near the Government Medical College, which had been a headache to the corporation ever since the project was envisaged. Land acquisition process for the bus terminal began in 1998 and was dropped following protests by landowners. Later, land for the project was purchased by a private firm, Minfra Structures Pvt. Ltd., which put forth the proposal for the bus terminal before the corporation again. However, the State government had asked the Corporation to drop the project following a vigilance probe in 2009. The private firm procured an injunction order from the Kerala High Court against the government order. The corporation had asked Minfra to cancel the contract, but at the same time, it appealed to the State government to reconsider the order. The case is still on as the corporation has submitted a Statement of Facts before the court, but the return statement has not been filed yet. On Wednesday, the council decided to go ahead with the project on the ground that it would financially benefit the corporation. The opposition alleged that the project could not be taken forward with the objection from the State government in place. Row over official Councillors again locked horns over the extension of probation period for a corporation official who was under suspension for losing the bill books of tax collection earlier this year. Opposition councillors said that an erring official should not be allowed to continue especially when he was not a permanent staff of the corporation. The ruling front maintained that he had to be retained until investigation against him was completed and proven guilty. The meeting saw another heated debate over accepting the proposal of Probic Traders for setting up and maintaining basic infrastructure on S.M. Street. Opposition councillors protested against approving the proposal ‘without proper discussion’ in the council.
27 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 215 new cases||As many as 215 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode on Wednesday. Of them, 192 were local transmission cases. The district also recorded 150 recoveries. Thamarasseri has been newly included in the list of COVID clusters in the district. So far, 55 people have been tested positive here. In Malappuram A total of 352 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Wednesday, and 339 of them were found to have contracted the virus through local contacts. The source of infection could not be traced in 22 cases, including that of seven health workers. In Thrissur As many as 204 persons contracted COVID-19 in Thrissur on Wednesday. Among them, 192 were infected through local contacts. The source of infection of 25 persons could not be traced. Among the infected were 11 health workers. The district also reported 100 recoveries. There are now 1,183 active cases. As many as 8,555 people are under observation. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 86 persons tested positive on Wednesday. As many as 52 of them contracted the disease through local contacts. There were 66 recoveries. In Kannur As many as 128 more persons tested positive in Kannur. Of this, 109 contracted the disease through contact. In Kasaragod Kasaragod saw 101 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 90 people contracted the disease through contact. There are now 5,430 people under observation. In Wayanad As many as 30 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Wednesday. Among them, 22 contracted the virus through local transmission.
27 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Now, NRIs stranded in India want to fly back||Thousands of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) have been stranded in the country for nearly six months unable to join their jobs and families abroad even as India has made air bubbles with a few countries. The Ministry of Civil Aviation is flooded with inquiries about the request to fly out Indians who wanted to return to various destinations. However, normal operations will resume only when different governments ease their travel restrictions imposed on airlines, officials said. “We thought that the COVID-19 induced air travel restrictions would end in a few months. Now, we have been postponing our journey from March to July and now to September,” S. Vijayalekshmi, a visa holder, said. Some have come to India from GCC nations such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia on vacation. Many have requested even to visit UAE, which has eased travel restrictions, so that they could reach the other Arab countries. Now, they feel they will lose their jobs unless these countries lift the travel ban. Many others want to visit their relatives for emergency health cases. “Those expatriates who have stayed back have been lucky in one sense instead of returning to India due to the pandemic,” R.Rajesh, an NRI said. As of now, India has signed air bubbles which are bilateral agreements between countries to resume international flights under certain conditions, with UAE, Qatar, United States, France, United Kingdom, Germany, and the Maldives. Talks are on with Bahrain, Singapore, Japan, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Italy, Nigeria, Kenya, Russia, and the Philippines. Under the Vande Bharat Mission, about 11.60 lakh Indians stranded in various countries have returned and 1.66 lakh have flown out. At the same time, some companies have allowed their employees to work from home. However, many are desperate to fly back although some countries have started relaxing air travel restrictions for foreigners. The United Arab Emirates has allowed resident permit holders and valid visa holders to enter that country subjected to conditions including the passenger possessing a valid negative COVID-19 PCR test not more than 96 hours before the departure or undergo a COVID-19 test at the airports. Besides, an approval from the General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs is also required.
27 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Justice sought for rape survivor||Two days after the rape of a 21-year-old girl was reported from Vellimadukunnu in Kozhikode, several human rights activists have called for increased alert from the public to ensure justice for the survivor who is allegedly intellectually challenged, and from a poor family. Activist Baiju Merikkunnu, who had raised the issue, claimed that the girl was made to sit outside the Chavayur police station for hours on Tuesday and that she was not taken to a hospital for a test as soon as the incident came into light on Monday. Also, the accused, who was taken into police custody on Monday, was not produced in court until 11 a.m. on Tuesday.  The group of activists, including Bindu Ammini, Shoukathali Eroth, Mahesh Sastri, and Jabeena Irshad has demanded that the police conduct a test of the survivor as soon as possible to find out whether she is intellectually challenged.
27 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Dharna staged against ‘contrived fire’||BJP zonal vice president K.K. Surendran on Wednesday alleged a high-level conspiracy behind the fire that broke out in the office of the Protocol Officer at the Secretariat. “It is a conspiracy chalked out by the CPI(M) leadership and the Chief Minister to save the Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel from the gold smuggling case,” Mr. Surendran said. He was inaugurating a BJP dharna in front of the village office at Changaramkulam.
27 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta caseload at 796 with 180 additions||The number of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta reported a sharp rise with 180 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Adding to the concerns, two more patients from the district succumbed to the disease during the day taking the total number of deaths to fourteen. These deaths have not been added to the official death toll of the State so far. The persons who succumbed to the infection were identified as a 72-year-old Thiruvalla native and a 68-year-old Kaippattur native. Heart disease The 72-year-old had been undergoing treatment for a heart disease and was tested positive in a Truenat test after death. The 68-year-old, on the other hand, had serious kidney problems. He too tested positive during a Truenat test after death. With these latest cases, the fatality rate in Pathanamthitta rose to 0.49. Of the local contact cases, as many as 77 cases were linked to the Kadakkadu cluster while the clusters at Kadambanad and Nellad too remained active. The district now has 796 active cases.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||461 new cases in capital||The district reported 461 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, even as the death toll rose to 76 with 12 more recent deaths attributed to the disease. Local transmission accounted for 445 of the new cases. The 12 deceased included eight men and four women aged between 26 and 85 from Palode, Parassala, Chirayinkeezhu, Karakkamandapam, Vattavila, Uriyakkode, Chenkal, Veliyannoor, Puliyanthole, Vattiyoorkavu, Puthukurichi, and Poovar. All of them had passed away in recent days. Wednesday’s caseload Wednesday’s COVID-19 caseload included patients from across the district, including coastal areas and the regions adjoining the border with Tamil Nadu. Kulathur reported 11 cases while Panachumoodu, Karamana and Poovachal reported 10 cases each. Other areas included Venganoor, Nellimoodu, and Parassala, 9 each, Ooruttambalam, 8, Vallakadavu, 7, Amaravila, 6, and Poonkulam and Balaramapuram 5 each. Meanwhile, 106 of the 115 prisoners at the Central Prison, Poojappura, tested negative on Wednesday during antigen tests for prisoners who had earlier tested positive. Thirty-five prison staff also tested negative, the Prisons Department said. Containment zones Containment zones have been declared at Lakshmi Nagar and Chaitanya Gardens in Kesavadasapuram ward and Rajaji Nagar in Thampanoor ward of the Corporation. The other new containment zones are Vadakkanad, Makkamkonam, Vedakkala and Kallidukku in Mylackal ward of Nellanad panchayat, and Pulimamkode ward of Perunkadavila panchayat. The district administration has announced further relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions in the coastal areas. Adhering to the pandemic protocol, shops can function till 7 p.m. People who have recovered or tested negative will be granted permission to travel subject to conditions. Recovered patients should obtain a certificate signed by the medical officer, primary health centre. People who have tested negative should obtain a certificate from the testing centre. This certificate will be valid for seven days from the day of test. However, people in primary contact lists will not be allowed to travel until the quarantine period ends. Minister in quarantine Minister A.C. Moideen has gone into quarantine after ten staff members tested positive. The Minister has tested negative, a member of his staff said. The fifth floor of Secretariat Annexe-1, where his office is situated, has been closed down for disinfection. Meanwhile, the police have decided to step up COVID-related inspections in view of Onam. Additional motorcycle and foot patrols will be deployed, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protest marches turn violent||Pitched street battles unfolded in the State capital for the second day on Wednesday as Opposition parties and their feeder organisations threw caution to the wind amid the COVID-19 pandemic to take on the government over the fire incident at the Secretariat. Alleging a bid to destroy evidence in the gold smuggling case, the United Democratic Front (UDF), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and other outfits marched to the Secretariat seeking an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation and other agencies into the incident. In anticipation of the protests, the police put the Secretariat under tight security. The series of protests got under way with a march taken out by the UDF, which observed a Statewide ‘black day’. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala inaugurated the demonstration. Signalling a shift in the tone of protests, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) protesters attempted to topple the barricades, prompting the police to use water cannon. Soon, Yuva Morcha workers toppled the barricades and attempted to enter Cantonment Road, which led the police to use water cannon and fire tear gas shells at the protesters. The youth activists were soon joined by senior leaders of the BJP, including P.K. Krishnadas, V.V. Rajesh and S. Suresh, who later led a protest meeting. Later, the Youth League, Kerala Students Union (KSU) and Youth Congress took out demonstrations, all of which resulted in violence. Meanwhile, the Cantonment police registered eight cases in connection with the clashes outside and within the Secretariat as the fire raged in the building on Tuesday. Eight BJP workers, including State president K. Surendran, were booked for allegedly attempting to barge into the Secretariat and obstruct police officials from undertaking their responsibility. In another case, V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, was charged for violating the COVID-19 protocol. Over 50 demonstrators have been booked by the police.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KAS prelims results out||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) on Wednesday published the results of the preliminary examinations conducted for the Kerala Administrative Services (KAS). The examinations were held for three streams in February this year. The results of streams 1 and 2, for the officer (junior time scale) post, have now been published on the PSC website. As many as 2,160 have been included from stream 1 and 1,048 from stream 2 in the preliminary list. The valuation was completed by redeploying the available staff, by facing all COVID-19 distancing norms. Those who want to opt for revaluation or need a copy of the OMR answer sheet should apply within 15 days. The mains examination will be held in the Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode regions on November 20 and 21. The syllabus for the mains examination, published in February, is available on the PSC website.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. passes resolution against leasing of airport||The city Corporation council on Wednesday passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to award the running of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Limited. The resolution demanded that the airport management should either be under a public-private partnership arrangement or be retained under the control of the Airports Authority of India. Councillors of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) opposed the resolution, while those of the United Democratic Front (UDF) supported it. Presenting the resolution at the council meeting, Mayor K.Sreekumar said the Centre’s decision to lease the airport to a private company for 50 years was taken without considering the wishes of the people or the objections put forward by the State government. “Five of the country’s most important airports have been handed over to the same company raising suspicion. The State government had said it is ready to match the amount quoted by Adani Enterprises. The successful PPP models in Kannur and Kochi airports could have been replicated here too. Many people and the government have handed over land for the airport’s expansion. This decision is part of the BJP government’s agenda of selling off all public sector companies,” the Mayor said. BJP councillor M.R. Gopan said the Left Democratic Front was displaying double standards by opposing Adani on one hand and hiring a law firm with Adani’s relatives as partners for legal vetting of the bid in the other. UDF councillor D.Anilkumar said the UDF would support the resolution but it cannot turn a blind eye to the State government’s failure in ensuring that Adani did not win the airport bid. “The UDF has right from the beginning supported the State government’s stand regarding the airport. But it did not take enough care in the steps to win the bid,” he said. CPI councillor Solomon Vettukad said the less number of flights from the airport had been used as a reason to push for privatisation, but the Airports Authority of India was responsible for this, and not the State government. Tharoor draws flak He also criticised Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for taking a stand in support of privatisation. UDF councillor Peter Solomon said the fight against privatisation should go beyond the mere passing of a resolution. He said all councillors should take a united stand on the issue of privatisation of the airport. The Mayor declared the resolution passed amid uproar from the BJP councillors.  This decision is part of the BJP government’s agenda of selling off all public sector companies K.Sreekumar Mayor
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||August sees spurt in COVID-19 deaths||As COVID-19 progresses into the fourth week of August, what is starkly evident is the mortality rate has been on a steady ascend through the month. While the number of cases has been going up steadily since July, a proportionate spike in deaths is expected. The number of deaths in the State seems to have more than doubled in a period of two weeks. If 29 deaths were reported in the State between August 1 and 7, the figure rose to 64 in the week from August 15 to 21. The number of cases went up from 8,087 between August 1 and 7 to 9,577 between August 8 and 14 and to 12,905 between August 15 and 21. Testing also went up during this period, from 1.67 lakh to 1.84 lakh in the second week to 2.26 lakh in the third week  Test positivity rate With the test positivity rate (number of people who test positive amongst all those tested) continuing to remain way over the desirable 5% in Thiruvananthapuram (9.3), Ernakulam (8.5), Malappuram (13.3), Kottayam (5.2) and Kasaragod (7.7), as it did in the second week of the month, these districts have been asked to increase testing judiciously by focussing on testing influenza like illness (ILI) cases and people with symptoms by engaging the private sector better. Test positivity is hovering around the 5% in Kannur (4.8), Pathanamthitta (4.6) and Alappuzha (4.2). In all districts except Idukki, Palakkad, and Kozhikode, the TPR went up in the third week of August when compared with the previous week. In comparison to the previous week, the doubling time for cases reduced in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Thrissur. Cluster containment Malappuram, Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kottayam have been directed to focus on rigorous cluster containment strategies. Containment activities should be intensified in Pathanamthitta, Kollam, Thrissur, and Kannur districts, where cases increased in the third week as compared to the previous week. The department has asked all districts to focus on adopting extra preparedness measures ahead of Onam and to ensure that the COVID-19 protocol is in place in all shops and establishments and markets where people are likely to congregate.  If 29 deaths were reported between August 1 and 7, the figure rose to 64 from August 15 to August 21.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,000 Onasamrudhi markets across State||The State has achieved remarkable progress in increasing the area under vegetable cultivation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after the online inauguration of 2,000 Onasamrudhi markets opened by the Agriculture Department for Onam. Vegetable production has risen from 6.5 lakh tonnes from 46,000 hectares to 12.75 lakh tonnes from 96,000 hectares. Of the 2,000 markets, 1,350 are run by the Agriculture Department, while the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) are operating 500 and 150 outlets respectively. Subsidised rates The markets will be on till August 30. Agricultural produce procured at a 10% higher price from farmers will be sold to customers at 30% subsidised rates. Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)-certified vegetables and fruits procured from farmers at a 20% higher price will be sold at a 10% discount to the consumers. Vegetable and fruit kits costing Rs. 100 and Rs. 150 also will be available at the markets. Kerala has achieved self-sufficiency in the production of many of the vegetables, Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar, who presided, said. All 2,000 markets will follow COVID-19 protocols as well as green protocol.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ruling front invokes history to ‘make sense of Oppn. stir’||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday referred to two historical events separated by time and geography in an attempt to make the current spate of agitations against the government intelligible to its political base. Reichstag fire LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan mentioned the Reichstag fire in Germany in 1933. The nascent Nazi government led by Adolf Hitler had blamed the fire in the German Parliament on communists. The lie helped the Nazis eject communists from the Parliament and consolidate their power over Germany. Mr. Vijayaraghavan drew an analogy between the Reichstag fire and the actions of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the wake of the “accidental and inconsequential” blaze at the Secretariat on Tuesday. He said that both the parties had embraced extreme conspiracy theories to discredit the government when all else, including the no-confidence motion against the LDF government, had failed. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had called on Governor Arif Mohammad Khan merely to use the optics of the high-profile late-night visit to Raj Bhavan to imply that something was amiss with the LDF government, he said. False theories In tandem with BJP State president K. Surendran, Mr. Chennithala has promoted the false theory that an imaginary cabal of economic offenders and other dark forces controlled the LDF government, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said. Equating the Congress and the BJP, Mr, Vijayaraghavan said that both the parties had no alternative policies to present to the people. Hence, they were peddling conspiracy theories. The LDF also felt the Congress and the BJP have adopted the tactics used by the proponents of the so-called “Liberation Struggle” that led to the dismissal of the EMS government in 1957. The parties have tried to marshal revanchist and fundamentalist forces to their fold. The LDF felt the “Congress-BJP cooperation” was a precursor of an electoral arrangement in the coming local body elections that is to be held later this year as well as the Assembly elections that is to be held in 2021. The pact would serve only to undermine the United Democratic Front, the LDF felt.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Pratheeksha’ ready for launch||Pratheeksha, the first fully equipped marine ambulance of the Fisheries Department, is ready for rescue operations at sea. Built by Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL), the vessel — the first of three ordered by the State — will be commissioned on Thursday and stationed at Vizhinjam. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate Pratheeksha via videoconference. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will preside over the function. Medical care The marine ambulance is equipped to provide medical care to 10 persons at a time. It will have paramedical staff as part of its crew and will be assisted by four sea rescue squads. The marine ambulance also has modern life-saving equipment, medicine stocks, and a portable mortuary. Work on the remaining two marine ambulances is nearing completion. The launching ceremony of Prathyasha and Karunya, as the vessels are named, too would be held on Thursday. A long-pending dream of fishers would turn a reality with the inauguration of the marine ambulance, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said. On an average, 30 fishers lost their lives every year to accidents at sea. The State government had inked an agreement with the CSL for the construction of three marine ambulances at a total cost of Rs. 18.24 crore, she added. The vessels are 23 metres long with a draught of three metres. Each of them is powered by two 700 HP Scania engines and is capable of touching 14 knots. The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), Kochi, provided the technical advice for building the ambulances.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Desperate times call for stopgap jobs||Sreekanth had a flourishing career as a sound engineer with an audiovisual company for the past two decades. But, for the past two months, he has been selling homemade biryani and parotta from the boot of his Alto car, parked near a quiet corner of the road near Raj Bhavan here. “All my work got blocked after the pandemic struck. My wife used to run a women’s hostel in a rented building at Vazhayila. Now, all residents have gone home. We still have to pay rent and repay the car loan. After the first lockdown, we thought we could try selling homemade food to make some money. I usually bring 20-30 biryanis and 10 parotta-chicken combo packs and sell most of them between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.,” says Sreekanth. COVID-19 has forced a large number of people to look for alternative revenue sources for survival. Desperate to stay afloat, quite a few have taken to hawking everything from masks to fruits and cooked food on streets. Rafeeq from Balaramapuram has been teaching Arabic at a school in Ernakulam for the past many years. With schools remaining closed, he and a young relative are selling cashew nuts and dates, with his car as the makeshift shop.  Sivankutty from Nedumangad has worked all his life in tea shops and restaurants. When the restaurant at Thozhuvancode closed down for a second time during the pandemic, he began selling pineapple in city streets. “I buy pineapples from a farm in Nedumangad. I have hired an autorickshaw for Rs. 250 a day and a driver for Rs. 300, since I cannot drive due to my disabilities. I hardly make any profit, but this pittance is better than nothing,” says Sivankutty. Radhakrishnan has been running a shop selling steel plates and lamps in Sabarimala for the past two decades. The business took a turn for the worse following the floods of 2018 and the violence that followed the Supreme Court verdict. With the pandemic making business impossible, he came back to his home town to sell the seasonal tropical fruit Rambutan. “I had spent several lakhs to get the annual contract for the shop. After getting deep in debts, I had to sell my three-storey house in Poojappura to repay it. Now this meagre profit allows the family to survive, but nothing more than that,” says Radhakrishnan. Succour in apples Nabin, an autorickshaw driver based in Chala, has now turned an apple seller, working on daily wages under a wholesaler. “Even though autorickshaws have now been allowed to ply, hardly anyone hails a ride due to the fear of the virus. This apple business gives me similar profits. So, I thought I will stick with this for some time,” says Nabin.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special team begins probe into cause of fire||A special team led by Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham on Wednesday attempted to address the central question whether the fire at the Secretariat on Tuesday was an act of sabotage, negligence or accident. The team, which has forensic experts and fire investigators on board, would attempt to understand the origin and cause of the blaze in the coming days. The investigators will try to identify the point of ignition and attempt to trace the fire-flow path in a bid to find out whether it was an act of arson. Mr. Abraham will also look into the fire safety practices followed at the Secretariat. The Electrical Inspectorate is also involved in the safety audit alongside the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). The Cabinet, which met here on Wednesday under the stewardship of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, reportedly took a severe view of the fire and the attempt to politicise the incident. It tasked Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose to improve the security at the Secretariat. By one account, the Cabinet expressed dismay that the police and security officers at the Secretariat had not protected Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta “for close to 30 minutes” when he ventured out of the office to persuade protesters to quit the premises. The Cabinet commended Mr. Mehta for trying to appease protesters who trespassed on the Secretariat grounds. The government stressed the need to improve the perimeter security of the building. It also called for higher vetting of staff and visitors. The council also assessed the fire safety of the Secretariat. The Fire and Rescue Services had earlier found the 19th century vintage Secretariat building a fire risk. It had also found that most of the fire hydrants around the sprawling edifice were defunct. ‘Not much lost’ The meeting also reportedly noted that it had given the files and video footage sought by the National Investigation Agency in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The records lost in the fire were those pertaining to the booking of rooms in government guest houses via the General Administration Department (GAD). The files had back-ups on the computer, and nothing of consequence was lost, it was said at the Cabinet meeting. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala requested Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to call for records sought by Central agencies probing the gold smuggling case. In a letter to Mr Khan, Mr Chennithala said a mysterious fire in the Secretariat appeared to be an act of sabotage to prevent the investigators from confiscating the incriminating documents.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEP a retrograde move, says Prabhat Patnaik||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 presents a retrograde and exclusionary vision of education. The policy seeks to homogenise education that is necessary to form a labour market to cater to capitalistic needs, academician and economist Prabhat Patnaik has said. Prof. Patnaik, who is chairing a six-member committee constituted by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) to study the impacts of the policy, was delivering the keynote address in a conclave on ‘Higher education reforms under NEP 2020’ organised by the council on Wednesday. According to him, despite interesting suggestions on early career grooming and multidisciplinarity in universities, the policy fails because it neglects socio-economic factors in the sphere of education. It also tries to impose bourgeois notions of excellence upon educational institutions. The policy views education as an aid to the creation of a knowledge economy, he said. “For this, it wants world-class institutions that are clones of the Universities of Harvard and Oxford. However, education in a country like ours cannot be identical with education in an advanced country.” ‘Could lead to chaos’ Inaugurating the discussions, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said the proposal to provide colleges with powers to grant degrees could lead to academic chaos. Shakila T. Shamsu, Officer on Special Duty (NEP) at the Higher Education Department of the Ministry of Education, said the policy provisions pave the way for greater learner engagement by accepting that the capacities of students vary.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Council meet witnesses proxy attendance||The city Corporation council meeting online on Wednesday witnessed a case of proxy attendance, when a councillor’s husband attended the meeting in her place. The meeting was held with a few councillors and the Mayor present at the council hall and the rest attending it through an online platform to ensure physical distancing norms. Visible on screen When the meeting had completed around two hours, Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar pointed out that instead of BJP councillor Maya Rajendran, her husband Rajendran Nair, a former councillor from the same ward, was attending it. He was visible on the screen too. The Mayor enquired whether the councillor was present, following which the account user logged off the meeting.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LIFE project: duty waiver for land||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive the stamp duty and registration fee for the land purchased by landless, homeless families and local bodies for the LIFE housing project.  It decided to appoint Jaffer Malik as Managing Director, Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala with additional charge of CEO, Smart City, Kochi. V. Ratheesan, Executive Officer, Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, will be given additional charge of MD, Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank. P.K. Sudheer Babu, who retired as Kottayam District Collector, has been appointed Managing Director, Kerala Health Research and Welfare Society.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree Onam markets till August 31||The Kudumbashree will organise nearly 1,000 Onam markets across the State till August 31. The Onam markets aim at providing commodities at reasonable rates. The Kudumbashree expects a turnover of Rs. 10 crore from the Onam sales this year. Focus will be on community development society (CDS)-level fairs under the umbrella of the Kudumbashree district missions. Accordingly, the fairs will be held in 941 grama CDSs and 124 urban CDSs. The markets are being organised by the marketing wing of the Kudumbashree State mission. Besides making available pesticide-free fruits and vegetables grown by its joint liability farming groups and food products of good quality made by Kudumbashree microentrepreneurs at reasonable rates, the markets will fetch the neighbourhood groups members a good income.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stage, contract carriages get waiver in road tax||Stage and contract carriages registered in the State have been fully exempted from paying motor vehicle tax for the quarterly period beginning July 1. The Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday gave the nod for the proposal mooted by the Transport Department. The waiver was one of the main demands put forward by the Joint Action Committee of private bus operators, the apex body of various associations of bus operators. Educational buses The Cabinet also decided to exempt educational institution buses in the State from remitting the motor vehicle tax for six months from April 1 to September in view of the closure of the educational institutions due to pandemic-induced lockdown.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to strengthen e-governance in Agri dept.||The Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a Rs. 12-crore project for strengthening e-governance in the Agriculture Department. Although the department had launched the project in 2019, paucity of funds had slowed down its implementation. The money has been sanctioned now under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. A full-fledged Agricultural Information Management System (AIMS) and a comprehensive online database on farmers in the State are important components of the project.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vijayamohini Mills employees plan protest||The employees of Vijayamohini Mills in Thiruvananthapuram, one of the 23 spinning mills of the National Textile Corporation, will go on an indefinite strike from Thursday onwards, demanding the opening of the mills that have remained closed for the past six months. All major trade unions, including the CITU, INTUC and the BMS, will join the protest.
27 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Public comfort station opened||Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar on Wednesday inaugurated the renovated Sulabh public comfort station at the General Hospital junction. Special toilet facilities for differently abled persons have also been added to the comfort station.
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training for Civil Services aspirants||The Kerala State Civil Service Academy has started the training programme for the 2020-21 batch of students preparing for the Civil Services examination. Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta will handle the online orientation class on Thursday. Senior IAS officers will take sessions on September 3 and 4, followed by online classes on elective subjects from September 7.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Entrepreneurs’ ire||
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Verdant hope||
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting back to normal||
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pay revision for medical college doctors||Pay revision of faculty in the Medical Education Service in the Medical, Dental, Nursing, Pharmacy and non-Medical divisions, a long-pending demand that brought the medical fraternity to the verge of a strike in recent weeks, was approved by the State Cabinet on Wednesday. The pay revision will be implemented with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016. The Cabinet has also decided to continue the non-practising allowance (NPA) and Patient Care Allowance (PCA), which were being given to doctors in Medical and Dental divisions. The previous pay revision for faculty in the Medical Education Service was implemented in 2006. The next pay revision should have ideally happened in the next 10 years. The professional associations of medical college faculty were quite unhappy about this.
27 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurses seek regularisation of services||The contract nursing staff of the Government General Hospital in Anantapur on Wednesday abstained from work for some time and staged a dharna on the premises of the hospital seeking regularisation of their services as promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his election campaign. The contract and outsourced nursing staff have been attending duties wearing black badges in all hospitals for the past three days. On Wednesday, they came out of the hospital holding placards to voice their concerns. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy in a video message to the Chief Minister reminded him of his promise of regularisation of the contract employees while he was in the opposition. “We have been working in the hospital like other staff members for more than a decade and in some cases even two decades with a hope that our services would be regularised,” said a nurse.
27 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire at GGH destroys records; all COVID patients safe||Fire broke out in the record room of the Infectious Diseases Ward of the Government General Hospital here at midnight of Tuesday creating panic among COVID-19 patients housed there. However, all the patients, numbering 32, were shifted to other wards in the hospital. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and brought the fire under control. Hospital Superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik told The Hindu that old records, stored in the room, were destroyed in the fire. Even the wooden main door of the record room got burnt and the fire extinguishers at the hospital premises were of no use and none even tried to use them as they ran out and called the fire service personnel. “All the oxygen cylinders, ventilators and medical equipment housed in the ID Ward were also immediately shifted," Dr. Ramaswamy said. Assistant Collector G. Surya Sai Praveenchand, who is the OSD of the hospital, rushed to the spot and monitored the operation. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu along with his police personnel also extended help. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, visited the hospital in the early hours of Wednesday and took stock of the situation. “The records that were piled for the past 10 years touched the electrical panel. Owing to excessive use of ventilators and other electrical equipment, panels got heated up and led to the burning of papers," said Dr. Ramaswamy.
27 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur police get technology award||Anantapur Range DIG Kanthi Rana Tata and SP B. Satya Yesu Babu received the Digital Technology Sabha awards for developing two innovative Applications, ‘Home Quarantine’ and ‘High Alert’. In a release, they said that the announcement was made on Tuesday from New Delhi. The Home Quarantine app was designed for the COVID-19 patients so that they do not stray out of the quarantine facilities, while the High Alert app helps to alert the police in the event of law and order issues anywhere in the district. A simple message on the app alerts to the police personnel concerned so that they can get into action.
27 August 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress, TDP trade barbs over construction near Thotlakonda||Thotlakonda, the Buddhist monastery which had flourished some 2,000 years ago, is in the news for the wrong reasons with the ruling YSR Congress Party government and the Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) engaged in a war of words over taking up construction near it. The State government has announced its decision to construct a State guest house near Thotlakonda. The TDP and other Opposition parties like the Jana Sena Party (JSP) launched a tirade against the government that the move would result in destruction of the historical monument. While the government claims that the proposed guest house site is at least 1 km away from the protected site and therefore does not pose any threat to it, the TDP seems to be in no mood to listen. The ruling party leaders are quick to retort that the TDP government had allocated the same site for other purposes in the past. ‘Violation of Act’ Meanwhile, former bureaucrat and social activist E.A.S. Sarma, who had opposed construction activities at Thotlakonda during the TDP regime also, expressed anguish at the plans of the State government to construct a housing complex and a VIP guest house in 30 acres within Survey no. 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village, near the Thotlakonda Buddhist site. Mr. Sarma said that all the lands fall within S. No. 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village, which was notified vide G.O. no 627 dt. 2/5/1978, issued under the AP Ancient and Historical Monuments, Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960. Any plan to divert any part of the land for other purposes would amount to violating the provisions of the Act, he said.  “Our government is committed to the protection of heritage sites. The proposed guest house is more than 1 km away from the protected site. We are planning Vipasana meditation and Buddhist activity at the protected site to draw tourists from the Buddhist countries,” says Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. “We had restored a Maha Stupa at Thotlakonda, which collapsed earlier this year due to rains, at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, which shows our commitment to its protection,” he says. The dome-shaped Maha stupa (main stupa) is built on a raised platform, with steps to climb on to the platform. A circular Chaityagriha (prayer hall), a congregation hall, a kitchen and dining hall are some of the structures discovered at the site. The relics found at the site include: votive stupas, maha stupa, viharas, Roman silver coins, sculpted panels, Buddha padas and symbols of early pottery.
27 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cellphones worth Rs. 6 cr. stolen in filmy style||In a filmi style, a gang of highway robbers allegedly made away with a consignment of about 7,500 mobiles of Xiaomi brand worth about Rs. 6 crore, after intercepting a container and assaulting its driver, before decamping with the booty in a lorry. The container was found abandoned near Nagari near the Tamil Nadu border. According to information, the container bound to Mumbai left the Xiaomi factory at Sriperambudur in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday night. The gang allegedly intercepted the vehicle by parking a lorry across the Puttur-Chennai National Highway. When the container driver, identified as Iqbal, alighted from the vehicle to clear the blockade, the gang allegedly pounced on him, tied him up and reportedly dumped him in the container. The gang members then drove the container towards Nagari, crossing into Chittoor district, while the lorry trailed the vehicle. After reaching the outskirts of Nagari, the gang allegedly shifted eight boxes of cellphones from the container into the lorry and fled, abandoning the vehicle with some goods on the road. The injured driver came to his senses on Wednesday afternoon and rushed to the Nagari police station. Mr. Iqbal reportedly told the police that he was threatened with a revolver, when he tried to resist the attack by the gang members.  CCTV footage Circle-Inspector (Nagari rural) M. Rajasekhar told The Hindu that they were verifying the CCTV camera footage gathered from the national highway and the CLUES team was on the job. “The loss of property would be ascertained after thorough investigation and recording the statement of the company personnel. Special teams have been formed to search for the elusive lorry carrying the booty and the accused,” he said.
27 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wanted man nabbed||A special team of the Chittoor sub-division police on Wednesday nabbed a 30-year-old man, accused in the murder of a woman medical practitioner of Pulicharla mandal, and seized gold ornaments and a two-wheeler from him. Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy said Viswanath of Moravavaddipalle village of Piler mandal, a habitual offender, had sneaked into the house of the deceased, Krishnaveni (50), at KK Peta village of Pulicharla mandal on July 20 night, and allegedly committed the murder for gain, by slitting her throat. A police team that had been on the trail of the accused since 35 days nabbed the accused at Kommireddigaripalle village under Pakala police circle limits, while he was moving suspiciously on the Chittoor-Piler road. The police seized the gold chain and bangles weighing 56 gm, reportedly stolen from the deceased woman, apart from other gold jewellery weighing 100 gm suspected to have stolen during chain-snatching and house break-ins under Pakala, Chittoor Urban and Renigunta police station limits. The accused was produced before the local court at Pakala, and was remanded in custody.
27 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha seized, one held||The police on Wednesday seized gutkha and pan masala products worth about Rs. 1 lakh from a house at Janda Matam locality of Palamaner town and arrested a youth Alisha Peera (22). According to the police, the youth allegedly used to procure banned tobacco products from Karnataka and make a profit by supplying them to some traders in Palamaner. The police said that surveillance was mounted on the Chittoor-Bengaluru highway to check smuggling of banned products into the district.
27 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police intervene to ensure victim’s funeral||The Palamaner police and municipal staff on Tuesday night defused a tense situation at a village on the outskirts of the town when a group of residents objected to cremating the body of a farmer, who reportedly died of COVID-19, at a field owned by his family members. The man was shifted to a Tirupati hospital a few days ago when he showed signs of the virus. He died while undergoing treatment on Tuesday. When the family members tried to cremate the body in their field, neighbours took objection to their decision. Municipal Commissioner (Palamaner) Vijayasimha Reddy and Circle Inspector M. Jayaramaiah took steps to arrange the cremation at a piece of vacant land nearby that belonged to the revenue department. Cases increasing With as many as 20 COVID-19 positive cases getting registered in Palamaner municipality in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 342, including 12 casualties, it led to an uneasy situation among the residents. Testing intensified The COVID-19 task force officials said that rapid tests had been intensified at the area hospital at Palamaner and the primary health centres as well, covering the urban limits.
27 August 2020||DOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||The trials and tribulations of Godavari delta||The Godavari delta has, of course, earned the sobriquet of the rice bowl of Andhra Pradesh. But, many are oblivious to the series of tribulations it has endured during the journey of becoming the backbone of the State’s agrarian economy. The famine that ravaged the delta in 1830s and how the vision of Sir Arthur Thomas Cotton, a British general and irrigation engineer, to build an anicut at Dowleswaram, which not only solved the woes of the perennial flood but also made the delta a prosperous agricultural zone, is quite a history.  Saga of resilience The oil paintings in the museum built in the honour Sir Arthur Thomas Cotton at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district tell the stories. And the credit goes two painter brothers from Dowleswaram– Ganta Rama Rao and Ganta Raja Gopal—who vividly depicted on the canvass the saga of endurance and resilience by taking inspiration from the written history. In 1987, the Irrigation Department planned to set up a photo gallery at the museum on the history of the anicut and the role of Sir Arthur Cotton in building it. In May that year, the museum was inaugurated. The construction of the anicut began in April 1847 and the Dowleswaram anicut was ready by March 1852, suggests ‘Delta Silpi- Arthur Cotton’ written by Gummaluru Satyanarayana.  Anicut in the making Twenty-two and odd oil paintings take the visitors to the period of Godavari famine when babies were sold in the streets, hunger and deprivation ruled the roost and migration was the order of the day. They narrate the stories of how the Dowleswaram anicut was built—Sir Arthur Cotton surveying the Godavari, workers carrying machinery and material, and more. “We made these paintings based on the written history and the records of the Irrigation Department. I assisted my brother Ganta Rama Rao all through. He died a few years ago,” Mr. Raja Gopal (62) told The Hindu . As three paintings made by Rama Rao in late 1980s got damaged and Mr. Raja Gopal was assigned by the Irrigation Department to recreate them. Pagadala Madana Gopal, a senior officer of the Irrigation Department, launched the project. “Having acquaintance with the project, the officials asked me early this year to recreate the damaged paintings that depicted work at the site of anicut, digging up wells and Lady Cotton teaching children of the workers. I have completed them,” says Mr. Raja Gopal. Mr. Raja Gopal, a matriculate by academic standard, is now working as a painter in the Irrigation Department and he is on a two-year extension of service. “Creating this visual gallery is quite memorable for our family. I am eager to paint more about the history of Godavari irrigation system and Sir Arthur Cotton,” adds Mr. Raja Gopal.
27 August 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Pradesh tastes a sweet success||Andhra Pradesh has occupied the top slot in banana cultivation in India. From a mere 79,360 hectares in 2015, the acreage increased to 1,03,728 hectares in 2018-19. The production saw an increase from 62,23,680 metric tonnes (MT) in 2018-19 from 34,87,308 MT in 2015. The government has identified banana as one of the growth engine crops due to its contribution to the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The quality production has increased significantly due to adoption of modern technology such as fruit-care activities in the cultivation. Farmers’ Producers Organisations (FPOs) have been promoting banana. The area under drip in banana has increased from 0.45 lakh hectares during 2014-15 to 0.79 lakh hectares during 2018-19. Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary says that the proactive steps taken by the department are yielding results. Area under cultivation of banana has increased from 0.79 lakh ha during 2014-15 to 1.03 lakh ha during 2018-19 with a steep increase in productivity from 44 tonnes to 60 tonnes. The production has recorded substantial growth due to promotion of tissue culture labs, micro-irrigation and fertigation. These initiatives have helped in the increase of tissue culture area from 20% of the total area during 2014-15 to 50% during 2018-19, he says. Fruit train The Commissioner, who recently received Banana Export Promotion Award 2020 from the ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), says the State Pradesh flagged off India’s first ‘Fruit train (banana)’ from Tadipatri to the Gateway Port (JNPT) for exports during 2019-20. It exported 11,000 MTs of banana through 11 consignments . “The government is now targeting exports of 75,000 MT during 2020-21,” he says. The department has roped in six corporate firms to collaborate with the local farmers. The objective is to enhance the productivity, quality of produce, post-harvest treatment and packing, providing market linkage and ensuring higher prices , he adds.
27 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lella replaces Vijaya Sai Reddy as YSR Congress general secretary||A year and three months into governance, the YSR Congress has set itself the task of reinvigorating the party. Within months of storming into power, the party launched a string of welfare schemes, enacted several legislations and took revolutionary decisions to decentralise administration, but a sense of disillusionment seems to be setting in among the cadres. Most of them feel that they have not been accommodated either in the government or in the party organisational structure. The cadres had worked relentlessly for ten years, but now they do not have much to do as the party is in the driver’s seat. Most districts have no functional offices either. The outbreak of COVID-19 in March and the subsequent lockdown had further widened the gap between the Ministers and MLAs and the cadre. Sensing the mood, the core team is now focusing on strengthening the organisational structure, activating all party units at the district/mandal/village levels and take welfare schemes to the doorstep of people.  First move Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy made the first move by appointing Lella Appireddy as party general secretary, a post previously held by Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. A close confidant of the Chief Minister, Mr. Appireddy had been waiting in the wings for over a year. Right from day one, Mr. Appireddy has been meeting party workers, and supporters at the party central office at Tadepalli. Mr. Jagan followed this up by appointing five senior leaders as regional coordinators. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy will handle party affairs in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy will handle East Godavari and West Godavari districts. Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao looks after Krishna and Guntur districts. Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts are handled by Vemireddy Prabhakara Reddy and Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy is the regional coordinator for Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur districts. Mr. Appireddy’s mandate is to establish communication channels with local leaders. The party is also set to break a new ground by appointing chairpersons and directors to all 54 BC corporations before month-end. With the local body elections round the corner, the leadership expects that the organisational jig would fetch the party massive dividends.
27 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pre-authorisation must for treating COVID-19 patients’||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has warned private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients of stringent action if they are found to be treating patients without obtaining pre-authorisation from the district administration. If found to be treating COVID-19 patients without obtaining the necessary approvals, the hospitals can also be seized, the Collector said on Wednesday. Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar told reporters here on Wednesday that it has come to the notice of district administration that certain hospitals have been treating COVID-19 patients without obtaining mandatory permission, and added that such hospitals would be shut down and penal action would be initiated against them. ‘No shortage of beds’ The Collector reiterated that there was no shortage of beds in the district, and said there are 4,000 beds available at 30 hospitals in the district. Out of the 4,000 beds, 2,000 are oxygen-equipped while 400 have ICU facilities. The Collector said that the Chief Minister had issued a stern warning to hospitals collecting exorbitant fees in excess of the prescribed charges as per G.O. Ms No. 77. Further, the district administration also relaxed the timings of shops. All shops will now be able to function from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. according to the new orders which came into force from Wednesday. In a relief to the local administration, the COVID-19 positivity rate came down from 14.5% to 10.3%, while the doubling rate is the lowest since March. Awareness campaign Further, the district administration would continue to educate people and spread awareness about COVID-19. A massive campaign was launched by the Health Department to spread awareness on COVID-19, the Collector said.
27 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight held for forging Aadhaar cards||Guntur Urban Police arrested eight persons on charges of forging Aadhaar cards of several people and cheating them on the pretext of including them in the beneficiary list of the YSR Jagannana Cheyutha scheme. Superintendent of Police (Guntur Urban) R.N. Ammi Reddy said that the gang was led by Avula Tirupathi Reddy. “The main accused hatched a plan to swindle money by forging Aadhaar cards and changing the age of the beneficiaries to over 60. He forged the Aadhaar cards of several people,” Mr. Ammi Reddy said. Police seized laptops, iris cameras, biometric scanners, rubber stamps, stamp pads and Rs. 2.42 lakh in cash.
27 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aid for affected families by Sept. 7’||Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Wednesday said the TDP government had ignored the rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) of the Polavaram project displaced. In an interaction with the oustees at A. Veeravaram of Devipatnam mandal, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna claimed that the construction of a majority of the rehabilitation colonies had been completed in one year as the government accorded priority to settling the R&R issues. “A ground-level report on the damage due to the flood will be submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. An amount of Rs. 2,000 to each affected family will be released as flood relief by September 7. The enumeration of damaged houses and crops will commence soon in the Rampa agency,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. He further said that essential commodities and 25-kg rice bag were being supplied to those affected. Sanitation Rampachodavaram ITDA Project Officer (in-charge) C.V. Praveen Adithya said that at least 100 staff members would be deployed in the 30 habitations to maintain better sanitary conditions.The Minister asked Mr. Adithya to keep a tab on possible spread of viral fevers in the Agency area.
27 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students to be on COVID duty in E.G.||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday said that at least 1,200 students pursuing nursing courses in various private colleges would be deployed at the COVID Care Centres and hospitals in East Godavari district. Mr. Muralidhar said: “A monthly stipend of Rs. 10,000 and accommodation will be offered, apart from a service certificate to those willing to offer their service. Every care will be taken for their safe working environment.” Mr. Muralidhar added that the details of 1,200 students pursuing nursing courses in 47 colleges are being gathered to deploy them at the COVID Care Centre at Amalapuram, Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram.
27 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viswaroop promises early solution to drain issue||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop on Wednesday promised an initiative to divert flood water from the Kausika drain in the Amalapuram rural area to prevent submergence of the island villages in Amalapuram rural mandal in East Godavari district. Accompanied by Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik, Mr. Viswaroop visited Bandaru Lanka and surrounding island villages which were submerged last week. Meeting today “A meeting will be conducted with irrigation officials on Thursday to discuss the proposal of diversion of flood water from the Kausika drain into the Bay of Bengal through Allavaram mandal to prevent the submergence of the six villages,” said Mr. Viswaroop. Speaking to newsmen, the Minister said he would draw the attention of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the matter. “The government will ensure the problem does not recur next year,” the Minister added.
27 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bail out flood-hit ryots in Kurnool, demands CPI||Standing crop in hundreds of acres in Tellapur, Rayapadu, and Kuluru villages in Gosapadu mandal of Kurnool district got inundated due to floods in the Kundu river ayacut region. Annual affair Farmers of these villages demanded the government come to their rescue as this had become an annual affair with cotton, chillies, red gram and black gram crops going under water. CPI leader E. Chennayya and AITUC leader Balavenkat went round the villages and inspected the inundated crops and said that the government should come out with a permanent solution.“We demand immediate relief to all the affected farmers,” they told media persons. A committee should be sent immediately to enumerate the crop loss, they added.
27 August 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police stations get ISO tag||Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said the District Police Office (DPO), Disha Mahila Police Station and the Chilakalapudi Model Police Station have been awarded ISO certification. HYM International Certificate-Hyderabad managing director Shivaiah handed over the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certificates to Mr. Ravindranath Babu, here on Tuesday.
27 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily tally surges to 1,954 in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Coronavirus continued to spread rapidly across south coastal Andhra region as 14 more patients-- nine in Prakasam district and five in Nellore district succumbed to the disease while 1,954 more tested positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the combined death toll in the two districts increased to 490 with Nellore accounting for 238 deaths and Prakasam district for 252 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Wednesday night. The number of active cases continued to rise as 1,168 cases emerged from Nellore district and 786 in Prakasam district during the period. Following this, the total number of confirmed cases went up to 44,104, including 18,661 in Prakasam and 25,443 in Nellore. While 307 were recovered in Nellore, Prakasam saw discharge of 655 patients. Reviewing the health situation, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar attributed the spike in COVID-19 cases to patients in home isolation stepping out of their homes without understanding the consequences. Two new clusters were formed in Prakasam district as the disease spread across 344 clusters, including 37 very active ones. As many as 59 patients died in the last one week. He wanted the Auxiliary Nurse Midwives(ANMs) to visit in turns the 5,200 patients who were being treated at home and shift those whose health condition worsened. ‘Shift only critical patients to hospitals’ He stressed the need for shifting only critical cases to the COVID-19 hospitals for a focussed approach to prevent deaths as the number of active cases stood at over 6,000.
27 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Enumeration of loss in flood-hit villages begins||Officials of the Revenue Department and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) have begun the process of enumerating crops and houses in the wake of floods to the Godavari in the district. They visited several villages and interacted with the tribal people in Polavaram and Velerupadu mandals on Wednesday. Many thatched houses and sheds in the low-lying areas were damaged, the villagers explained to the officials. According to preliminary estimates, agriculture crops in 3,086 hectares, horticulture crops in 1,283 hectares and roads in a stretch of 1,469 km have been damaged due to rains and floods. Besides, many electric feeders and poles were also damaged in the floods in eight mandals, including Narsapuram, Elamanchili, Achanta, Kukunur, Velerupadu and Polavaram in the Agency area. A report would be submitted to the government, once the final one was prepared on the damage of houses and crops in the district, the officials said. Godavari receding Tellam Balaraju, MLA, along with Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana, Tehsildar Nazeemullah Shah and other officers, visited Tutigunta, Kondrukota, Tekuru, Kothuru, Vadapalli, Polavaram, Koruturu and other areas. They visited the damaged houses and roads and interacted with the flood victims. Meanwhile, flood level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam was recorded at 30 feet and it was receding at cofferdam, Polavaram and in the downstream, the officials said.
27 August 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University to start online classes from September third week||With the reopening of colleges and educational institution still shrouded in uncertainty, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Andhra University has decided to start online classes from the third week of September. The tentative date to kick-start the online delivery is scheduled for September 20. All arrangements are in progress and lecturers have been told to commence the online classes either from their residences or from their allotted rooms in the department in the campus. Not only will AU commence the online classes, but even the 250 colleges affiliated to AU have also been instructed to commence them, said Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy. For the first time. AU will using GPON (Gigabit Passive Optical Network) to runs its online classes. “GPON is the future and we have already called for an e-tender, which will be finalised on August 28,” said the V-C. “GPON is the need of the hour and it is a point-to-multipoint access network. GPON is a fiber-optic telecommunications technology for delivering broadband network access to end-customers and it has multiple features, which suits our requirement,” said Prof. Reddy, explaining concept and need. According to him, the total project cost is around Rs. 50 lakh, including Rs. 30 lakh for internet service, which the university has been already paying over the years. Once the online classes begin, AU will addressing about 14,000 students in the campus and over 25,000 in the affiliated colleges. The university is also gearing up to conduct examinations from the third week of September. The examinations for final-year engineering students is already completed and examinations for the final-year students of other courses will commence from September third week. “In general we have taken a decision promote all students from first year to second year, but the examination for first year students will be held some time from October third week to November, if the pandemic conditions ease by then,” said Prof. Reddy. According to him, the on campus classes may start from mid-October, depending on pandemic status, but hostels will be opened after mid of October in phases. He also said that the GPON technology will also be extended to hostels in the campus and to those located outside.
27 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD Chairman inspects land for temple in Jammu||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Wednesday inspected the proposed land on Jammu-Katra highway for taking up the construction of the temple of Lord Venkateswara. The Jammu & Kashmir administration has come forward to allocate over 100 acres to TTD for constructing a replica of the Tirumala temple. The TTD board, during its meeting in December last, passed a resolution and resolved to take up the construction works by this year end after securing required clearances. A team led by TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, inspected various identified locations in early February after which two sites at Dhummi and Majin in Jammu district were reportedly finalised for the construction of the temple. Interestingly both sites are located on the highway leading to the sacred Vaishno Devi shrine. Feasibility study Mr. Reddy said he would soon send a team of engineering officials to study and submit a detailed report regarding the feasibility for the project. Jammu Collector Sushma Chouhan, Addl. District Development Commissioner Ramesh Chander, Addl. Deputy Commissioner Shyam Singh, Asst Commissioner-General Rakesh Dube and CEO of Vaishno Devi temple board Ramesh Kumar and Addl. CEO Vivek Verma accompanied Mr. Subba Reddy during the inspection.
27 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP prays for Amaravati as capital||Continuing its campaign against the State government’s three-capital capital move, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and workers staged a demonstration at Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills, here on Wednesday. They prayed to Lord Venkateswara that the verdict in court should come in favour of continuance of the capital at Amaravati. Standing on their knees in front of the imposing statue of Garuda, the leaders led by former district vice-president R.C. Munikrishna, flayed the government for destabilising administration in the garb of decentralisation. They wondered how the State could continue with its ‘three-capital dream’ in spite of the failure of similar concepts planned and executed across the globe. Former MLA M. Sugunamma said the demonstration was also meant to infuse confidence and courage among the farmers and women agitating in the capital villages. ‘Don’t hurt sentiments’ The party urged the government “to see the reality” and act in a way not to hurt popular sentiment.
27 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted Indo-English poet passes away||Noted Indo-English poet, novelist and critic T.Vasudeva Reddy(76), popularly known as T.V. Reddy, breathed his last at Ruia hospital in Tirupati on Wednesday. He was a distinguished poet known for social criticism, satire and irony. He had eight poetry collections to his credit in his career spanning three decades, which were a blend of romanticism and realism. Human struggles, unrest, social realities, psychological and humanistic issues were highlighted in his poems. Acclaimed works His poetry collections include ‘The rural muse’, ‘Golden veil’ and ‘Thousand Haiku pearls’, while his novels ‘The Vultures’ and ‘Minor Gods’ shot him to fame. Awards Mr. Reddy received prestigious awards and honours including a honorary D.Litt from World Academy of Arts and Culture, San Francisco, USA in 1988, ‘Best Teacher Award’ from the State government in 1990, ‘Best poetry award’ for his third book ‘The fleeting bubbles’ from Michael Madhusudan Academy, Kolkata in 1994, apart from the UGC award of national fellowship in 1998.
27 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kasturirangan bats for holistic education||Making a strong pitch for holistic education, K. Kasturirangan, noted space scientist and the Chairman of the drafting committee for the National Education Policy-2020, has advocated that it is time eminent national institutes encouraged the multi-disciplinary education. Speaking at the maiden convocation of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati which was organised in virtual mode on Wednesday, he said the education at the undergraduate level must focus on arts, crafts, architecture and aesthetics. Critical thinking “Efforts should be made to hone integrated skills of students including critical thinking, communication and life-long learning,” he said. The former Chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) suggested that the IISER host a ‘Centre for Excellence in Educational Technology’ and work closely with the National Educational Technology Forum. He urged the students to be guided by the values they believe in. He presented gold medal for academic excellence and the ‘Best graduating student’ prize to Ranadeep Roy and Jalaja Madhusudhanan respectively. Research pursuits Ashutosh Sharma, Chairman of IISER’s board of governors, underlined the need to negotiate, adapt, effectively respond and even engineer the changes. Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of Education, advised the higher institutes to establish a network to achieve synergy in academic and research pursuits. IISER Director K.N. Ganesh presented a report on the institute ’s achievements since its inception in 2015 and awarded degrees to 35 students in virtual mode. Registrar C.P. Mohan Kumar proposed the vote of thanks.
27 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT-T inks pact with CFTRI for research||The IIT, Tirupati signed an MoU with the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysore for scientific collaborationon Wednesday. Precision agriculture “As the the III-T is laying emphasis on food technology and precision agriculture , the tie-up will allow exchange of faculty and scientists, collaboration on research projects and ensure joint guidance for students,” said IIT-T Director K.N. Satyanarayana. The technological know-how of the IIT and domain expertise of the CFTRI will help boost innovation in automation in food industry and reduce the dependence on import of food processing equipment, Mr. Satyanarayana observed. CFTRI Director Raghava Rao stressed the interdisciplinary nature of food engineering where streams such as biology, chemistry, mechanical, electrical and instrumentation engineering augment the strength of each other.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enforce the law, don’t take it into your hands: DGP to staff||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang appealed to police officers to not take the law into their hands and treat complainants with respect. Speaking to police officers across the State in a webinar from the A.P. Police Headquarters in Mangalagiri on Wednesday, Mr. Sawang asked the staff in the police stations — the Sub-Inspectors (SIs), Circle Inspectors (CIs), Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and other officers — to enforce the law in a thorough, professional manner without leaving any scope for allegations of mistreatment. Appreciating the police for their services during the lockdown, the DGP said that many policemen had contracted COVID-19, and unfortunately a few had succumbed to the virus. Mr. Sawang asked police officers to follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) while making arrests, or while detaining and questioning suspects. “Staff posted in the reception area and constables and ASIs should behave with the complainants in a polite manner, particularly with women, children, weaker sections and the aged,” the DGP said, and directed unit heads to organise oriental classes for the staff on good behaviour. Officers and staff in the stations and Police Training Colleges (PTCs) and the APSP battalions promised to be on their best behaviour with the public both inside police stations as well as in public. CID Additional Director General P.V. Sunil Kumar said that policing has changed compared to previous years, and said prompt action was being taken with regard to crimes against women, weaker sections and the poor in the State. Disha Special Officer Deepika Patil said all precautions should be taken in the police stations while summoning women, recording their statements, arrest and in producing them in the courts as per the law. “All police stations in the State have been declared as ‘Women-Friendly Stations’ and the complainants who visit the stations should be treated with respect,” Ms. Patil said. A couple of Superintendents of Police (SPs), DSPs, CIs and constables spoke in the webinar and explained the measures being taken at Disha Mahila Police Stations and assured to organise ‘Parivathana’ programmes in their jurisdictions. SEB cases Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said of the total government staff arrested in liquor smuggling cases, 40% (53 persons) were from police, excise and paramilitary forces. “Law will be equal for all. If any person takes law into their hands, action will be equal for all,” Mr. Vineet warned. The DGP, while appreciating the SEB for their operations on illegal sand and liquor, said about 50,000 persons have been arrested in about 33,000 cases booked in the last 100 days.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases touch an all-time high in State||The State witnessed 10,830 new COVID-19 infections — the biggest in a single day so far — and 81 deaths in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The biggest single-day spike of 10,820 cases was last reported on August 9. The tally of cases went up to 3,82,469, while the death toll crossed the 3,500-mark to reach 3,541. Positivity rate The number of active cases stood at 92,208. The recovery rate increased to 74.97% with the discharge of 2,86,720 patients so far, who included 8,473 discharged in the last one day. So far, 34.18 lakh samples had been tested, which included 61,838 samples in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate of these tests was 11.19%. The tests per million ratio was 64,020. At 0.93%, the death rate continues to stay below 1%. With more fatalities in the last 10 days, the toll in Chittoor district increased to 360. It reported eight deaths in the last one day. The total death toll and the new fatalities (both in brackets) in other districts were as follows: East Godavari (354 & 11), Guntur (350 & 4), Kurnool (342 & 5), Anantapur (299 & 6), West Godavari (270 & 6), Visakhapatnam (262 & 5), Krishna (260 & 5), Prakasam (252 & 9), Nellore (238 & 5), Srikakulam (220 & 4), Kadapa (185 & 8) and Vizianagaram (149 & 5). Meanwhile, the following four districts reported more than 1,000 new infections — East Godavari (1,528), Nellore (1,168), Visakhapatnam (1,156) and West Godavari (1,065). They were followed by Chittoor (913), Prakasam (786), Kurnool (745), Anantapur (728), Kadapa (728), Srikakulam (618), Vizianagaram (564), Guntur (532) and Krishna (299). The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (53,567), Kurnool (40,845), Anantapur (36,948), Visakhapatnam (32,717), Guntur (32,308), West Godavari (32,244), Chittoor (32,205), Nellore (25,443), Kadapa (22,411), Srikakulam (20,104), Prakasam (18,661), Vizianagaram (17,471) and Krishna (14,650).
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress govt. to blame for Dalit activist’s death: Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh said the State Government was to blame for the ‘untimely death’ of Dalit activist Om Pratap in Andhra Pradesh. In a statement on Wednesday, the TDP general secretary accused the YSRCP leaders in Chittoor district of harassing and abetting the suicide of Om Pratap. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s regime is taking a heavy toll on the lives of Dalits after coming to power on the back of their votes in the 2019 elections. Om Pratap was forced to end his life just for posting on social media about the oppressive and exploitative liquor policy of the Jagan Reddy regime,” Mr. Lokesh said. “The ruling party leaders started threatening Om Pratap as he was questioning the implementation of the liquor policy. This eventually led to his death at his native Kanduru village at Somala mandal in Punganur Assembly segment,” he said. Demanding a thorough investigation into the incident, Mr. Lokesh stressed the need for punishment to senior YSRCP leaders responsible for his death. ‘Targeted for raising their voice’ “Ever since Mr. Jagan assumed power in Andhra Pradesh, there has been a series of atrocities against the Dalit community. Do the Dalits have no right to question the misdeeds of this government?” he asked.  Mr. Lokesh went on to name a list of individuals who he alleged were targeted by the ruling party for raising their voice against the government. “K. Sudhakar, a Dalit doctor, was assaulted in full public view and branded as insane just for raising questions over the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Lokesh alleged. “Another Dalit doctor, Dr. Anitha Rani, was harassed by the ruling party leaders in Chittoor for objecting to their illegal activities. Dalit magistrate S. Ramakrishna was attacked and humiliated for agitating against the injustice meted out by the ruling party leaders.” “ Former Parliamentarian Harsh Kumar, also a Dalit, was jailed for many months just for demanding justice to the victims of the Godavari boat tragedy. Dalit activist Mahasena Rajesh was implicated in false cases for raising his voice against the Jagan regime’s failures and wrongdoings,” Mr. Lokesh alleged.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State in the race to set up bulk drug park||Andhra Pradesh is keen on setting up a Bulk Drug Park (BDP) in at least 2,000 acres under the BDP scheme of the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. It is also ready to constitute the A.P. Bulk Drug Infrastructure Corporation (APBDIC) for the purpose. In G.O. MS No. 45 issued on Wednesday, Special Chief Secretary (industries & commerce) R. Karikal Valaven said that the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) was authorised to submit an application seeking to establish the BDP to the Government of India. The proposal The Central government proposes to develop three BDPs in partnership with and through a grant-in-aid to the States with a maximum limit of Rs. 1,000 crore per park with 70% financial assistance to the selected park. It was stated in the G.O. that with 400-plus units, A.P. was playing a major role in the Indian pharmaceutical sector and stood in the third position with $5 billion output and $1 billion worth of exports. The APBDIC will be set up by the APIIC. The APBDIC’s initial board will have Special CS (industries and commerce) as Chairman. The proposals submitted by the States will be evaluated by a project management agency. Applications meeting the criteria will be ranked on the basis of total marks, and the top three States will be given in-principle approval after which the DPRs have to be submitted.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD sanctions loan under RIDF||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned Rs. 1,137 crore under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) as loan assistance for augmenting the Infrastructure in Rural Education and Public Health Institutions in Andhra Pradesh. NABARD Chief General Manager Sudhir Kumar Jannawar, in a statement on Wednesday, said an amount of Rs. 781.13 crore was sanctioned to the Department of School Education for installation of the drinking water supply system and construction of toilets. More than 11,800 schools, which included Primary, Upper Primary, Secondary and Senior Secondary schools, in 664 mandals would benefit. More than 17 lakh students would also stand to gain. The drinking water supply unit with UV purification would ensure safe drinking water to all the students in the government schools. “The projects are proposed under the prestigious Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu programme of the Government of Andhra Pradesh. The projects are planned to be completed by March 2023,” he said. Mr. Jannawar said that an amount of Rs. 356.23 crore was sanctioned to the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare for augmentation of health infrastructure, allied infrastructure and critical medical facilities in 94 existing rural health centres across the State to provide quality healthcare services to the needy. The projects aim at improving the delivery of healthcare services by providing infrastructure as per Indian Public Health Standards norms, he added.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E-auction of seven land parcels completed, NBCC tells HC||The National Buildings Construction Corporation India Limited (NBCC) has informed the High Court in its affidavit on ‘Mission Build AP’ that the e-auction of seven out of a total nine land parcels (six in Visakhapatnam district and three in Guntur) has been completed, but the sales have not been finalised as per the court’s interim order. NBCC General Manager (Vijayawada zone) P. Srinivasa Rao stated in the affidavit that the corporation was roped in by the Andhra Pradesh government for monetisation of its land parcels and using a part of the funds so generated for the development of various infrastructure projects. The government and the NBCC had signed an MoU in November 2019. The mandate The NBCC is supposed to monetise the land parcels identified by the District Planning and Implementation Committees (DPICs). The monetisation (of land parcels) is to be done in two ways: outright sale of land on “as is where is” basis and development of commercial / residential complexes on the lands and selling built-up spaces. Mr. Srinivasa Rao informed the court that the NBCC’s role begins from the stage of monetisation of lands after receiving the lists from the DPICs. The NBCC was given permission through G.O. MS No.447 to facilitate the e-auction of unutilised or underutilised land parcels for public infrastructure development on self-sustainable basis, he said, and submitted that the High Court had issued an interim direction for continuing the e-auction but ordered that their finalisation be deferred. ‘Transparency ensured’ Mr. Rao claimed that the sale of land parcels was being undertaken in a transparent manner by following time-tested methods of fetching best market prices, and that there was no allegation of irregularities in the process of auction.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 10,311 crore sanctioned for projects in Rayalaseema||The government on Wednesday accorded administrative sanction for approximately Rs. 10,311 crore for various irrigation projects in the Rayalaseema region through separate GOs issued by Special Chief Secretary (Water Resources) Aditya Nath Das. The sanctions are for Rs. 5,036 crore for investigating and constructing schemes to lift water from Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi (GNSS) to Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) and for Rs. 3,557 crore for upgrading Gandikota-Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir lifts and Gandikota-Paidipalem lifts. Besides, the government gave administrative sanction for Rs. 1,113 crore for investigation, design and construction of a lift scheme in Kadapa district for lifting 350 cusecs of water in two stages — CBR to Yerraballi tank and Yerraballi tank to the Giddangivaripalli reservoir. New reservoirs This project includes construction of a new reservoir near Giddangivaripalli for storing 1.20 tmcft to supply irrigation water to the seven Uranium Corporation of India Limited project-affected villages for 10,000 acres under micro-irrigation in Vemula and Pulivendula mandals of Kadapa district.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers plan ‘satyagraha’ on Sept. 1 across State||Members of the United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) plan to stage a State-wide satyagraha on September 1 to press for their demand to scrap the new Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and restore the old pension scheme for all teachers. In a statement on Wednesday, UTF State president Sk. Sabjee and general secretary P. Babu Reddy said teachers across the State would stage protests at the mandal headquarters, their respective UTF offices, and at home with their family members. ‘Promise not fulfilled’ The UTF leaders pointed out that Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to scrap the CPS within a month of his coming to power and said that he had not kept his word even after completion of a year of his rule in the State. They said around 1.88 lakh government employees and teachers, who were recruited after September 1, 2004, came under the CPS which did not give guarantee of minimum pension after retirement. ‘Not in our interests’ They said the employees and teachers had been agitating for long in support of their demand that the government do away with this scheme as it was detrimental to their interests. They said contrary to his claim that he would replace the new CPS with the old pension scheme immediately after coming to power, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy constituted a Ministers' committee and a separate official committee to study the modalities but the issue did not make any headway thereafter. The UTF leaders said they would observe September 1 as a black day and make known their resentment against the government stand.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hospital was aware hotel had no fire NOC’||The management of Ramesh Cardiac and Multi-speciality Hospitals Private limited, which has taken Hotel Swarna Palace for lease to run COVID Care Centre, has entered an MoU with the hotel management though it did not have No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Fire Service Department and fire fighting equipment, according to a report submitted to the Collector by the Krishna Joint Collector. Despite having full knowledge about lack of fire safety in Hotel Swarna Palace, the hospital management has taken the building for lease for providing treatment to COVID patients, the official stated in the report. According to the findings of the district committee, the hotel has only one fire extinguisher against the required 40. As per the Fire Services authorities, 350 automatic sprinkler systems are required in Hotel Swarna Palace, but 137 have been installed, of which water connection has been given to none of them. As many as 84 automatic fire alarm systems and 13 electric fire alarm systems are required in the five-storied hotel building, but not even a single fire alarm has been provided in the hotel. The inquiry officials opined that Ramesh Hospitals management entered the MoU with Hotel Swarna Palace, with full knowledge that the building is not fit for running the COVID Care Centre. The Krishna District Fire Officer addressed a letter to the Joint Collector stating that Hotel Swarna Palace is a high-rise building which needs to take NOC from the Director General, Fire Services Department. ‘No alert sounded’ Officials of the Fire Services, Police, Revenue and the Health Department, who rescued the patients in the early hours of August 9, said that no alert was sounded about flames and there were no fire extinguishers.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties decry arrest of Amaravati farmers||The CPI and the (CPI(M) on Wednesday condemned the arrest of Amaravati farmers who were urging the government to clear the dues. The Left parties demanded that they be released immediately. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said it was the duty of the government to pay the annuity as per the law. It, however foisted false cases on them, he said. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said farmers sacrificed 33,000 acres of land for the development of Capital, but the government did not pay the annuity as promised to them. Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana assured CPI national secretary K. Narayana that the annuity would be paid, but had not kept his word. The government was trying to halt developmental works and shift the Capital and hence was harassing the farmers, he alleged.
27 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permission revoked for 5 centres||The district administration on Wednesday cancelled the permissions given to five private COVID Care Centres in and around the city. DM&HO I. Ramesh said that the five centres in five different hotels were permitted to treat COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms. “We have been closely monitoring the hospitals which were permitted to run extended COVID treatment facilities and found that these five institutions are not treating any patients housed in the hotels since the beginning,” Dr. Ramesh told The Hindu .  He said there was not much demand for COVID treatment in additional facilities created by private hospitals.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,156 new cases take tally to 33,129||The district reported as many as 1,156 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. This is for the fourth time, the district has reported more than 1,000 cases in a day this month. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district since the pandemic is 33,129, as on Wednesday. Out of the total cases, as many as 21,942 cases were reported in August. According to COVID-19 bulletin released on Wednesday, the total number of active cases in Vizag is 5,584 and the number of discharged persons is 27,314. Officials from the Health Department said that people below 50 years of age are opting for home quarantine. The recovery rate is also high, they added. Five more persons succumbed due to COVID-19 taking the death toll to 231. On a positive note, as many as 870 persons recovered on Wednesday. The number of deaths has also seen a spike in August compared to the previous month. As many as 86 persons died in July in the district, while in August (till August 26) it is 140. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, the number of clusters in the district as on Wednesday is 738. Among them, very active clusters are 54 and active clusters are 109. Similarly, the number of dormant clusters is 575. The District Collector has already denotified 171 clusters till date.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre hastening process of privatisation: CPI(M)||A rally was taken out by the CPI(M) from the party office to the RTC Complex on Wednesday as part of the nationwide protests being organised to protest against the ‘anti-labour’ and ‘anti-people’ policies of the Union government. Addressing the participants, party State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre was mortgaging the nation by hastening the process of privatisation, ignoring the pandemic situation. He alleged that the Union government had washed its hands off after crediting a meagre amount of Rs. 500 into the Jan Dhan accounts of the poor and distributing 5 kg rice to each affected family. He reminded that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala had given Rs. 7,500, 35 kg rice and 16 essential commodities to each family, which was affected by the pandemic situation. He demanded that the Central and State government extend similar help to people. Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Modi government brought out three ordinances, ignoring the pandemic. No security was given to workers in the unorganised sector and contract and outsourcing workers were left to their fate. The services of contract and outsourcing workers were terminated in the APS RTC and in industries. He demanded job security for workers. The other demands, include provision of Rs. 7,500 to each affected family, 10 kg rice to each person, supply of 16 essential commodities for six months and provision of proper medical care to all persons. Party leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar, G.S. Rajeswara Rao, G. Nayanababu, R. Sankar Rao, V.V. Srinivasa and P. Venkata Rao were among those who participated in the protest.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second phase of sero survey begins in nine districts||The second phase of the sero surveillance project commenced in Visakhapatnam and eight other districts of the State on Wednesday. It may be recalled that the surveillance project has already been completed in Krishna, Anantapur, East Godavari and Nellore districts. The surveillance, being conducted as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), involves collection of blood samples from healthy persons, who haven't got themselves tested for COVID-19 before, and do not show any symptoms of the pandemic. A total of 45,000 blood samples, 5,000 from each district, will be collected in this phase of the project. Of the 5,000 samples, 4,000 would be collected from the general population, while 1,000 would be taken from high risk categories like health care workers, police personnel, migrant workers, foreign returnees, vendors, industrial and shopping mall staff, K. Rambabu, State COVID-19 Coordinator and Professor of Medicine, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu . Among the general population, 60% of the samples would be taken from containment zones and the remaining would be taken from non-containment zones. The sample collection would be in the ratio of 70: 30 from rural and urban areas respectively in both containment and non-containment zones. “Special emphasis is being given to conduct the random survey in border areas of districts like Vizianagaram and Nellore,” he says.  IgG antibody The samples will be tested for the presence of IgG antibody, which is produced in the blood, after an infection. The presence of IgG in the blood of a person, indicates that the person concerned, was already affected and cured of the virus, without his/her knowledge. The presence of antibodies in the blood in a large number of people, indicates that they have developed immunity to COVID-19. The objective of the State government in ordering the sero surveillance is to assess the herd immunity among the people. “We have deployed more number of field survey staff in view of the larger number of samples to be collected compared to that in the first phase. Our target is to complete the survey in the nine districts in a week,” Dr. Rambabu added.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Export of agri products needs a push, says panel||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce has underlined the need to increase the export of agricultural products by improving supply chain, value addition and developing infrastructure. It has also recommended more support and incentives to growers for scientific production of farm commodities to boost quality production and thereby give an impetus to exports. Committee Chairman V. Vijayasai Reddy submitted the 154th report on exports of agriculture, marine, plantation, coir and turmeric products to Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi on Wednesday. Proactive measures The panel found that the share of export of agricultural commodities as compared to their total production was low with wheat occupying a mere 0.2% of production, pulses 1.2% and fruits 1.3%. It recommended proactive measures towards market exploration of new emerging trade destinations of Egypt, Mexico, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines for the export of Indian rice. The committee expressed optimism that the comprehensive Agriculture Export Policy (AEP) would help double the income of farmers by facilitating them to engage in export activities. It noted that there was a considerable decline in marine exports since 2017-18. The trajectory of growth followed a steady path from 2010-11 to 2014-15, with a significant fall in 2015-16. The committee recommended regulation on over-usage of antibiotics and adequate extension services and package of practices to farmers . The other recommendations include undertaking of research on quality and yield of marine products and exploring export potential in tuna fish. India produces about 800 million kg of various types of tobacco every year out of which Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) production is around 209 million kg in 2018-19. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are the main producing States, according to the report. FDI in tobacco The panel opined that allowing FDI in tobacco sector in a regulated manner would stimulate production and processing of Indian tobacco and export. It recommended a study to analyse the prospects of opening FDI in the sector and impose 1% levy on sale of cigarettes, which may be utilised as market stabilisation fund.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC grieves loss of professor to virus||Andhra Medical College (AMC) paid tributes to one of its professor who died due to COVID-19, here on Tuesday. 57-year old, professor from General Medicine department, Andhra Medical College, B. Purushottam Rao, succumbed to the coronavirus on August 25. The professor is survived by his wife and two children. “It is very unfortunate to lose Dr. Purushottam and it is also a great loss to the AMC. He was a passionate doctor and one of our good hands. We grieve his loss,” said Principal, Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar. Dr. Purushottam’s wife works as a gynaecologist in AMC-KGH, while one of his daughters works as house surgeon, it is learnt. According to Dr. Sudhakar, till date, four doctors died due to COVID-19 in Visakhapatnam district. More than 40 doctors have been affected due to the virus. Among the affected, include nearly 25 P.G doctors from Andhra Medical College, he said.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLS fabricates UVC-based room sanitiser||The Diesel Loco Shed (DLS) of Waltair Division has fabricated a remote control operated UVC-based Room Sanitiser to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The DLS staff fabricated the equipment with the resources available at the shed like a condemned pedestal fan stand and fixing UVC lamps along with a remote-control unit. The equipment is fitted with wheels for easy movement from one room to the other as required. The indigenously developed equipment can sanitise a room size of 400 sq. feet in a short span of time. This works with latest ultraviolet germicidal irradiation technology. This radiation is strongly absorbed by RNA and DNA bases leading to molecular structural damage through photodimerization process. This results in virus inactivation, preventing its replication.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solve power, water woes: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao conducted a review meet to discuss ongoing development activities and various issues in Bheemili constituency, with officials concerned here on Wednesday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao asked the officials to set up 21 transformers at Bheemili, Padmanabham and Anandapuram mandals to solve issues related to electricity. He also asked them to resolve drinking water issues in the constituency. The Minister also took stock of COVID-19 measures being taken at the mandals and also asked them to create awareness about precautions among the public.
27 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jayasankar Variyar appointed GITAM Pro V-C||Noted chemical engineer and IIT Madras retired professor Jayasankar Variyar was appointed as GITAM Deemed to be University Pro Vice-chancellor (Academics), here on Wednesday. GITAM president M. Sribharat said that Prof. Variyar’s academic leadership skills and his deep knowledge of the industry practices will help to implement the university’s strategic vision and long-term plans.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC refuses to stay HC order||The CJI and Justice Rohinton Nariman had recused themselves on the ground that their family members (Justice Bobde’s daughter Rukmini and Justice Rohinton’s father Fali S. Nariman) appeared for some petitioners in the High Court in the same case. In its SLP, the State government contended that through its status quo order, the High Court has effectively stayed the implementation of the said Acts without proper justification. The constitutionality of a statute is presumed to be upheld until proven otherwise, but the High Court overlooked this principle, the government insisted. It may be noted that the government proposed to develop Amaravati, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam as legislative, judicial and executive capitals respectively by claiming that its meagre resources do not permit the construction of a greenfield capital in Amaravati and the three capitals would facilitate balanced development of the coastal districts and Rayalaseema.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rooftop travel||
27 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Staff crunch hits COVID care||The area hospital in Telangana’s tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam continues to grapple with severe shortage of staff with as many as 47 doctor posts of the total sanctioned strength of 65 remaining vacant amid the unprecedented public health emergency triggered by the scourge of COVID-19, alleged Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. Mr Vikramarka, along with Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah and Mulugu MLA Seethakka, visited the hospital on Wednesday, marking the beginning of the 11-day tour of State-run hospitals in various parts of Telangana to take stock of the facilities available to COVID-19 patients. Clad in PPE, the Congress MLAs interacted with the patients and the hospital staff during their visit to the healthcare facility in Bhadrachalam. Raising serious concerns over the staff crunch at the hospital, Mr Vikramarka lambasted the State government for its alleged indifference towards filling up vacancies of doctors and nurses in the area hospital. All the sanctioned posts of 16 civil surgeon specialists and eight deputy civil surgeons are lying vacant, he alleged, pointing out that only 17 assistant civil surgeons are available at present as against the sanctioned strength of 36. This apart, the hospital is facing severe shortage of support staff. A staggering number of 45 staff nurse posts have remained unfilled for long, against the sanctioned strength of 53, he said, adding that more than half of the sanctioned posts of lab technicians, radiographers and the ANMs are lying vacant. “The State government left the existing doctors and other staff of the hospital overburdened and deprived the needy of the services of specialist doctors in this pandemic situation,” he flayed. He charged the State government with failing to fill up the large-scale vacancies of doctors and other support staff in the State-run hospitals despite being forewarned about the threat of pandemic by the Congress in the last Assembly sessions and on other forums. Those at the helm should fill up the vacancies in government hospitals to ward off further trouble. The COVID-19 testing and treatment services should be bolstered to check the spread of the virus, which has already claimed the lives of several people including former Bhadrachalam MLA Sunnam Rajaiah and deputy DM&HO G. Naresh Kumar in the district, he said. He further demanded that COVID-19 treatment be included in the Rajiv Aarogyasri health scheme and financial assistance be extended to poor victims.  The government left the existing doctors of the hospital overburdened and deprived the needy of the services of specialist doctors. Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, CLP leader
27 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Mobile lab to ramp up testing||To ramp up COVID testing and improve access to rapid antigen testing facilities in far-flung areas, a mobile lab was pressed into service in the predominantly tribal populated district. Additional Collector D. Anudeep flagged off the vehicle equipped with requisite facilities to conduct the COVID-19 rapid antigen tests at the Collectorate in Kothagudem on Wednesday. According to health department sources, the mobile lab will tour various parts of the industrial belt and remote villages to offer testing services. The move is part of a multi-pronged strategy to facilitate COVID testing and effectively rein in the spread. Details of those who test positive will be passed on to Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres for follow-up action.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIN, govt. take up second COVID survey||The ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in association with the Telangana Sate government has initiated the second round of sero-epidemiological survey to monitor the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population as part of the nationwide survey being spearheaded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday. Baseline survey The baseline survey was conducted in May in three districts of Telangana — Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda. The data then showed only two positive cases in Jangaon (0.49%) and one each in Kamareddy (0.25%) and Nalgonda (0.25%). About 10 villages/wards are being selected in each of these districts and from each selected village 40 subjects aged 10 or above are being randomly covered for the survey. House-to-house Telangana Health department and district authorities are actively engaged in the survey process to ensure smooth operationalisation of house-to-house survey in 30 villages across three districts. The total subjects covered in this survey will be about 1,200, according to a press release by the institute director. The population-based sero-epidemiological study is to help determine the trend in transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the socio-demographic risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 infection. The findings will be useful to strengthen containment measures, the release added.  However, scientists are tight-lipped about the results of the first round of the sero-epidemological survey conducted in the twin cities and other cities across the country as they are yet to be published. “We are expecting the Ministry of Health and the ICMR to publish them soon,” they said.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Study focuses on pedestrian safety||A study reveals that as many as 52.4% of pedestrian fatalities were recorded after they were hit by vehicles when they were crossing the road. The highest number of fatalities of pedestrians was recorded in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s Charminar and Serilingampally zones. The study, an analysis of fatal pedestrian crashes from 2017 to 2019, based on FIRs, was done by the Footpath Initiative, a project of transport researchers Varun Sridhar and Anusha Chitturi, which seeks to bring about awareness on issues connected with pedestrian safety. The study analyses 568 fatal pedestrian crashes in 127 wards of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Several wards of L B Nagar zone were excluded on account of lack of information. Data also shows that 18% of pedestrian fatalities occurred after they were hit by vehicles when they were walking on the roadside. The study reveals that 135 fatal pedestrian crashes were recorded in Charminar zone.  ‘Possible reason’ As much as 76.2% of these crashes were seen on arterial roads. Of this, 66% of fatalities occurred while pedestrians were crossing the road. These crashes were seen along the Inner Ring Road (IRR), which has several business establishments and places of worship on either side. This was observed to be a possible reason for vehicle-pedestrian crashes. A large number of crashes occurred at the intersection of the IRR and Old Kurnool Road and IRR leading to Aramghar crossroads. Meanwhile, the Serilingampally zone recorded 73% fatal pedestrian crashes which occurred on arterial roads. A large number of these crashes were recorded on National Highway 65. The study records that this stretch has been recognised as dangerous for pedestrian movement as per a Ministry of Road Transport and Highways document. In a different trend, in the Khairtabad zone, fatal pedestrian crashes were fewer on arterial roads. Here, 51% of fatal pedestrian crashes were recorded on roads other than arterial ones. National Highway-65 was flagged yet again in the Kukatpally zone as there were 19 fatal crashes recorded along the Miyapur-Balanagar stretch. “The solution is to have mid-block crossings and to prioritise Indian Roads Congress – 103 guidelines which are guidelines for pedestrian facilities. The guidelines provide for mid-block crossing every 80 m to 250 m which should be put in place. Additionally, refuge islands will help a great deal and will reduce pedestrian crashes,” Mr Varun Sridhar opined.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS govt. all set with 900 video lessons for schoolchildren||Equipped with 900 video lessons for schoolchildren, carefully prepared over the last few months, the School Education department wants to shut the criticism that the government was not well prepared to start the online classes. It was not an impulsive decision but a lot of thought went into it with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructing officials to see that government schoolchildren were not left behind while private schoolchildren had access to e-learning. “Equitable education system was what the CM wanted and our teachers put in their best efforts to create the content,” said Special Chief Secretary of the Education department Chitra Ramachandran. She agreed that it’s a paradigm shift in the teaching-learning process and there may be some hiccups but the government has made elaborate arrangements to reach out to every student including those who are digitally-challenged. “The teachers at SCERT prepared an alternative academic calender realising that the pandemic is here to stay for sometime and the gaps in the learning process have to be plugged. We revised the concepts with clear instructions on how the first week should be approached given the long break. Teachers will draft their lessons from these concepts,” Chitra Ramachandran said. The result of the hard work is 900 hours of lessons. These are for Telugu medium and efforts are on to ensure English medium students too don’t lose out and alternate modes are being worked out. Teachers were asked to take up resource mapping identifying students with what gadgets they had access to like television, computers, tablets and mobiles. Arrangements are being made as per the resource mapping data. Teachers were also trained through webinars and it will continue to ensure students get adapted to the new paradigm. Ms. Ramachandran said a wonderful concept of “Little Teacher and Little Leader” is already in place in government schools where students are divided into groups and selected students teach different chapters. “Confidence and quality of students was unbelievable and those classes have been recorded and these will be used as well. Teachers already have WhatsApp groups of their students and they will be connected with these lessons as well,” she said. However, government is depending on reaching maximum students through television using TSAT and Doordarshan.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elective surgeries at OGH dept. to resume this week||Elective surgeries in the Surgical Gastroenterology department of Osmania General Hospital (OGH) are set to resume after a hiatus of over a month. The non-emergency surgeries in the departments of General Surgery and Orthopaedics will resume next week. The elective surgeries such as removal of tumours from stomach or chest under the three departments were not being performed since the third week of July. Operation theatres in the OGH’s in-patient (IP) block where the surgeries were performed were closed when rainwater flooded the block on July 15. After that, patients were shifted to Quli Qutb Shah block. Though emergency surgeries under the three departments were performed in operation theatres in out-patient block, the elective surgeries were kept on hold. The issue was published in these columns on August 19. Junior doctors of the hospital represented the issue to senior officials in the Health department, and superintendent of the hospital B. Nagender. Since the Gandhi Hospital has been converted into an exclusive COVID-19 hospital, people are dependent on OGH for the elective surgeries. Director of Medical Education K Ramesh Reddy said they will make space for three to four more operation theatres in Quli Qutb Shah block of the hospital to take up the surgeries. Dr Nagender confirmed that the elective surgeries under Surgical Gastroenterology department will resume this week. “Elective surgeries in the other two departments will start from next week,” he said.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC declines permission for Muharram procession||Justice T. Vinod Kumar of the Telangana High Court on Wednesday declined to direct Hyderabad police to permit Muharram procession in the old city as sought in a writ petition. The writ petition was filed by Fatima Seva Dal Society, requesting the court to instruct the police to accord permission to take out Muharram procession through Alawa Bibi to Chaderghat via Charminar and Gulzar House. The petitioner also said it would secure elephants from other States for the procession. The society wanted the court to direct Chief Conservator of Forests to permit keeping the elephants in Nehrou Zoological Park. However, with the judge deciding not to direct the police to allow the procession, the question of permitting elephants did not arise. The judge said the Supreme Court had earlier declined to permit Muharram procession while hearing a writ petition. Since the apex court had already decided on such matter, it would not be possible to pass a different order, the judge said. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had issued guidelines continuing the ban on taking out religious processions. In the backdrop of high incidence of COVID-19 pandemic, the Central government preferred not to allow any religious processions. The judge observed that any other problems connected to religious places like temples or mosques could be resolved. A lawyer made a mention of another writ petition seeking a direction to the government to permit at least two persons to carry the Alams on their heads instead of taking out a procession. The judge, however, said the petition was not listed for the day. He told counsel to move a lunch motion on Thursday to hear it.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Absence of systems hurts Hyderabad heritage||As Hyderabad’s heritage appears to tumble from one disaster to another, activists say absence of robust systems is hurting the city. Nearly a year after the High Court judgement on the Irrum Manzil case, the city still does not have a heritage conservation committee (HCC). The Urban Areas Act stipulates that “the Government shall constitute an Urban Art Commission” to preserve and conserve historical monuments and sites. Instead, Hyderabad had been making do with an heritage conservation committee till 2013. The court had in its September 16 judgement noted: “Regulation 13 of the Zonal Regulations, 1981 was framed under Section 59 of the Urban Areas Act. Hence, Regulation 13 of the Zonal Regulations, 1981 furthers one of the goals of the Urban Areas Act.” Hopscotch attempt But there has been no progress. The result has been a hopscotch attempt towards preserving heritage buildings with a pick-and-choose policy. While the City College, Moazzam Jahi Market, Mecca Masjid, Mahbub Chowk Clock Tower, Residency building and a few other heritage sites are being restored/conserved, a majority of listed heritage sites including the Osmania General Hospital, Osmania University Arts College building, and others have been ignored. “Heritage is about continuity and a pattern. We cannot have conservation without systems and order. There has to be a guiding principle for all the civic actions with regard to heritage,” says Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. “A heritage committee would ensure that some minimum common standards are followed in a city which has so much heritage. If the heritage conservation committee was re-constituted, it would have had a role in the restoration of Moazzam Jahi Market. We don’t know who was involved. The result you can see,” says Sajjad Shahid, a chronicler of Hyderabad and its heritage. “Heritage conservation is guided by a comprehensive management plan (CMP) that helps the custodians of building about the various dos and don’ts,” informs Mr. Shahid. For the MJ Market the executors of the restoration have a two-year Defects Liability Period (DLP) which will kick in once the restoration is completed. The DLP is jargon where the contractor of the building is responsible for fixing at his cost any defects arising from the construction flaws. “Once the two-year period is over the upkeep of the building will be the responsibility of the GHMC. The CPWD has clear guidelines about such maintenance,” says K. Raj Kumar of Dhrumataru Consultants that is executing the MJ Market restoration. “The ceiling of MJ Market has seven layers and we completed five layers when it was inaugurated. The lime mortar and lime punning layer are yet to be finished that led to the leakage. We are also looking at small seepage issues at other places,” says Mr. Kumar about the MJ Market restoration.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI (M) accuses Central govt. of centralisation of power||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government was moving towards ‘centralisation of power’ by usurping the powers of the states against the federal spirit of the Constitution. “This is mainly evident at the time of the pandemic that had hit all sections hard leading to crisis in all sectors, and not just economic and health. States need the Centre’s helping hand in combating the virus, but the latter has not released a justified share of states pertaining to GST of the last fiscal. The total lockdown announced by the Centre with less than four hours’ notice has hit all states hard,” CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Wednesday, adding that states were expressing their helplessness in checking the spread of the virus with the Centre’s indifference in ensuring timely release of funds. Mr. Yechury alleged that the Centre was mortgaging the interests of the country to corporates as could be seen from the move to privatise airports, railways and other key public sector undertakings. “Atma Nirbhar Bharat announced by the Prime Minister in fact turned out to be Atma Samarpan Bharat. The rich are becoming further rich while crores of working class people are finding it difficult to sustain,” he said. While there were agitations building up in different sections, including the coal and banks, the Centre was trying to dilute the Constitutional rights guaranteed to the working class by its moves to amend labour laws. The CPI (M) general secretary was addressing the participants of a virtual meeting convened by the party’s Telangana unit on Wednesday. Charging the Centre with failing on all fronts in checking the spread of the virus, he said the state of affairs could be gauged from the fact that the government could not fix the charges of treatment in private hospitals at a time when developed countries like Spain had nationalised private hospitals. In addition, testing of people was one of the lowest in the world as the government did not put in place adequate measures for testing, tracing and treatment for the persons affected with COVID. “No efforts were made to understand the magnitude of the crisis when the first case was registered in January. The BJP leadership was busy toppling elected governments in states like Madhya Pradesh at that point of time,” he said. With the government deciding to opt for a total lockdown in less than four hours’ notice, over 15 crore people lost their livelihood in the first three months, he added. “The deadlines set by the government to contain the spread of the virus notwithstanding, COVID assumed pandemic proportions, with more than three million people affected by it so far and the number continues to grow by the day. Instead of ensuring single minded focus on containment of the virus, the government washed off its hands and asked people to fend for themselves,” he said. Mr. Yechury lamented that there were attacks on the four pillars of democracy – secularism, federalism, social justice and economic sovereignty – as the government was trying to “perpetrate the Hindutva ideology dictated by the RSS to consolidate the Hindu vote bank. “Intellectuals who are opposing the government’s policies are being arrested and kept in jail with no chargesheets,” he said. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram presided over the meeting.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy meets Law Minister over HC strength||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Wednesday requested his senior Cabinet colleague and Union Minister for Law and Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad to fill up the existing vacancies in the Telangana High Court and also increase the sanctioned number of judges from the existing 24 to 42. In a memorandum to Mr. Prasad, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Reddy stated that the Telangana HC was formed in 2014 and was sanctioned 24 judges but as of now, only 14 judges have been appointed and functioning, including the Chief Justice. BJP MLC and Bar Council member N. Ramchander Rao and TS Bar Council chairman A. Narasimha Reddy accompanied him. “Due to the increasing number of fresh cases being filed and corresponding rise in pendency of cases, even if the number of sanctioned judge posts were filled, it will not be enough to clear them all and will only end up in further burdening the judicial system “leading to spiral of pendency,” he said. “This will have a huge impact on the justice delivery system leading to clogging of cases thereby causing hindrance in the deliverance of timely justice to people,” he observed. The HC has more than sufficient infrastructure to accommodate 46 to 48 judges, hence the sanctioned strength can be increased, the communication added.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DCCs: Nehru-Gandhi family member should head AICC||Presidents of all District Congress Committees (DCCs) passed a unanimous resolution stating that a Nehru-Gandhi family member should head the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The DCC presidents met Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday and submitted a representation of their resolution to be forwarded to New Delhi. Warangal DCC president Nayini Rajender Reddy also gave a brief explanation on the resolution and said that the party would be safe and strengthened only if a member of the Gandhi family headed it. He also condemned the letter written by some senior leaders demanding change in leadership and sought disciplinary action against those who leaked it to the media. The DCC presidents also demanded that the ongoing elections for Youth Congress should be postponed in view of the COVID situation in Telangana. The TPCC president assured that he would convey to the Congress High Command about the resolution passed by the DCC presidents. He praised them for their hard work to strengthen the party in their respective districts. He said that the DCCs had done great service during the lockdown period and the help they provided to migrant workers was commendable. Mr. Reddy also said that if the party continued to raise public issues, it would return to power as there was a lot of resentment among people towards the KCR government. He condemned the government for not including COVID treatment in the Aarogyasri scheme, which would help the poor, and also accused it of suppressing the real figures of cases and deaths. He alleged that CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao remained a mute spectator to the injustice being done to Telangana on sharing of river water. He also alleged that instead of protecting the interests of Telangana, Mr. KCR tried to facilitate the construction of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme by postponing the meeting of the Apex Council.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collector calls for steps to ensure dignity to the dead||The body of a woman, who was suspected to have died of COVID-19, was carried in a heavy earth mover to the graveyard where her last rites were performed. The incident took place in Govindpet village of Armoor mandal in Nizamabad district on Tuesday. Responding to a viral video of the incident, District Collector C. Narayan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to take steps to ensure that such “inhuman” incidents did not recur. The Collector, who spoke to the Revenue, Health and Panchayat Raj officials over teleconference, wanted them to take steps to ensure that last rites of COVID victims were performed with decorum in the event of their relatives not coming forward to do so. Officials should ensure that the body of the victim should be covered in full and PPE given to at least four persons enabling them to perform the last rites. Committees should be constituted at Revenue Division and Corporation levels to get information about COVID-related deaths so that it could be passed on to the officials concerned and they can make arrangements for the last rites. The committees should ensure supply of PPE kits and supervise the entire process. Vehicles should be kept ready at the division and corporation levels in this direction, he said.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spillway discharge of flood resumes at Srisailam||With an increased flood from the upstream, the spillway discharge of flood resumed first at Srisailam and later at Nagarjunsagar on Wednesday. According to the flood monitoring officials, one spillway gate was lifted to 10 feet height to release the flood at Srisailam once the project attained full reservoir level of 885 ft and capacity of 215.81 tmc ft around 1 a.m. on Wednesday. By 9 p.m. seven more gates were also lifted for 10 ft height each to discharge over 2.23 lakh cusecs water as the inflows from Krishna (Jurala) and Tungabhadra (Sunkesula) were around 2.96 lakh cusecs. Another 31,000 cusecs of water was also being let into the river after generation of power in the Right Bank Hydro Electric Station of AP. In the downstream, discharge of flood from the Nagarajunsagar spillway was resumed around 8 p.m. by lifting eight gates for five ft height each and later increased to 10 ft height each to increase the discharge from 64,300 cusecs to 1.2 lakh cusecs. At 9 p.m., the inflows into the project were over 2.74 lakh cusecs. Another 28,000 cusecs was also being released to the river after power generation. At Jurala in the upstream of Srisailam, the spillway discharge was increased to over 1.8 lakh cusecs from the 26 crest gates as the inflows increased to over 2.07 lakh cusecs following the increase in the discharge of flood at Narayanpur. Another 29,000 cusecs was being let into river after power generation. “With almost all major projects in the upper, middle and lower Krishna basins full, any receipt of flood would be let downstream at Almatti, Narayanpur, Tungabhadra and Jurala. Water level in Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala projects is also being maintained around the full reservoir level,” a flood forecasting official stated. In the Godavari basin, it is only Sriramsagar reservoir that is yet to attain the FRL this season. Last year too, the project became surplus only in the third week of September. However, the flood at Medigadda barrage was around 2.12 lakh cusecs and at Polavaram in AP it was 4.94 lakh cusecs.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Self-sufficiency and a social cause stitched together||COVID-19 sure has hit every business but has also opened new avenues of livelihood. Twenty eight-year-old Sumalatha of Mamidipally village lost her husband and is the sole earning member fending for her two children. As part of a self-help group (SHG), she was training to sew jute bags. After the pandemic struck, she got an offer to make personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. “I am financially independent and now proud of being able to help for a social cause too,” she says with a smile. Krishnaveni (39) hails from the same village and is a group member, also trained to make jute bags and uniforms. She too is into making masks and PPE kits. “It took some time to get used to the change. From 40 kits a day, we are able to produce more than 150 kits. We are ready to customise too,” she says. Their colleague D. Renuka (45) hails from Jalpally village. “Training in making jute products has come in handy to make the most of the current situation and enable us to contribute towards the safety of medical and health professionals,” she says. Training in making jute products earlier and currently into making two/three-layer face masks and PPE kits for the last four months has been through GMR Varalakshmi Foundation (GMRVF), the corporate social responsibility arm of GMR group. The 14 women SHG members voluntarily came forward and have made 30,000 masks and 6,000 PPE kits so far. Their creations are now available at the ‘Empower’ outlet at the international departures of Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), said an official spokesman on Tuesday. These SHG members are part of the over 600 GMRVF-trained women volunteers across different centres involved in making masks and PPE kits. These women are working from either their own homes maintaining social distancing, etc., or respective centres abiding by all the required safety norms like daily temperature checks. Work centres are in Delhi, Warora (Maharashtra); Bajoli-Holi (Himachal Pradesh); Badrinath (Uttarakhand); Kamalanga (Odisha); Rajam, Anantapur, Kakinada (AP), apart from Hyderabad. Over 65,000 masks have been distributed to frontline workers in healthcare, police, security and other fields. PPE gowns and entire PPE kit consisting of head caps, masks, full-length gowns, shoes-cover and hand gloves are being supplied to healthcare firms, Indian Surgicals and GMM Healthcare. Raw materials are being provided by these agencies and over 6,000 PPE kits have been successfully delivered, he claimed. Over 1,000 masks were also sent to the Rangareddy Collectorate and another 6,000 masks were taken by the RGIA’s Notified Area Committee for distribution to the airport personnel. Free masks were also distributed in airport adjoining villages of Mamidipally, Gollapally, Shamshabad etc. and those near GMR road projects in Telangana. “We feel proud that our GMRVF skilled women are at the forefront producing PPE kits and masks to equip the frontline COVID warriors,” said GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Startup raises Rs. 4.5 crore seed fund||A startup from Hyderabad focused on making last mile delivery easier for companies and their customers with its nano distribution centres has raised a seed funding of Rs. 4.5 crore. Exprs, the start-up, said the funding is by Lets Venture, Angel List and DCF Advisory. The investment is led by angel investors Sweta Rau and Sandeep Kapoor. It had earlier raised Rs. 2.2 crore in the pre-seed round. Founder and CEO Srinivas Madhavam said the nano distribution centres are established in high demand clusters such as gated communities, tech parks, universities and commute points such as railway stations. Typically kiosks, they serve as the point where e-commerce firms or their delivery associates drop the ordered goods for onward delivery to the intended customer. From there, the packages are delivered by Exprs at the respective doorstep or handed over when the customer comes to pick up. For the startup, Hyderabad and Bengaluru are major markets and it is pursuing plans to scale up operations across Mumbai and Chennai in near future. It has launched the facility at four railway stations in and around Mumbai. Million deliveries A release on the fund raise said the startup has fulfilled more than a million deliveries in the first year of operations in these four cities. E-commerce companies, D2C brands, MSMEs and homepreneurs have partnered with Exprs. During the pandemic, gated communities across Hyderabad and Bengaluru partnered with the startup to launch ‘real contactless deliveries’ where a set of pre-screened, dedicated, on-campus delivery executives helped to restrict the entry of large pool of delivery executives.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus-positive Jagtial ASP passes away||Five days ahead of attaining superannuation, Jagityal Additional Superintendent of Police K. Dakshinamurthy died in the early hours of Wednesday while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The 58-year-old officer was admitted in a private hospital in Karimnagar district headquarters, 160 km from here, after contracting coronavirus. Doctors attending him said he died of cardiac arrest around 5 a.m. He was the first ASP rank officer in Telangana to die of the virus. The officer reportedly was not inclined to be shifted to Hyderabad for treatment and preferred the private hospital in Karimnagar. He hails from Algunoor village adjacent to Karimnagar town. A sub-inspector of 1989 batch, Mr. Dakshinamurthy worked at different places in the undivided districts of Warangal and Khammam in the ranks of SI, Inspector and Deputy Superintendent of Police. As a police officer, he was actively involved in the security and other arrangements of Medaram Jatara, said to be the largest tribal festival in the country, held in Mulugu district every two years. For nearly past two decades, he was involved in bringing the tribal goddesses Sammakka and Saralamma from Chilakalagattu and Kannepalli respectively to the main venue of the festival. He worked as Nirmal ASP before being shifted to Jagtial. His final rites were performed in Karimnagar with official honours. Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.B. Kamalasan Reddy and other district officers paid tributes to the departed soul.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rally held to pay tributes to corona martyrs||Healthcare professionals working in Telangana government hospitals paid tribute to COVID-19 warriors who died after contracting the infection, by holding a candle-light rally in government healthcare facilities across Hyderabad on Wednesday evening. Junior and senior doctors, nurses, and others gathered in large numbers to participate in the rally. They have demanded government orders to be issued announcing Rs. 1 crore ex-gratia for the warriors who die of COVID-19. “Besides, a GO has to be issued announcing that treatment for healthcare workers and their families would be provided at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences,” demanded B. Narahari, coordinator of Telangana Medical Joint Action Committee. Others demanded that the government sponsor advanced treatment for COVID-19 should anyone need it. Though Health department officials on Tuesday said that they are actively working to ensure Rs. 50 lakh insurance coverage is extended to the professionals who have died, doctors said insurance claims are subjective based on medical condition of a person, and instead, demanded ex-gratia.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Boy cured of leukaemia, says hospital||Continental Hospitals, in a press release on Tuesday, said a team of its experts cured a 11 year-old boy of leukaemia, also known as blood cancer. The boy from Raipur was put under total body irradiation (TBI) which would prepare the body for stem cell or bone marrow transplantation. TBI, together with chemotherapy, kills leukaemia, lymphoma, or myeloma cells in the bone marrow. The boy underwent three days of TBI, and, after being under observation for 31 days, was discharged on August 5, the note said.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four startups bag top honours||Four startups from Hyderabad, with their offerings for the healthcare and lifestyle sector, bagged the top honours at the TiE Woman Regional Finals, which was hosted virtually by TiE Hyderabad earlier this week. The winner of the Regional Finals Sapien Biosciences, co-founded by Jugnu Jain, got the top prize for her biobank multi-disease screening solution idea. The first runner up position went to washable and reusable face mask and headgear creator Dibbu Solutions. Luxpack, founded by Silpa Reddy, was the second runner-up while Hemis, founded by Prashansa Shahani, was adjudged third runner-up. A press release from TiE Hyderabad said over 16 women-led startups battled for top honours at the regional finals. According to the release, Sapien Biosciences is a biobank and has a diverse sample collection across cancers, rare disorders, cardiovascular conditions and type 2 diabetes. The winners were adjudged by jury panel comprising Lakshmi Nambiar of Anthill Ventures, Ranjan Chak of Oak Investment Partners and Jay Krishnan of Mantra Capital.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed up VCs’ appointment: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials to speed up the process of appointing Vice-Chancellors to universities in the State. At a meeting to discuss vacancies in the post of Vice-Chancellor to a majority of universities, Mr. Rao was informed that the search committees to fill up the vacancies were constituted. Their work was hampered by COVID pandemic. There should not be any more delay in completing the process, he said and asked the Chief Secretary to personally monitor the developments. Later, Mr. Rao discussed the TRS strategy for the Assembly session beginning September 7 with the party MLAs. The meeting was attended by Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar, government whips G. Sunitha, R. Kantha Rao and some MLAs.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man ‘kills’ friend over disagreement||A 26-year old man’s body was found with the head smashed with a boulder in Syed Nagar in Banjara Hills police station limits on Wednesday. Police said Sk Abdul Razzak Ali was said to be an unemployed youth. His friend Md Ghouse, around 26 and a driver by profession, was suspected to have killed him after a disagreement arose between the two. Police said the accused and the victim were residents of Golconda. The duo went on a two-wheeler to Syed Nagar on Tuesday night where they allegedly disagreed on an issue. The disagreement turned into a scuffle after which Ghouse allegedly smashed Ali’s head with a boulder. A case was booked.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 entrepreneurs selected for GIZ programme||Ten rural women entrepreneurs from Narayanpet district have been selected by WE Hub for the second cohort of the ‘Her&Now’ programme of Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. They were selected from among 15 women entrepreneurs from the district, who had applied, said WE Hub, which is a partner of GIZ. Narayanpet district administration took keen interest in identifying entrepreneurs and will extend support in grounding their enterprises. The tailor-made programme along with sessions for selected entrepreneurs would begin on September 16, post completion of need assessment and curriculum design, a release by WE Hub on Tuesday said. WE Hub, which is a Telangana government initiative for women entrepreneurs, thus kicked off the first district batch from Narayanpet for the second cohort of the ‘Her&Now’ programme implemented by GIZ and funded by German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The first cohort of 30 startups graduated last year by formally registering their enterprises and raising finance through credit linkage and equity investment. The selected entrepreneurs would be offered solutions in terms of finances and machinery, among others. The cohort would be a blended model where sessions would be delivered virtually to entrepreneurs, WE Hub CEO Deepthi Ravula said. Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the State government was working proactively to enable women to be part of the innovation ecosystem. Narayanpet Collector Hari Chandana Dasari urged women entrepreneurs to submit their project reports.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pregnant woman murdered||A 20-year-old pregnant woman was murdered, allegedly , by her husband in the Chilkalguda police station limits on Wednesday. According to the Chilkalguda police, Mahalaxmi was married to the accused who was identified as Kumar. Both were beggars. The accused was said to be an alcoholic and used to beat his wife frequently. “After begging, both used to sleep on the footpath near the Gandhi Hospital at night. Late last night, the accused beat up the victim after she refused to give him money to buy liquor. The victim, mother to a one-year-old son, was pregnant. After she refused, the accused beat her up. Later she was found with cut injuries on her arm and the right side of her torso. He then pretended as if he had discovered the body,” Chilkalguda sub-inspector of police N Sai Krishna said. Police were looking for CCTV footage in the vicinity. They booked a murder case.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress leaders seek CBI inquiry||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy, ex-MP Mallu Ravi and ex-MLA Vamshikrishna said on Wednesday that the CID inquiry into the Srisailam power unit fire would not reveal the truth, given the allegations made by the employees, and demanded a CBI inquiry. In a letter to CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao, they said that the incident seemed to be a result of corruption and carelessness and people responsible should be held accountable for loss of life and property. Mr. Revanth Reddy also alleged that employees were not even allowed to conduct a condolence meeting at the TS Genco office to pay respects to their colleagues and they had to conduct it in Amrabad forests. This was done apparently to play down such a major accident. The Congress leaders also demanded 500 yards house site for the family members of the deceased employees, job to one of the family members and ex gratia as demanded by the employees.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pleas dismissed||Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy of High Court had dismissed two writ petitions filed by Karvy Stock Broking Limited seeking directions to Serious Fraud Investigation Office and the Director General of Ministry of Corporate Affairs not to launch any investigation under Companies Act. In the first petition, it requested the court to instruct the DG of Corporate Affairs not to take any coercive steps including an investigation against it under Companies Act. The 2nd petition was filed to declare issuing to it notices by the SFIO and set the same aside.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR review (for briefly)||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will review the State government sponsored year-long programmes in connection with the centenary of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao at his camp office on Friday. The meeting will discuss the programmes that were already held and what should be done in the remaining year, a release said.
27 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||Precious ornaments were found missing from the Kanaka Durga temple at Gandhi Nagar in Miryalaguda on Wednesday. Priests, who opened the temple door early in the morning, found ornaments in the garb griha, about 12 kg silver, two tola gold and cash missing from the hundi. Miryalaguda police retrieved the temple’s CCTV footage that showed a man wearing a black mask entering the temple premises in the wee hours. A case has been filed.
27 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Two women drowned in a tank while washing clothes at Ilapur thanda under Ameenpur police station limits on Wednesday. According to Sub-Inspector S. Prabhakar, Chitti (19) and Vara Lakshmi (20) drowned accidentally. Their bodies were retrieved from the tank and sent for post-mortem to the government hospital at Patancheru. Police registered a case and are investigating.
27 August 2020||SIDDIET,TELANGANA||BRF||Alleging that their land was transferred in the name of another person, a farmer and his daughter threatened suicide on Wednesday. According to sources, one Bhimreddy Tirupathi Reddy of Chenchelchervupally village along with his daughter Swaroopa went to the Koheda mandal revenue office and threatened to commit suicide. They entered the office with kerosene and pesticide bottles and locked the doors from inside. They stopped only when the revenue officials assured them to address the issue.
27 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||10-year-old raped, murdered||A ten-year-old speech and hearing impaired girl was raped and murdered in a village in Palwal here. The police suspect the culprit could be a fellow villager. The girl’s body was discovered in the fields on the outskirts of the village on Tuesday evening, a day after she had gone missing. The family alleged that her eyes had been gouged out. But Palwal Police Superintendent Deepak Gahlawat said the body had decomposed to give the impression that the eyes were damaged. Mr. Gahlawat said that autopsy had confirmed rape, but there were no signs of brutality. He said the girl was strangled to death. The family reported the matter to the police on Tuesday noon when they were unable to find her after several hours of searching. They alleged that a head constable at Hodal Police Station abused them and initially refused to take their complaint. The family said the case was registered only after political intervention. A few hours after the complaint was filed, the girl’s body was spotted in the fields.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC to examine police case diary before deciding on Narwal’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it will first examine the police’s case diary of the north-east Delhi riots case before deciding on the bail plea of Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal. Justice Vibhu Bakhru asked Delhi Police to submit the case diary in a sealed cover and posted the hearing on August 31. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, representing the Delhi police, said there are sensitive information in the case diary which cannot be shared with Ms. Narwal’s advocate at this stage. Separate web link Taking note of the submission, Justice Bakhru said the court proceedings, which has been carried out through videoconferencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will take place through a separate web link where only the Delhi police’s advocate and the investigating officer will be present. During the hearing, Ms. Narwal’s lawyer informed the court that the bail of another co-accused was heard and reserved by a trial court here. However, the decision could not be pronounced as the case diary has been taken away for the purpose of showing to the High Court. Following this, Justice Bakhru told the Delhi police to show the case diary to be produced before the trial court concerned before August 29, so that the proceeding before the trial court could be concluded. Certain videos Ms. Narwal’s lawyer also urged the HC to consider watching certain videos which he has submitted along with the bail application. “The videos show that Ms Narwal was never there. They [police] have the videos. They don’t want to show it because the videos show Ms. Narwal was not there,” the lawyer argued. Ms. Narwal has challenged a trial court’s order which had dismissed her bail plea. She was arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalitha in relation with an FIR registered on February 24 over the sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Crime Branch has lodged a separate FIR against both — Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots.  On June 14, a trial court had dismissed bail pleas of Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita on the ground that there was no merit in the applications and that it was amply clear from the chargesheet that the investigation was still pending and it has been filed against other accused persons also.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro awaits govt.’s green signal||As the Delhi Metro gears up to resume services after over five months, less frequent trains, discontinuation of tokens and an increase in the dwell time of trains to provide enough time to passengers to board and exit, are some of the steps to be followed according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) prepared by the public transporter. Metro services which have remained suspended since March 22 following the nationwide lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 outbreak, are likely to resume operations under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines to be issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. “Tokens will not be permitted for travelling, only smart cards will be allowed. All transactions for recharge of cards will be done through cashless mode, tokens will not be allowed for travel, only smart card or QR code will be allowed, ticket vending machine will not accept cash,” read the SOP. Auto top-up feature The Delhi Metro on August 19 had announced the launch of a new facility with an auto top-up feature that would help commuters recharge their smart cards automatically at the Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) gates at metro stations. Among other measures, apart from thermal screening of all passengers at frisking points, commuters will also need to have the Aarogya Setu App. “Passengers to sit on alternate seats in the train or stand, maintaining a gap of one metre. Suitable marking on the seats will be made. The dwell time of trains will be substantially increased so that passengers have sufficient time to board and alight. This will avoid pushing by passengers,” the document read. While stations and trains are to be disinfected after operational hours, steps are also being taken to provide maximum fresh air inside the trains and in underground stations to reduce transmission of the virus, it said. The SOP added that metro trains will not stop at stations falling in containment zones and some stations maybe “skipped if sufficient passengers are not available”. Parking and feeder bus services will, however, remain suspended, according to the document.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police to get smarter with e-beat book system||To reduce the burden of beat constables and increase their efficiency, the Delhi police is set to introduce e-beat book system, beginning with South-West district and 14 other police stations in the city. Devender Arya, DCP (South-West) said that physical infrastructure like mobile set and SIM cards are in place and they are in the final phase of updating entries like prominent locations, details of religious places, RWAs, details of banks and ATMs in the e-book. Facial recognition “The important places will be geo-mapped in the e-book that will save time in case of any emergency. The e-beat book will have facial recognition software and dossiers of criminals. The details of the suspects and wanted criminals will be synchronised with the e-book and can be access in real-time basis,” said Mr. Arya. He said that like at present, if a beat constable nabs any suspect during checking, he needs to take the suspect to the nearest police station and check his records manually. This is a time-taking process. But in case of an e-beat book, with the help of facial recognition software, the details will be accessed on the spot that will increase productivity of the policeman. A police officer said that with the help of mobile service providers, they will have live location of a caller in distress and it will further reduce their response time. The e-beat book will be given to each police beat in a police station. For better monitoring, the e-book has been given to divisional officer and SHO. “The details of stolen or robbed vehicle will be updated real time and it will flash for all beat constables. A beat constable at a barricade checking can verify any vehicle on the spot. The officer said that the best feature of the e-beat book is that the beat constable can access the crime data and criminal records on the spot. In case the suspect’s face does not match, the details can be searched with the help of name and father’s name.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||Plea opposes transfer of funds to PM CARES||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected a petition opposing the decision of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to transfer Rs. 15 crore to the PM CARES fund, saying it appeared to be a “motivated” plea against the president of the institution. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Navneet Chaturvedi, to either withdraw the matter or face dismissal with costs. The counsel for the petitioner then sought permission to withdraw the plea and the Bench dismissed it. During the hearing via videoconference, the Bench asked the petitioner, who according to his lawyer is a journalist and a social worker, how a PIL can be filed when the members of ICAI were not aggrieved by the transfer of funds. “If the members of ICAI are happy to contribute, then what are the grounds for a PIL?” the court asked and added, “this appears to be a motivated petition against the president of the institution.” Besides transferring Rs. 15 crore to the PM CARES fund in April, ICAI also pledged an additional Rs. 6 crore contributions from its members.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two brothers found dead in their shop||Two brothers, owners of a jewellery shop, were found dead at their store in central Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, the police said on Wednesday. The brothers lived with their family in Bazar Sitaram area, the police said. A note recovered from the spot cited financial crisis as the reason for taking the step, the police said. The bodies have been shifted to the mortuary. The bodies were found on the third floor of the jewellery shop. Their father was present on the first floor of the building at the time of the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said. Locals, however, alleged that the brothers were being harassed by money lenders as they had taken out several loans. Due to financial crisis owing to the lockdown, they were unable to repay the loans. The duo were also allegedly thrashed by money lenders, said locals. The police, however, said they are verifying the allegations and said the two brothers have not named anyone in the note. “We are recording statements of the family members and the matter is being investigated,” the officer said.  Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi court dismisses Brinda Karat’s FIR plea||A Delhi court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat seeking lodging of FIRs against BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma for their alleged hate speeches in relation to anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja dismissed Ms. Karat’s plea, noting that “no previous sanction obtained by the complainants from the competent authority to prosecute the respondents [Mr. Thakur and Mr. Verma] for the offences alleged in the complaint”. Prior sanction The court stated that prior sanction of competent authority — Central government — is required as per Section 196 the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) at the stage of ordering of registration of FIR as both persons are MPs. Ms. Karat had sought registration of FIR against Mr. Thakur and Mr. Verma under Sections 153A 153B 295A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code. Ms. Karat had stated that Mr. Thakur raised chants of “ Desh ke gaddaro ko, goli maaro saalon ko ” during a rally in Delhi. The complaint stated that Mr. Verma gave false, provocative and communal statements against the Shaheen Bagh protesters. The counsel appearing for Ms. Karat argued that sanction is only required before taking cognisance by the court and not before passing of order of registration of FIR. The court, however, said it did not agree with Ms. Karat’s counsel.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea of Nitish Katara murder convict||The Delhi High Court has rejected the parole plea of Vikas Yadav, who is serving life term for killing business executive Nitish Katara in 2002, has to attend his ailing mother. Justice Vibhu Bakhru remarked that Yadav’s mother is not immobile and there are sufficient number of relatives to look after her. The HC also considered that Ajay Katara, a key prosecution witness, and Nilam Katara, mother of the victim, have serious objections to Yadav being released as they fear for their safety. This court is not persuaded to accede to the prayers made in the present petition, the HC said, dismissing the plea. Yadav had sought parole on the ground that he has to take care of his mother, who was stated to be suffering from spinal medical condition along with thyroid and inner stress causing her depression.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||SDMC warns of stir if funds not released||Members of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation warned of protests outside the Chief Minister’s residence in case funds to the civic body were not released within 15 days. South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Anamika Mithilesh attacked the government for turning the municipal corporation into “deadwood” by politicising the allocation of funds. The total receipts of funds from the government under the plan and non-plan had been receding during the last five years from Rs. 1,628.09 crore in 2017-18 to Rs. 741.44 crore in 2019-20, the Mayor said. Standing committee chairperson Rajdutt Gehlot hit out at the government over a much lesser allocation to the corporation.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||State’s new stamp duty rates among lowest in India||With a 3% reduction, the stamp duty rates in Maharashtra are now one of the lowest in the country, analysts said. The three cities of New Delhi, Gurgaon and Noida have rates between 5% and 7%. While Chennai is at 7%, other cities in south India are between 5% and 8%. “In some States, especially ones in north India, the rates are lower if the property is registered in the name of a lady. This reduction is in the range of 1%-2%. Even if we take that into account, rates in Maharashtra are now amongst the very lowest in the country,” said Bhavin Thakker, managing director, Mumbai, and head, Cross Border Tenant Advisory, Savills India. He said a 3% reduction is a significant one and this will benefit the fence sitters. “For properties that are fully complete, there is no GST applicable as well; moreover, developers are already offering reduced prices and freebies. A combination of all these will prove to be a good offering for buyers,” he said. Developers will also stand to gain as this will help them sell inventory and liquidate stocks that have been available for some time, he added. Kamal Khetan, chairman and managing director, Sunteck Realty Ltd, said the reduction was a great and significant decision taken by the State government to boost the real estate sector. “This announcement will accelerate the residential real estate demand and further improve the sales momentum. For the homebuyer, the substantial saving on the overall cost will incentivise their purchasing decision,” he said. Manju Yagnik, vice chairperson, Nahar Group, and vice president, NAREDCO, Maharashtra, said, “A cut in stamp duty announced by the Maharashtra government will help boost demand for housing. This is the second time this year the State government has taken such a step to provide relief for homebuyers. The 3% cut combined with the 1% stamp duty cut announced earlier this year will help attract investment in the housing sector.” She said as the fortune of the real estate sector is linked to nearly 220 allied sectors, a boost in demand for housing will help other sectors and boost the overall economy. Stating that stamp duty cut will push festive season sales, Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, said, “Apart from the obvious homebuyer benefits, the government can generate badly-needed revenue via increased registrations after the most severe downturn in recent history. Affordable and mid-segment properties, which are in maximum demand, will see the most traction from such this move.” “To ease inventory pile-up and cost overruns, many players have already topped off discounts with added incentives such as booking amount refunds, statutory fees waivers, cashback schemes, easy payment structuring and assorted freebies. This stamp duty rate cut can push sales further into the green during the festive season,” he said.
27 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: panel sends notices to police, hospital||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission on Wednesday sent show-cause notices to the Mumbai Police and Cooper Hospital at Juhu for allowing actor Rhea Chakraborty to enter the hospital’s mortuary when Sushant Singh Rajput’s post-mortem was being conducted. The Commission’s chair told The Hindu , “notices have been issued asking under which provision was Rhea Chakraborty allowed in the mortuary despite the presence of police there. The notices are returnable on August 31.” Dr. Pinakin Gujjar, Dean of Dr. R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital said, “I cannot confirm receiving any notice.” The Enforcement Directorate is investigating a money laundering case against Ms. Chakraborty and her brother Showik and looking into the start-ups owned by the duo and Rajput.
27 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahad tragedy: techie helps save 20 lives||The presence of mind of Avesh Chichkar, a 25-year-old IT professional and cricket coach, helped save lives of at least 20 people of the B wing in the Tarique Garden building in Mahad, which collapsed on August 24. Mr. Chichkar had just come back home from gym around 6 p.m. on Monday. After reaching the building, he noticed one of the pillars at the parking lot having been damaged. He went to his home on the fifth floor and sat for eating snacks on the dining table in the kitchen. “The fridge was just beside the place where I was seated to have my snacks. I sensed a sudden movement of the fridge. I asked my mother who was cooking, if she felt anything and she answered in negative. Yet I felt there was something wrong and a disaster was waiting to happen and I asked my family — parents and a brother — to leave the house immediately. I did anticipate something of this magnitude was waiting to happen though,” Mr. Chichkar said. While going down from the fifth floor, Mr. Chichkar raised an alarm and knocked on each flat of the B wing asking the occupants to vacate the house. The five-storey society had four flats in each floor in both wings. “We all reached down the parking lot and clicked a photo of the pillar that was damaged and suddenly we heard a sound and saw another pillar breaking. That’s when we all ran to the nearby Bismillah Complex. Within a minute after reaching the nearby complex, we saw Tarique Garden collapsing like a pack of cards,” Mr. Chichkar said. Battles for life While they were waiting at the parking lot, Naveed Duste (32), an electrician who had come to the building for some work, rushed to the first floor where a family he knows resided. Though he successfully saved the family, he ended up damaging both his legs. Currently, he is battling for life at Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai. Hearing all the chaos in the building, Mr. Chichkar’s younger brother, Taha (22), who was fishing at a nearby pond, rushed to the building to check on his family in a flat on the fifth floor. The flat was closed as they had already ran to safety at Bismillah Complex. While he was coming down from the fifth floor, Mr. Taha saw Mehrunisa Kazi (60) going down at the third floor and at second floor, he saw her husband Abdul Hamid Kazi with his five-year-old grandson going down. Mr. Taha took the child and rushed down. After he went down, within seconds the building collapsed. Later, during the rescue operation, Mr. Kazi’s body was recovered while Ms. Kazi was found alive after close to 26 hours of the collapse. 16 bodies found After around 40 hours of rescue operation, 16 bodies were found while two persons were found alive beneath the rubble. Nine have been injured in the collapse. The first causality was Sayyed Hameed Sameer (45), resident of an adjoining building who got hurt after debris hit him. He died on the way to hospital due to heart attack. The remaining 15 deceased were extricated from the rubble by National Disaster Response Force personnel. The deceased have been identified as Adil Haseem Shaikhnag (14), Roshanbi Dawoodkhan Deshmukh (56), Nauseen Nadeem Bangi (30), Mateen Mukadam (45), Fateem Shaukat Alsulkar (60), Naveed Jamane (30), Ismat Haseem Shaikhnag (38), Fatima Ansari (43), Shaukat Adam Alsulkar (50), Altamash Ballari (35), Ayesha Nauseen Bangi (7), Rukiya Nauseen Bangi (2), Abdul Hameed Kazi (58), Habeeba Dawood Hazware (80) and Kamrunisa Ansari (63). The injured are Nameera Shaukat Alsurkar (19), Santosh Sahani (24), Fareeda Riyaz Pore, Jayprakash Kumar (24), Deepak Kumar (21), Swapnil Pramod Shirke (23), Naveed Hameed Duste (32) and the two who were found alive beneath the rubble — Mohammad Nauseen Bangi (4) and Mehrunisa Abdul Hameed Kazi (60). Search for belongings After the rescue operation, the survivors rushed to the spot to search for their belongings. “If nothing else, we wanted to get our important documents like passports, ATM cards, licences, and property papers but there was absolutely nothing. Some managed to recover licence and passport and most of them are still looking for the valuables. The rain made it worse. It is now all mud everywhere. We do not know from where and how we can start our lives back as everything we had is now gone,” Mr. Chichkar said. Meanwhile, the Mahad police arrested the RCC contractor of the building, Bahubali Dhamane, from Navi Mumbai on Wednesday. He was produced before the Mangaon court, which remanded him in police custody till August 30.
27 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||24-year-old excavator operator wins praise for ‘non-stop’ work||A 24-year-old excavator  operator is being praised by officials and locals of Mahad town as a ‘real hero’ for working continuously for around 36 hours at the building collapse site. Even after the rescue operation was called off around 11 a.m. on Wednesday, Kishore Lokhande is still removing the debris. The five-story building, Tarique Garden, at Mahad collapsed on Monday evening, killing 16 people and injuring 9. Hailing from Beed in Marathwada, Mr. Lokhande was working for a contractor assigned for the Mumbai-Goa Highway widening work — two km away from the collapse site — when he got the call from his boss on Monday evening. “I was told that there was a building collapse at Kajalpura. I immediately rushed to the spot and since then I have been working. The first time I stepped down from the machine was after 26 hours of the rescue operation,” Mr. Lokhande said. He currently stays with his parents and two siblings near the bus stand in Mahad. Mr. Lokhande had a helper with him but since the helper was not an expert for the work, he insisted to be behind the machine as the work was very critical in saving lives. “In 36 hours, I got off the vehicle only four times, mostly to answer nature’s call. I couldn’t eat or sleep seeing the pain of so many,” Mr. Lokhande said, adding that he had eaten two samosas on Tuesday afternoon and khichdi for dinner. He had helped the rescue teams retrieve at least 10 bodies from under the rubble, and also helped pull four-year-old Mohammad Bangi out alive. “To see the four-year-old child alive was touching and was the only good thing happened during the rescue operation,” Mr. Lokhande said. He has been operating the excavator for the last six years.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urged to set up 11-judge Bench on quota cap||The Supreme Court on Wednesday was urged to set up an 11-judge Bench to reconsider its 50% cap on reservation. The push for it came while the court was hearing a challenge to the Maratha reservation law. A bunch of petitions contended that the law, which provides 12% to 13% quota for the community in Maharashtra, breached the 50% cap on reservation declared by a nine-judge Bench of the court in 1992. Lawyer Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the respondent Maharashtra government and lawyer Kapil Sibal appeared for an applicant supporting the State government. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, the senior advocates asked the court to refer the case to a numerically superior Bench of 11 judges. This Bench should, rather than restricting itself to the Maratha law, set about reconsidering the 50% ceiling itself. Mr. Sibal reasoned that 28 States had granted reservation exceeding 50% to their respective backward classes. He suggested that the court should hear all these States. “Eighty-five per cent in Maharashtra belong to backward classes, so is it in many States,” he submitted. The 50% limit in reservation declared by the nine judges on the Bench in the Indira Sawhney case was nearly 30 years old, he noted. The lawyers submitted that the court should revisit the percentage of reservation, taking into consideration the recent developments in the front, including the 10% quota for economically weaker sections introduced recently through the 103rd Constitutional Amendment. Amendments recalled Mr. Sibal said the amendments made to Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution entailed both “empowerment” and “employment” to the backward classes. Empowerment of backward classes was a different concept from mere employment. Indira Sawhney preceded these amendments. “Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) have not been interpreted in the context of Indira Sawhney [judgment]... There are still a large number of people who are still backward,” he submitted. The appeals have been filed by individuals from all walks of life and NGOs against the High Court decision upholding the Maratha law. They argued that the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act was born under “political pressure” and in “full defiance” of the rule of law and equality. “The Maharashtra government has made a mockery of the rule of law. It has also used its constitutional powers arbitrarily and purely for political gains”, the petitions said. One of them argued, “The High Court erred in concluding that the mere fact that other OBCs would have to share their reservation quotas with the Marathas [if the Marathas were simply included in the existing OBC category] constitutes an exceptional circumstance warranting a breach of the 50 per cent ceiling limit set by Indira Sawhney”.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCB files case against Rhea||The Narcotics Control Bureau has registered a case under the NDPS Act against actor Rhea Chakraborty in the investigation into the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. An NCB team is expected to arrive in Mumbai from Delhi on Thursday. The ED had shared information with the NCB and the CBI, after it came across evidence indicating that some persons dealing in banned or controlled drugs were in touch with the suspects. The ED has now summoned a talent manager named Jaya Saha.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ASI creates 7 new circles||The Union Ministry of Culture on Wednesday announced the setting up of seven new administrative circles of the Archaeological Survey of India in order to improve the management of monuments. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the decision was taken in accordance with “PM Narendra Modi’s call to facilitate and strengthen the process of preservation and registration of monuments, along with registration of artefacts with self-declaration”. New circles in Jabalpur, Tiruchi, Jhansi and Meerut, Hampi, Raiganj and Rajkot have been created.
27 August 2020||Pune,||Tope stresses on increased contact tracing||Increased contact tracing is imperative in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies to bring down the number of cases and fatalities, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. Mr. Tope said while the fatality rate (currently below 1.7%) in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area is under control, it is essential to increase the number of first contacts of positive cases in both civic bodies. “Presently, 10 contacts per positive case are traced in both the Pune and PCMC. This figure must increase to 15 or 20 in order to facilitate early detection and bring down the death rate in both civic bodies,” the Health Minister said. He was speaking on the occasion of the inauguration of Pune district’s second jumbo COVID-19 facility at Pimpri-Chinchwad. The 816-bed facility, set up in less than 20 days at the Annasaheb Magar Stadium grounds, was inaugurated online by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Mr. Thackeray said even while extending the ‘Chase the Virus’ campaign to all parts of the State, it is essential to impress on the people to keep taking all precautions — wearing masks, following hand hygiene and social distancing norms — even if a vaccine does get commercialised in the near future. Expressing concern over rising cases in the PCMC, Mr. Tope said the civic body’s case positivity ratio, which stands at 27%, needs to be brought under control. The daily case surge being witnessed in Pimpri-Chinchwad is expected to come down in the next four-six weeks, Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said. “As per calculations of experts at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay and the Indian Council of Medical Research, the cases in the PCMC area are expected to come under control only in the next four-six weeks,” Mr. Rao said. The jumbo facility is to cater to the rising number of cases in the PCMC area, which has seen more than 250 deaths in the last two weeks alone, besides witnessing an average daily surge of 850 new cases. The facility will become operational over the next two weeks. As many as 616 of the beds in the facility are oxygenated while 200 are ICU (critical care) beds. The mega facility is divided into three sections and is equipped with a 25-kilolitre liquid oxygen tank. “This facility will prove invaluable in qualitative treatment for patients, especially the needier ones, in and around Pimpri-Chinchwad. This will help bring down cases and fatalities,” PCMC Commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. Of Pune district’s 31,000-odd active cases, the PCMC currently has more than 11,000 of them. The PCMC’s total fatalities presently have climbed over 830.
27 August 2020||Thane,||Maha: Thane court discharges 28 Tablighi Jamaat members||A magistrate’s court has discharged 28 members of the Tablighi Jamaat, including 21 foreign nationals, in two separate cases . The cases were registered after the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The foreign nationals were accused of violating visa rules and norms put in place by the authorities following the COVID-19 outbreak.PTI
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Lines between party politics and government blur in U.S.||By featuring a naturalisation ceremony at the White House, using the Rose Garden to host First Lady Melania Trump’s speech and enlisting Secretary of State Michael Pompeo to speak, Republicans and U.S. President Donald Trump blurred the lines between government business and party politics on the second night of the Republican National Convention (RNC).  Speaking from Jerusalem on an official trip, Mr. Pompeo talked about President Donald Trump having made families safer with his America First vision. “It may not have made him popular in every foreign capital, but it has worked,” he said. The State Department says its employees are not permitted to “speak for or against a partisan candidate, political party or partisan political group at a convention”. While his predecessors have attended political conventions, no sitting Secretary of State has delivered a speech at one. Responding to criticism, a State Department official had said, as per reports, that Mr. Pompeo was speaking in his personal capacity and had not used government resources. During his speech, Mr. Pompeo talked about Mr. Trump’s actions against the Chinese Communist Party (CPC), Iran and North Korea. “The President has held China accountable for covering up the China virus and allowing it to spread death and economic destruction in America and around the world, and he will not rest until justice is done,” Mr. Pompeo said. “He has ended ridiculously unfair trade deals with China that punched a hole in our economy. Those jobs are coming back home,” Mr. Pompeo said. Both parties have used the China trade deals as material for their conventions. The Democratic convention last week included a video from a farmer who had been impacted negatively by Mr. Trump’s trade deal with China. Mr. Pompeo praised Mr. Trump’s controversial shifting of the U.S.’s Israel Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which he called the “rightful capital of the Jewish homeland”. He also praised the recent Israel–UAE peace deal brokered by Mr.Trump. ‘You are not alone’ The First Lady, delivering the last speech for the evening from another government property — the Rose Garden of the White House — dwelt at length on the personal impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, offering sympathy for those who had been impacted. “I want to acknowledge the fact that since March, our lives have changed dramatically,” she said. “I know many people are anxious and some feel helpless. I want you to know you are not alone,” she said. Many in the audience were not wearing masks. “Donald will not rest until he has done all he can to take care of everyone impacted in this pandemic,” Ms. Trump said on Tuesday. Mr. Trump has been criticised for not providing the right kind of leadership in responding to the pandemic, which has hit the U.S. the worst. During her speech, she addressed the racial tensions in the country and aspects of her ‘Be Best’ programme, including drug abuse and children’s safe use of social media. ‘End violence’ Ms. Trump highlighted the racial unrest in the country and asked people to resolve the issues peacefully and to “look at things from all perspectives”. She urged “people to come together in a civil manner “to live up to American ideals”. “I also ask people to stop the violence and looting being done in the name of justice and never make assumptions based on the colour of a person’s skin,” Ms. Trump said. She said “total honesty” was what citizens deserved from their President. “Whether you like it or not, you always know what he’s thinking.” While the President is known to frequently tweet what is on his mind in a stream-of-consciousness style, he is also known for frequent deviations from fact-based statements. One of the themes of Day Two was immigration and it included a naturalisation ceremony filmed at the White House. The Trump administration has taken a number of steps making it harder for would-be immigrants to settle in America and naturalise — from the suspension of work visas to hiking application fees. The ceremony, presumably intended to show the administration in a different light with regard to immigration, featured six immigrants, all from minority backgrounds, including an Indian software developer, Sudha Sundari Narayanan, whom Mr. Trump described as a “phenomenal success.” Mr. Trump presided over the ceremony, while Acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf administered the Oath of Allegiance. Critics have argued that the ceremony could violate the Hatch Act, which prohibits federal employees from participating in political activities on federal property. Other themes for the evening included the economy, and a continuation of Monday’s ideas of the Democrats as “radicals” wanting “mob rule” and “anarchy”. Two of Mr. Trump’s children — Tiffany and Eric — spoke on Tuesday. “I can relate to so many of you who might be looking for a job. My father built a thriving economy once, and believe me, he will do it again,” Ms. Trump, a recent law school graduate, said. Both Trump children took shots at the media. Ms. Trump accused media and tech giants of wanting to promote a “biased and fabricated view”.
27 August 2020||MANARA,||Israel strikes Hezbollah posts||Israel said on Wednesday it had launched air strikes against Hezbollah observation posts in Lebanon after shots were fired from across the border towards its troops the previous evening. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu blamed the shooting on Shiite militant group Hezbollah with which Israel fought a devastating month-long war in 2006, and pledged a “forceful” response to any further incidents. “I advise Hezbollah not to test Israel’s crushing strength,” he wrote in Hebrew on Twitter. “Hezbollah is once again endangering the state of Lebanon due to its aggression.” The border flare-up came hours after Lebanon rejected an Israeli call to reform the UN peacekeeping force which patrols the border ahead of a UN Security Council vote to renew its mandate. The Israeli Army had said earlier that a “security incident” was unfolding near Manara, a kibbutz near the UN-demarcated border between the two countries, and urged residents to take shelter. “During operational activity in northern Israel last night, shots were fired from Lebanon toward (Israeli) troops,” the military said on Twitter. “We responded with fire, & our aircraft struck Hezbollah observation posts near the border. This is a severe event & we remain ready to combat any threat to our borders.” Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency (NNA) reported Israeli gunfire and flares around the village of Mays al-Jabal, just across the border from Manara. The Israeli Army said “troops deployed dozens of illumination rounds and smoke shells and responded with fire”. Afterwards “attack helicopters and aircraft struck Hezbollah observation posts”. It reported no Israeli casualties. Lebanon’s top security body, the Supreme Defence Council, decided to file a complaint to the UN Security Council over the Israeli fire into Lebanon, NNA reported.
27 August 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Migrant workers in Maldives face abuses’||The COVID-19 pandemic has made many migrant workers in the Maldives vulnerable to abuse, according to Human Rights Watch. In a recent statement, the rights watchdog pointed to migrant workers in the Maldives facing “a range of entrenched abuses from employers”, including deceptive recruitment practices, wage theft, passport confiscation, unsafe living and working conditions. “The spread of COVID-19 and the lockdown to contain it has exacerbated these conditions, as workers face job loss, unpaid leave, reduced salaries, and forced work without pay,” the statement said. The observations, HRW said, were based on telephonic interviews held in July with seven migrant workers — including some involved in protests at the time — as well as lawyers representing detained workers in the Maldives. Their accounts revealed that the Maldives government, as well as some international and domestic companies, are failing to protect workers from “serious abuses”, HRW said. When contacted, the office of President Ibrahim Mohamed Soli said in a written response that in order to ensure a safe passage for expatriate workers to their home countries, the Ministry of Economic Development initiated a voluntary self-repatriation programme. “So far, a total of 5,333 undocumented workers have been repatriated by the government,” Presidential spokesman Ibrahim Hood told The Hindu . Further, recognising the large number of undocumented workers in the country, President Solih set up the ‘National Taskforce on Issues related to Migrant Workers’ in October 2019 to document them and “revamp the expatriate management system”, he added. The Maldives employs a high number of migrant workers — they make up about one third of its resident population. A total of 1,61,325 expatriates are currently working in the Maldives. “The Government is providing accommodation to undocumented workers who are quarantined or isolated due to COVID1-19,” Mr. Hood said. Gayoom tests positive Meanwhile, former Maldives President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, who helmed the country’s top office for three decades, on Tuesday said he had tested COVID-19 positive. “I have tested positive for COVID-19,” the 82-year-old politician said in a tweet. After apparent improvement, he tweeted again on Wednesday, saying: “Thank you so much friends and well-wishers for your prayers. Praise be to Allah, I feel reasonably well. May Allah protect you from all misfortune. Aameen!” The Maldives has witnessed a steady increase in COVID-19 cases in the recent weeks. A total of 7,047 cases and 28 fatalities have been reported so far. Home to about 5,00,000 people, the Maldives is among many countries struggling in the face of the global pandemic. With the country’s crucial tourism sector badly hit, the government is struggling to keep the economy running. Local media reported a GDP loss of nearly 7% due to the pandemic.
27 August 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, Aug 26, 2020 (AFP) -||In a rare display of urgency, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un on Wednesday held his third high-level political conference in as many weeks, where he raised alarm about the nation’s COVID-19 response. Mr. Kim lamented unspecified “defects” and “shortcomings” in the country’s anti-virus campaign and urged that they be corrected swiftly, according to the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.AP
27 August 2020||Kenosha,||Kenosha, United States, Aug 26, 2020 (AFP) -||Two people were shot dead on Tuesday night in the U.S. city of Kenosha as groups clashed during protests over the police shooting of a black man. Violence broke out as hundreds of protesters marched for a third night after Jacob Blake was seen in video footage being shot several times at point-blank range by a white police officer. Blake was trying to get into his car, with his three children inside, when he was shot on Sunday.AFP
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Perils of prematurely imparted literacy||Overhaul has a nice connotation. The smooth first run of one’s childhood bicycle after it got overhauled is a lasting memory. When people say that a system has become so bad that it needs an overhaul, they actually believe that such a thing is possible, that someone can do it. In popular imagination, an overhaul also carries an association with radical improvement. Machines improve quite radically after an overhaul, but social systems like education behave more like living beings as they carry legacies and tendencies rooted in the wider social ethos. These tendencies need to be studied and recognised before radical remedies are administered for improvement. The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 offers to revise and revamp the system of education. Such a promise carries great public appeal because a lot of people feel quite fed up with the system. Any doubt about the need for an overhaul in education today is likely to be stigmatised as a sign of conservatism. Disruptors and out-of-the-box solutions have been in the air for some time. The National Knowledge Commission (NKC-2008) had set the stage for this kind of popular radicalism. We now have a fuller script. At times, it falls back on older, tired ideas, such as the three-language formula. It evinces approval for the recent trajectory of ideas like quantifiable basis for seeking credit ratings and rankings, outcome-based assessment, technology-driven governance, and so on. They are treated as pointers to a bolder agenda. Little room is available for doubting, let alone debating, the impact such measures have had so far. New break-up One significant shift NEP proposes is in the re-organisation of elementary education. As of now, it comprises eight years of schooling starting with Grade 1 at age six as Article 45 of the Constitution envisaged. The Right to Education (RTE) act promulgated a decade ago treats these eight years as a composite stage, consisting of five years of primary and three years of upper-primary education. NEP offers a surgical procedure which will graft the first two primary grades on to three years of preschool education. On the face of it, this idea looks great as it starts a child’s educational journey from age three instead of six. The plan also implies a historic break from the system as envisaged in the Kothari report (1964-1966) which recommended the present 10+2 system. NEP proposes a new structure. Instead of 10+2, we will now have a 5+3+4 system, in which the first five years include three years of preschool education (starting at age three), followed by Grades 1 and 2 of the primary school. Although a wide spectrum of goals is mentioned for the preschool years, the overarching focus is on making children ‘school-ready’ in the context of reading, writing and arithmetic. The term used in NEP is ‘foundational literacy and numeracy’. A separate section is devoted to it, underlining its importance as a ‘prerequisite to learning’. It sounds great, but let us stop to study its implications. Visit a nursery in any part of the country and you will inevitably find three- to four-year olds reciting the English alphabet and numbers. The idea that learning begins with the alphabet and numbers is very popular indeed. Many people believe that there is nothing wrong in introducing a child of three to reading and writing. If you express some doubt about such an idea, some people might agree to delay this plan by a year or so, but that is the limit. The reasoning behind this belief is that if reading and writing are the two fundamental skills a child will need to do well at school, what is the harm in cultivating these skills from the earliest possible age? Indeed, the faith in early acquisition of literacy and numeracy extends to the feeling that any delay on this front will harm the child’s development. Nothing could be more contrary to truth although we must acknowledge that the matter is still regarded by many as a subject of debate. The key issue in the debate is our concept of reading itself. There is a sharp division among perspectives on what constitutes reading; more specifically: how is reading learnt? The older perspective is that reading starts with familiarity with the alphabet. According to this view, the child must learn to recognise individual letters and their sounds first, and then move towards recognising simple words by recognising the letters that comprise it. This view has prevailed in human history for so long that scientific research on how our eyes and mind process a written text has made no decisive difference in countries like ours. This body of research has demonstrated that a child’s search for meaning is a far sounder basis for learning to read than mechanical practices like letter recognition and associating letters with their names and sound values. Prematurely acquired literacy can be harmful in that it creates a habit, difficult to remedy later, of ignoring the message. In daily life, we see plenty of evidence of such a habit. Reading without relating to the text or to its author is far more common than using one’s ability to read in order to make sense of a text. Despite education, many literates develop no interest in reading. An introduction to the alphabet and being drilled for letter recognition at a very young age is a major source of reading without deriving any meaning or showing any interest. Similar harm is done to writing when it is acquired before one needs it. Writing is basically a means of conveying one’s ideas to someone else. It becomes a meaningful activity when an intended audience begins to matter for the small child. If no need is felt for an audience, acquisition of writing becomes merely the attainment of a mechanical skill. What applies to reading and writing is equally true of prematurely acquired numeracy. Mathematics offers to the child a means to make sense of the world, but the desire to relate to different objects arises with the widening of experience and engagement. Prolonged drills to habituate the child to chant numbers aloud, and then to learn how to manipulate them damages the bridge that connects numbers with real things or matters of interest and curiosity. By starting too early, the need for such a bridge is precluded. This has long-term consequences for learning mathematics and for perceiving it as an attractive subject. Culture of speed A culture of speed pervades all spheres of school life. Middle-class parents set the norm for this culture by pushing their infants to consume the various products sold in the pedagogy market. Digital equipment is the latest addition to the educational toys that have long been favoured over cottage toys which quietly represent the wider world and serve as a symbolic bridge to what all lies outside the home. The school’s long shadow now extends to the home, and parents sigh with relief when they secure their children’s admission to a nursery in the third year of their life, if not earlier. Changing family norms and social conditions make the transfer of the young child from home to a nursery inevitable. Although nurseries routinely use the rhetoric of play-way, their programmes are mostly a downward extension of the school. This social reality makes early childhood education in its present form a mixed blessing. By promoting foundational literacy and numeracy as a key educational target of early schooling, we are likely to stress further an already embattled childhood. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training and the author of The Child’s Language and the Teacher
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The uncharted territory of outer space||Outer space has been the arena of some of the most memorable technology demonstrations. Russia’s Sputnik and the U.S.’s Apollo 11 were metaphors of geopolitical competition. For India, Chandrayaan and Mangalyaan were symbols of national pride. Today, outer space no longer captures our mind space in the way cyberspace does. Several space events planned well in advance have proceeded amidst the COVID-19 pandemic without much attention. The launch of missions to Mars by China and the U.S. along with the UAE’s Mars orbiter; the first astronaut trip to orbit on a commercial enterprise built by Space X; the completion of the Chinese ‘BeiDou’ satellite navigation system; and the U.S. Space Command statement that Russia conducted a “non-destructive test of a space-based anti-satellite weapon” all portray a trend that outer space is witnessing a welter of new activity. Growth of the space industry Technological changes augur well for the peaceful use of outer space. The price tag for reaching low Earth orbit has declined by a factor of 20 in a decade. NASA’s space shuttle cost about $54,500 per kg; now, SpaceX’s Falcon 9 advertises a cost of $2,720 per kg. In a decade, the cost could be less than $100 per kg. It not only enhances human space travel possibilities by leveraging new commercial capabilities but will usher in applications dismissed earlier as science fiction. According to a Bank of America Report, the $350 billion space market today will touch $2.7 trillion by 2050. Space industries are likely to follow a path akin to the software industry. When Apple allowed developers to design apps for the iPhone, it unleashed innovations that put more technology in the hands of common people and transformed lives. Starlink, the constellation being constructed by SpaceX to provide global Internet access, plans more than 10,000 mass-produced small satellites in low Earth orbit. It hopes to transcend the digital divide and provide everyone, everywhere access to services such as distance education and telemedicine. Amazon’s Project Kuiper received U.S. Federal Communications Commission approvals for more than 3,000 micro-satellites. In a decade, 80,000 such satellites could be in space compared to less than 3,000 at present. Companies such as Planet, Spire Global and Iceye are using orbital vantage points to collect and analyse data to deliver fresh insights in weather forecasting, global logistics, crop harvesting and disaster response. Space could prove attractive for high-tech manufacturing too. In short, an exciting new platform is opening up for entrepreneurs. However, what is technologically feasible is not easily achievable. The challenges to fulfilling the potential of space are many. Challenges in fulfilling potential First, as outer space becomes democratised, commercialised and crowded, the multilateral framework for its governance is becoming obsolescent. Space law is a product of a golden age of two decades — the 1960s and 1970s. The Outer Space Treaty of 1967 enshrines the idea that space should be “the province of all mankind” and “not subject to national appropriation by claims of sovereignty”. The Rescue Agreement, Space Liability Convention, and the Space Registration Convention expanded provisions of the Outer Space Treaty. The Moon Treaty of 1979 was not ratified by major space-faring nations. Space law does not have a dispute settlement mechanism, is silent on collisions and debris, and offers insufficient guidance on interference with others’ space assets. These gaps heighten the potential for conflict in an era of congested orbits and breakneck technological change. Second, the legal framework is state-centric, placing responsibility on states alone. However, non-state entities are now in the fray for commercial space exploration and utilisation. Some states are providing frameworks for resource recovery through private enterprises based on the notion that this is not expressly forbidden for non-state actors. U.S. President Donald Trump’s Executive Order on Encouraging International Support for the Recovery and Use of Space Resources of April 2020 falls in this category. According to NASA, the asteroid named 16 Psyche is so rich in heavy metals that it is worth $10,000 quadrillion. The incentive to proceed is evident. On the other hand, some scholars and governments view this as skirting the principle of national non-appropriation, violating the spirit if not the letter of the existing space law. The lack of alignment of domestic and international normative frameworks risks a damaging free-for-all competition for celestial resources involving actors outside the space framework. Third, strategists extol the virtues of holding the high ground. Space is the highest ground. States are investing in military space systems for communications, navigation, and reconnaissance purposes, so as to ensure operability of a range of capabilities. Reliance of militaries on satellite systems means that space assets become potential targets. So investment in technologies that can disrupt or destroy space-based capabilities is under way. The space arms race is difficult to curb, especially since almost all space technologies have military applications. For example, satellite constellations are commercial but governments could acquire their data to monitor military movements. Despite concerns about military activity in outer space for long, not much progress has been made in addressing them. The UN General Assembly passes a resolution on Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space since 1982. Chinese- and Russian-backed Treaty proposals were initiated in 2008 and updated in 2014. For various legal, technical, and political reasons these have not advanced at the Conference on Disarmament. Groups of Governmental Experts have not helped in making progress. The EU’s International Code of Conduct for Outer Space Activities has not gained traction. The current geopolitical situation does not hold hope for addressing concerns of a space arms race. Need for a space legislation India has invested enormous resources in its space programme through the Indian Space Research Organisation. More importantly, our space assets are crucial for India’s development. India’s future plans are ambitious. These include a landing on the Moon; the first Indian solar observatory; the first crewed orbital spaceflight mission; and installation of a modular space station in 2030. This calendar is designed to establish India as a major space-faring nation by the end of the decade. The proposed involvement of private players and the creation of an autonomous body IN-SPACe (Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre) under the Department of Space for permitting and regulating activities of the private sector are welcome efforts. However, the space environment that India faces requires us to go beyond meeting technical milestones. We need a space legislation enabling coherence across technical, legal, commercial, diplomatic and defence goals. Our space vision also needs to address global governance, regulatory and arms control issues. As space opens up our space vision needs broadening too. Syed Akbaruddin has served as India's Permanent Representative at the UN
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Making agricultural market reforms successful||The recent reforms in agricultural marketing have brought a sea change in policy. The removal of restrictions under the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) should help attract private investment in agriculture and help farmers of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato, who have been adversely affected by the policy regime hitherto that discouraged private investment. The two new ordinances are expected to enable inter-State trade and promote contract farming, thereby providing a large number of options to farmers. However, there are several difficulties that need to be addressed before the full benefits of these policies are realised. The first one is what the behavioural economists call the ‘time-inconsistency’ problem, or in simple terms, the policy credibility problem. This situation arises when a decision maker’s preferences change over time in such a way that the preferences are inconsistent at different points in time. Why is this problem relevant in the present context? Because the policy signals are not very clear in the last few years as relates to agricultural marketing, as we will see below. In 2016, the electronic national agricultural market (e-NAM) was launched with a lot of fanfare. The e-NAM was intended to be a market-based mechanism for efficient price discovery by the farmers. In the first phase, 585 markets across 16 States and 2 Union Territories were covered. States needed to amend their respective Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts to put in place three prerequisites for the success of this programme — a single licence across the State; a single-point levy of the market fee; and electronic auctioning in all the markets. Several States could not or did not carry out these amendments and the e-NAM proved to be far less effective than desired. Policy reversals As a result, the government reverted back to public price support by launching an ambitious programme, PM-AASHA, in September 2018. The main objective of this programme was to provide an assured price to farmers that ensured a return of at least 50% more than the cost of cultivation. The programme was confined to pulses and oilseeds to limit the fiscal costs, although many other crops, which did not receive the benefits of the MSP-procurement system, also needed this coverage. Public procurement, deficiency payments and private procurement were the main planks of this programme. However, only public procurement was carried out in a meaningful way. Deficiency payments were only implemented on a pilot basis in Madhya Pradesh and private procurement was not initiated, even on a pilot basis, in any State. However, the initial budgetary outlay did not match the level of ambition of the programme. An outlay of only Rs. 4721 crore was made in 2018-19. A study by the Institute of Economic Growth at the time showed that the programme needed a much larger outlay to provide comprehensive coverage. The initial outlay further dwindled to Rs. 321 crore in 2019-2020 and only Rs. 500 crore have been earmarked in 2020-2021. In addition to the PM-AASHA programme, two Model Acts were formulated by the Central government in 2017 and 2018 to promote agricultural marketing and contract farming in States. States were required to legislate these Model Acts. However, progress has been tardy and many States have not adopted the Model Acts. This uninspiring performance of PM-AASHA necessitated a more radical and direct approach. Thus evolved the PM-KISAN, a direct cash transfer programme, in the interim Budget of 2019-2020 (February 2019). This programme involved a fixed payment of Rs. 6,000 per annum to each farm household with a budgetary outlay of Rs. 75,000 crore. This programme has worked reasonably well so far with many States topping up the amount at their end. With the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, improving the market functioning received renewed attention. E-NAM has been scaled up to cover 415 more markets, farmers have been allowed to sell and transport directly from registered warehouses and Farmer Produce Organisations (FPOs) and app-based transport services have been devised. Taking this thrust further, the government announced a slew of reforms on May 15, including the major marketing reforms mentioned above. However, some of the issues that impeded the success of the earlier initiatives still remain. The frequent flip-flops in farm policy — from a market-based e-NAM to a public funded PM-AASHA and now back to market-based measures — may not inspire much confidence in the minds of private investors about the continuance of the present policies. This may result in the investors adopting a wait-and-watch approach. Better coordination The second issue is the Centre-State and State-State relations. Although the Ordinances were passed by the Central Government using the constitutional provisions, the implementation of the same vests with the States. Also, inter-State trade involves movement of goods across the State boundaries. Thus, coordination between the Central and the State governments, and also among various States becomes crucial. Also, the States must have faced several problems in legislating and implementing the earlier Model Acts. Thus, the Centre must engage with the States about these constraints in order to iron out the potential problems in implementation of the ordinances. Such a consultative and conciliatory approach will also minimise friction between the Centre and the States when the ordinances come up before Parliament. The third important issue is the multiple market failures and the resultant inter-linkage of rural markets. Absence or failure of credit and insurance markets may lead a farmer to depend upon the local input dealer or the middleman to meet his/her farming needs. This, in turn, may tie him to these intermediaries and constrain his choice of output markets. Similarly, the widespread restrictions on land leasing in many States lead to inefficient scale of production. Thus, reforms in the output market alone are not sufficient and must be supplemented and complemented with liberalisation of the lease market and better access to credit and insurance markets. In conclusion, consistency in policy, collaborative approach and complementary reforms are necessary for the success of the recent agricultural market reforms. C.S.C. Sekhar is a Professor of Economics at Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The battle for Parshuram||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the Samajwadi Party (SP) announced it would build a 108-feet tall statue of Parshuram, known as the sixth avatar of Lord Vishnu, in Uttar Pradesh. Not to be left behind, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati promised to build a bigger statue if she came back to power. Congress leader Jitin Prasada demanded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government restore Parshuram Jayanti as a State holiday. These promises and demands are being made to purportedly encash on the perceived discontent and growing sense of victimhood among the Brahmins in U.P., against the backdrop of incidents and crimes where they allege that members of the community were targeted by the police. Given that the government is headed by Yogi Adityanath, a Thakur by birth, the Opposition parties think they have found a chink in the BJP’s armour. They hope to play up the Brahmin-Thakur competitive rift in their favour. A counterproductive move? Brahmins constitute roughly 9% of U.P.’s population, according to one estimate, but enjoy disproportionate presence in the media, bureaucracy, education, economy, and judiciary. Their endorsement is sought when elections are round the corner because of their religious influence and cultural capital. While the Opposition’s move is, therefore, not entirely bereft of political pragmatism, their approach is built on obsolete assumptions and erroneous expectations. For one, the BJP embodies the spirit, ideology and aspirations of the upper castes. In the 2019 general election, 82% of Brahmins voted for the BJP in U.P., according to a survey by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. Brahmins occupy important positions in the Adityanath government. Therefore, the Opposition seems socially disconnected when it imagines that the powerful Brahmin community would throw its weight behind them when the BJP is fulfilling the community’s various demands, including providing a quota for the upper caste poor and building the Ram Mandir. Second, unlike marginalised communities, the Brahmins are not yearning for an icon. It may sound politically pragmatic to visit the homes of aggrieved Brahmin families, like Mr. Prasada did before the lockdown, to corner the BJP on law and order. But the possibility of achieving something concrete by erecting statues of Parshuram is limited. Doing so may limit the Opposition’s narrative as the BJP has built itself a broad coalition of disparate castes across regions. Also, Parshuram’s story does not enjoy the same emotional appeal among the Brahmins the way Lord Ram or Lord Shiva do, or Lord Krishna does among the Yadavs, or B.R. Ambedkar does among the Dalits. In 2017, for instance, when the BJP government cancelled Parshuram Jayanti as a public holiday, there was hardly any backlash from the community. In fact, the Opposition’s move could end up alienating other communities averse to the Brahmins, in particular the Thakurs, whose ancestors Parshuram is believed to have slayed. This singular appeasement of Brahmins at a time when sections of Dalits and Other Backward Classes feel short-changed by the government could only push them away further from the Opposition. A failed strategy This is not the first time that the BSP and SP are trying to woo the Brahmins. Both SP president Akhilesh Yadav and Ms. Mayawati rewarded them with important posts while in power. Mr. Yadav even built a huge park in Lucknow after Janeshwar Mishra, a former party leader. Ms. Mayawati has regularly demanded a quota for the upper caste poor. However, under the changed scenario of a Narendra Modi-led BJP, and the limits of traditional caste arithmetic catching up, these strategies failed to produce results. The breakup of the SP-BSP alliance after a failed 2019 campaign and the shift of the two parties from the promise of social justice to appropriating Parshuram is perhaps a demonstration of their realisation that the utopian mobilisation of ‘85 vs 15’ (Bahujans versus upper castes) along with Muslims is not practical under the current wave of dominant Hindutva. The contradictions within castes hurt the two parties and haunt their prospects. If the Opposition parties are interested in altering the political discourse, they need to build trust among the communities within the numerically dominant OBCs and Scheduled Castes who once supported them. For the SP, that would mean shedding its Yadav image and bridging gaps between the Yadavs and other OBCs and Dalits. For the BSP, it would mean building a stronger base of Dalit support beyond the Jatavs and winning back the trust of the MBCs. However, they have not shown any concrete strategy to do so. Playing politics over Parshuram only reflects their lack of imagination and vision. omar.rashid@thehindu.co.in
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing the Internet to everyone||The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified the influence of technology in our lives. We live in times where we can buy or sell anything online. We get quality access to healthcare, government services and education online. Payment gateways enable us to make cashless transactions. Verifications and signatures are digitised. Communication devices and platforms enable us to stay in touch with one another. The meals we desire are delivered home. We can teach students, mobilise crowds, conduct conferences or meetings, hold digital political rallies, all within the comfort of our homes. Even amidst this pandemic, technology enables some of us to stay within the safety of our homes, survive and even thrive. Technological giants like Google, Facebook, and TCS have allowed their employees to work from home for the foreseeable future. While the world struggles with an economic downturn, the video-conferencing platform Zoom managed a jaw-dropping 300 million downloads within a quarter of a financial year. These are just a few indicators of trends fast emerging during these times. Marginalised and isolated Meanwhile, a substantial section of our population, including the urban poor, the elderly and those in remote areas, find themselves marginalised and isolated because of their inability to navigate the digital space. They find themselves unable to get access to health and welfare alerts, critical services, engage in upskilling or learning, or take part in economic activities without potentially exposing themselves to the virus. Kerala, my home State, with India’s second highest Internet penetration rate, is attempting to conduct all its classes for this academic year online. It is a case in point of the digital divide. With the COVID-19 outbreak, thousands of underprivileged students suddenly found themselves left out of all avenues of learning in the most literate State. One teenage girl without a smartphone even died by suicide allegedly because she couldn’t attend online classes. This must deeply prick our conscience. Last mile connectivity In 2016, the UN General Assembly passed a non-binding resolution that declared Internet access as a human right. However this hasn’t translated to affirmative governmental action. In 2011, the Indian government launched the National Optical Fibre Network project for providing broadband connectivity to 2,50,000 Gram Panchayats. In 2015, the programme was renamed Bharat Net and integrated into the Modi government’s Digital India initiative. It included plans for tying up with and subsidising 4G telecom operators for setting up 700,000 Wi-Fi hotspots spread across each of our villages for last mile connectivity. But the rate of Internet penetration still stands at 50%. Internet connectivity has to be ensured in our remotest areas by accelerating the deployment of additional optical fibres, wireless technology, drones and satellites. Community access points have to be installed in every nook and corner to ensure that even those who lack their own devices can access the digital space. The Punjab government has just started distributing 1.75 lakh free smartphones to its students. There have to many more initiatives of distribution of subsidised smart devices along with low cost data plans to lower income groups for us to have a fair chance in bridging our digital divide. The National Education Policy 2020 advocates greater integration of technology. However, India still lacks a concrete roadmap for ICT training in various proficiency levels for our diverse population segments. Staying connected online has become a necessity for us to survive this pandemic. The post-COVID world will be more digitised than before. Those with the ability to navigate the digital landscape would get more economic opportunities and receive more avenues of social mobility than others. Therefore it should be our priority to ensure basic digital literacy and Internet connectivity for every Indian. Anil K. Antony is the National Co-coordinator of the AICC Social Media and Digital Communications Department
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A shot in the dark||India’s strong protest to the UN Security Council over Pakistan’s so-called “statement” to a special discussion on terrorism is explained by a number of factors. First, the statement, which Pakistan’s mission to the UN published as something delivered at an “open” debate on a report by the UN Secretary General, was never actually delivered. The only countries invited to the discussion were permanent and non-permanent members of the UNSC and officials briefing them. Neither does the UNSC take cognisance of statements by non-participating countries. The statement, then, appeared to be an exercise by Pakistan in repeating its allegations against India. In the letter, Pakistan’s Ambassador sought to portray Pakistan as a victim of “cross-border terrorism”, and claimed that Pakistan is “responsible” for “decimating” al-Qaeda in the region. As India’s mission at the UN retorted, the envoy could not have forgotten that Osama bin Laden and other leaders of the terror group were all found in Pakistan. The statement then went on to list “four types of terrorism” Pakistan confronts, each of which was attributed to India. The first included some of the attacks in Pakistan carried out by the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), a group that according to Pakistan’s unsubstantiated claim has been funded by an “Indian terror syndicate” based in Afghanistan. That claim has been rejected by the UNSC in part already, as two of the four names forwarded by Pakistan weren’t accepted into the terror designations list. The second allegation was that India has “hired” mercenaries to carry out attacks, in operations Pakistan claims have been organised by Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former naval officer. Next is Pakistan’s contention that policies of the government amount to “Hindutva terrorism”, with specific references to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the Ram temple construction. Finally, there is the oft-repeated allegation about Indian government actions in Jammu and Kashmir which it refers to as “state terrorism”. India, which has described these allegations as “preposterous” and “laughable”, need not worry about its reputation, given its acclaimed role in fighting terror and cooperating on the international stage to deny terrorists funding and safe haven. Pakistan has consistently done the opposite, and its continued grey-listing at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), as well as the presence of the names of hundreds of Pakistani terror groups and individuals on UN terror lists, are proof of that. Even so, it is important that the government take the Pakistani attempt to build its case seriously, and pre-empt its larger strategy of painting India in a poor light ahead of its tenure at the UN Security Council 2021-2022 and the upcoming scrutiny process at the FATF.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sobering assessment||Three weeks after its monetary policy committee decided to hold fire on interest rates amid accelerating retail inflation, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has forecast more pain for the economy. Its assessment of the economic landscape and its prognosis for near-term prospects posit a stark picture: of demand hollowed out by the severe shock to private consumption, public finances strained by the imperative of funding mitigation measures, anaemic appetite for investment among corporates and credit-flow-impeding risk aversion among bankers, to name but a few. The COVID-19-induced economic contraction that manifested itself in the fiscal first quarter, is now almost certain to extend through the July-September period, the RBI said in its Annual Report. Observing that the “reimposition or stricter imposition of lockdowns” in different parts of the country in July and August had mainly contributed to damping the tentative revival in momentum seen in the preceding two months, it said several recent high-frequency indicators pointed to an unprecedented retrenchment in activity. Noting that the services sector has been a prime mover of the Indian economy, the central bank flagged the fact that whatever consumption had survived the shock was now manifesting as essential spending with services including transport and hospitality almost completely eviscerated. The Central government, which has gamely attempted ‘pandemic proofing’ demand by increasing its net revenue expenditure by a third in the first quarter, is, however, likely to find itself strapped for resources in the coming months. As a result, it would have little leeway to continue to undergird momentum. States too are expected to find their finances so tightly squeezed as to have to cut capital spending. In its prescription to overcome the funds crunch, however, the central bank appears to run into a contradiction. The RBI suggests that the government should help “crowd in” private investment through targeted public investment that could be funded by monetising assets in steel, coal, power, land and railways. But given that private companies have been either too highly in debt and therefore keen to use gains from the government’s corporate tax rate cut to repay loans, or loath to raise capital spending when saddled with excess capacity, it is hard to see the government raising much out of its privatisation efforts. Ultimately, as Expenditure Secretary T.V. Somanathan has acknowledged, the Centre may opt to marshal its meagre resources more prudently and wait for the curve of infections to start flattening before committing to any further stimulus spending. A revival will ensue only once consumers regain confidence to go out and spend. And that, as of now, seems a fair distance away.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Leper Problem (From an Editorial)||At a meeting this evening under the Presidency of her Excellency Lady Chelsford a lantern lecture on the leper problem in India was delivered by Rev. Brank Oldrieve. Much interest was evinced in the movement and a large and distinguished gathering including a good number of members of the Council were present. H.E. Lady Chlensford in opening the address emphasised that the interest now exhibited on the problem should grow with the growth of years. The leper problem had been by this time sufficiently adverted and it was now only a matter of degree of interest. The amended Leper Act which was going to come before the Imperial Council this session  intended to enforce segregation of peuper  cases and provide better safeguard for fighting this most infectious and contagious disease. The provincial Government would, after the passage of the proposed amendment, build leper settlements and the land has already been given in this direction by the Bengal government.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Karunanidhi discusses flag demand||The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Mr. M. Karunanidhi discussed with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi today the State Government's demand to have a flag of its own. Mr. Karunanidhi told pressmen that the Prime Minister was not shocked by the proposal as she had seen States having separate flags in other countries. The Prime Minister, according to him, repeated what she had stated in Parliament that she would consult the Chief Ministers. Mr. Karunanidhi said he handed over to Mrs. Gandhi a copy of the statement he had made in the State Assembly to-day and the design of the proposed State flag. Mr. Karunanidhi told Mrs. Gandhi that the Tamil Nadu Governor never intended to show disrespect to the national flag. If that were so, it would not have sought to incorporate the national flag in the State flag. He wanted national integration and had no intention to revive the sucessionist demands. Mr. Karunanidhi told pressmen that the Prime Minister did not try to dissuade him from the move. The Chief Minister said in reply to a question that constitutionally and legally there was nothing to prevent the State from having its flag.
27 August 2020||Madrid,||Leo: only for the rich and ambitious||If Lionel Messi’s mind is made up to leave Barcelona, the question turns to where he goes next. On the back of its Champions League triumph, Bayern Munich is the pre-eminent force in Europe but it is unlikely to be able to afford Messi, aged 33, and with a base salary of around €60 million per year. The same goes for Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool, as well as Juventus, which remains restricted by the enormous outlay needed to sign Cristiano Ronaldo two years ago.  Madrid, meanwhile, would love nothing more than to prize Messi from its rival — and it has tried before — but even if Messi wants to leave Barca, he is not out to burn his reputation and legacy. Wealthy left standing Only the wealthiest are left standing but would the history of Manchester United or the upward momentum of Frank Lampard’s Chelsea be enough to persuade Messi? Those able both to afford Messi, and convince him, may only be Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Manchester City, with Inter Milan a third option. City would appear favourites but the club has always trodden carefully around the prospect of Messi. Messi could propel City in the Champions League and launch its brand, so important to the Abu Dhabi owners, to a different level. Seismic addition For PSG, whose frustration in Europe has been comparable to City’s even if it broke new ground by reaching last weekend’s final, Messi would also represent a seismic addition to the Qatari project. A Neymar-Messi-Kylian Mbappe front three would not be a difficult sell. Inter’s pitch would be more personal, given Messi’s father Jorge has reportedly bought a house close to the club’s offices while the Italian outfit has fostered close relations with the Messi family for years. But all this is conjecture till Messi’s departure is confirmed. The Argentine’s request to leave is based on a clause in his last contract which allows him to leave for free at the end of the season. But the club maintains that clause expired on June 10 this year, and that the player is still legally bound by his contract. Under the terms of the contract which expires in 2021, the only way Messi can leave without the club’s consent is if a rival side pays his release clause of €700 million.
27 August 2020||Chennai,||McGrath doffs his hat to Anderson’s achievement||It doesn’t get bigger than this. One legend on another. Glenn McGrath, the fast bowling great with 563 Test scalps, was full of praise for James Anderson, who became the first paceman in Test history to reach 600 wickets. Speaking to The Hindu from his home in Sydney, McGrath dwelt on the qualities that made his great Ashes rival special. “What makes Anderson unique is that he has been playing for 17 years. To play 156 Test matches is exceptional for a batsman but for a paceman to play the same number of Tests and pick 600 wickets is incredible,” said McGrath. “Don’t forget he is 38. It’s a tribute to his fitness, endurance, longevity, durability, and work ethic.” Done it all The rigours of pace bowling can be hard on the mind and the body. “The mental strength to go on for so long, putting your body through the fire, coming back from injuries, Anderson has done it all,” McGrath noted. “And he swings the ball beautifully. There are not many such bowlers around. Maybe Wasim Akram was one whom you could put in the same category.” Asked how long Anderson could go on, McGrath replied that it depended on the Englishman’s physical health. “600 was his goal. Now that he has achieved that I would like to see what his next motivation is. Maybe 650, [but] depends on his body.” McGrath felt Anderson was at his deadliest in England with the Duke ball. “He is dangerous with Duke, swinging it both ways at will. The ball has a big seam. Just feels nice in the hands, feels a little smaller. In English conditions, it is perfect. Even as he swings it, he makes things harder for the batsmen with his control.” “Anderson’s performances in the English conditions have always been brilliant. Maybe not as good when he travels. When you bowl in perfect conditions with Duke and then bowl in tougher terrains, it’s hard to adapt. But Anderson is a lot better now overseas than he was earlier. “The batsmen struggle to pick him as he mixes his outswingers and inswingers. The batsmen are not used to playing swing bowling. Most pacemen are of the hit-the-deck kind.” Bowling in partnership with Stuart Broad had helped Anderson, McGrath felt. “They build pressure, working at the batsmen from both ends. Great pair, great rapport and variations. Anderson swings it and the taller Broad hits the deck and gets bounce and seam movement.” McGrath marvelled at Anderson’s hunger and desire to keep picking wickets. “His passion is the secret of his success,” he said.  The mental strength to go on for so long, putting your body through the fire, coming back from injuries, Anderson has done it all
27 August 2020||Madrid,||Lionel has not told us he will miss training: sporting director||Lionel Messi has not informed Barcelona coaches he will not attend training on Wednesday, according to the club’s newly appointed sporting director, Ramon Planes. “Messi has not informed us that he was not going to show up for training,” Planes said during the official unveiling of Portuguese striker Joao Trincao. “But all exchanges will remain between the two parties (the club and the player) and out of respect we will not communicate on what is said because we are putting all our efforts in this dialogue.” Messi, Planes insisted, was “important news. But what we think, and we’ve said it many times, is that we see Messi as a Barca player”. Planes added: “Barca has rebuilt itself several times in its history, and it has always come back more powerful. Our idea is to do it once again, around the best player in the world. “You have to have enormous respect for what Messi is and for his history. Planes stressed that there was “not an argument between Messi and Barca — neither deserves it”.
27 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Hockey Bengal initiative receives good response||A Hockey Bengal (HB) effort to prepare quality umpires and technical staff received a good response with 22 youngsters attending a six-day online programme, which concluded on Wednesday. “So far, Bengal has produced only three international umpires — Gurbux Singh, H.S. Sokhi and Susanta Bhattacharya. When Hockey India (HI) asked us to recommend some youngsters who could be groomed for the future, we thought this was a good opportunity for our state,” said HB joint secretary and a HI technical official Dr. Mohammed Khalid Hussain. The most striking feature of the online programme was the age of the participants. “Generally people come to umpiring when their playing career is over. So, they are around 35 when they start (and it delays their progress). Here, the participants were mostly under 25 and one was under 27. “We told them about the rules and regulations and how to conduct matches. There was good interest among participants, including eight women, and some of them were from places like Darjeeling and Cooch Behar.” HB will recommend 10 of the 22 names to HI. “These participants completed an online workshop and got certificates from us in March. “They will get more exposure when they work with HI. If they do well, they have the scope to officiate matches internationally. Others can wait for their turn to go through the workshop next year. Until then, they can conduct matches in local events,” said Hussain.
27 August 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala Blasters FC signs Rohit||Kerala Blasters FC has signed Delhi midfielder Rohit Kumar for the Indian Super League (ISL). The 23-year-old, who started his career at the Bhaichung Bhutia Football School, played for Hyderabad FC in the ISL last season and for FC Pune City earlier. “Joining the Blasters was an easy decision since I’ve always wanted to play for the club. “I hope to improve as a player to contribute to the vision of the club,” said Rohit. “Rohit is yet another quality addition to our midfield. I hope he explores his full potential with the team and we are ready to support him in the best possible manner,” said Karolis Skinkys, the club’s sporting director.  I hope to improve as a player to contribute to the vision of the club Rohit
27 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala FC withdraws from I-League qualifiers||The Thrissur-based football club Kerala FC has withdrawn from the qualifiers of the second division I-League. The club, which was formed in 2014, has citied financial crisis in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, and the inability to assemble a full strength team at a short notice as the reasons for its withdrawal. The club has communicated its decision to the All India Football Federation (AIFF). The second division qualifiers is scheduled to be held in Kolkata in the third week of September and Kerala FC was the only team from the State which was invited by AIFF to participate in this tournament. Plans upset The Covid-19 pandemic upset the club’s plans as it was forced to close its summer coaching camp which was a major source of revenue. With uncertainty prevailing over the future of tournaments, the club was forced to release its foreign and outstation players when the lockdown began in March. KFC’s technical director Narayana Menon said it was not financially viable for the club to send a team to Kolkata to participate in the qualifiers this year. “We needed a budget of Rs. 25 lakh for this tournament. It was impossible to raise this amount through sponsorship during the pandemic. “We are short of funds now as the summer coaching camps, which was our major source of income, didn’t take place this year and it was a big blow for us. When AIFF sent us the schedule early this month it meant we had to start our preparation immediately. “But the situation here is not conducive to start a camp and after weighing all our options we decided not to take part in the tournament,” he said.
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Hesson hints at mid-season player transfer||The IPL mid-season player transfer option could come to fruition this season, RCB Director of Cricket Operations Mike Hesson stated on Wednesday. “That is certainly something that could come to fruition this season. It will come in at some stage, due to the fact that it's hard to get potential replacements. We are very comfortable with the squad we have, but if we get injuries or so forth, then loan opportunities could become an option. We are certainly open to it. “You, however, need both teams to buy into any potential loan. You need to make sure the other side is happy with the loan, and feel that they will benefit from it too. It's not [just] a matter of identifying someone you want; they will have to be allowed to be released as well.”
27 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Devdutt Padikkal deserves to make his IPL debut, says Simon Katich||Opening batsman Devdutt Padikkal has done enough to merit an IPL debut, Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) head coach Simon Katich stated in a virtual conference from Dubai on Wednesday. The elegant southpaw was in fine form in the 2019-20 domestic season, finishing as the highest run-scorer in both the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy and Vijay Hazare 50-over tournament. The 20-year-old, one of two local lads in the RCB squad alongside Pawan Deshpande, was also Karnataka’s highest run-scorer in the Ranji Trophy. Katich and RCB’s director of cricket operations Mike Hesson — both of whom attended the virtual conference — will oversee RCB’s first training session in the bio-secure environment at Dubai on Thursday, at the conclusion of the mandatory six-day quarantine. Excerpts:  Simon Katich    Form player Padikkal: We’ve been watching Padikkal a lot. Mike (Hesson) saw him closely at the KPL (Karnataka Premier League) before we made decisions on retention. He dominated in the 50-overs format (Vijay Hazare Trophy), did very well in the Syed Mushtaq Ali, and then followed that up in the Ranji Trophy. The fact that he’s a left-hander helps as well — we do like to have right-left combinations. He’s done everything he can to put his hand up to make his IPL debut this year. It’s now up to him to push his case forward. He’s got a bright future. We’re excited by what he can potentially do.  Impressive skipper and batsman Kohli: The thing that stood out about Kohli during our interactions is that he has that presence. Once you see him up close and in person, you realise how calm and measured he is in terms of his thoughts and his knowledge of this group. He also has passion and energy for this group. There’s a real belief from Kohli that’s directed to this group and his backing of the local boys. I think Kohli’s itching to go after such a long break... I don’t think having a crowd or not will make any difference to him, knowing how competitive and passionate he is about playing for RCB and IPL, and playing cricket in general.  Mike Hesson    P roviding entertainment: There are many people around the world who are really looking forward to watching cricket and have been denied the opportunity due to the pandemic. We can focus on putting on some entertainment. A large number of people in India are still in lockdown, we’re going to try and do what we do best and entertain.
27 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Volkswagen launches VW-Virtual Racing||Volkswagen Motorsport India (VMI) has announced the launch of its Volkswagen Virtual Racing Championship (VW-VRC). The 2020 Polo Championship (one-make series) will be conducted virtually through simulators. Through this initiative, Volkswagen Motorsport India intends to keep the motorsport momentum going by recreating the thrill of track experience in a virtual racing championship. The winner of VW-VRC will be rewarded with a sponsored drive by VMI to compete in the 2021 Volkswagen Polo Championship, the annual flagship racing event (subject to criterion). The selection process in the championship will be straight and simple for 26 racers. With no restrictions in the initial selection, interested participants can register by downloading the game. They can participate either using a keyboard (PC/ laptop) or PlayStation. The final contenders for Volkswagen VRC will be the 10 fastest racers each from the Keyboard and PlayStation editions as well as the top six from the Pro-Class of the Indian e-Racing Championship. The online registration for Volkswagen VRC is open till September 9.
27 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Satwiksairaj to miss awards ceremony||India’s leading men’s doubles badminton player R. Satwiksairaj, who was recently recommended for the Arjuna Award, will not be able to attend the ‘virtual’ ceremony of the National Awards function scheduled to be held in Hyderabad on August 29, which also happens to be the National Sports Day. Health grounds Satwik expressed his inability to attend the event on health grounds via video conference, according to a senior official of Sports Authority of India. The ceremony is being hosted by the National Informatics Centre, with whom the Union Sports Minister and SAI have been coordinating. “However, the other two Dhyan Chand Awardees from the Telugu-speaking States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — boxer N. Usha (Visakhapatnam) and rower Manjeet Singh (Hyderabad) — will make it to the event,” the official told The Hindu on Wednesday. All the awardees have been asked to report with COVID-19 test reports. There will be a dress rehearsal before the actual event. The whole event from Hyderabad will be in sync with the main programme to be held in Delhi.
27 August 2020||Dubai,||VPS Healthcare to conduct Tests during IPL 2020||The BCCI has recruited VPS Healthcare as the official COVID-19 testing agency for the upcoming IPL, where more than 20,000 tests will be conducted for nearly three months. As per a press release sent by the company, the 20,000 tests will include “all players, support staff of the franchisees, BCCI officials and IPL stakeholders.” “We are also in discussion with the BCCI on the provision of providing other allied support medical services in line with the requirement for the conduct of the tournament,” the release further stated. Before entering bubble All players and staff members of the teams are being tested on days 1, 3 and 6 before they are being allowed to enter the bio bubble. After that players and others are supposed to be tested every fifth day throughout the course of the tournament.
27 August 2020||New York,||Time warning flusters Serena||Serena Williams was flustered when she got called for taking too much time between points, flung away her racket after letting a lead slip away and finished surprisingly meekly in a 5-7, 7-6(5), 6-1 loss to Maria Sakkari at the Western & Southern Open on Tuesday. “You should tell me on the sidelines next time if I need to play faster. Believe me, I will. You didn’t even give me a warning,” Serena told chair umpire Aurelie Tourte, clearly not happy with his decision to call a time-violation. Meanwhile, Novak Djokovic’s neck felt much better, and his tennis too, in a 6-2, 6-4 victory over unseeded American Tennys Sandgren that improved his record to 20-0 in 2020.  Important results (third round): Men: Daniil Medvedev bt Aljaz Bedene 6-3, 6-3; Roberto Bautista bt Karen Khachanov 4-6, 6-3, 6-2; Novak Djokovic bt Tennys Sandgren 6-2, 6-4; Stefanos Tsitsipas bt John Isner 7-6 (2), 7-6 (4); Milos Raonic bt Andy Murray 6-2, 6-2 .   Women: Maria Sakkari bt Serena Williams 5-7, 7-6 (5), 6-1; Elise Mertens bt Veronika Kudermetova 6-2, 6-3; Naomi Osaka bt Dayana Yastremska 6-3, 6-1; Victoria Azarenka bt Alize Cornet 6-4, 7-5 .
27 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Dinda gets NOC from CAB||Ashoke Dinda on Wednesday got a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) to play for another State unit in the 2020-21 domestic season. The 36-year-old pacer, who was left out of the Bengal squad last season, had approached the CAB and expressed his desire to play for another State. Dinda, who made his debut for Bengal in 2005, led the attack for many years and consistently emerged as its leading wicket-taker, scalping 420 First Class wickets. He played for India in 13 ODIs and nine T20Is.
27 August 2020||Manchester,||Guardiola wants Messi at Man City||Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola has held talks with Argentine striker Lionel Messi in order to bring him on board the English club. This revelation comes a day after Messi told Barcelona that he wanted leave the club. Guardiola is looking to sign the 33-year-old Messi and this could very well be possible as City has the financial capacity to make this happen, Goal.com reported.  Reuters reports from Barcelona  ‘Bartomeu resign’ Angry Barcelona fans chanted for the resignation of club president Josep Maria Bartomeu. “We love you, Messi stay, Messi stay!” and “Bartomeu resign!” chanted several hundred fans outside Barcelona’s Camp Nou stadium on Tuesday night. “I am very upset, for me Barca is Messi and Messi is Barca. They are the same, he is the symbol of Barca... they should erect a monument in Camp Nou,” 80-year-old Joana Polo said. “It’s led to huge outrage,” said Oriol, 40.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 08:57 IST,||Sudoku - August 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital Discovery||“This lockdown has either made everyone a cook or a Malayalam movie reviewer,” tweeted Chennai-based stand-up comedian Abishek Kumar a few months ago. He was, and still is, right. With the pandemic and lockdown forcing people to stay indoors, most of us have resorted to digging up content on OTT platforms that we would otherwise have not discovered. This has resulted in a significant increase in the number of unique films being uncovered on a national and international scale. So much so that a Malayalam film like Kumbalangi Nights, which is a delightful slice-of-life portrayal of a village in Kerala, has ended up as a popular title on OTT. “It is one of the most successful titles on Amazon Prime, with a viewer base across the country,”says Aparna Purohit, current head of India Originals at Amazon Prime Video. All the time in the world Even as the world deals with an unprecedented situation, film buffs are happily occupied with all the cinematic discoveries that they are making. Actor-director Musthafa Muhammed knows that feeling well; his Malayalam flick Kappela , starring Anna Ben, Sreenath Bhasi and Roshan Mathew, has been appreciated across the country since its release on Netflix. “I recently got a call from a filmmaker in Maharasthra, who spoke at length about my film,” beams Musthafa, “This wouldn’t have happened if not for it being streamed on an OTT platform. The scope and reach of the film has widened.” Tamil director Desingh Periyasamy knows a thing or two about reach. His heist rom-com film, Kannum Kannum Kolaiyadithaal (KKK), was one of the last big Tamil films to release on the big screen before the nationwide lockdown, and it also had the film industry’s who’s who and mass audiences raving about it when it subsequently dropped on Netflix. It even drew praise from Superstar Rajinikanth, who recently telephoned its director and asked him “to think of a subject for him”. “Due to the lockdown, many celebrities who might have otherwise been busy due to shoots and commitments got the time to watch my film,” beams Desingh, adding that the Telugu version of the film is faring well too. Word play One of the major reasons for films garnering attention across regions is that they are subtitled, thus giving viewers anywhere in the world a peek into the cinematic universe that the director explores. Vivek Ranjit, who has subtitled more than 150 Malayalam films, says he joined the industry to “present Malayalam films to a different audience”. With the rise in demand for content among OTT players, he has been busy; his work can be seen in hits like Ayyappanum Koshiyum ,  KappelaandLucifer, films that non-Malayali audiences have discovered in recent months. “When I subtitle, I let some of the cultural references like chechi (elder sister) stay. For some others, I put an explanation within brackets. This is to educate audiences about Malayalam culture,” explains Vivek, who adds that the OTT platforms’ algorithm-based suggestions lead people to discover other films that match their viewing preferences. Stars promoting their films on social media also help them reach a wider audience, as has been proved in the case of comedian Danish Sait’s recent Kannada flick French Biriyani . “The good hasn’t gone to the head and the bad hasn’t gone to the heart,” tweets Danish, on the reach of his comedy, which dropped directly on Amazon Prime last month. Content consumption patterns Telugu cinema has had its share of notable content as well; films like Krishna And His Leela (on Netflix and Aha), Uma Maheshwara Ugra Roopasya (Netflix) and Bhanumathi & Ramakrishna (Aha) are among the most talked-about films. Ravikanth Perepu, who directed Krishna And His Leela ( KAHL ) and edited Bhanumathi & Ramakrishna ( BR ), says that the response has been warm from Telugu-speaking as well as non-Telugu viewers. Streaming KAHL on a global and a regional platform simultaneously, he has been getting feedback from viewers in the US, West Asia and Malaysia. Also Bengaluru, Mumbai, cities in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and interiors of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “It was in Malaysia Top 10 for a week. The subtitles by Raghuram Sreepada worked in our favour. Instead of literal translation, he rephrased the lines in context for English,” he says. Apart from new Telugu films, what has come as a surprise is the popularity of films specially dubbed in Telugu for OTT. The 2015 Tamil film 36 Vayadhinile starring Jyotika, dubbed as 36 Vayasulo , is among the widely viewed films on Aha. Ajit Thakur, CEO of Aha, observes, “Globally, there has been a surge in consumption of content in native language in recent years.” The team noticed that a large segment of Telugu viewers preferred to view content in Telugu rather than read English subtitles. Hence, they decided to stream popular films from Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam by dubbing them in Telugu. Malayalam films Trance , Shylock and Forensic , and Tamil film Gypsy are now streaming on Aha. Commenting on 36 Vayasulo grabbing eyeballs, Ajit says, “We follow certain parameters while acquiring films, preferring recent releases. However, we make exceptions if certain films can also help us build a good library. 36 Vayadhinile was not dubbed in Telugu for theatrical release, so it’s a new film for many Telugu viewers.” The news of Suriya’s much-awaited Tamil film Soorarai Potru opting for a direct release on Amazon Prime is a significant announcement in the OTT space; this means that fans will be able to catch a biggie across the globe at the same time in the comfort of their home. There is also Nani’s Telugu film V and Fahadh Faasil’s CU Soon to look forward to. Zee 5 has made good in-roads; they released Tamil film Lock Up, starring Vaibhav and Venkat Prabhu,  recently. Meanwhile, Disney+Hotstar, which won a lot of hearts for streaming late Sushant Singh Rajput’s Hindi flick Dil Bechara for free, also has a handful of interesting titles, as has SunNXT that primarily focusses on South Indian content. The future seems ripe for more discoveries.  (With inputs fromSangeetha Devi DundooandShilpa Nair Anand)   WATCH LIST  Tamil  lKannum Kannum Kolaiyadhithaal lOh My Kadavule lPsycho  Telugu   lUma Maheswara Ugra Roopasya lKrishna and his Leela lBhanumathi & Ramakrishna  Malayalam   lKumbalangi Nights lAyyapanum Koshiyum lKappela
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||My cycle heads North||Have you ever seen a building shaped like a boot in Chennai? How about one shaped like a milk bottle? These are two among many other interesting landmarks that author and history buff Ramanujar Moulana of Cycling Yogis, has documented in his recent book, North Chennai Bicycle Trails . The book, released on Madras Day, is the spiritual sequel to his book OMR ECR Bicycle Trails . Sandwiched between the rich past and rapid development in recent times, North Chennai is a city within itself. Moulana and his team cycle across Perambur, Tondiarpet, Thiruvottiyur, Royapuram, Ennore and other areas, to map the remaining relics, natural and built heritage, and review the recent past of this region. This, they do in the form of 20 trails, including ones on its beaches, canals and waterbodies; single screen cinema theatres; standalone clocktowers; its industries and consequently its labour unions; and of course, its food. Each location on these trails comes with a QR code in the book, which leads the reader to a pin on Google Maps, for better understanding. “I started exploring North Chennai in May 2019. I would research on the weekdays, sitting in front of a huge map on my desk. Then, on weekends and public holidays, I would take my cycle and head out by 7 am or sometimes even earlier,” he says. By June last year, he had finished exploring the places mentioned in various news media, historical accounts and heritage walks. It was in August that he started exploring without specifically looking for known landmarks. “There were certain street signage that I found interesting, many of them very Romanised Indian street names,” he says, pointing to a certain Slaterpuram Street, whose signboard was recently painted a bright yellow. “It is at Brightons Road (Kannigapuram). The year mentioned is 1932. The locals mention that it had a tall structure on the road that has now become shortened over the years due to the increase of road height,” says the book. The book also has a Railways trail — after all, Royapuram houses India’s oldest railway station, constructed in 1856, and the Red Hills Railway line is supposed to have been the first railway line in the country. The food trail unique to the region, including Kasimedu’s spongy sweet dish atlappam , Todiarpet’s ‘idly sweets’, the ubiquitous ‘jilebi’ s, and molasam : a Tamil Burmese drink made of rice, coconut and jaggery. Most likely an Indianisation of moh let saung , the drink, learnt Moulana, “is now available in only two shops at Vyasarpadi, and also has a following in Kanyakumari”. As for the milk bottle and boot buildings, they are both in Madhavaram, the former in the Milk Colony and the latter part of a leather factory. “I first saw the Boothouse as a child, when I had gone to the dairy farm on a school excursion. It was for children’s recreation and had a mini garden around it.” Now surrounded by wild vegetation, it is a relic barely hanging on in a fast-changing world.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Not the last leaf||For Malayali families, Onam sadhya is a tradition. Eaten on banana leaves, the 22-course vegetarian meal has moved from homes to restaurants to large wedding halls, served by caterers. This year, because of COVID-19, sadhya is home again. Roshina Tharakan of That Mallu Joint, in Chennai, says that Onam is their busiest time of the year: the 60-seater restaurant had 400 people lunch with them on Onam day last year. This year, maintaining 50% occupancy means they plan to focus more on takeaway and delivery. They are also spreading it out through the week, so they can meet the inevitable demand. “We are serving sadhya till September 2. So far we have sent out around 60 sadhya boxes (Rs. 499),” says Roshina. Since it is a course by course meal that is laid out left to right, with a progression from light dishes like paruppu to heavy ones like pulissery , the parcels will be labelled. “The rice will be packed in banana leaf, so all you have to do is roll it out and serve the accompaniments on it,” she adds. Though it is the same menu every year there is always a clamour for sadhya . It is an emotion, a novelty for those trying it for the first time, and it is also one of the largest vegetarian meals served once a year, says Zachariah Jacob, who along with Thomas Fenn, co-owns Mahabelly in Delhi and Gurugram. He says that they ran a survey this year, and found 65% of clients wanted delivery, 15% preferred take away, 10% wanted to dine in and the remaining 10% did not want sadhya . “Keeping the COVID-19 situation in mind, we thought it’s best to shift the whole experience into a takeaway/delivery format,” he says. Their meal (Rs. 899 for takeaway) has 25 items, including ghee. They are also thoughtfully including banana leaves and step-by-step illustrations to make up for the lack of personal explanation that usually accompanies these meals. Across India, restaurants serving Kerala cuisine have been fielding calls from patrons enquiring about sadhya for the past few weeks. Given the the lockdown restrictions in different States, ingredients had to be ordered well in advance. “There has been a bit of difficulty in procuring banana chips, shakara varatti and poovan palam that usually come from Kerala and Tamil Nadu,” says Zachariah. That Mallu Joint, which uses coconut milk and ada from Kerala, had to rely on Amazon, while Chennai’s Ente Keralam sourced its jackfruit from local farmers. Ente Keralam normally has a long queue waiting outside the restaurant every Onam. But this year, it is a whole new ball game, says Tarun Mahadevan, director of Advantage Foods, which owns Ente Keralam. To better manage physical distancing, their sadhya will take place across four different locations: Ente Keralam Poes Garden and Anna Nagar, Eastern Wedge and The Marina. Diners will need to pre-book. “46% of all our seats are already taken,” says Tarun adding that the sadhya will have 30 dishes including four types of payasam. While packaging is a concern, the restaurants say they are trying to be eco-friendly. But there have been logistical issues. How eco-friendly is it? “Some of the dishes tend to leak and if one leaks, it will ruin the others. So, we have used high grade plastic containers; these are not single use plastic,” says Zachariah. People are also sending sadhyas as gifts. “So we are customising and packaging them in gift boxes that use recycled paper and some plastic,” says Roshina. Savya Rasa this year has a vibrant sadhya box with compartments for their 30 dishes (Rs. 749). They are also open to clients bringing their own containers for takeaway. Though sadhya is traditionally a vegetarian meal, the restaurant often gets requests for non vegetarian accompaniments. “So, last year we had introduced sides of chicken or lamb at an additional cost,” says Japtej Ahluwalia, co-founder and executive director of the Pricol Gourmet that owns the restaurant. Though they will not be doing that this year, for the dine-in guests, the meal will start with drumstick rasam, believed to be an immunity booster. Onam sadhya is a family event, says Japtej adding that last year they sold 900 covers on the two main days. This time the numbers are a fewer, in comparison, he says. “Our restaurant capacity is 75 but now with distancing norms we are restricting it to 40 diners,” he informs. Over the years, this traditional meal has become popular with more restaurants that serve Malayali food opening in Chennai. For some, this year there is a shortage of manpower, as many staff returned to their hometowns when lockdown began. Kappa Chakka Kandhari, with branches in Chennai and Bengaluru, has decided to forgo their annual traditional sadhya for this reason . But if it is any consolation, they are offerings four payasams for takeaway over four days, including ada pradhaman and palada payasam . (250 ml of four for Rs. 750). Mumbai’s popular Sneha restaurant has shrunk its sadhya to 10 dishes since they are are short-staffed. A staffer adds that they are also not sure “how many people will actually order sadhya this time”. But it is not all gloom and doom. There are restaurateurs like Anna Jomon, whose eight-month-old restaurant Achyatis (Chennai) is benefiting from the harvest festival. “After we launched, lockdown was implemented and we had to shut. But now with so many orders for sadhya we are open and delivering too,” says Anna, who does the cooking. “I’ll be making the Aramula Valla Sadhya that I used to relish with my parents during childhood, she says, adding that her cooking is “Kottayam-style”. Her sadhya (25-plus items priced at Rs. 520) will feature kadali pazham payasam , munthiri pachadi (made of grapes), unniyappam , and red cheera thoran  among others.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Kalakki on the kerb||I do my first kerbside pickup for two reasons. The hefty margins that delivery apps demand from restaurants (while simultaneously charging customers) eats into the already slim profits that cloud kitchens make. If you can pick up your food, it is a great way to support your favourite restaurants. My second reason is more selfish: I just want a mid-pandemic, getaway drive (Now there’s a sentence I never thought I would say in the good old days of 2019). I pay online and park at Savya Rasa in Kotturpuram, where my order is neatly packed and ready to go. Although this newly-launched cloud kitchen by Pricol Gourmet currently runs out of Savya Rasa, which is deliberately old school, Madurai Military Hotel (MMH) aims at a more rustic style of ‘mess’ inspired food. Which means, you can also choose to snack on Savya Rasa’s crisp vazhaipoo vadai at the quiet restaurant, and then leave with lunch ordered from the completely different MMH menu. Inspired by the city’s military hotels that specialise in fiery, meaty dishes, the menu offers competitively priced combos, featuring favourites like biryani, mutton sukka , pepper chicken and masala kalakki . In the hands of chefs in a structured restaurant environment, flavours are bright and clear; a step up from the chaos of spice that usually defines this food. Admittedly, there are better biryanis in the city, but MMH scores with the flurry of accompaniments — from juicy prawns in patiently caramelised masala to shredded chicken speckled with chillies. In typical mess style, they also offer flaky parottas, idiappam and kal dosai. Breakfast will be launched in a few weeks, so you can start your day the military way — at 7:30 am, with kushboo idlies and pepper paya .  Call MMH Kotturpuram on 7397774841, and Perungudi on 739915044     When Patricia Narayan started making mutton biryani at home, it was just to cheer herself up. Now she and her son, Praveen Rajkumar, have their hands full dishing out fish cutlets, chicken 65 and kozhukattai for a large, growing audience. Patricia runs the restaurant Prasan Sandeepha in Madipakkam and was also catering to the Infosys Food Court till the start of lockdown in March. Praveen is a partner at restobar Barracuda Brew. With everything on pause, the mother and son combined their restaurant experience with Patricia’s cooking skills to start catering from home. Patricia began with a ‘ready to fry’ section, offering chicken 65 and cutlets to stock your freezer. Now the menu has expanded to offer ghee roast chicken, mutton uppu curry, and her signature, badam halwa. She keeps the menu deliberately flexible, so she can make changes depending on what she gets fresh from the market every week. “For the past two weeks I have been making a pepper chicken fry,” she says, adding with a laugh, “Next week, I am planning Knockout Rusi fried chicken... like KFC, but I can boldly say mine is better.”  Call 9840199000 or 9884149333    Like many of his customers, Karthik Mukesh is not a fan of delivery. This Purasawalkam restaurant, famous for its fluffy bun parottas, prides itself on the irreplaceable seductiveness of steamy kothu parotta, egg dosa and fish fry straight off the tava, and onto your plate. The restaurant uses Karthick’s mother’s recipes and takes pride in using hand ground masalas and cold pressed oils. “It is a very simple restaurant serving typical Madurai food,” says Karthik. “We are operating a very limited menu now and have not reopened our Besant Nagar branch yet.” Fortunately, the parottas are back — served with their flavour-packed, slow-cooked “free” salna . With lockdown, they have made some changes. “We used to get mutton delivered from Madurai everyday, but that is not possible now. Also, mutton prices are soaring, and I want to keep every dish affordable,” says Karthick, adding, “We now make our kolai urundai with chicken, and it has turned out as good as the original!” Konar Vilas is back to almost 70 percent of the business they did pre-pandemic, which is an encouraging sign. Although, as with other city restaurants, many customers pop in for a quick chat, chai and snack, while choosing to ‘parcel’ their main meal: the sociable desi version of a kerbside pickup.  Call 48596480  This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture? Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A lifetime of the arts||One cannot miss him in a crowd: tall, with greying, wavy hair up to his shoulders, the man exudes convivial energy. And more often than not, one will catch him mid-hug or cheery hello. Helmut Schippert has become a familiar face in Chennai’s vibrant arts and culture milieu over the past six years. Even now, he laments (on a call, from Berlin) that he will not be able to invite guests and have a “proper” farewell party, given the situation. Boasting an impressive 35-years at Goethe-Institut, Germany’s cultural centre, Schippert has been actively invoved in the city ever since he began his stint as director. The Chennai centre, this year, completes 60 illustrious years in the field of German language education and cultural arts. In India, the institute offers language courses across Bengaluru, Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi and Pune, apart from Chennai. “And now I am leaving at such strange times that the first moments are very ‘present’ again. Sometimes, it plays out like a film,” he says. Schippert distinctly remembers his first Museum Theatre play. It was a Tamil production which went on for a few hours. He laughs adding it was a fascinating experience; that too, in his first week in the city. He confesses that before he moved, he used to spend time listening to Carnatic music in preparation for Chennai, and its culture. Schippert started working with the Goethe-Institut as early as 1985, and has had a career spanning many locations: Cairo, Paris, Munich and Mexico. Ask him his favourite place, and he stops the question midway to say that each place has had its own situational effect on him. “The first two months were kind of dream-like for me. I came from a different world in Mexico. Starting from the traffic to life in town, I was sort of in a trance,” says Helmut. Soon enough, warming up to the city, he also realised Chennai’s strong hold on the traditional arts. “As for the contemporary arts, very soon, I thought there weren’t many physical spaces [of performance],” says Schippert. This, along with a few other observations, led him to explore how Goethe-Institut could inch closer to existing realities. One such reality was the deteriorating condition of Chennai’s lakes and rivers; Schippert took an interest in promoting awareness on the sustainable management of water bodies. “Through my perception of the general ecological problems in Chennai, I thought water management might be a good theme to look at,” he recalls. This led to many projects under the umbrella of ‘Embracing Our Rivers’, an artistic venture that encouraged dialogue on water in urban spaces, which started in 2015. “When you work with arts and culture, you believe that artistic thought brings new answers and opens up spaces for alternatives,” he says. Goethe-Institut has for the past few years also taken an interest in collaborative musical events. To the question if this has something to do with the fact that he plays the piano and guitar, Schippert laughs. “We try to arrange residencies or meetings of musicians from very different backgrounds and work on improvisations on creating something new,” he says. The South Asian Music Residency in collaboration with AR Rahman’s KM Music Conservatory is a testament to this idea. Another project that remains close to his heart, is the Chennai Photo Biennale founded with Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation, which launched in 2016 and is growing steadily in size and stature every year with the ambition of putting Chennai on the global map as a potential centre for contemporary arts and photography. He hopes to continue this collaboration as a well wisher. But, moving forward, there are things to be done: For starters, “A grand piano (Steinway from 1895) and two guitars are eagerly waiting for me,” he says. Living for some time without any plans, obligations and daily responsibilties is also on the agenda. Schippert also hopes to engage in the fight against the climate catastrophe, in whatever capacity. “Also, in the future, I need days with more than 24 hours!”
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A song for the moment||It’s a bittersweet dichotomy. The word ‘Banjaare’ essentially means gypsies, but is used to denote anyone who is constantly on the move and has no place to call “home”. But London-based Keethan Sivanathan and Chennai-based Shyam Renganathan’s song by the same name is about the exact opposite — it is about places, people, and moments we can call our own. Released earlier this month, the song has crossed 6,000 views in the past two weeks and it is easy to see why. On one hand, there is the video — all bright smiles and simple, slice-of-life moments shared by people from around the world. On the other hand are Keethan’s sunny, straightforward melody and Shyam’s relatable, self-affirming Hindi lyrics about abandoning the long wait for tomorrow and prioritising things in life that bring you peace. Sung by Shyam, Sharanya Gopinath and Pavitra Krishnan, the number features a surprisingly peppy violin interlude by Shravan Sridhar and bass by Akhilesh Subramanian. The entire number is an exercise in nostalgia for simple times shared with friends and family. Says Keethan, over a phone call from London, “Shyam had written the music from a personal space, and I wrote the music for it accordingly, to make it relatable. In times like these, where we don’t know what is going on, the song celebrates acceptance and celebration of the only thing we have in control: this exact moment.” The duo has been friends since their school days, and consider themselves Chennai boys even though Keethan is currently working in London. The video edit reflects this — “We asked our followers on social media to send in footage from their lives. We received about 20 to 30 clips, from Chennai, Delhi, London, Toronto and parts of Kerala. Putting it together was an emotional process, I’m not going to lie,” says Keethan. From friends playing basketball to having drinks together, potting plants and laughing to just taking a stroll late at night, the scenes stitched together form a montage of everything we have been missing in our friendships, since the series of lockdowns began in March. The simplicity of all those moments is what hits the hardest — there are no sweeping shots of cityscapes, just personal moments and heartfelt smiles.  ‘Banjaare’ is availlable on all major streaming platforms.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Vignettes of Madras, in billboards||Back in his school days, filmmaker Rajiv Menon would pass through Chennai very often — his father was a naval officer and the family lived in Visakhapatnam at the time. He fondly recalls, “We used to transit through Chennai to go to Vizag. After arriving in Chennai in the morning, we would stay in the railway station till night, until the next train. In between, we would have rides around the city.” Amid these rides, he would notice abandoned sites opposite the then Anand Theatre (in Mount Road) housing large hoardings of upcoming films. He also remembers massive cutouts, announcing the arrival of multi-starrers, opposite TVS in Mount Road. “After having lunch and some ice cream, we would ride around the city.” These are Menon’s earliest brushes with Kollywood’s important, albeit, fading culture of cutouts, banners and posters that go hand in hand with the evolution of Tamil cinema. His fascination for this culture manifests in many of his films: in the song ‘Ooh La La La’ from Minsara Kanavu , Prabhu Deva is seen dancing against a poster featuring Amitabh Bachan. Similarly, in Kandukondein Kandukondein , he uses a graphic of poster art in parts of ‘Konjum Mainakkale’. “My ode to the poster culture can be seen in those visuals,” he laughs. Madras’ moniker as the cinema capital of the South owes a lot to this dying culture. From being markers of locations to a tangible proof of artistic skill, movie banners, cutouts and posters trace the city’s history through the lens of cinema. This will be explored during Chennai Photo Biennale’s upcoming panel discussion titled Banners, Cutouts and Posters — Tamil Cinema’s Tryst with Visual Art. Moderated by film professor Uma Vangal, the panel which is part of CPB’s Madras Day celebrations will feature artist V Jeevananthan, film historian Theodore Baskaran, author Preminda Jacob and filmmaker Rajiv Menon. A dying art “It’s a double celebration — of some of the memories of Madras and the very unique Tamil cinema tradition,” says Uma adding, “We wanted to celebrate a particular aspect of Madras that many of us associate with.” There have been times when tourists would drive down Mount Road — from Safire Theatre Complex to Wallajah Road, just look at the hoardings and cutouts on either sides, she says. “Literally, people would walk and gawk. Every week, they would throng to see what films were going to be released. It is very much a part of the skyline and landscape of Madras.” If cutouts and cloth banners dominated the southern regions, North Madras sported huge wall paintings of releases and announcements. North Madras also housed many popular theatres, including Bhubaneswari, Mahalaxmi, Saraswati. “The kind of spectatorship of Tamil audiences, is still very much rooted within that larger-than-life art, intertwined with cinema. And in a way, that led to the intense engagement that we have with our screens,” says Uma. Be it the idea of cleaning up the skyline or the advent of the digital age and the irregular income, the art form has taken a severe blow. Artist V Jeevananthan can vouch for this. He took to the profession after closely following his father N Velayuthan, proprietor of Cine Arts in Coimbatore, who specialised in banner art. His perspective (in the panel) will cover the entirety of Tamil Nadu. “In the ‘40s, banner art used to be a prominent art form and profession. Madras, I think, was the pioneer of this form. People would train in this specifically to take it up as a profession,” says the artist. However, since 2005, he says that banner art has been near-extinct.  The panel discussion will be held on August 29, from 5 pm to 7 pm. Register at https://bit.ly/32rq6lJ or visit @cpblearninglab on Instagram
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Written in stone||It was a sore sight; but one that the people of Pulicat had got used to: a seemingly ordinary stone column was lying on the ground amid thorn bushes. Nearby, people defecated in the open. Then, M Suman, a local fisherman hired two people to lift the column and fix it firmly. He knew it was no ordinary stone. “It is the 25th milestone: the last one along the East Coast Canal, starting at Basin Bridge,” says Xavier Benedict of AARDE Foundation (Art & Architecture Research Development and Education), a non-profit Trust in Chennai. The milestone dates back to 1840, according to Xavier. There were 25, from Madras to Pulicat, set along the Buckingham Canal, once an important waterway. “People have forgotten how historic the canal is,” says Xavier. “It is the only known canal to have milestones, and also boasted an ingenious locking system.” If it existed today in its original form, it would take us only an hour to travel from Chennai to Pulicat, Xavier says; on road, this takes twice the duration. Sadly, several of the milestones are missing, including the first one at Basin Bridge, he points out. Fortunately, cheered on by Xavier, Suman saved the final one. A heritage enthusiast, Suman talks with fascination about the milestone. “We walked into garbage and thorn bushes, but behind them all, was this stone… bejaar ah irundhadhu [Was too much to handle].” Suman says that he initially hesitated to approach the fallen milestone number 25. But he finally did. “We took photos once the stone was strengthened and shared it on the Pulicat WhatsApp and Facebook groups,” says Xavier, adding that hopefully, it will inspire more people to learn about Buckingham Canal. “We can judge the width of the Canal using the position of the milestones,” he says. However, over the years, thanks to the development of the city, the canal has shrunk, and “beyond Royapuram, we cannot even see it”.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gamers, this way!||“We are getting bigger and better,” says Sivaneswaran S, the CEO of Chennai-based Skyesports, with excitement palpable in his voice. The firm is coming up with the second edition of Skyesports Championship 2.0, an online e-sports tournament. The two-month event will commence on August 27 and comes with a total prize money of Rs. 11 lakh. This edition features six games — PUBG Mobile, Brawl Stars, Clash of Clans, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege, World Cricket Championship Rivals, and Valorant. The first edition of the tournament last year saw the participation of more than 1,000 teams contesting in three e-games. “After the lockdown, the number of people playing these games has increased manifold.” The games are selected based on their popularity. “These are loved by gamers of all age groups.”  Entry is free and the event is open for anyone over 16 years of age with prior experience of playing e-games. “People can register for Brawl Stars and Valorant.” Skyesport Championship 2.0 will also have a celebrity Valorant showdown between well-known teams from the country including Team Tamilas, 8 Bit, and Globalesports. The games will be live-streamed in Hindi, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, Telugu, and English.   Visit http://tournaments. skyesports.in/brawlstars to register.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Not the last leaf||For Malayali families, Onam sadhya is a tradition. Eaten on banana leaves, the 22-course vegetarian meal has moved from homes to restaurants to large wedding halls, served by caterers. This year, because of COVID-19, sadhya is home again. Roshina Tharakan of That Mallu Joint, in Chennai, says that Onam is their busiest time of the year: the 60-seater restaurant had 400 people lunch with them on Onam day last year. This year, maintaining 50% occupancy means they plan to focus more on takeaway and delivery. They are also spreading it out through the week, so they can meet the inevitable demand. “We are serving sadhya till September 2. So far we have sent out around 60 sadhya boxes (Rs. 499),” says Roshina. Since it is a course by course meal that is laid out left to right, with a progression from light dishes like paruppu to heavy ones like pulissery , the parcels will be labelled. “The rice will be packed in banana leaf, so all you have to do is roll it out and serve the accompaniments on it,” she adds. Though it is the same menu every year there is always a clamour for sadhya . It is an emotion, a novelty for those trying it for the first time, and it is also one of the largest vegetarian meals served once a year, says Zachariah Jacob, who along with Thomas Fenn, co-owns Mahabelly in Delhi and Gurugram. He says that they ran a survey this year, and found 65% of clients wanted delivery, 15% preferred take away, 10% wanted to dine in and the remaining 10% did not want sadhya . “Keeping the COVID-19 situation in mind, we thought it’s best to shift the whole experience into a takeaway/delivery format,” he says. Their meal (Rs. 899 for takeaway) has 25 items, including ghee. They are also thoughtfully including banana leaves and step-by-step illustrations to make up for the lack of personal explanation that usually accompanies these meals. Across India, restaurants serving Kerala cuisine have been fielding calls from patrons enquiring about sadhya for the past few weeks. Given the the lockdown restrictions in different States, ingredients had to be ordered well in advance. “There has been a bit of difficulty in procuring banana chips, shakara varatti and poovan palam that usually come from Kerala and Tamil Nadu,” says Zachariah. That Mallu Joint, which uses coconut milk and ada from Kerala, had to rely on Amazon, while Chennai’s Ente Keralam sourced its jackfruit from local farmers. Ente Keralam normally has a long queue waiting outside the restaurant every Onam. But this year, it is a whole new ball game, says Tarun Mahadevan, director of Advantage Foods, which owns Ente Keralam. To better manage physical distancing, their sadhya will take place across four different locations: Ente Keralam Poes Garden and Anna Nagar, Eastern Wedge and The Marina. Diners will need to pre-book. “Upto 46% of all our seats have already been taken,” says Tarun adding that the sadhya will have 30 dishes including four types of payasam. While packaging is a concern, the restaurants say they are trying to be eco-friendly. But there have been logistical issues. How eco-friendly is it? “Some of the dishes tend to leak and if one leaks, it will ruin the others. So, we have used high grade plastic containers; these are not single use plastic,” says Zachariah. People are also sending sadhyas as gifts this year. “So we are customising and packaging them in gift boxes that use recycled paper and some plastic,” says Roshina. Savya Rasa this year has a vibrant sadhya box with compartments for their 30 dishes (Rs. 749). They are also open to clients bringing their own containers for takeaway. Though sadhya is traditionally a vegetarian meal, the restaurant often gets requests for non vegetarian accompaniments. “So, last year we had introduced sides of chicken or lamb at an additional cost,” says Japtej Ahluwalia, co-founder and executive director of the Pricol Gourmet that owns the restaurant. Though they will not be doing that this year, for the dine-in guests, the meal will start with drumstick rasam, believed to be an immunity booster. Onam sadhya is a family event, says Japtej adding that last year they sold 900 covers on the two main days. This time the numbers are a fewer, in comparison, he says. “Our restaurant capacity is 75 but now with distancing norms we are restricting it to 40 diners,” he informs. Over the years, this traditional meal has become popular with more restaurants that serve Malayali food opening in Chennai. For some, this year there is a shortage of manpower, as many staff returned to their hometowns when lockdown began. Kappa Chakka Kandhari, with branches in Chennai and Bengaluru, has decided to forgo their annual traditional sadhya for this reason . But if it is any consolation, they are offerings four payasams for takeaway over four days, including ada pradhaman and palada payasam . (250 ml of four for Rs. 750). Mumbai’s popular Sneha restaurant has shrunk its sadhya to 10 dishes since they are are short-staffed. A staffer adds that they are also not sure “how many people will actually order sadhya this time”. But it is not all gloom and doom. There are restaurateurs like Anna Jomon, whose eight-month-old restaurant Achyatis (Chennai) is benefiting from the harvest festival. “After we launched, lockdown was implemented and we had to shut. But now with so many orders for sadhya we are open and delivering too,” says Anna, who does the cooking. “I’ll be making the Aramula Valla Sadhya that I used to relish with my parents during childhood, she says, adding that her cooking is “Kottayam-style”. Her sadhya (25-plus items priced at Rs. 520) will feature kadali pazham payasam , munthiri pachadi (made of grapes), unniyappam , and red cheera thoran  among others.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A lifetime of the arts||One cannot miss him in a crowd: tall, with greying, wavy hair up to his shoulders, the man exudes convivial energy. And more often than not, one will catch him mid-hug or cheery hello. Helmut Schippert has become a familiar face in Chennai’s vibrant arts and culture milieu over the past six years. Even now, he laments (on a call, from Berlin) that he will not be able to invite guests and have a “proper” farewell party, given the situation. Boasting an impressive 35-years at Goethe-Institut, Germany’s cultural centre, Schippert has been actively invoved in the city ever since he began his stint as director. The Chennai centre, this year, completes 60 illustrious years in the field of German language education and cultural arts. In India, the institute offers language courses across Bengaluru, Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi and Pune, apart from Chennai. “And now I am leaving at such strange times that the first moments are very ‘present’ again. Sometimes, it plays out like a film,” he says. Schippert distinctly remembers his first Museum Theatre play. It was a Tamil production which went on for a few hours. He laughs adding it was a fascinating experience; that too, in his first week in the city. He confesses that before he moved, he used to spend time listening to Carnatic music in preparation for Chennai, and its culture. Schippert started working with the Goethe-Institut as early as 1985, and has had a career spanning many locations: Cairo, Paris, Munich and Mexico. Ask him his favourite place, and he stops the question midway to say that each place has had its own situational effect on him. “The first two months were kind of dream-like for me. I came from a different world in Mexico. Starting from the traffic to life in town, I was sort of in a trance,” says Helmut. Soon enough, warming up to the city, he also realised Chennai’s strong hold on the traditional arts. “As for the contemporary arts, very soon, I thought there weren’t many physical spaces [of performance],” says Schippert. This, along with a few other observations, led him to explore how Goethe-Institut could inch closer to existing realities. One such reality was the deteriorating condition of Chennai’s lakes and rivers; Schippert took an interest in promoting awareness on the sustainable management of water bodies. “Through my perception of the general ecological problems in Chennai, I thought water management might be a good theme to look at,” he recalls. This led to many projects under the umbrella of ‘Embracing Our Rivers’, an artistic venture that encouraged dialogue on water in urban spaces, which started in 2015. “When you work with arts and culture, you believe that artistic thought brings new answers and opens up spaces for alternatives,” he says. Goethe-Institut has for the past few years also taken an interest in collaborative musical events. To the question if this has something to do with the fact that he plays the piano and guitar, Schippert laughs. “We try to arrange residencies or meetings of musicians from very different backgrounds and work on improvisations on creating something new,” he says. The South Asian Music Residency in collaboration with AR Rahman’s KM Music Conservatory is a testament to this idea. Another project that remains close to his heart, is the Chennai Photo Biennale founded with Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation, which launched in 2016 and is growing steadily in size and stature every year with the ambition of putting Chennai on the global map as a potential centre for contemporary arts and photography. He hopes to continue this collaboration as a well wisher. But, moving forward, there are things to be done: For starters, “A grand piano (Steinway from 1895) and two guitars are eagerly waiting for me,” he says. Living for some time without any plans, obligations and daily responsibilties is also on the agenda. Schippert also hopes to engage in the fight against the climate catastrophe, in whatever capacity. “Also, in the future, I need days with more than 24 hours!”
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Beauty and brains||Birds are often named after their appearance, behaviour, habitat, the person who first described them and sometimes even after their wives. This bird’s name is the perfect amalgamation of its colour and its preferred food – bees. The Green Bee-eater ( Merops orientalis ) is dainty (16-18 cm), bright green in plumage, slender-bodied, with blood-red eyes. Its slim lengthened black bill is slightly curved, characteristic of an insect-eater (insectivore). Along with green, there’s also blue on the chin and throat, yellow and reddish-orange on the head and nape, thus making it very noticeable. A black stripe runs from the base of the bill across the eye all the way to the ear-coverts (feathers that cover the ear), and also fashion a black collar at the top of the breast. Though the Green Bee-eater likes to eat bees, it does consider other wasps, butterflies, dragonflies, and beetles. It will station itself on conspicuous perches like the top branch of a high tree, a shrub, or a stalk of grain or grass, electricity poles or wires and other vantage points, that make it easy to spy on insects and to also have an uninterrupted flight. It usually crushes the insect in flight and so avoids being stung. On returning to its perch, it smashes the unfortunate prey on the branch to remove its sting and dirt, as well as to break the exoskeleton before swallowing it whole. Its long, pointed wings help it cut through air and make agile swift dashes in pursuit of the zig-zag haphazard movements of insects in flight. The flight is also aided by moderate or long tails with frequently elongated central tail feathers that make its flight so elegant and graceful. On several of our nature trails guiding children through a journey amidst nature, we have observed these creatures to be bold and very camera-friendly. We have also seen them near cattle, who disturb insects as they walk, which makes it very easy for these birds to catch them in flight. Green Bee-eaters are quite widespread and are resident (with slight seasonal movements locally) across the country. They are very common in all kinds of habitats: wetlands, scrublands, even our densely populated urban settlements. Sometimes seen alone, or in gregarious small parties seated next to each other, they hunt independently. They also indulge in communal dust-bathing to keep their feathers healthy and dry. The calls are long, repetitive, and rather pleasant: trree-trree-trree whistling trills, especially in the morning and towards the evening and can be often heard while in flight for hunting. They only nest in holes, on banks of rivers but also in mud-banks of arid scrublands, such as in Sultanpur. And while they’re open to us taking a photograph or two, I’ve noticed that even though I observe them from a distance, they keep a keen eye on me, and do not enter the nest until I move away – a predator-avoidance behaviour that was new to me. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A song for the moment||London-based Keethan Sivanathan and Chennai-based Shyam Renganathan’s song ‘Banjaare’ is about places, people, and moments we call our own. Released earlier this month, the song has crossed 6,000 views in the past two weeks. The video has simple, slice-of-life moments shared by people from around the world. Keethan’s sunny, straightforward melody and Shyam’s self-affirming Hindi lyrics is about abandoning the long wait for tomorrow and prioritising things in life that bring you peace today. Sung by Shyam, Sharanya Gopinath and Pavitra Krishnan, the number features a surprisingly peppy violin interlude by Shravan Sridhar and bass by Akhilesh Subramanian. The entire number is an exercise in nostalgia for simple times shared with friends and family. “Shyam had written the music from a personal space, and I wrote the music for it accordingly, to make it relatable. In times like these, where we don’t know what is going on, the song celebrates acceptance and celebration of the only thing we have in control: this exact moment,” says Keethan. For the video edit, “We asked our followers on social media to send in footage from their lives. We received about 20 to 30 clips, from Chennai, Delhi, London, Toronto and parts of Kerala. Putting it together was an emotional process” From friends playing basketball to drinking together, potting plants and laughing, to just taking a stroll late at night, the scenes stitched together form a montage of everything we have been missing in our friendships, since the series of lockdowns began in March. The simplicity of all those moments is what hits the hardest — there are no sweeping shots of cityscapes, just personal moments and heartfelt smiles.  ‘Banjaare’ is availlable on all major streaming platforms.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Written in stone||It was a sore sight; but one that the people of Pulicat had got used to: a seemingly ordinary stone column was lying on the ground amid thorn bushes. Nearby, people defecated in the open. Then, M Suman, a local fisherman hired two people to lift the column and fix it firmly. He knew it was no ordinary stone. “It is the 25th milestone: the last one along the East Coast Canal, starting at Basin Bridge,” says Xavier Benedict of AARDE Foundation (Art & Architecture Research Development and Education), a non-profit Trust in Chennai. The milestone dates back to 1840, according to Xavier. There were 25, from Madras to Pulicat, set along the Buckingham Canal, once an important waterway. “People have forgotten how historic the canal is,” says Xavier. “It is the only known canal to have milestones, and also boasted an ingenious locking system.” If it existed today in its original form, it would take us only an hour to travel from Chennai to Pulicat, Xavier says; on road, this takes twice the duration. Sadly, several of the milestones are missing, including the first one at Basin Bridge, he points out. Fortunately, cheered on by Xavier, Suman saved the final one. A heritage enthusiast, Suman talks with fascination about the milestone. “We walked into garbage and thorn bushes, but behind them all, was this stone… bejaar ah irundhadhu [Was too much to handle].” Suman says that he initially hesitated to approach the fallen milestone number 25. But he finally did. “We took photos once the stone was strengthened and shared it on the Pulicat WhatsApp and Facebook groups,” says Xavier, adding that hopefully, it will inspire more people to learn about Buckingham Canal. “We can judge the width of the Canal using the position of the milestones,” he says. However, over the years, thanks to the development of the city, the canal has shrunk, and “beyond Royapuram, we cannot even see it”.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gamers, this way!||“We are getting bigger and better,” says Sivaneswaran S, the CEO of Chennai-based Skyesports, with excitement palpable in his voice. The firm is coming up with the second edition of Skyesports Championship 2.0, an online e-sports tournament. The two-month event will commence on August 27 and comes with a total prize money of Rs. 11 lakh. This edition features six games — PUBG Mobile, Brawl Stars, Clash of Clans, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege, World Cricket Championship Rivals, and Valorant. The first edition of the tournament last year saw the participation of more than 1,000 teams contesting in three e-games. “After the lockdown, the number of people playing these games has increased manifold.” The games are selected based on their popularity. “These are loved by gamers of all age groups.”  Entry is free and the event is open for anyone over 16 years of age with prior experience of playing e-games. “People can register for Brawl Stars and Valorant.” Skyesport Championship 2.0 will also have a celebrity Valorant showdown between well-known teams from the country including Team Tamilas, 8 Bit, and Globalesports. The games will be live-streamed in Hindi, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, Telugu, and English.   Visit http://tournaments. skyesports.in/brawlstars to register.
27 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Stand-off between Mizoram govt., Assam Rifles escalates||The Mizoram government has shot off letters to the Centre alleging that Assam Rifles deals with the civil administration “with contempt” and “fails to recognise” that the AFSPA is no longer in force in the State. It also accused the paramilitary force of having boycotted the Independence Day celebration in the State. “We are of the firm view that no issue between Assam Rifles and the state administration is so serious that it cannot be resolved through discussions with open minds... The failure to recognise, on the part of Assam Rifles, that Mizoram is a peaceful state where Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 had long been withdrawn, and the insensitivity and contempt with which they deal with the civil administration is coming in the way of good relations and cooperation between Assam Rifles and the civil administration,” read one of the letters sent by the State’s Chief Secretary, Lalnunmawia Chuaungo, to the Ministry of Home Affairs. ‘Virus protocol violated’ Mr. Chuaungo had on August 24 informed the MHA that the head of the Assam Rifles in Mizoram boycotted the August 15 celebration over the Warrant of Precedence issued by the State government. He also apprised it of violations of the COVID-19 protocol by Assam Rifles personnel at Vairengte on the Assam-Mizoram border on August 18. The personnel, he said, had barged into the State by defying the entry and safety protocols laid down by the State government to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. The administrative control of Assam Rifles lies with the MHA while the Defence Ministry wields operational control. “The Chief Secretary told the Union Home Secretary that the Assam Rifles head had no authentic reason to bunk the I-Day celebration because of the Warrant of Precedence as a Brigadier or equivalent rank in the paramilitary force is elevated from the rank of Additional Secretary to Secretary to the State government,” said Ramdinliani, Additional Secretary to Mizoram’s Home Department. The grievances of the paramilitary force, she added, could have been addressed if the matter had been brought to the notice of the State government before boycotting the I-Day celebration. Rochuangkimi Khenglawt, Under Secretary to Mizoram’s General Administration Department, had on August 21 written to Vinod S., Assam Rifles’ Mizoram sector head, resenting the I-Day boycott. The Mizoram government’s complaint against the Assam Rifles is believed to be the fallout of the August 18 incident at Vairengte. Molestation charge Local organisations and the authorities in Mizoram’s Champhai district have also been at loggerheads with Assam Rifles over an alleged case of molestation by personnel of the paramilitary force on August 15. The Assam Rifles refuted the molestation charge but a reaction to the allegation of having boycotted the I-Day celebration in State capital Aizawl was awaited.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Spike in COVID-19 cases not a second wave’||On a day when the national capital reported the highest daily new COVID-19 cases in over 45 days, experts and officials said that Delhi is not witnessing a second wave of infection, but number of cases could increase if people are not careful. While some experts said that the number of cases will increase over the next 10-15 days and then come down, officials said that it is too early to tell. However, experts and officials said that the reason for the current spike in numbers is the relaxation of restrictions and more importantly people not following social distancing and other rules. After the number of daily new cases in the city on June 23 touched almost 4,000 – the highest so far – it was dropping. However, this week, daily new cases hit a 30-day high and then breached the 1,500 mark, after remaining below that level for 39 consecutive days. The positivity rate and number of active cases have also shown a slight increase over the past week. Naval Vikram, Professor, Medicine Department of AIIMS, said that people need to be very careful to avoid such increase in cases. “Cases had dropped in Delhi, but people became careless and more sectors opened up too. In the beginning, there was a fear of the disease and it has probably gone down. More people have started to meet and gather now,” he said. Dr. Vikram also said that the number of cases might increase a little more and urged the government to intensify messages on social distancing and precautions to be taken by people. ‘No chance’ Jugal Kishore, head of Community Medicine Department of Safdarjung Hospital, said that there was no chance for a second wave as antibodies formed against the virus remain for “several months” and are not vanishing. “The number of cases may go up for another 10-15 days, but then it will see a dip. The spike is not going to continue for a very long time,” he said. Dr. Kishore, however, said that there was no point of the government imposing more restrictions. “The government should slowly open up different sectors, including the Metro services and make sure that people are following social distancing norms. The government should rather concentrate on strengthening healthcare facilities,” he said. “It is too early to tell whether it is a second wave, but it doesn’t look so. We will have to wait for at least a week more. We are expecting about 2,000 cases a day, but we hope it does not happen,” a Delhi government official, meanwhile, said. ‘Tests to be doubled’ As a measure to control the spike, the Chief Minister on Wednesday said that the government would double the number of daily tests conducted in a week, but multiple officials said that finer details were still being worked out. The 11 District Magistrates are also yet to receive any direction on how to double the tests on the ground. When asked about how the government is going to increase the number of testing, a Health Department official said, “The number of people with whom each COVID-19-positive person is in touch has increased now, compared to the lockdown phases, as people are moving around more. So we plan to strengthen our tracing mechanism [after a person tests positive], which will naturally result in more number of people being tested. But doing 40,000 tests a day is going to be difficult”
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CGHS starts tele-consultation services through e-Sanjeevani||To facilitate consultations with specialists through virtual mode, CGHS has started tele-consultation services from August 25 for its beneficiaries. Initially, the services will be available for beneficiaries in Delhi-NCR. The e-services are available between 9.00 a.m. and 12 noon on all working days, said the Ministry in a release issued on Wednesday. It added that CGHS is using the existing e-Sanjeevani platform of the Health Ministry to deliver the service. “For ease of use, this platform has been linked with the beneficiaries’ ID. For availing specialist OPD services, beneficiaries are required to register on the platform using their mobile number after which an OTP will be generated. After verification, beneficiaries can log on to the system, fill patient registration form, request for a token and upload health records [if required],” said the release. “Patients will receive ID and token through SMS and they will also be intimated about their number in the online queue,” it said. On their turn, a ‘call now’ button will be activated and using the same, the beneficiary can initiate a video call with a specialist for consultation. After the tele-consultation, an e-prescription will be generated. Using this, patients can get medicines issued from CGHS Wellness Centre.  Available services To begin with, specialist consultation under the services will be available for — medicine, orthopaedics, Eye and ENT. “For regular OPD services, each CGHS beneficiary is attached to a particular Wellness Centre (WC), although beneficiaries can avail of OPD services at any WC anywhere in the country. For availing consultations with specialists, CGHS beneficiaries get referred by the Medical Officers of their WCs [for senior citizens such referral from the WCs is not required],” said the Ministry.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong., BJP hit out at AAP govt. over climbing COVID-19 cases||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that the number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital has started to rise again as the government has lowered its guard with reduced testing after the pandemic showed fractional recession. The party said that the current rate of 20,000 tests per day is inadequate, and even if it is doubled, it will be “too little, too late”. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta alleged that though COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the Capital again, the focus of the AAP-led Delhi government “is on the Uttarakhand and Punjab elections”. The Delhi government had failed to implement guidelines to protect the people of Delhi from the virus, Mr. Gupta alleged. The BJP demanded that the Delhi government focus on its responsibility. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar alleged that the government created a false sense of security among the people, without realising the fact that the rapid antigen tests were not foolproof and did not give a clear picture of the spread of the virus. ‘One lakh tests a day’ “The Chief Minister’s claim that currently 20,000 tests are being done daily, which will be doubled, is false as testing mostly was between 10,000 and 20,000 a day. Mr. Kejriwal has a tendency to play with distorted statistics to confuse people and derive political mileage,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that even if the testing is doubled to 40,000 per day, it will still be inadequate for a city like Delhi with nearly two crore population. “Daily tests should be raised to at least one lakh per day to get a fair idea about the spread of the pandemic. Due to the prolonged lockdown, the economy of the Capital and the lives of people have been ruined and it will be hard on Delhiites to face another lockdown if COVID-19 cases shoot up,” Mr. Kumar said. The party called for enforcing COVID guidelines strictly, like wearing masks, using sanitisers, maintaining social distancing and enhanced testing. It alleged that Mr. Kejriwal had squandered precious time by patting his own back for a job not well done.
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police witnessing around 20 COVID-19 infections daily||Concerned over the rise in cases of COVID-19 in the Delhi police department, Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Monday instructed the entire force to strictly implement necessary guidelines to prevent the spread of virus. A senior police officer said that the police force is witnessing around 20 cases of COVID-19 daily. More than 2,500 policemen have tested positive till date and 15 have succumbed to the virus so far. On Monday, Mr. Shrivastava, via videoconference, instructed all police personnel to revisit the circular and implement it completely. In May, Mr. Shrivastava had issued a circular to all district DCPs and police heads of other units. As per the circular, all police personnel should wear masks and gloves and disinfect weapons, dragon light, computers and printers. Barracks at police stations should be sanitised on a daily basis. The circular reads that each group should be appropriately rotated in a manner that 15-20% staffer is always on quarantine for a fixed period and available for duties any time, as per requirement. The sentry, the first contact point at all police stations, should be equipped with face mask, face shield, full arm gloves, sanitiser and extra masks, it says. A thermal meter temperature handler, equipped with protective gear, is to be posted with the sentry at police stations. The picket staffers should be more careful and make least possible close public contact and barricades being brought in to use should be sanitised along with reflectors, reads the circular.
27 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||NHAI halts work on NH-248A over safety concerns||The work on widening and strengthening of National Highway-248A, locally known as Sohna Road, has been suspended and a fine of Rs. 50,000/day has been imposed on the two concessionaires each till the time safety measures are put in place. The action has been initiated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) after a portion of the 4.75-km-long elevated corridor collapsed this past weekend. NHAI project director Ashok Sharma visited the under-construction road on Tuesday to find that the construction zones were not properly barricaded and the required number of safety marshals were not deployed to manage the traffic. He also noticed that the barricades along the road were shifted to the accident spot and the construction zones were vulnerable to traffic and road users. Mr. Sharma then served notices to the two concessionaires to suspend the work immediately. He also directed them to take necessary action to ensure traffic safety on the project road and submit a report. A 40-metre-long span between two piers of the 4.75-km-long under-construction elevated corridor on NH-248A had collapsed on August 22 evening. The corridor is part of the six-laning and strengthening of a 22-km-long stretch of the highway starting from Rajiv Chowk.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP releases list of 250 block presidents for city||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday released a list of 250 mandal in-charges or block presidents as part of an ongoing reorganisation of its State unit. 30 names left While 30 names are yet to be announced — party sources said these would be released over the coming days — as many as 80% of these individuals were new faces and were aged below 45. As many as 4,500 individuals were consulted in the process of zeroing in on the names, of which 55 belong to the OBC category, 36 to the SC category and as many as 20 were women. The announcement came in the wake of a significant meeting related to the reorganisation chaired by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh on Tuesday and the remaining new teams are expected to be announced later this week, said party insiders. The national unit has appointed Mr. Singh and Mahila Morcha president Vijaya Rahatkar as observers for the organisational restructuring of the Delhi unit. The maximum age of block presidents, according to party sources, has been fixed at 45 years. The appointment of block presidents will be followed by the appointment of district presidents and later by the appointment of office-bearers in the party’s State unit.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||City sees highest number of virus cases in 45 days||Delhi on Wednesday witnessed the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases in 45 days, with 1,693 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,65,764, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The last time the number of cases was more than this was on July 11 when 1,781 cases were reported. Also, 17 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,347 on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 1,48,897 people have recovered and there are 12,520 active cases — the highest in over a month — in the city at present. The last time the number of active cases was more than this was on July 25 when the active cases were 12,657. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests a day, only 5,912 were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 19,816 tests done in the past 24 hours, 70.16% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity compared to RT-PCR tests. The positivity was 8.5% on Wednesday. The number of containment zones in the city increased to 716 on Wednesday.
27 August 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for damaging luxury car||Delhi Police has arrested a person and his accomplices for allegedly damaging the luxury car of a man who refused to pay extortion amount, in west Delhi’s Ramesh Nagar, the police said on Wednesday. The accused, Anmol Magoo, is a resident of Kirti Nagar, they added. Information about damage to a car was received at Kirti Nagar police station around 4.30 a.m. on Tuesday. During inquiry, it was found that the accused came in a white car and one of them allegedly damaged it with a rod, a senior police officer said. “During investigation, it was uncovered that Anmol, who is involved in the property business, demanded Rs. 25,000 from Prandeep Singh, a resident of Ramesh Nagar. Prandeep is a friend of one of the distant relatives of Anmol,” DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said. When Prandeep refused to give money, Anmol got infuriated and threatened him of dire consequences. Soon after this, Anmol along with his friends Mohit and Ghanshyam, reached the Prandeep’s residence where his wife and children were alone. After threatening the security staff, Anmol damaged Prandeep’s car with a rod. Anmol was allegedly intoxicated at the time, the police said.
27 August 2020||chandigarh,||23 Ministers and MLAs test positive: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said twenty-three Ministers and MLAs were COVID-19 positive two days before the Vidhan Sabha session on August 28. Captain Amarinder gave the figure during a videoconference convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi with Chief Ministers of seven Opposition-ruled States to discuss various issues. With this, the Chief Minister tried to emphasise that the scenario was not conducive for holding physical examination for JEE-NEET. He, however, did not disclose how many of MLAs and Ministers have recovered so far. “As of today, two days before the scheduled Punjab Vidhan Sabha session, 23 Ministers and MLAs were Covid positive,” said the CM in an official release. “If this was the state of the Legislators and Ministers, one can only imagine how grave the situation on the ground was. The scenario was not conducive to holding physical examinations,” he said.  Review petition Separately, the Chief Minister asked the State Advocate General to coordinate with his counterparts in other Opposition-ruled States for filing a collective review petition in the Supreme Court, to seek deferment of the exams. He gave directive to Advocate General Atul Nanda following the video conference.
27 August 2020||Guwahati,||Mizoram to conduct rural, local body elections today||The rural and local body polls on Thursday will make Mizoram the first among eight States in the Northeast to hold any election after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Assam government had deferred the Bodoland Autonomous Council polls scheduled in April for fear of community spread of the novel coronavirus. A similar reason made Arunachal Pradesh put the panchayat elections on hold. But the Mizo National Front (MNF) government stuck to its plan of conducting the village council and local body polls despite protests from the rival Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party in view of a spike in COVID-19 cases. Mizoram recorded 967 positive cases till Wednesday morning with 503 of them active. A majority of the cases are from capital Aizawl where the municipal council polls are being held. State Election Commissioner Laima Chozah said the counting will start as soon as the polling is completed for 2,454 seats in village councils and for 558 seats in local councils. ‘Campaigning suffered’ “The MNF was desperate to hold the elections despite our requests to defer them by taking public health into account. The campaign process of the Opposition parties suffered because of the virus, lockdown and resultant scarcity of fuel,” Congress spokesperson Lallianchhunga told The Hindu from Aizawl. The Congress controls about 80% of the village council.  The State Election Commission officials said polling would not be held in areas declared as containment zones.
27 August 2020||August 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope springs eternal||
27 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPI(M) seeks Rs. 7,500 a month for ones outside I-T bracket||The Delhi State Committee of the CPI(M) on Wednesday organised a protest demonstration at Vithal Bhai Patel House demanding that the government transfer Rs. 7,500 per month to people outside the income tax-paying bracket for the next six months and provide 10 kg food grains to every individual for six months. These were among the demands that the party made during its week-long protest that culminated on Wednesday.
