27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre promises law to check stubble burning||The Centre will bring in a law to address air pollution and check stubble burning in Delhi as well as the surrounding National Capital Region, the Supreme Court was informed on Monday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a draft legislation would be ready this week. “The new law is for tackling air pollution in NCR and the adjoining areas. It’s an ordinance,” Secretary in the Ministry of Environment R.P. Gupta told The Hindu . However, no consultation seems to have been undertaken so far with the Ministry of Agriculture on this. With an increase in stubble burning — the burning of rice straw by farmers to clear fields for winter sowing in Punjab and Haryana — the Ministry has in recent years been tasked with funding the use of subsidised combine harvesters and machinery to dissuade the farmers. “The ordinance is coming from the Environment Ministry and so far no consultations have been held with Agriculture Ministry officials,” said a person in the Ministry. D
27 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Restoration of damaged infrastructure to be launched soon||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that after the restrictions under the poll code of conduct were relaxed, works pertaining to restoration of damaged infrastructure would be launched. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that the natural calamity had caused lot of damage across the State and there was a need for restoration of infrastructure. “However, because of the COVID-19-induced lockdown and financial constraints, funds under the Chief Minister’s Nagarotthana Yojane were not released for works, including those pertaining to Hubballi-Dharwad. Although the Finance Department had given permission, it was held back due to the announcement of poll code,” he said Mr. Shettar said that under the Nagarotthana Yojane, approval had been given for the release of Rs. 150 crore infrastructure development in Hubballi-Dharwad alone. “The Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation will get Rs. 150 crore under the Nagarotthana Yojane and Rs. 50 crore under the 15th Finance Commission. This apart, it will get Rs. 30 crore under general funds. Once the poll code of conduct is withdrawn, the tender process will start, probably, by November first week,” he said. The Minister said that all steps were being taken to generate employment by promoting industrial development, and amid the COVID-19 situation, the State had received good investment proposals which was 42 % of the investment proposals in the country. Setting up of new industries would generate employment for youths, including graduates, and the government was working towards making the State more investment-friendly, he said. Regarding the BJP promise for stipend for unemployed youths, Mr. Shettar said that the party would work on it. As much time was spent fighting COVID-19, the BJP government would look into it now. But, meanwhile, the focus was also on employment generation, he added. Taking a dig at the Congress for its allegations against the BJP government in the State, Mr. Shettar said that at a time when the Chief Minister’s post was not vacant, the Congress leaders were fight among themselves for occupying that coveted post. Already, across the nation, the Congress was in a very sorry state and post the Bihar elections and the bypolls in Karnataka, that party would go into a coma, he said. Mr. Shettar said that the BJP had systematically worked for the council elections and would win all the four Council seats. “Such has been the preparation that for every 20 voters in the Council elections, there is one party worker who will coordinate with them till they exercised their franchise. We will win comfortably for the work we have done,” he said. BJP candidate for Karnataka West Graduates Constituency S.V. Sankanur and State party general secretary Mahesh Tenginakai were present.
27 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s recovery rate inches towards 90%||Recoveries continued to outweigh cases as Maharashtra reported just 3,645 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as opposed to 9,905 recoveries. The State’s total case tally reached 16,48,665 while its number of active cases dipped further to 1,34,137. With 84 more deaths, the toll touched 43,348. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 14,70,660 with the recovery rate rising further to 89.2%. However, the low surge has to be viewed in the context of a mere 37,000 samples being tested as against a daily average of over 75,000 samples. “Of a total 86,45,195 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,25,197 (19.07%) have returned positive with 37,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported only 372 cases to take its total tally to 3,30,228 while 14 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,607. As per the district administration, the recovery rate is currently 92.07% with the number of active cases dipping below 15,000 to stand at just over 14,395. Mumbai reported 804 cases to take its total tally to 2,52,085 of whom just 17,860 are active cases though. As many as 37 fatalities saw the city’s toll rise to 10,142. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 158 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,00,199 of whom 5,536 are active. Four deaths saw the toll stand at 2,694. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported not a single death with its fatality toll standing at 1,395. As many as 84 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 46,438 of whom 5,354 are active. Sangli reported 120 cases and four deaths as the district’s total tally rose to 45,984 of whom 2,946 are active.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State posts dip in new cases, tests||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph has slowed down with sample testing slumping following the long weekend and holiday mood. The State recorded 4,287 cases on Monday when testing dropped to just 35,141 samples in 24 hours. However, test positivity rate (TPR) has been hovering around 12-14 % during the past one week. On Monday, the TPR was 12.19%. The State again recorded more recoveries than new cases on the day, with 7,107 patients testing negative and leaving hospitals. The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of the State is inching towards four lakh and now stands at 3,97,217 cases. The total recoveries till date is 3,02,017 cases and the number of active cases in the hospitals is 93,744. Of these patients, 811 are critically ill and being cared for in ICUs.  20 more deaths On Monday, the Health Department added 20 more deaths in the past few weeks to the official list of COVID-19 deaths in the State, which has now registered 1,352 deaths. Among districts, Malappuram reported 853 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 513, Kozhikode 497, Thrissur 480, Ernakulam 457, Alappuzha 332, Kollam 316, Palakkad 276, Kottayam 194, Kannur 174, Idukki 79, Kasaragod 64, Wayanad 28 and Pathanamthitta 24 cases.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Onion priced at over Rs. 100 a kg as wholesale-retail gap widens||At a grocery store near you, the onion, a staple in most homes, has been selling in the range of Rs. 100 to Rs. 120 a kg for a few days now. While extensive crop damage due to heavy rains in August-September has created a demand-supply gap in the market, driving onion prices north, retailers are allegedly artificially increasing the prices, earning a windfall. The wholesale price of onion at the Yeshwantpur APMC market is in the range of Rs. 60 to Rs. 70, according to Udayashankar, president of Bangalore Onion and Potato Traders’ Association. “In fact, arrivals have improved over the past week and onions from Molakalmuru and Indore are coming into the market. The stocks are better when compared to previous weeks. This has also led to some correction in the wholesale price,” said Ravi Kumar, senior onion merchant at the Yeshwantpur yard. But the retail prices are still abnormally high, with no signs of a correction. “Usually the difference between the wholesale and retail price at this cost price is around Rs. 10, accounting for transport and profit margin. But many retailers seem to be selling them for a windfall margin of Rs. 30 to Rs. 40 a kg,” said a senior procurement officer at a retail grocery chain in the city. The retail chain he works for was selling onion at Rs. 85 a kg on Monday. “Retail prices of onions have crossed the Rs. 100 mark in several metro cities across the country, and it has even turned into an election issue in Bihar. This has since dominated media reports, in both national and regional media. This narrative has given licence to retailers to jack up prices artificially,” said a senior onion wholesale trader, who did not wish to be named. “In our case, there have been arrivals from Molakalmuru, Chitradurga, though not as much as in previous years, apart from arrivals fromNashik and Indore,” he said. However, given that the next crop of onion is expected only by January and the present crop yield is already depleting against the demand, the wholesale price is only expected to increase. It might breach the Rs. 100 mark in the coming months, Mr. Udayashankar said.  In fact, arrivals improved over the past week and onions from Molakalmuru and Indore are coming into the market. This has also led to some correction in the wholesale price Ravi Kumar, merchant at Yeshwantpur AMPC yard
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SC, ST entrepreneurs to get a leg-up||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday launched ‘Jagananna YSR Badugu Vikasam - 2020 - 23’, an industrial policy that caters to the SC and ST entrepreneurs. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the policy provides fiscal incentives and investment subsidy, gives exemption from stamp duty, and lays down other measures that help the SC and ST entrepreneurs in setting up industries and doing business without any hassles. The Chief Minister said the policy was one of the several initiatives aimed at promoting entrepreneurship among SCs and STs. The government has been providing incentives up to Rs. 1 crore to the SC and ST entrepreneurs and conducting skill development programmes for their benefit. Of the developed lands in industrial parks, 16.20% were reserved for the SCs and 6% for the ST entrepreneurs. Salient features of the policy include 100% reimbursement of stamp duty and transfer duty paid on purchase of land, 100% reimbursement of stamp duty for lease of land/shed/buildings and mortgages and hypothecation and 50% rebate in land cost limited to Rs. 20 lakh in industrial estates/parks for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs). Fixed power cost reimbursement at the rate of Rs. 1.50 per unit for five years from the date of commencement of commercial production and 45% subsidy on fixed capital investment limited up to Rs. 1 crore in the manufacturing sector and 45% subsidy on fixed capital investment limited to Rs. 75 lakh in the services sector. Interest subsidy up to 9% over and above 3% for five years from the date of commencement of commercial production for MSEs and reimbursement of 100% net SGST to MSEs. The Chief Minister directed the officials to extend assistance required by the SC and ST entrepreneurs in availing of the benefits envisaged in the new policy thereby help realise their potential.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,||College of Fisheries in city seeks university tag||College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, that celebrated the golden jubilee of its inception last year, has urged the State government to declare it as a university so as to take the State to new heights in the fisheries sector thereby generating considerable revenue. College Dean A. Senthil Vel made this proposal at a review meeting chaired by Minister for Ports and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojari here on Monday. “The demand is not just for the growth of the institution but also for the overall growth of the fisheries sector in the State,” he said, assuring the government of the larger entity taking the State to the top position in terms of revenues from the fisheries sector. The college that was with the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, was brought under the Karnataka Veterinary, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar, in 2005. “Consequently, fisheries has remained isolated and is neither getting attention nor funds,” Prof. Vel said, pointing out at resources on the 75-acres campus lying in disuse. While the institution is the only fisheries college in the State, Prof. Vel said that Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andra Pradesh already have a fisheries university each. Maharashtra has four fisheries colleges, he said. Professor in the Department of Aquatic Environment Management of the college A.T. Ramachandra Nayak said that the proposed university can run diploma and polytechnic courses too. Opening of Fish Information Centres of the university in different parts of the State will help in effectively reaching out to fishermen. New departments in climate change, remote sensing and artificial intelligence, fisheries business management and Pharmacology and Toxicology will go a long way in addressing emerging issues in the fisheries sector, he said. Concurring with the demand, Mr. Poojari asked the college to place the proposal before the Secretary to the Fisheries Department. “Make it a point to explain how this university will make a difference in changing the fortune of the State in the fisheries sector,” he said and added, “I have all hopes that the proposal will be approved by the Cabinet.” Mr. Poojari asked the institution to help the State government in strengthening the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation. The institution should come up with effective means of dredging estuaries. Managing Director of KFDC M.L. Doddamani and Deputy Director of Fisheries Parshwanath were present.
27 October 2020||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,||Maoists kill ‘courier’||A day after the killing of a villager from Mulugu district allegedly by Maoists by branding him as police informer at Gorukonda village in Charla mandal, the police have intensified anti-Maoist operations in the areas bordering Chhattisgarh in pursuit of ultras. Maoists unleashed violence in Bhadrachalam Agency by killing N Eshwar of Mallampalli suspecting him to be a police informer in the early hours of Sunday. The incident sparked panic in Telangana’s remote tribal belt, adjoining Maoist hotbed of south Bastar division in Chhattisgarh. Eshwar’s body was found lying on the roadside between Gorukonda and Chennapuram villages near the restive Telangana-Chhattisgarh border on Sunday morning. Sources said that the rebels left behind a letter beside the body terming the deceased as a “police informer” engaged in a “covert operation.” Quoting the family members of the deceased, the police said Eshwar had been working as a courier of Maoist leaders of the State committee for the past few years. In a statement, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the Maoist leaders tortured Eshwar for nearly ten days pressuring him to work for the outlawed outfit before “strangling him to death”. They killed him on false charges of being a “police informer” to cover up their mistakes and create fear among ordinary people, the SP said. A case has been registered under the relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IPC at Charla police station and further investigation is under way.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Homeless and hungry woman rescued from Bengaluru field||Hungry, homeless and abandoned: the human cost of the COVID-19 outbreak can be seen in the many stories emerging as its fallout. A 30-year-old woman, who was found lying semi-conscious at an open field in Munnekolala, East Bengaluru, was rescued by members of a city-based NGO on Sunday. The victim, Nasreen, was abandoned by her husband Nayeemul Alamin as he was unable to take care of her, according to Kaleemullah from Swaraj Abhiyan, who, along with histeam, rescued her. The couple, from West Bengal, had settled down in Thubarahalli camp a few years ago. While Mr. Alamin worked as a construction labourer, Ms. Nasreen worked as a maid. But during the lockdown, the couple lost their jobsand suffered without money or food. A few days ago, Ms. Nasreen fell ill and grew anaemic without proper nourishment and medicine, the volunteers said. Frightened, Mr. Alamin, who had no money for treatment, took Ms. Nasreen on his bicycle on the pretext of going to a hospital, but dumped her in the open field and fled. A few locals, growing suspicious, took a picture of him leaving. Later, some of them noticed Ms. Nasreen lying abandoned for many days and alerted Mr. Kaleemullah, who was helping migrant labourers during the lockdown. Ms. Nasreen subsequently told the people that she had not had food for four days. When the rescue team tried to feed her, she started throwing up. She was then taken to Bowring Hospital, where she was admitted at the COVID-19 centre for further treatment. There are over 5,000 people from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Odisha, and North Karnataka living in the colonies of Munnekolala and Thubarahalli. They work as maids and construction labourers in the adjacent areas. As the lockdown was announced, most of them lost work and many left the camps, while others hoped that things would get better. But many are yet to find work again, with apartment associations not allowing them in as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. “We are doing whatever is possible from our side to help them, but that is not enough,” said Zia Nomani, who was part of the rescue team. The team, with the help of locals, are now on the lookout for Mr. Alamin, who is absconding. “We want to trace him to help him and reunite him with his wife after treatment,” Mr. Kaleemullah said.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||State cuts test charges||The Maharashtra government on Monday slashed the rate charged for the clinical testing for COVID-19 by Rs. 200, to bring it down to Rs. 980. This is the fourth cut announced by the State as the original cost of the test was Rs. 4,500. “While Rs. 980 will be levied by pathological laboratories, for tests conducted through laboratories at COVID-19 centres, hospitals, and quarantine centres, where a large number of samples are collected daily, Rs. 1,400 would be charged. Similarly, for testing samples collected from residences of suspected patients, Rs. 1,800 has been fixed,” Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. “The testing ratio has improved to 70,000 tests for a population density of 10,00,000 in Maharashtra. We sought this to be further improved. We are doing everything in power to put curbs on the COVID-19 infection,” Mr. Tope said.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru keeps colourful annual Dasara fete short||The first Dasara for tusker Abhimanyu in Mysuru, in the company of ‘Kumki’ elephants Kaveri and Vijaya, was a short affair as he had to traverse just 270 m rather than the usual 5 km. The 10-day Mysuru Dasara festivities concluded on Monday under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the world famous Jamboo Savari finale being the shortest and the quickest. The distance of about 270 m was covered in under 30 minutes, with a nominal presence of cultural troupes and tableaux. In a normal year, the Savari is a big spectacle with multiple cultural events taking over three hours to complete. This year, the celebrations were only aimed at keeping the centuries-old tradition alive. The finale of Vijayadasami was confined to the Amba Vilas Palace. Of the two tableaux presented, one was a tribute to COVID-19 warriors striving to save people. It showed a health worker wearing a mask and a PPE suit. Only six troupes took part — two groups of nadaswaram artistes, Veeragase Kunita and Chande Mela artistes, stilt walkers and Chilipili Gombe artistes. One stilt walker, as Chamundeshwari, and another as COVID-19 virus, depicted the deity killing the demon with a trishul. The finale, however, exceeded the ceiling of 300 attendees. Jamboo Savari was limited to the palace in the past too: in 1994 due to the Surat plague and in 2002 due to the severe drought. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa flagged off the Savari, showering flowers on the Chamundeshwari idol in the 750-kg golden howdah on elephant Abhimanyu.
27 October 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasAKIVEEDU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),||Narrow escape for Lokesh, two MLAs||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh and TDP MLAs Nimmala Ramanaidu (Palakol) and Mantena Ramaraju (Undi) had a narrow escape when the tractor-trailer on which they were travelling veered off the road and entered an irrigation canal, in West Godavari district on Monday. The TDP leaders’ team was on a visit to flood-affected areas in Krishna and West Godavari districts. When the team reached Siddapuram in Akiveedu mandal, Lokesh drove a tractor-trailer owned by a farmer. However, when the vehicle was crossing a water-logged area, near Upputeru, he lost control of the vehicle and the tractor veered off the road and waded into an irrigation canal. Mr. Ramaraju and other party activists, who were on the tractor, took control of the vehicle and prevented it from further entering into Upputeru. Locals activists prevented the vehicle from overturning. About 20 party activists and a few farmers were on the tractor-trailer when the accident occurred. The MLC and the two MLAs and the other party leaders had a miraculous escape. The tractor was stuck in the waters in the canal. ‘Overloaded’ “A major mishap was averted as the vehicle was overloaded. Had the tractor overturned or run into Upputeru, which is in spate due to heavy rains and floods, it would have been a major incident,” said a farmer, who was present at the spot. Irrigation canals were overflowing for the last few days due to heavy rains and the Upputeru was to tis brim. Farmers following the TDP leader’s team breathed easy as a major mishap was averted.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to sign geo-spatial cooperation deal with U.S.||India and the U.S. will sign the last foundational agreement, Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-Spatial cooperation (BECA) during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday, the Defence Ministry said in a statement on Monday. The 2+2 inter-ministerial talks are scheduled to be held on Tuesday morning. “The two Ministers expressed satisfaction that agreement of BECA will be signed during the visit,” the Defence Ministry said after bilateral talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and U.S. Secretary of Defence Mark Esper. The two Ministers reviewed bilateral defence cooperation spanning “military-to-military cooperation, secure communication systems and information sharing, defence trade and industrial issues” and also discussed ways to take bilateral cooperation forward, the statement said. Mr. Esper and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in the national capital on Monday. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Pompeo held talks in the evening at Hyderabad House. The sources said both sides were “satisfied” that Indo-U.S. ties had grown in all spheres over the last four years of the Trump administration. The two Ministers also discussed “shared concerns and interests” over how best to ensure stability and security in Asia, said the sources, adding that specific issues would be discussed during the 2+2 talks that include Mr. Rajnath Singh and Mr. Esper. Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Jaishankar also discussed their government’s positions on Afghanistan. As reported by The Hindu last month, in the run-up to the 2+2, the U.S. was keen on India signing BECA and discussions continued to iron out the differences. One of the major differences was the issue of reciprocity in exchange of geo-spatial data. The Defence Ministry said the two Ministers “also discussed requirements of expanding deployment of liaison officers.” India has posted a liaison officer at the U.S. Navy Central Command in Bahrain recently and is also considering a U.S. request for posting liaison officers at the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command and the U.S. Special Operations Command. A U.S. State department official said in Washington on Saturday that the talks will focus on regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SC withholds order on committee head||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to “keep in abeyance” its pre-Dussehra order appointing former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur to a one-man committee to prevent stubble-burning in U.P., Haryana and Punjab. The decision to put on hold its October 16 order came soon after Centre “proposed a legislation to tackle the problem” which occurs annually and chokes the Capital.Page 10
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Two arrested for murder of financier-turned-actor||The Dakshina Kannada Police on Monday arrested two persons said to be involved in the murder of financier-turned-actor Surendra Bhandary (39) in his apartment in Bantwal on October 20. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Satish Kulal (39) of Amtady in Bantwal and Girish (28) of Bondanthila near Mangaluru. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that Kulal and Girish were accused of being directly involved in the murder. A confession statement from the two was being recorded. Their statements will be investigated and the cause for the murder will be established, he said The police said that Bantwal Circle Inspector of Police T.D. Nagaraj has been made the investigation officer for the case. Five special police teams, which included Police Inspector Ravi and Sub-Inspectors Avinash, Prasanna, Nandakumar, Vinod, Rajesh and Kalaimar, and personnel from the District Crime Investigation Bureau, had been formed to trace the accused.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to sign geo-spatial cooperation deal with U.S.||India and the U.S. will sign the last foundational agreement, Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-Spatial cooperation (BECA) during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday, the Defence Ministry said in a statement on Monday. “The two Ministers expressed satisfaction that agreement of BECA will be signed during the visit,” the Ministry said after bilateral talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and U.S. Secretary of Defence Mark Esper. Both Mr. Esper and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in the national capital on Monday. The two Ministers reviewed bilateral defence cooperation spanning “military-to-military cooperation, secure communication systems and information sharing, defence trade and industrial issues” and also discussed ways to take bilateral cooperation forward, the statement said. It stated that they discussed potential new areas of cooperation both at the Service-to-Service level and the joint level. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Pompeo held talks in the evening at Hyderabad House. The 2+2 inter-ministerial talks are scheduled to be held at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Later, the two visiting Secretaries will call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coal scam: jail term for ex-Minister Dilip Ray||A special court on Monday sentenced former Union Minister Dilip Ray and three other individual convicts to three years of jail term for irregularities in the allocation of the Brahmadiha coal block in Jharkhand in 1999. The four convicts were fined Rs. 10 lakh each, while Castron Technologies Limited and Castron Mining Limited were asked to pay a fine of Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh respectively. Ray, who was Minister of State for Coal in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, was later granted bail on furnishing a bond of Rs. 1 lakh. Earlier this month, the court convicted him, along with then Additional Secretary Pradip Kumar Banerjee and then Adviser (Project) Nityanand Gautam, in the Coal Ministry. Castron Technologies Limited, its director, Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla, and Castron Mining Limited were also convicted. The case pursued by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleged corruption in the allocation of 105.15 hectare of the abandoned coal mining area in Giridih in favour of Castron Technologies.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Ajit Pawar tests positive for COVID-19||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He is the 11th Cabinet minister from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to have been infected with the virus. Mr. Pawar said, “I have tested positive for COVID-19, but my health is fine. I have been admitted to Breach Candy hospital after being advised by doctors. There is no need to worry. I will soon be active and will join you all after a brief rest.” The Deputy CM had been quarantined for the last four days though he was earlier tested negative. Mr. Pawar’s absence from the function where former BJP leader Eknath Khadse joined the NCP had raised eyebrows. Party chief Sharad Pawar had to clarify that the Deputy CM was not against Mr. Khadse’s entry but he was quarantined as a precaution.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Cattle rescued||Sleuths of the newly constituted Cattle Theft and Illegal Transport Detection Squad of the Mangaluru City Police on Sunday rescued six cows, one oxen and five calves that were being transported in an illegal way in a pick-up vehicle. Acting on a tip-off, the squad, along with Kankanady Police, asked the driver of the pick-up vehicle to stop at the Padil Check-post. However, the driver did not stop the vehicle and the police gave a chase. Then, the driver of the pick-up vehicle abandoned it near Ujjodi and escaped. The rescued cattle were taken to a cattle relief centre in Pajeer as per an order of a court. This is the seventh time that the squad has rescued cattle since its constitution on October 5. The squad has so far rescued 28 head of cattle, a release said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Through flaming fields||
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coal scam: jail term for Dilip Ray||A special court on Monday sentenced former Union Minister Dilip Ray and three other individual convicts to three years of jail term for irregularities in the allocation of the Brahmadiha coal block in Jharkhand in 1999. The four convicts were fined Rs. 10 lakh each, while Castron Technologies Limited and Castron Mining Limited were asked to pay a fine of Rs. 60 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh respectively by the court.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Skill development centre in three months||A proposed skill development centre in fisheries and safety training at the College of Fisheries will be ready in another three months, said Professor in Department of Aquatic Environment Management and the nodal officer-cum-coordinator of the centre A.T. Ramachandra Nayak. The college recently signed a memorandum of understanding with Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) for establishing the centre on the college’s Hoige Bazaar campus at an estimated cost of Rs. 4.75 crore Speaking at a meeting here on Monday, Prof. Nayak said that the centre was the first such institution to come up in the State. “Soon after the announcement, there were lot of inquires. People are interested in upgrading their skills. This centre would come up in another three months,” he said.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Nearby||In what may bring an interim relief to filmmakers Mahesh and Mukesh Bhatt, actor Luveina Lodh’s lawyer told the Bombay High Court on Monday that she has not and will not make any defamatory statements. A single judge Bench of Justice A.K. Menon was hearing a suit filed by the Bhatts seeking urgent injunctive relief against Ms. Lodh and refraining her from making, publishing, circulating any defamatory/slanderous comments against them and also seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore each.
27 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Rs. 11,573 crore released for State, says Joshi||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi has said that in the last six years, the NDA government had released funds under NDRF to the tune of 43.20 % of the total demand by State, while it was just over 10 % under the UPA rule. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Joshi said that the Union government led by NDA had released more funds to the State than the UPA-led government.
27 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘We need to increase our numbers in Councils, RS’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that considering the disrespect of people’s mandate by the Congress, it has become politically important to increase the party’s numbers in the Legislative Councils and also in the Rajya Sabha.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Apex court stays order on ‘virtual’ campaigns||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a Madhya Pradesh High Court order which directed “virtual” election campaigning for the by-election to 28 Assembly seats in the State. The court prima facie agreed with the petitions filed by the Election Commission and BJP candi-date Pradyuman Singh Tomar.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Hukkeri’s remarks shock colleagues||Congress leader Prakash Hukkeri shocked his party colleagues when he said he would campaign for the BJP if it decided to field a relative of the late Suresh Angadi in the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls. However, he has denied plans to join the BJP.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong. complains to EC about Munirathna||The Congress on Monday petitioned to the Election Commission of India over an alleged violation of poll code by BJP candidate Munirathna in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency by broadcasting films projecting himself through a cable network and distributing set-top boxes.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Number of new COVID-19 cases drops to 3,130||In one of the lowest counts in weeks, 3,130 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Monday. Of these, 1,603 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban. However, the number of tests conducted on Monday was only 65,892, down from over one lakh on Sunday.
27 October 2020||Hubballi,||43.2% of State's demand under NDRF met: Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that in the last six years, the NDA government had released funds under NDRF to the tune of 43.2% of the total demand by the State, while it was just over 10% under the UPA regime.
27 October 2020||Purnia,||BJP raises Article 370, temple||Kick-starting the campaign in Purnia in the Seemanchal region of Bihar, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Law Minister Ravishankar Prasad reiterated the “jungle raj vs development” narrative and also touched upon the dilution of Article 370 and the construction of the Ram temple. Mr. Nadda said that in the 2015 election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a special package of Rs. 1.25 lakh crore to Bihar. In addition, Rs. 40,000 crore had been spent on Bihar’s infrastructure in the past couple of years. Crediting Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for constructing roads, providing electricity and maintaining law and order in the State, Mr. Nadda said all these would be reversed if any other party came to power. “Who is CPI(ML)? Who killed Ram bhakts? They are anarchists. And now the anarchists and the RJD, which is a destructive party, have come together. To add to this is the Congress,” Mr. Nadda said, adding that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had opposed the dilution of Article 370 that gave special status to Kashmir. “Pakistan Prime Minister used the same logic presented by Rahul Gandhi in the U.N. Shashi Tharoor criticises India on a Pakistani platform. Don’t start opposing the country while opposing PM Narendra Modi,” Mr. Nadda said. The rally was thinly attended as the audience had been waiting since noon and had started leaving by the time the BJP leaders reached the venue at 4.30 p.m. Pointing at the scattered crowd, many of whom had their phones out to click pictures of the rally, Mr. Prasad said, “Could you have openly flashed your phone during the Lalu regime. Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi’s government is giving computers and mobile phones in your hands,” he said. Mr. Prasad obliquely mentioned the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Ram Lala ke vakil kaun the? Hum hi toh the,” he said.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army to review border situation||With the stand-off continuing along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, the situation on the ground in Ladakh and the Army’s winter preparations will be reviewed at the highest level at the Army commanders’ conference, chaired by Army chief General Manoj Naravane, which began on Monday. The conference also has a series of reforms on its agenda. The first day has been scheduled for deliberating on matters related to human resource management, an Army source said. The commanders will brainstorm on a series of reform measures to cut down on ceremonial practices, among other measures, a second source said. There will be a comprehensive review of the situation across all the borders including Ladakh, the second source said. China has deployed close to 50,000 troops along the LAC, which has been matched by India, and with no breakthrough in talks for disengagement, both sides have made preparations for deployment at high altitudes in the harsh winters. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat as well as the Navy and Air Force Chiefs are scheduled to address the conference on Tuesday. The biennial conference is attended by senior officers of the Army including the Vice-Chief, seven Army commanders, Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Army headquarters and other senior officers. Tri-service command On Wednesday, the Commander-in-Chief of the Andaman and Nicobar Command, the only tri-service command, will update the Army commanders. Several studies are currently underway for the formation of integrated tri-service commands beginning with a joint air defence command. The last day of the conference will include an update by the Director General of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on the various infrastructure development projects being undertaken by BRO and allied formations. Automation initiatives to optimise utilisation of manpower at various levels of the Army will also be discussed, the first source added.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala move against CBI draws fire||A purported move by the government to withdraw the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate in its territory appears to have become an irritant in the State’s arguably fraught relationship with the Centre. If implemented, Kerala will join a line-up of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled States — West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra — to ban the agency from launching investigations on its own and functioning in their respective jurisdiction without the explicit consent of the provincial government. BJP’s charge Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan had on Saturday decried the government’s reported plan. The State government wanted to fend off the CBI to cover up high-level corruption and save top leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) from being investigated for recurrent political murders in northern Kerala, he said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) would oppose the move. He said the Left Democratic Front wanted to conceal cases of corruption and other high crimes, including playing second fiddle to gold smugglers. State secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI) Kanam Rajendran said the Central government had without compunction used the CBI to destabilise non-BJP ruled States, and Kerala was no exception. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) was aware of the plot to use the central law enforcement agency to discredit the government in an election year. The CPI had on October 23 requested the LDF to recommend to the government to withdraw the free run accorded to the CBI under the provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act. It clearly states that law and order and crime investigation are State subjects. The CPI(M) had on Friday formally requested the government to explore legal options to restrain the CBI from acting on its own volition in Kerala. The CBI could probe local cases or chargesheet suspects only with the permission of the State administration. The agency cannot act on its own accord even in cases involving scheduled offences, it said. The CBI would not require the consent of the State government only in investigations ordered by the Supreme Court or the High Court, the party felt.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We don’t have land even to bury the dead’||There is deep cynicism among members of the Rishidev community, one of the 21 Mahadalit castes in Bihar, with village after village echoing the same hopelessness that nothing is going to change for them no matter who comes to power. The Mahadalit was a division created by the Janata Dal(U) leader and Bihar Chief Minister, Nitish Kumar, in 2007, during his first term, carving out a constituency for himself in the deeply caste-driven society. It has steadily remained with him in the Assembly elections. Thirteen years on, Khakri Devi of Thari Khanva village in the Rupauli Assembly constituency, around 50 km from Purnia town, asks, “We just have the tag of Mahadalit, what did we get?” One question is enough to open the floodgates of complaints, with a group of women and elderly men, all trying to speak at the same time. “The second time he was elected, we were promised 3 dismil (1,306.8 sq.ft) of land, but now we don’t even have land to bury our dead, we have to silently bury them at night.” The conflict is largely with Muslim landowners in the area. There are no younger men in the villages; a majority of them have gone to work in the fields of Punjab as there is little work to come by here. The post-lockdown bus fare to Punjab is Rs. 3,000, which many of them borrow at an interest rate of 10%. Soon after the travel restrictions were lifted, many people returned to their places of work. “If there were factories here, why do we need to go to Punjab,” Phoolchand Rishi asks. At Dhokva village in the Damdaha Assembly constituency, Samuri Devi is clear. “This time, I won’t cast my vote,” she says. Women huddle around, complaining loudly. “We don’t have a school, a panchayat bhavan, ration cards or roads. We have got nothing from the government.” Here the single-lane concrete road ends where the village starts. There are no pucca or brick houses, just a collection of straw huts. There are no street lights, no television sets in homes or even the Swachch Bharat toilets. Most of the children walk around barefoot and only a few have clothes on their backs. Among the litany of complaints, the primary plea is “ koi sunwai nahi hoti ” (No one listens to us). Most of them are daily wagers who get work for less than 10 days a month. The Public Distribution System coverage is scanty; some in the village have managed to get a BPL card but most are not covered under the National Food Security Act. Hearing the debate about ration cards, Chini Devi rushes to her home to bring a collection of well-preserved, long-expired ration cards. “I have all the papers,” she says, but laments that for years now she has not got rations. Large-scale corruption There is uniformity of complaints about large-scale corruption in bureaucracy. Dinesh Rishi is willing to show scraps of papers to anyone who is willing to hear about how the government owed him Rs. 1.5 lakh under the Indira Awas Yojana, but Rs. 30,000 out of this sum is missing and all he is left with is a half-finished house. All the persons mentioned here had voted for the JD(U) in the 2015 election. Both Damdaha and Rupauli constituencies are with the JD(U). They remain silent about their choice in the upcoming election. “Right now the campaign has not started, we will see,” Virendra Rishi says. Though they are disenchanted with Mr. Kumar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is not an option, they say, simply because the 15 years of the RJD government had meant further marginalisation for them. Now, they can openly lament, but back then, they recall, they did not have the right even to complain. The stock reply is that they will vote for the “winning candidate” and this will be decided on the eve of polling, depending on the mahaul (atmosphere). Mr. Kumar is no longer their poster boy, who gave them special status and a voice.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Polio networks helped curb COVID-19: WHO||Uttar Pradesh, the most populous State in the country, used polio micro-plans twice in the last three months to help identify over two lakh people with COVID-19 symptoms. These persons were then followed-up and tested for COVID-19, said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director WHO South-East Asia, while citing U.P. as an example of applying strategies from polio eradication programmes, to help contain the COVID-19 pandemic. In a release issued by the WHO, South East Asia Region, Dr. Singh also indicated that in the coming months “polio networks, with their vast knowledge on vaccination and tools and strategies tailored to reach the unreached and the most vulnerable, could play a critical role for COVID-19 vaccination rollout.” She added that in U.P., the surveillance medical officers’ team coordinated with the State government and a massive initiative of house-to-house surveillance to identify people with symptoms of influenza-like illness and co-morbidities was conducted. This covered 208 million people across all 75 districts. To test, track, isolate Stating that the polio-network has been effectively used in south-east Asia region during the pandemic, she said: “Within weeks of the COVID-19 outbreak, the integrated surveillance and immunisation networks in five polio priority countries of the region were re-purposed to support preparedness and response. Working among the most vulnerable population and areas, these networks are helping health authorities to detect, test, track, isolate and even prepare hospitals to provide timely treatment.” Dr Singh said that from assisting coordination at the national and sub-national levels, to training and building capacities for laboratory and other health workers for detecting cases, tracing contacts, and assessing public perceptions to hospital readiness and preparedness, the WHO’s polio surveillance networks in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Myanmar and Nepal, are supporting with strategies and initiatives, refined over the years and which helped the region achieve polio-free certification in March 2014. 480 deaths in 24 hours Meanwhile, the Health Ministry in its release on Monday said India has recorded less than 500 deaths (480) in the last 24 hours. “As part of the COVID-19 management and response policy, there has been a sharp focus of the Central government on not only containing COVID-19, but to reduce deaths,” it said. It added that the fact that many States have conducted population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with comorbidities, had also helped. “At the ground level, frontline health workers like ASHAs and ANMs have helped to manage the migrant population and to enhance awareness. And as a result 14 States and UTs have case fatality rate lower than 1%,” said the Ministry. “45,148 new confirmed cases were registered in the last 24 hours in the country. This is the lowest since22 Julywhen 37,000 new cases were added,” it said.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC keeps Lokur committee’s appointment in abeyance||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to “keep in abeyance” its pre-Dasara order appointing former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur to a one-man committee to monitor/prevent stubble burning in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. The decision to put on hold its October 16 order came soon after Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta informed a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde that the Centre had “proposed a legislation to tackle the problem” which occurs annually and chokes the capital. Mr. Mehta said the new law may come out in the next few days that proposed to have a permanent body to deal with stubble burning. “Having regard to the statement made, we consider it appropriate that the measures adopted in the order of October 16 be kept in abeyance until further orders,” the court recorded in its order. On October 16, the court asked Justice Lokur with the help of student volunteer forces deployed from the National Cadet Corps, the National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides to protect Delhi NCR from air pollution caused by stubble burning in neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh this winter. Student patrol The court had said the student forces could patrol highways and fields in the three States and ensure that no fires were started in the fields. It asked the Chief Secretaries of the three States to provide facilities to the committee and provide student volunteers with adequate transportation to aid their vigil. It directed the existing mobile teams and nodal officers of the States to report to the committee.
27 October 2020||Srinagar,||BJP takes out ‘tiranga yatra’ on Accession Day||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday organised “tiranga yatras” in the twin capitals of J&K to commemorate Accession Day, when the then Maharaja, Hari Singh, signed the Instrument of Accession with India in 194. The day was declared a holiday for the first time since the region was designated a Union Territory (UT) last year. A “tiranga yatra” was organised in Srinagar, where the BJP activists hoisted the tricolour on a cavalcade of cars and marched from Tagore Hall to the Boulevard around the Dal lake. “The purpose of the ‘tiranga yatra’ is to send a message to those parties, especially [Peoples Democratic Party president] Mehbooba Mufti, who don’t accept the tricolour. These parties have been acting like a virus for the past 70 years, and we will not allow their spread any more,” BJP leader Ali Muhammad Mir said. BJP leaders Sofi Yousuf and Altaf Thakur, who raised pro-India slogans, demanded action against Ms. Mufti for her remarks that “she will not unfurl the tricolour till J&K’s flag was returned”. Three detained Three BJP leaders were detained in Srinagar on Monday when they marched to unfurl the tricolour. They were shifted to the Kothi Bagh police station. “They were heading towards a busy centre and could have caused interruption in traffic. They were also violating the standard operating procedures laid down for the COVID-19 pandemic,” a police official said. Those detained are BJP spokesman from Kupwara Mir Basharat, Mir Ishfaq and Akhtar Khan. “We wanted to hoist the Tricolour to send a message to the members of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration that only the national flag will remain in Kashmir,” Mr. Basharat said. A “tiranga yatra” was also taken out in the winter capital of Jammu by the BJP youth wing. Scores of two-wheelers and four-wheelers were decorated with the flags. Three Jammu-based PDP leaders quit the party “in protest against the recent remarks of Ms. Mufti”. “Some of the actions and utterances are unforgivable. We feel uncomfortable and suffocated in the party,” PDP’s T.S Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Hussain A Waffa wrote in a joint resignation letter.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Observe due diligence in probe: Railway Board||The Railway Board has directed its vigilance officials to follow due diligence while investigating cases by giving an opportunity to suspect employees to give their version. The advisory follows a mistake in one of the Zonal Railways where an official who had no locus standi in a case was “erroneously” included in the investigation report along with others sent to the Central Vigilance Commission. ‘Lax’ attitude After the CVC recommended major punishment against the official, the railway authorities realised that he had no role to play in the composite vigilance case. When the matter was reverted, the CVC expressed displeasure for adopting a “lax” attitude during processing of the case, sources in the railways said on Monday. To avoid recurrence of such instances, it is advised that the version of suspect official should normally be taken during investigation for arriving at an objective conclusion. “The process of obtaining response affords an opportunity to the suspect official to explain his/her stand and might clarify the differences in understanding, perception and interpretation of issues,” the Railway Board said in a note to all Senior Deputy General Managers/Chief Vigilance Officers of Zonal Railways, Production Units, Public Sector Undertakings etc. Expeditious disposal All investigating officials were directed to demonstrate due diligence during staff accountability exercise and after thorough scrutiny only cases should be submitted to the Vigilance Directorate of the Railway Board for further action. In a separate advisory, the Railway Board said the CVC had advised all Chief Vigilance Officers to ensure expeditious finalisation of disciplinary proceedings/action, particularly in respect of officials likely to retire from service shortly. Vigilance cases against employees should be investigated and a final report submitted at least two months before his/her retirement to facilitate the Railway Board process the case and get the opinion of CVC.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two units of Srisailam power plant relaunched||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy on Monday relaunched the first two units of the 6×150 megawatt Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district, which was damaged in a major fire on the night of August 20. Chairman and managing director of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) D. Prabhakar Rao, its directors Ch. Venkata Rajam (Hydel), M. Sachidanandam (Projects) and A. Ajay (Civil), Chief Engineer of Srisailam LBHES M. Prabhakar Rao and other staff of the power station participated during the formal switching-on of the first two units of 150 MW capacity each after their revival. Experimental run of Units 1 and 2 was taken up for short durations in phases on October 22 and 23 for checking their vital parameters and after their synchronisation with the grid on October 23 evening, the two units have been in trial run till Monday morning, when they were switched off for formal re-launch. According to Genco officials, the two units have added 13.28 million units (MU) of energy to the grid during the experimental and trial run from October 22 to 25. Unit 4 by May-end Speaking after relaunching the two units, Mr. Jagadish Reddy said Units 3, 5 and 6 would be revived and made generation-ready over the next three months. Unit No. 4, which was badly damaged in the fire, would be restored by May-end. He stated that the two units which have been restored and relaunched have been repaired by the engineers of Genco itself without any assistance of experts outside. The Minister stated that the two units would have been relaunched during September itself but several engineers and staff of Genco including its director (Hydel) had contracted COVID-19 during the restoration works ultimately delayed the relaunch. Mr. Reddy said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had been keeping a tab on the works of Srisailam LBHES revival and had been talking to senior executives frequently. Mr. Jagadish Reddy explained that the fourth unit of the power station was the worst-affected in the fire as it was in that unit the blaze broke out on the night of August 20. As a result, its restoration was taking time and was expected to be revived by May-end.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘India is much safer against tsunami threat’||India is much safer against the threat of tsunamis than it was in 2004, thanks to the state-of-the-art tsunami early warning system established in Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) here. However, the best of warning systems could fail, if communities are not prepared, if they do not understand the official and natural warning signs of a tsunami, and if they do not take appropriate and timely response, warns Tummala Srinivasa Kumar, the new INCOIS Director. “We have made impressive progress in building tsunami early warning capability. From absolutely no warning capability or for that matter any public knowledge of tsunamis in the Indian Ocean, we have reached a stage where we can detect large under sea earthquakes in real-time and provide a tsunami warning in 10-20 minutes after the earthquake occurrence. In fact, for Indian Ocean earthquakes where the network of seismometers is reasonably good, quakes can now be detected in less than five minutes and a tsunami warning issued within 10 minutes if the quake occurs elsewhere in the globe,” says the 48-year-old. After a stint as head of Intergovernmental Coordination Group for Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS) secretariat of Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO stationed at Perth, Australia, he has returned to take over as director. He says the focus in recent times has been on enhancing community awareness and response through several capacity building activities, biennial Indian Ocean-wide tsunami drills and piloting of the UNESCO-IOC Tsunami Ready initiative to provide a structured framework to build and measure capacities of coastal communities to respond effectively to tsunamis, through 11 important indicators. ‘Tsunami-ready’ Two villages — Venkatraipur in Ganjam district and Noliasahi in Jagatsingpur district in Odisha — are now ‘Tsunami-Ready’. “This has to be replicated in other vulnerable coastal communities as it also enhances ability to respond to cyclones and storm surges too,” says Dr. Kumar.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Sachidananda Bharati is new seer of Edneer Math of Kerala||Sachidananda Bharati was anointed the pontiff of the Edneer Math of Kerala at a function held at Orikkai, Kancheepuram, on Monday. Sachidananda Bharati succeeded Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji who attained samadhi on September 6 at the age of 80. The succession function was organised in the presence of Vijayendra Saraswathi, the pontiff of Kanchi Kamakoti Mutt. Sachidananda Bharati’s purvashrama name is Jayarama Manjathaya. According to the official release from the Edneer Math, Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, renowned for protecting the basic rights in the Constitution by filing a case in the Supreme Court in the 1970s, had expressed his desire to nominate Jayarama Manjathaya as his successor, among his devotees and math administrators. The seer had also advised his devotees and administrators to approach the Sankaracharya of the Kanchi Mutt for initiating the succession formalities. As per the advise and desire of Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, Jayarama Manjathaya, accompanied by the administrators and devotees of the Edneer Math, visited the Kanchi Mutt on October 2 to become the pontiff. The initiation ceremony of Sachidananda Bharati started with the pontiff taking a yatra to various temples and commenced his Purvanga Karyakrama of taking the vow of sanyasi on October 19. The Purvanga Karyakrama ceremony concluded with the Ashrama Sweekara on Monday.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With lower testing, Kerala reports over 4,200 cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph dropped as sample testing slumped over a long weekend. The State recorded 4,287 cases on Monday from 35,141 samples. However, the test positivity rate hovered around 12%-14% for a week, with 12.19% recorded on Monday. The Health Department added 20 more deaths from the past few weeks to the COVID-19 mortality list. Thrissur and Wayanad reported four deaths each, Kannur three, Kasaragod and Alappuzha two each, while Kottayam, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode reported one death each. Telangana recorded 582 cases on Sunday, with 14,729 people getting tested. In September, around 55,000 to 60,000 samples were tested every day. Four more COVID-19 patients died. The 582 new cases included 174 from Greater Hyderabad. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,901 new infections and 19 fresh deaths on Monday. Tests conducted in the past day were low compared to the previous several days, yet a positivity rate at 3.69% was the lowest in three and a half months. The overall positivity rate so far was 10.61%. Karnataka’s incidence was the lowest in several weeks at 3,130 new cases on Monday; 1,603 were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Testing on Monday reduced to 65,892, while on Sunday the figure was over one lakh. COVID-19 deaths reported on Monday were also lower at 42. A total of 2,708 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday and 32 persons, including a 15-year-old girl, died in the State. Of the fresh cases, Chennai recorded 747 followed by Coimbatore with 253 cases. With this, the State’s overall COVID-19 tally rose to 7,11,713 and the toll increased to 10,956. Another 4,014 persons were discharged following treatment in the State. Till date, a total of 6,71,489 persons were discharged. The number of active cases dropped to below 30,000. As many as 29,268 persons are under treatment in the State. This included 8,856 in Chennai and 3,753 in Coimbatore.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
27 October 2020||Hasanpur,||Tej Pratap goes all out to woo Hasanpur||At Hasanpur Assembly constituency Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidate and elder son of party chief Lalu Prasad, Tej Pratap Yadav, is going all out to woo the locals — playing cricket with youngsters, driving a tractor, and sharing sattu (gram flour) and litti-chokha , a local snack, with young voters. Mr. Yadav has moved out of his constituency Mahua in Vaishali district to Hasanpur in Samastipur and is pitted against two-time sitting NDA MLA Rajkumar Rai of the JD(U). According to the political buzz, Mr. Yadav, who is embroiled in a marital dispute with Aishwarya Rai, granddaughter of former Bihar Chief Minister Daroga Prasad Rai and daughter of Chandrika Rai, chose to move out from Mahua amid rumours that Ms. Rai might be fielded against him. The Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) and the Lok Janshakti Party have fielded Arjun Yadav and Manish Kumar respectively in the constituency, which is likely to divide the Yadav votes. “RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav might have chosen this constituency as a safe seat for it is being dominated by M-Y (Yadav and Muslim) voters which has been core vote bank of RJD since long,” political analyst Ajay Kumar told The Hindu . Hasanpur has more than 70,000 Yadavs, nearly 40,000 Muslim, 18,000 Paswan, 12,000 Kushwaha and more than 10,000 upper caste votes. Ahead of his younger brother and party’s CM face Tejashwi Yadav’s campaign in Hasanpur on Monday, Mr. Yadav tweeted saying his “Arjun” was coming to address them.  Hasanpur is known for a defunct sugar mill, the Magadh Sugar & Energy Limited, with Mr. Yadav’s campaign office located at the iconic Chini Mill (sugar mill) Chowk.  At a tea shop outside the main RJD office, the discussion, as the sun sets on a cool evening, turns inevitably to the forthcoming election.  In Lalu’s name “Who is going to vote for a candidate like him (Tej Pratap Yadav)?... We’ll vote for Lalu Prasad, not him,” says Ramadhin Yadav, a voter in his sixties. But why not? “When he doesn’t meet us here, how can we meet him in Patna after his election,”the men ask. “But, we’ll vote for him in the name of Lalu Prasad who has been imprisoned for a long time in a conspiracy hatched by Nitish Kumar and BJP,” they say in a chorus. Ramesh Kushwaha, however, says Nitish Kumar had brought in development by constructing roads and bringing electricity everywhere. The JD(U) candidate Rajkumar Rai should be elected again, he says. “We should elect an MLA from local area and an MP from outside as we can meet the MLA to get our local work done and the MP for works outside the constituency and State,” he suggests. “Tej Pratap is an outsider and the JD(U) candidate is a local and also a simple man,” he adds, but is shouted down by others, most of them Yadavs. “Voting for Rajkumar Rai is to bring Nitish Kumar again to power which we don’t want… We’ve nothing against the JD(U) candidate but we don’t want Nitish Kumar as CM again,” they say firmly.
27 October 2020||Srinagar,||Ladakh poll: 15 seats for BJP, Cong. wins 9||The BJP on Monday won the majority of seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh (LAHDC-Leh) election, capturing 15 of the 26 constituencies. The Congress won nine seats. The BJP won most of the far-flung seats outside Leh town, including six of the seven seats in the remote Nubra valley. Two Muslim faces, Ghulam Mehdi from Turtuk and Mirza Hussain from Chuchot, were among the winners. In Khaltsi, the party’s Lobzang Sherab defeated Jigmet Rabgais of the Congress by a thin margin of nine votes. In Chuchot, the BJP’s Hussain defeated Independent candidate Sayeeda Bano by a margin of 735 votes. Tsering Namgyal of the Congress defeated the BJP’s P.Wangdan with the highest margin of 1,116 votes in Lower Leh. The constituencies won by the BJP are Turtuk, Panamik, Tegar, Hunder, Diskit, Tangtse, Kungyam, Sku Markha, Thiksey, Korzok, Lingshed, Lamayuru, Martseylang, Khaltse and Chuchot. The seats won by the Congress are Lower Leh, Upper Leh, Igoo, Saspol, Basgo, Sakti, Phyang, Skurbuchan and Temisgam. Independent candidates won the Chushul and Nyoma seats. “First major victory for BJP in UT Ladakh...Congrats team BJP, Ladakh UT,” tweeted party leader Ram Madhav. The BJP had won 17 seats in 2015. It was the first poll since Ladakh was made a Union Territory (UT) last year. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party did not participate in the election.
27 October 2020||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,||Maoists kill villager in Mulugu district||Maoists unleashed violence in Bhadrachalam Agency by killing a villager from Mulugu district terming him to be a ‘police informer’ at Gorukonda village in Charla mandal close to Telangana’s border with Chhattisgarh in the early hours of Sunday. The incident sparked panic in Telangana’s remote tribal belt, adjoining Maoist hotbed of south Bastar division in Chhattisgarh. The deceased was identified as N. Eshwar of Mallampalli in the tribal-dominated Mulugu district. His body was found lying on the roadside between Gorukonda and Chennapuram villages near the restive Telangana-Chhattisgarh border on Sunday morning. Sources said that the rebels left behind a letter beside the body terming the deceased as a “police informant” engaged in a “covert operation.” Quoting the family members of the deceased, the police said Eshwar had been working as a courier of Maoist leaders of the State committee for the past few years. In a statement, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the Maoist leaders ‘tortured’ Eshwar for nearly 10 days to bring pressure on him to work for the outlawed outfit before “strangling him to death” on Sunday. They killed him on false charges of being a ‘police informer’ to cover up their mistakes and create fear among ordinary people, the SP said. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre promises law to check stubble burning||The Delhi NCR already has a Graded Response Action Plan, which is overseen by the Environment Pollution Authority, that has specified a number of measures that governments must take — from banning diesel gensets to restricting vehicle movement — depending on the degree of pollution. Punjab efforts To check stubble burning this kharif (summer) season, the Punjab government has appointed 8,000 nodal officers in villages that grow paddy. Over 23,000 crop residue management machines are being given to farmers for on-site management of straw. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh last week appealed to farmers not to burn crop residue because the practice could aggravate conditions leading to the spread of COVID-19, besides causing pollution. He said the State was taking measures to sensitise the farmers and had been pressing the Centre to give Rs. 100 per quintal to farmers for managing the paddy straw without burning. However, Executive Director, Centre for Science and Environment Anumita Roychowdhury said new legislation was not the need of the hour. “We don't yet know what this proposed law will be about. There are strong laws in place for checking pollution but inadequate infrastructure at the level of State and municipal bodies to implement them...what we need now is better enforcement,” Ms. Roychowdhury told The Hindu .
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Coal scam: jail term for ex-Minister Dilip Ray||Ray, who was Minister of State for Coal in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, was later granted bail on furnishing a bond of Rs. 1 lakh. Earlier this month, the court convicted him, along with then Additional Secretary Pradip Kumar Banerjee and then Adviser (Project) Nityanand Gautam, in the Coal Ministry. Castron Technologies Limited, its director, Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla, and Castron Mining Limited were also convicted. The case pursued by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleged corruption in the allocation of 105.15 hectare of the abandoned coal mining area in Giridih in favour of Castron Technologies. The CBI registered the case on January 7, 2014. It was alleged that Dhanbad-based Castron Technologies Limited, Castron Mining Limited of Kolkata and others conspired with public servants for allocation. “Investigation also revealed that the company was to establish the end use plant for consuming the coal, but it did not establish the same,,” said the CBI. After investigation, the agency filed a charge sheet against the six accused. During the court proceedings, it examined around 51 prosecution witnesses through their affidavits.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court live-streaming could be abused: CJI||Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal on Monday pushed for live-streaming court proceedings to make hearings accessible to all. But Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, sounded a cautionary note, saying it was susceptible to “abuses.” The exchange came on a day when the Gujarat High Court live-streamed its court hearings. “Live-streaming should be something on My Lords’ minds... Everyone can then watch the court,” the Attorney General submitted. He reminded the Supreme Court of its own judgment of September 2018 in favour of “opening up” the apex court through live-streaming. The order has remained unimplemented. Mr. Venugopal hinted that the pandemic offered a fresh opportunity. “There are problems which should not be discussed publicly... There are certain abuses... We will take a decision soon enough, otherwise successive Chief Justices [turning to Justice D.Y. Chandrachud who is in line to be CJI] will do,” said CJI Bobde.  Justice Chandrachud was one of the three judges on the Bench that gave the verdict on live-streaming in September 2018. In fact, he had noted in his separate opinion that live-streaming of proceedings would be the true realisation of the “open court system.” Mr. Venugopal had assisted that Bench as amicus curiae . His suggestions were later adopted as guidelines in the September 2018 judgment. The issue of live-streaming came up as a Special Bench led by the CJI was taking stock of the virtual court system initiated after the lockdown. Justice Chandrachud, on the Bench along with Justice L. Nageswara Rao, said each High Court can make rules for itself and trial courts under it for the virtual system. Uniform rules would prove difficult owing to the difference in connectivity and e-literacy.
27 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Anti-cow slaughter law in U.P. being misused: HC||The Allahabad High Court has expressed concern at the misuse of anti-cow slaughter law in Uttar Pradesh. “The [U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter] Act is being misused against innocent persons,” the court noted, as it granted bail to Rahmuddin, a person from Shamli accused of cow slaughter. The petitioner was booked in May under Section 3, 5 and 8 of the Act at the Thana Bhawan police station of Shamli. There were no charges against the petitioner in the FIR, said the court. Counsel for the petitioner also informed the court that he was not arrested from the spot, but he had been in jail since August 5. “Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat [beef] without getting it examined or analysed by the Forensic Laboratory. In most of the cases, meat is not sent for analysis,” said Justice Siddharth. In an order dated October 19, the court observed that some continue to be in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all, or was triable by a Magistrate Class I and carried a maximum sentence of up to seven years. The judge said whenever cows were shown as recovered, no proper recovery memo was prepared and one did not know where the cows went after the recovery. Goshalas did not accept non-milching or old cows and they were left to wander on the roads. “Some way out has to be found to keep them either in the cow shelters or with the owners, if U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act is to be implemented in letter and spirit,” the court said.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Ranga Shankara Theatre fest begins online today||The Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival, which has gone digital for the first time, begins on Tuesday. Due to the pandemic, the Bengaluru-based theatre group has decided to stream – and not stage – five plays and a workshop of former Shankar Nag Theatre Award recipients. These six works, along with short-films and webcasts, among others, will also be streamed on a big screen on the theatre premises for up to 30 people. “We are calling this year’s festival a hybrid one, born out of extraordinary circumstances but equally extraordinary solidarity. We have worked hard to ensure that the festival replicates the resilience of the human spirit and will be a celebration in every sense,” said Arundhati Nag, founder, Ranga Shankara. Abhishek Majumdar’s Salt , Mohit Takalkar’s The Colour Of Loss , Anurupa Roy’s Teelapur Ka Rakshasha , Sankar Venkateswaran’s Criminal Tribes Act , and QTP’s Lunch Girls are the plays that will be streamed. The six-day festival features an online discussion on the changing perspectives of theatre production, featuring veteran producers and hosted by production manager Toral Shah. “I am very excited for them, as well as Ranga Shankara, and hope we can reach a much bigger audience because of the digital necessity this year,” added Ms. Nag. For tickets and more information about the festival, visit insider.in or rangashankara.org. Season pass for Indian audiences is Rs. 500, but tickets for individual shows are also available.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||India to sign geo-spatial cooperation deal with U.S.||After the talks on Tuesday, U.S. officials will leave for Sri Lanka, Maldives and Indonesia. As reported by The Hindu last month, in the run up to the 2+2, the U.S. was keen on India signing BECA and discussions continued to iron out the differences. One of the major differences was the issue of reciprocity in exchange of geo-spatial data. A maritime information agreement is also under discussion between India and the US, an official source stated. India already has such agreement with other Quad countries, Australia and Japan. As reported by The Hindu last month, in the run up to the 2+2, the U.S. was keen on India signing BECA and discussions continued to iron out the differences. One of the major differences was the issue of reciprocity in exchange of geo-spatial data. The Defence Ministry said the two Ministers “also discussed requirements of expanding deployments of liaison officers.” India has posted a liaison officer at the U.S. Navy Central Command in Bahrain recently and is also considering a U.S. request for posting liaison officers at the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) and the U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM). The U.S. has already posted a liaison officer at the Indian Navy’s Information Fusion Centre for Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR). A U.S. State department official said in Washington on Saturday that the talks will focus on four themes — regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade. “This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defence ministries,” he stated.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Hopes rise for Oxford varsity COVID-19 vaccine||Work began on the Oxford vaccine in January. Called AZD1222 or ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, the viral vector vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold virus that causes infections in chimpanzees. Immunogenicity blood tests carried out on a subset of older participants echo data released in July which showed the vaccine generated “robust immune responses” in a group of healthy adults aged between 18 and 55, the Financial Times reported earlier. “We need to see the data before concluding that the responses were 'similar',” Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, said. He said that reactogenecity, which refers to common side-effects of vaccines like soreness and redness of the arm, was “often, but not always” associated with a vaccine’s immunogenicity. “Studies carried out in the first stage of development of a vaccine will result in choosing a dose that does not cause too much reactogenicity,” he said. AstraZeneca has signed several supply and manufacturing deals with companies and governments around the world as it gets closer to reporting early results of a late-stage clinical trial. It resumed the U.S. trial of the experimental vaccine after approval by U.S. regulators, the company said on Friday. Staff at a London hospital trust have been told to be ready to receive the first batches of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, The Sun newspaper reported on Monday.
27 October 2020||Chharch,||Scindia’s candidate wrestles with sullen BJP workers||For Chattur Singh, a BJP worker, the task of convincing voters to side with the candidate who recently crossed over from the Congress is daunting. “Well, I am not sure why Maharaj [Jyotiraditya Scindia] and his supporters changed sides. Maybe because they felt ignored?” he said, stuttering, when confronted by a voter attending Mr. Scindia’s public meeting in Shivpuri district. As 25 of the 28 Assembly seats are up for by-election in Madhya Pradesh, older BJP workers in Pohari Vidhan Sabha constituency have reluctantly buried the hatchet to canvass for their former political adversary, who they vehemently campaigned against in the 2018 election. On the podium in Chharch village, BJP leader Prahlad Bharti found himself standing awkwardly next to its candidate Suresh Dhakad, who defeated him on a Congress ticket. And Mr. Scindia’s strong influence, which he successfully thwarted twice to be elected to the Assembly, now looms over him. “The BJP is one family, and we welcome those who join us with open arms,” said Mr. Bharti with a smile pasted on his face. “The sangathan is supreme and we will follow its instructions. Anyway Mr. Dhakad was elected for five years so why not let him continue? At least the BJP government is back.” “We will vote in the wind’s direction,” quipped Mausambi Adivasi. “I didn’t understand what was said from the stage, as they were all shouting in the microphone. I will press the hand button and vote for Mr. Scindia,” said Ms. Adivasi, unaware of the leader’s new political affiliation.
27 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Missing boy’s body found in bushes||A five-year-old boy, who was missing for the past 10 days, was killed by a teenager and the former’s body was dumped near the Nehru Outer Ring Road, Shamirpet police said on Monday. The 17-year-old migrant labourer from Odisha confessed to smothering young Adiyan to death after he accidentally fell on the ground and suffered head injury while shooting a video for ShareChat, social media platform. The teenager, who works at a dhaba, is a neighbour for the boy’s family at Shamirpet, Balanagar DCP P.V. Padmaja told The Hindu . Ms. Padmaja said that on October 15 evening, Adiyan went out to play. When he did not return home, the boy’s parents searched for him in the locality and later lodged a missing complaint at Shamirpet police station. Initially, the investigators assumed the boy might have been swept away in the floods and launched a manhunt in the nearby nalas and lake. However, on October 23, the owner of the building where the boy’s parents reside, received a call from an unknown number, demanding that Rs. 15 lakh ransom be paid to set Adiyan free. “With the help of call details, we traced the teenager, who confessed to killing the boy as he fell off while shooting a video,” the DCP said. As he wanted to go back to Odisha, he demanded ransom and also booked a train ticket for his return journey.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC stays order on ‘virtual’ campaigns||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a Madhya Pradesh High Court order which directed “virtual” election campaigning and rallies for the byelection to 28 Assembly seats in the State. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar prima facie agreed with the petitions filed by the Election Commission and BJP candidate Pradyuman Singh Tomar. The court asked the commission to consider the issues raised in the petitions and the High Court order of October 20 and “proceed in the matter in accordance with law”. It refused to “say anything on the merits” of the case.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Watch your language, EC tells Nath||The Election Commission on Monday said former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath had violated its 2019 advisory to politicians to refrain from any speech or action against the dignity of women when he referred to BJP candidate and Minister Imarti Devi as an “item” while campaigning for the byelections in Dabra, Gwalior, on October 18. The EC advised Mr. Nath not to use such language while the Model Code of Conduct was in force, according to the order. The EC order quoted Mr. Nath’s response to its notice as saying the comments were not “pre-meditated” or meant to “dishonour a woman”. “It was an admonition of the political scenario, which is replete with drama. There was no malice or intent to disrespect a lady,” he said, adding that he had expressed regret the day after the speech. Citing his experience of 40 years as a politician, he said: “The hubris of electioneering cannot and must not ignore the life record of an individual.”
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon to withdraw by tomorrow||The southwest monsoon is likely to completely withdraw from the country by Wednesday and northeast monsoon to begin over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh and parts of Kerala and Karnataka, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||I can’t stand the bombast on TV: CJI||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, giving a rare insight into his personal side, said he “cannot stand” the bombast on TV. “Frankly, I cannot stand it... This was never a part of our public discourse,” Chief Justice Bobde orally addressed senior advocate Harish Salve, who represents Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, on Monday. Chief Justice Bobde said there had to be responsibility in reportage. The case concerned the registration of criminal cases against Mr. Goswami by the Mumbai police for allegedly inciting communal hatred.
27 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat HC goes live||In a landmark initiative, the Gujarat High Court became the first to live stream judicial proceedings on YouTube channel. Though it’s on an “experimental basis”, the move is being seen as a major measure towards transparency. The YouTube link is available on the homepage of the High Court.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Modi govt. is stifling dissent, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has accused the Narendra Modi government of using every organ of the State to target the Opposition, stifling dissent by branding it as “terrorism” and “anti-national” and treating dissenters and political opponents as “second class citizens without democratic rights.”  In her opinion piece published on Monday, Ms Gandhi said every pillar of democratic governance was under “assault” and the Police, the Enforcement Directorate, the Central Bureau of Investigation, the National Investigation Agency and even Narcotics Bureau now “dance only to the tune of the Prime Minister and Home Minister’s Office.” “The BJP may have differences with dissenters and civil society activists. Indeed, the same activists have often protested against Congress governments as well. But to paint them as anti-national conspirators promoting communal violence is prejudicial and extremely dangerous for democracy.”
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||MP bypolls: 50% of Congress, 43% of BJP candidates have criminal cases, says ADR [Or] MP bypolls: 18% of nominees face criminal cases, says ADR||An analysis of the affidavits of all 355 candidates for the Madhya Pradesh Assembly bypolls to 28 seats by the Association for Democratic Reforms found that 18% of the nominees had declared criminal cases against themselves. The ADR report said 50% of the Congress and 43% of the BJP candidates had declared criminal cases.  The report said 23% of the 355 candidates had declared assets worth Rs. 1 crore and 82% of the BJP candidates and 79% of the Congress candidates were crorepatis.
27 October 2020||imphal,||Campaigning picks up in Manipur for bypolls||Campaigning for the November 7 bypoll to four Assembly constituencies in Manipur has gained momentum. The major players are the ruling BJP, the Opposition Congress and the National People’s Party, a coalition partner Chief Minister N. Biren on Monday said, “The BJP-led coalition government will wipe out all tears of the have-nots. The coalition government was saved by six Congress MLAs who had tendered resignations from the party. It is in recognition of their support that some former Congress MLAs were inducted into the Ministry.”
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Graveyards and cremation grounds should be as per population, says BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj||The size of graveyards and cremation grounds available in a village should be as per the population of the communities living there, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj has said. Mr. Maharaj alleged that Hindus were facing “injustice” as Muslims had larger graveyards. The comments were made by the Unnao MP during a ‘nukkad sabha’ on Sunday while campaigning for the Bangermau Assembly bypoll.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sena needs certificate from us on Hindutva: BJP||The Shiv Sena’s Hindutva had become contaminated as it joined hands with the Congress and the NCP for the sake of power, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said, adding that the Sena would have to take “certificate of Hindutva from the BJP and the RSS”. The BJP attack came a day after Sena president Uddhav Thackeray challenged the BJP on its ideology of Hindutva.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC stays contempt proceedings against Ramesh Pokhriyal||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the contempt proceedings against Union Education Minister and former Uttarkhand Chief Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal for alleged non-compliance of an Uttarakhand High Court order last year to the former CM to pay rent for government accommodation. The High Court issued the order on May 3 last year.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Male govt employees entitled to child care leave as single parents: Jitendra Singh||Male government employees who are single parents will now be entitled to child care leave, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Monday. “Single male parent” includes staff who are unmarried, widower or divorcee. The leave could be granted at 100% of leave salary for the first 365 days and 80% of leave salary for the next 365 days, he said.PTI
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SC rejects plea to probe Salian’s death||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea for a court-monitored CBI probe into the death of Disha Salian, the manager of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and asked the petitioner to approach the Bombay High Court. Ms. Salian died on June 8. Six days later, Rajput was found hanging in his Bandra home.
27 October 2020||Bhopal,||Brief||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Monday said the Madhya Pradesh Chief Electoral Office had not provided the list of voters who could cast postal ballots in the bypolls for 28 Assembly seats scheduled for November 3. In a four-page letter to CEC Sunil Arora, Mr. Nath said a provision was put in place for the first time due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “Unfortunately, the CEC has not provided the list of such voters,” he said.
27 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Bulandshahr by-poll: AIMIM, ASP trade charges||The Bulandshahr police have lodged FIRs under Section 307 (attempt to murder) after the Azad Samaj Party (ASP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) accused each other of attacks on their party chief and party candidate respectively during the campaign for the bypoll for the Bulandshahr Sadar seat. Police sources said while the AIMIM candidate Dilshad Ahmed had named the ASP in the complaint, the latter had blamed unidentified persons for the attack.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Burning PM Modi’s effigy by Punjab farmers a ‘dangerous precedent’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effigy being burnt on Dasara in Punjab was a “dangerous precedent” and asked Mr. Modi to immediately provide a “healing touch” to the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. “It’s sad that Punjab is feeling such anger towards PM,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic dampens Vijayadasami spirit||While Vijayadasami annually sees several parents make a beeline for pre-schools and early learning centres to get their children started on their learning journey, this year it was subdued with schools remained shut since March. Some parents chose to wait till schools reopen and a few others are considering online sessions offered by pre-schools and early learning centres. At Alphabet School, the admission process has shifted online and Anil Safar, CFO, said they have been receiving enquiries through the last few months as well as for Vijayadasami. “Parents who want their children to be engaged and have them continue learning have shown interest in online sessions. For Vijayadasami as well, the process was carried out online- parents were asked to submit applications through our website and we then took it up,” he said. Madhura Visweswaran, Co-Founder and Principal, Redwood Montessori School, said that parents who had been enquiring with them about admissions are being briefed in-depth by the teachers and administrative team of the school. “The parents have been told that they can either opt to enrol their children to attend sessions online or register and begin classes with us once schools reopen. Our school firmly believes that the focus at present should be on the emotional well-being of the children,” she said. Their online sessions for children above the age of 3, she said, were hands-on, interactive and strictly adhering to the dictates of screen time laid down by WHO and UNICEF. “The holistic development of the child is kept in mind with special focus on their emotional well-being,” she added. At a few private schools, parents visited the premises to complete the admission formalities and initiate their children into the beginning of their learning journey. “We had strict norms for physical distancing in place and had parents and children come in to complete admission formalities for children who have joined LKG,” said B. Purushothaman, Senior Principal, Everwin group of schools. With no information yet on when schools will reopen, some pre-schools in the city said that they did not open admissions and had chosen to wait till there was some clarity on the issue. “Instead of having a long-drawn online sessions which children especially below 5 will not take to, it is best that parents are provided with resources such as activity suggestions and videos by pre-schools that they can engage their child with,” said K.R. Maalathi, Founder, Happy Tots, an early education programme. The School Education Department opened admissions for LKG and Class 1 in government schools across the State on Monday. A senior official from the Elementary Education Department said that they were expecting good response from parents as had been the case for admissions to all other classes so far. Schools had been instructed to distribute free books once the parents and children completed the admission formalities as well.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||45-year-old five-storey building on Peter’s Road collapses||A 45-year-old, five-storey, unoccupied building on Peter’s Road just opposite New College collapsed in Royapettah on Monday night. No casualties have been reported so far. The building was built on a 1,560 sq ft plot of land by a businessman from Kerala, and four more floors were later constructed. The building was earlier occupied by 14 tenants. The family of a former Congress MP bought the building from the original owner, after which 13 tenants vacated the premises. The remaining tenant occasionally used the premises. The family of the former MP had instituted a civil case against her. The building collapsed around 9 p.m. after the tenant and her son left the premises. On receiving the alert, the police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and began operations. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Triplicane, G. Dharmarajan and other police officers visited the spot. Traffic on Peter’s Road was hit as the search and rescue operations were under way. “We have contacted the owner of the building for enquiry,” a police officer said. The building collapse resulted in a huge cloud of dust and sand, residents said. Weak structure was cited as the cause for the collapse, said sources.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Women will give Stalin a befitting reply’||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin will no longer be able to step out or go anywhere in the State, as women are waiting to give him a befitting reply for supporting a person (Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan) who insulted them, Bharatiya Janata Party State unit president L. Murugan said. “Dear Mr. Stalin, our mothers and sisters are waiting to give a befitting reply to you, at the right time. Wherever you go from now, my mothers and sisters are waiting to reply to you in their own style. You will no longer be able to step out, or go anywhere,” Mr. Murugan said at an event at the party headquarters on Monday. Mr. Murugan said the DMK was directly supporting someone who had insulted women. “His job is to just support these people,” Mr. Murugan said.  ‘BJP respects women’ “The BJP is a party that respects and worships women. Some [other parties] are insulting them,” he said. He, again, accused the DMK of supporting YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam. When asked about the Manusmriti , Mr. Murugan said the book did not exist, and that a smokescreen was being created about it. “How can you ban something that is not there? Where is the proof of the book? There is no Manu needhi in India; just the Indian Constitution. The government functions on the basis of the Constitution and nothing else,” Mr. Murugan said. He also said that he would not contest in the upcoming Assembly election in the State and would rather work to ensure that the BJP has its representatives in the Assembly in 2021.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Truck trailer carrying iron sheets collapses in Chennai||In a freak accident, a truck trailer carrying heavy iron sheet rolls collapsed after a makeshift path used on a steel deck suddenly caved in near the Central railway station. No one was injured in the incident. Chennai Metro Rail Limited has been constructing a subway near the station since last July after erecting a steel deck using beams and sheets. Vehicles were allowed on the temporary path on E.V.R. Salai. According to the police, the truck, weighing around 60-70 tonnes, was riding on E.V.R. Salai and as it reached the spot, the deck caved in unable to withstand the heavy load of the trailer with the iron sheets, and it sank into the hole. According to a spokesperson of CMRL, around midnight, the trailer carrying seven sheets, each weighing 11 tonnes, was heading for the harbour. The overall weight including that of the trailer, was 90 tonnes. The overloaded trailer damaged the decking plate which collapsed inside the excavation. Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan, and other officers reached the spot and launched an operation to pull out the vehicle. Diversions were implemented on E.V.R. Salai due to the ongoing emergency work. Mr. Kannan said, “With the help of men and machinery from CMRL, our personnel pulled out the vehicle in the morning. We worked on a war footing to restore traffic flow. The traffic was normalised by Monday night.” Normal traffic resumed after authorities certified the rebuilt deck as fit for use by traffic, the police said. The Traffic Investigation Wing registered a case against the driver of the trailer for overloading.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen capacity augmentation under way||Amid the pandemic, augmenting oxygen capacity at government hospitals has turned into a key focus area for health authorities. Keeping in line with the increasing demand for oxygen among patients, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has taken up work to install new liquid medical oxygen tanks at government hospitals in the State. Installation of new liquid oxygen tanks was taken up across institutions under the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS), from July. Around 40 to 45 COVID-19 hospitals in the two directorates are being covered. TNMSC officials said work to augment oxygen capacity at government hospitals was nearing completion. According to data with the TNMSC, the total existing liquid oxygen tank capacity of institutions under the DME was 349.039 kilolitre (kl), and it was 6.026 kl in DMS institutions, till the augmentation works began in July. In the period from July to August, the proposed augmented capacity was 66 kl for government medical college hospitals (DME institutions) and 8 kl for DMS institutions. For the period from September to October (including ongoing), the proposed augmented capacity was 317.5 kl for DME institutions and 22 kl for DMS institutions. With this, the capacity after augmentation/shifting at government medical college hospitals will rise to 732.539 kl and that of DMS institutions to 36.026 kl — in total, amounting to 768.565 KL. “The State’s average oxygen requirement, in a day, varies according to the patient load. At peak demand, it was above 120 kl. The requirement of oxygen has increased by 3.5 to 4 times since March in the State,” P. Umanath, managing director, TNMSC, said. He added that liquid oxygen tanks were being installed at a cost of around Rs. 11 crore. The largest single tank that is being installed is a 35-kl structure at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem. A senior government doctor in Chennai said oxygen was the primary treatment for many patients, especially those with moderate and severe COVID-19.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water from Poondi released into Red Hills reservoir||With the Poondi reservoir, one of the city’s drinking water sources, receiving more inflow besides Krishna water, the surplus has been released to the Puzhal lake in Red Hills to step up its storage. Heavy rain over the past few days in the catchment areas upstream and the surplus water released from Ammapalli reservoir in Andhra Pradesh into the Kosasthalaiyar has been bringing considerable inflow to the Poondi reservoir. The waterbody has already been receiving Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh for a month now. Of the inflow of 810 cusecs (cubic feet per second), the reservoir got 352 cusecs as flood water runoff from catchment areas and the Kosasthalaiyar. Officials of the Water Resources Department said water was discharged to the Red Hills reservoir due to a dip in storage. Its storage stood at 2.01 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) against a capacity of 3.3 tmcft, and it received about 160 cusecs of water from the Poondi reservoir on Monday. “We have also been diverting water to the Chembarambakkam reservoir for a week now to boost its storage. Water is being drawn from both lakes to supply the city’s drinking water,” an official said. The city has been receiving Krishna water since last month, and it has added nearly 2.1 tmcft of storage in the nearby reservoirs. The four reservoirs together have a storage of 5.4 tmcft, which is nearly 50% of their capacity, as on Monday. This will be sufficient to maintain supply till the summer of next year. With near normal rainfall predicted during this northeast monsoon, officials noted that Krishna water and rainwater would be sufficient to maintain supply.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘From just 1,945 in 2010-11, we now have 3,400 MBBS seats’||From 1,945 MBBS seats in 2010-2011, the number of medical seats in the State has risen to 3,400 now. In the coming years, 11 new government medical colleges will offer 1,650 more seats, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said. “To enable more students from rural areas and economically backward sections to realise their dream of becoming doctors, the State government, in a short period, has got the Centre’s approval to establish new medical colleges in 11 districts — Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Dindigul, the Nilgiris, Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Kallakurichi, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Namakkal and Krishnagiri. Foundation stones have been laid and construction is under way. Through this, the State government has taken measures to create an additional 1,650 MBBS seats in the coming years,” he said, shortly after inaugurating the Fortis Hospital in Vadapalani, Chennai, on Monday. The State government has passed a Bill to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical admissions to enable students of government schools to become doctors, he said. The Chief Minister emphasised that medicine was a “fine art” and not a “business”. Listing out the State’s achievements in healthcare, he said: “Last year, the infant mortality rate came down from 16 to 15 (deaths per 1,000 live births), while the State has already achieved the 2030 target of Sustainable Development Goals in reducing the maternal mortality rate,” he said. State’s achievements A total of 254 new primary health centres (PHC) have been established, and 166 PHCs upgraded. In the last three years, 56 CT scan machines, 22 MRI scan machines, 18 cath labs and 530 dialysis machines have been provided to government hospitals, he said. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, managing director and chief executive officer, Fortis Healthcare Limited, and Anil Vinayak, group chief operating officer, Fortis Healthcare, were present. The 250-bed facility is Fortis Healthcare’s second multi-speciality hospital in the city.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A quiet Vijayadasami for schools this year||While Vijayadasami annually sees several parents make a beeline for pre-schools and early learning centres to get children started on their learning journey, this year it was a lot more subdued, with schools having remained shut since March. Some parents are choosing to wait till schools reopen while a few others are considering online sessions offered by pre-schools and early learning centres. At Alphabet School, the entire admission process has shifted online and Anil Saraf, CFO, said they had been receiving enquiries throughout the last few months as for Vijayadasami. “Parents who want their children to be engaged and have them continue their learning have shown interest in online sessions. For Vijayadasami as well, the entire process was carried out online — parents were asked to submit applications through our website and we then processed them,” he explained. Madhura Visweswaran, co-founder and principal, Redwood Montessori School, said parents who had been enquiring about admissions were briefed in-depth by the teachers and administrative team of the school. “Parents have been told that they can either opt to enroll their child to attend sessions online or register and begin classes with us once schools reopen. Our school firmly believes that the focus at present should be on the emotional well being of children,” she said. Their online sessions for children over the age of three, she said, were hands-on and interactive and strictly adhered to the dictates of screen time laid down by WHO and UNICEF. “The child’s holistic development is kept in mind with a special focus on their emotional well-being,” she added. A few private schools that had called for admissions asked parents visit the campuses to complete admission formalities. “We had strict norms for physical distancing in place and had parents and children come in to complete admission formalities for those who enrolled in kindergarten,” said B. Purushothaman, senior principal, Everwin group of schools. With no information yet on when schools will reopen, some pre-schools in the city said they did not invite admissions and had chosen to wait till there was some clarity to this effect. “Instead of having longdrawn online sessions which children, especially those below 5 years, will not take to, it is best that parents are provided with resources such as activity suggestions and videos by pre-schools that they can engage their children with,” said K.R. Maalathi, founder, Happy Tots, an early education program. The Tamil Nadu School Education Department opened up admissions for kindergarten and Class I in government schools across the State on Monday. A senior official from the Elementary Education Department said they were expecting a good response from parents as in the case of admissions to all other classes so far. Schools had also been instructed to distribute free books once the admission formalities were completed.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras holds online convocation||The 57th convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was held online on Sunday with 2,346 degrees, including 353 Ph.Ds, being awarded. Pawan Goenka, chairman, Board of Governors of the Institute, said the students were graduating from an institution that had been ranked first for five consecutive years, which reflected the collective commitment of the faculty, administration, staff and students. He urged the graduands to renew their zeal to work towards the vision of a modern India as was envisaged when the IITs were established post-Independence. Institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi awarded the degrees virtually. This year saw the highest number of Ph.Ds awarded in an academic year. The institute’s research acumen had grown in the last five years. “We filed for 191 patents during the year, of which 62 are international filings, and were granted 58,” he said. The President of India Prize for the highest CGPA in B. Tech and Dual Degree and the Bharat Ratna M. Visvesvaraya Memorial Prize for the highest CGPA in B. Tech went to Rajat Vadiraj Dwaraknath. The Sri V. Srinivasan Memorial Prize for the highest CGPA in Dual Degree went to Alfred Festus Davidson. Arvind Pujari won the Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma Prize for the best all-round proficiency in curricular and extra-curricular activities in B. Tech. The Governor’s Prize for the best all-round proficiency in curricular and extra-curricular activities in B. Tech and Dual Degree went to Hari Ramachandran. Nobel laureate and Chancellor’s Chair of Theoretical Physics at the University of California David J. Gross addressed the convocation.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five cross-breed dogs to join RPF in Kashmir||As part of their training, five dogs — Bullet, Blackie, Jackie, Oscar and Jennie — at the Railway Protection Force (RPF) kennel in Perambur, climb up and down a vertical ladder covered with fencing wires. What is peculiar about them is that they are a cross-breed between the Kashmiri Bakharwal and the Dutch Shepherd, both known for their fearlessness, intelligence and guarding instincts. They will soon join the RPF in Kashmir on a trial basis. “They will be used for multitasking. This includes remaining alert, assault and barrack guarding,” said S. Louis Amuthan, Deputy Chief Security Commissioner of the RPF, who brought the Bakharwal breed, the mother of these dogs, from Kashmir. Local breeds He said Arunkumar, the Director General of the RPF, and IG Veerandrakumar were keen on inducting local breeds into the RPF. While many pure-bred native Indian dogs have already joined the Indian Army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Mr. Amuthan decided to experiment with the Bakharwal dogs as he had an opportunity to watch the breed in close quarters during his tenure in Kashmir. “Bakharwal dogs are kept by the Bakharwal nomadic tribes of Kashmir and they are a very independent and fearless breed. The tribe will not part with their dogs, but I was able to get one from an employee of the RPF,” said Mr. Amuthan. Brought up purely on vegetarian food, the Shepherd dogs have low breeding capacity. They can easily scale a wall and they were used as frontline dogs by the British during the War of Independence in 1857. On the decline “Their population, however, is on the decline. Many of them were killed by Kashmiri militants as they proved a nuisance to their secret activities in the Valley. Once they sense an outsider, they will bark continuously and in the process alert everyone,” said Mr. Amuthan. Mr. Amuthan decided to mate the female dog with a Dutch Shepherd, and she gave birth to nine puppies in February, 2020. Five of them are now being trained at Perambur. “We found that the puppies have inherited trainable qualities. We are waiting for the dog handlers from Kashmir. Soon, they will join the RPF in Kashmir on a trial basis,” he said. Unlike their mother, the five dogs are given non-vegetarian food.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police distribute scarves to women shoppers in T. Nagar||To prevent chainsnatching incidents in the busy areas of T. Nagar, the police have adopted a novel measure of distributing scarves to women shoppers for covering the neck. The idea was conceived by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), T. Nagar, D.N. Hari Kiran Prasad. “As chain-snatching incidents happen mostly when women are on the move on the busy streets while looking at the displays in the shop windows, we believe that scarves can deny the offenders a chance to strike,” Mr. Prasad said. At the entry point of the shopping areas, the police stand and conduct body temperature tests on shoppers before letting them into shops. They also hand out scarves to them free of cost and insist that they wear it. M. Kalaiarasan, Mambalam inspector, said, “We distribute 500 free pieces to shoppers daily. This has received good response from the public. We also distribute them at bus stands and other places.” More than 1,200 CCTV cameras installed around the shopping areas would be activated. In addition to carrying out surveillance using drones, police personnel with body cameras would also be deployed to monitor the crowds. Facial recognition And there are also cameras with facial recognition technology, which can easily detect the presence of history-sheeters in the crowd. The cameras have been installed on Usman Road, Ranganathan Street and near the Mambalam railway station. Watch towers have also been erected, where policemen will be watching the public using binoculars. A temporary control room, too, has been established. Shopkeepers have been asked to reduce the extension of their displays before their shops so that people can walk freely without any hindrance on Ranganathan Street and surrounding areas. In order to ensure free movement of pedestrians on Ranganathan Street, barricades have been placed in the middle of the street. Those entering the busy shopping area can walk on one side of the barricaded area and come out on the other.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP member seeks quota for private schools||The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit faced embarrassment on Monday when it transpired that its education cell secretary, K.R. Nandakumar, in his capacity as an office-bearer of an association of private schools, wrote to Governor Banwarilal Purohit seeking inclusion of private school students, who studied in Tamil, in the proposed 7.5% horizontal quota for medical admissions for NEET-qualified State government school students. State BJP president L. Murugan was quick to issue a statement distancing the party from the demand. He said the letter was written by Mr. Nandakumar in his capacity as the general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools Association. Mr. Nandakumar also clarified that he did not send the representation as a BJP leader. In the letter to Mr. Purohit, the association said it was unfair to students of private schools that the horizontal quota would be applicable only for government school students. “We are asking that, at the bare minimum, private school students who have had their education in Tamil be given 7.5% quota in medical admissions. Everyone who is born in Tamil Nadu must have an equal law. The ruling party and the opposition must take into account the welfare of the students,” he said. ‘Impartial legislation’ Mr. Nandakumar said that providing the quota for all types of students alone would constitute an impartial legislation and the government should issue a G.O. to that effect. “If our representation is not accepted, our association will definitely obtain a stay from the courts and will ensure that the rights of private school students are protected,” he said. Mr. Nandakumar’s stand on the issue is in contrast to the BJP’s position that the 7.5% horizontal quota must be implemented in the State.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-serviceman’s son killed||The 21-year-old son of an ex-serviceman was hacked to death by unidentified persons in a village near Kancheepuram town on Sunday. The victim has been identified as R. Elisa, whose father Ravi, is an ex-serviceman. His family stays at Sirukaveripakkam village. On Sunday night, he was returning home on his bike when four persons waylaid him and indiscriminately attacked him. The police arrested Dhamu, 20, and three of his associates.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. brought down quota to 7.5%, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said the AIADMK government reduced the horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified State government school students, in undergraduate medical admissions, to 7.5%, even though Justice Kalaiyarasan had recommended 10% reservation. Addressing a wedding in the family of a party functionary, he said the government was not able to get the Governor’s assent, even for a Bill that sought to give just 7.5% reservation. “Forty days have passed since the Bill was adopted in the Assembly. The Governor is yet to give his nod to the legislation,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the Governor had sought four weeks to take a decision on the Bill, and by delaying his consent, he only intented to dilute the issue. “That was why we organised a demonstration and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami accused us of politicising the issue. But the AIADMK is only interested in getting commission,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government should be removed to protect the interests of the State. “The 2021 Assembly elections have provided us an opportunity to complete the task, and let us make use of it,” he said. In a separate statement, he urged Mr. Palaniswami to exert pressure on the Centre to implement reservations in medical seats surrendered to the Central pool by the State government.   The government is not able to get the Governor’s assent even for a Bill that seeks to give just 7.5% reservation M.K. Stalin DMK president
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin writes to PM on SC verdict on OBC quota||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to ensure that the terms of implementation of the State-specific quota for OBC students in the all-India quota (AIQ) seats for medical admissions were finalised by the committee constituted for the purpose. In his letter to the Prime Minister, he said there was a real concern that students belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) would not benefit from the State-specific reservation in the current academic year. The Supreme Court on Monday declined to order interim relief of implementing 50% reservation this year itself for NEET-UG students belonging to OBCs in medical and dental seats contributed to the AIQ by State government-run colleges in Tamil Nadu. “Without the implementation of reservation, thousands of students will not have a chance to pursue higher education in the field of medicine,” he said. Mr. Stalin also pointed out the order of the Madras High Court, in a case filed by the DMK, reiterating that OBC students had a right to reservation in AIQ Seats.  ‘Disappointing verdict’ PMK Founder S. Ramadoss said in a statement: “The verdict is disappointing. The stance taken by the Centre that it cannot be implemented this year due to the various cases pending on the issue is the reason for the outcome.” He urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to send a delegation comprising political leaders from the State to New Delhi to meet the Prime Minister. MDMK chief Vaiko said the Centre had shown deceit on the issue, from the beginning, and strongly condemned it. He expressed disappointment over the verdict. VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan urged the Chief Minister to immediately call for an all-party meeting to express consensus on the issue and pursue legal options. MMK president M.H. Jawahirullah also urged the Chief Minister to call an all-party meeting and take action to uphold the principles of social justice. CPI (M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan pointed out that the verdict would affect OBC students and said the BJP government at the Centre had betrayed them and acted against social justice.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Observe due diligence in probes: Railway Board||The Railway Board has directed its vigilance officials to follow due diligence while investigating cases by giving an opportunity to suspect employees to give their version. The advisory follows a mistake in one of the Zonal Railways where an official who had no locus standi in a case was “erroneously” included in the investigation report, along with others, that was sent to the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). ‘Lax’ attitude After the CVC recommended major punishment against the official, Railway authorities realised that he had no role to play in the composite vigilance case. When the matter was reverted, the CVC expressed displeasure for adopting a “lax” attitude during the processing of the case, sources in the Railways said on Monday. To avoid the recurrence of such instances in the future, it was advised that the version of the suspect official should normally be taken into account during the investigation to arrive at an objective conclusion. “The process of obtaining a response affords an opportunity to the suspect official to explain his/her stand and might clarify the differences in understanding, perception and interpretation of issues,” the Railway Board said in a note to all Senior Deputy General Managers/Chief Vigilance Officers of the Zonal Railways, Production Units, Public Sector Undertakings, etc. All investigating officials were directed to demonstrate due diligence during the staff accountability exercise and only after thorough scrutiny should cases be submitted to the Vigilance Directorate of the Railway Board for further action. Expeditious disposal In a separate advisory, the Railway Board said the CVC had advised all Chief Vigilance Officers to ensure expeditious finalisation of disciplinary proceedings/ action, particularly in respect to officials likely to retire from service shortly. Vigilance cases against employees should be investigated and a final report submitted at least two months before his/her retirement to facilitate the Railway Board to process the case and get the opinion of the CVC.
27 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kerala police take woman back to State||A team from the Kerala police on Saturday took away a 21-year-old woman from a house in Chennai’s Nungambakkam, where she was staying with her female partner, acting on a “missing persons” complaint from her parents. Police said the two women had become close friends on a social media platform. Thereafter, the woman, from Kozhikode, moved to Chennai to stay with her friend. Her parents, who were opposed to their relationship, filed a complaint with the Kozhikode police, alleging that she was missing. The Kerala police, accompanied by an SI from Nungambakkam Police Station, allegedly forced her to accompany them to Kozhikode. When she was produced before a magistrate in Kozhikode, she said she would stay with her parents for 10 days. Senior lawyer Sudha Ramalingam said the police should not have taken her and, instead, directed her to present herself voluntarily, if needed.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An OTT platform for short filmmakers||Short filmmakers now have an exclusive OTT (over the top) platform, Shortflix, to showcase their creativity. It was launched recently to help upcoming filmmakers to stream their short films and webseries. Their passion towards short films and cinema led S.S. Bharanidharan and P. Senthilkumar, who were in different professions, to start Shortflix in 2019 as an alternative to major streaming sites that focus on feature films. Mr. Bharanidharan, a singer and one of the directors of Shortflix, said it was launched before the pandemic to encourage independent short filmmakers and has now hosted nearly 100 short films in south Indian languages and Hindi. The idea was to create a viewership for quality content and offer ‘watch-on-the-go’ facility on a user-friendly platform. Best short films were also premiered in multiplexes last year. “We plan to add international short films in various languages such as English, Korean and Spanish from next month. There are also plans to host web series with 15 to 20-minute episodes in the platform also available as a mobile application,” he said. Several films that are produced at a low budget and go unreleased due to unavailability of theatres would also be streamed through Shortflix soon. Mr. Senthilkumar, one of the founders and a builder by profession, said, “I joined the venture for the love of movies and short films. We want to streamline short films as an industry and create revenue generation model for aspiring film makers.” The OTT platform now provides free content and the team is exploring possibility of introducing ‘pay view’ with a nominal fee of Rs. 25 for premium content.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK IT wing launches campaign||The AIADMK’s IT wing has launched a campaign — Manasellam EPS Makkalukkaka EPS (Our heart is full of EPS and EPS for People) — promoting Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the 2021 Assembly election in the State. “We will run the campaign for five weeks and will feature a particular theme every week, highlighting the government’s achievements,” said Aspire K. Swaminathan, secretary of the IT wing, on Sunday. “Besides social media, we will take the message to the by erecting hoardings and putting up posters,” Mr. Swaminathan said adding that 20,000 posters and hoardings were put up on main roads.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Minister still critical||Agriculture Minister R. Duraikkannu continues to be critical, according to a health bulletin released by Kauvery Hospital on Monday. The Minister is being treated for severe COVID-19 pneumonia and other complications. Hospital authorities said his progress would be monitored for the next 24 hours before a prognosis is made. “Maintaining the functions of vital organs continues to be a challenge, considering his co-morbidities,” the bulletin said. The Minister is on maximal life support and his response to treatment over the next 24 hours will determine the prognosis, according to the report signed by Aravindan Selvaraj, the hospital’s executive director.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four youth arrested for murder||Four youth have been arrested by the police for allegedly murdering a 21-year-old son of an ex-serviceman in a village near Kanchipuram town late on Sunday. The victim has been identified as R. Elisa, whose father Ravi is an ex-serviceman. His family stays at Sirukaveripakkam village, near Kancheepuram. On Sunday, as he was returning home on his bike from a nearby village, four persons waylaid him and attacked him with knives before fleeing. The Baluchetti Chathram police investigated and arrested Dhamu, 20, and his three associates on Monday for allegedly murdering Elisa due to previous enmity.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for bike theft||Two suspects have been arrested by the Thoraipakkam police for stealing a two-wheeler on Monday. Vivek, 32, of Thirumalai Nagar in Perungudi, reported that his two-wheeler went missing on October 9. Investigation revealed that two men had stolen the vehicle. They parked it in Vellakkal, near Medavakkam, and picked it up again after two days, the police said. With the help of CCTV camera footage, the police secured Augustine, 23, of Mannivakkam, and Hari Nikesh, 22, of Karaikudi. During interrogation, the duo admitted that they stole the bike and sent it to Pattukottai for sale. The vehicle was retrieved with the help of local police.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal hookah bars raided||The police raided hookah bars which were being operated illegally at restaurants and cafés in seven places in Nungambakkam. Fourteen persons have been arrested. After receiving a tip-off, the Nungambakkam police raided a restaurant on College Road, where a hookah bar was being operated illegally. The police also arrested 13 after raiding places in Thirumurthy Nagar on Nungambakkam High road, Valluvar Kottam and in Jagannathan Street.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More MSMEs seek services of facilitation council to get dues||More number of Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) are seeking the support of the facilitation council of the government to get payment arrears from larger industries. B. Karthigaivasan, General Manager of District Industries Centre, said MSME facilitation council held four hearings for this region during the last six months and 12 cases had been settled with payments made to the tune of Rs. 88.57 lakh. Further, judgements were passed for 52 cases for Rs. 11 crore. As many as 225 cases were heard, including some cases that came up for second or third hearing. Apart from this, 150 applications were pending. Mr. Karthigaivasan said applications came to the council from across the region. After the lockdown, there were more applications. Most of these were from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, and Krishnagiri. Usually, a large industry that gave job orders to vendors need to make the payment within the agreed period. Micro or small-scale enterprises approached the council when the pending amount was substantial or the large unit had severed business ties with the vendor. “There seems to be undue delays in payments now,” he said. Mr. Karthigaivasan pointed out that the State government issued a communication recently pointing out that there were reports of inordinate delay in payment of dues to the MSMEs from government departments and organisations too. All departments and public sector undertakings were asked to make payments for goods and services from MSMEs within 45 days.
27 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Around 2,200 children enrol in anganwadis in Coimbatore||Around 2,200 children aged between two and five enrolled in anganwadi centres across Coimbatore district on Monday on Vijayadasami. An official from the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) said the enrolment took place at 1,697 anganwadis in the district. Though it was expected that the enrolment in anganwadis would see a decline due to COVID-19, many parents came forward to enrol their children on Monday, the ICDS official said. “We were thinking whether the parents would be willing to come to anganwadis for enrolment in this situation,” said S. Sobia, a teacher at an anganwadi at Dhamu Nagar in Puliakulam. Four anganwadis in the Dhamu Nagar area saw the enrolment of 20 children on Monday, she said. This was despite the inability to conduct awareness campaigns regarding anganwadis due to COVID-19 precautionary measures, Ms. Sobia said, adding that the parents were confident about the facilities and infrastructure in the anganwadis.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Codissia’s defence innovation centre to be inaugurated||The Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC), an initiative of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia), will on October 28 sign Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with 5 Base Repair Depot and Air Force and Naval Ship Repair Yard, Kochi, to indigenise defence sector components and products. R. Ramamurthy, president of the Association, told The Hindu that for the last four years, Codissia was working with the Central Government to encourage involvement of MSMEs in defence sector indigenisation. This would be done through the CDIIC, to be inaugurated on October 28, that had come up in the Defence Corridor in the State. The total project cost for the Centre was Rs. 45 crore. While the Defence Ministry would provide Rs. 20 crore, including Rs. 5 crore soft loan to product developers in need of financial support, the Atal Incubation Centre would give Rs. 10 crore as grant, at Rs. 2 crore each for five years. Codissia would invest Rs. 10 crore apart from providing land and machinery. The building for the Centre, to come up at Codissia Industrial Park at Kallapalayam, was awaiting approval for building plan. Meanwhile, the Centre had already placed orders for machinery and the Centre’s operations would take off at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex. Through the Atal Incubation Centre, CDIIC endeavoured to handhold a minimum of 10 Incubatees and ensure that at least five incubatees graduated every year from the second year. Many aspiring and existing entrepreneurs with ideas shall be mentored and guided towards succeeding in their projects, which would both be towards domestic as well as defence requirements. With the signing of agreements, there would be regular interaction between the MSMEs and the defence PSUs regarding development of spares and components. Products to be developed at the Centre would be finalised soon, he added. The event on October 28 would have a question and answer session for MSMEs to know more about opportunities in the defence sector. Interested MSMEs can take part in the virtual launch by logging on to Twitter (@CDIIC1), Facebook (www.Facebook.com/CDIIC), Linkedin (www.linkedin.com/in/ info-cdiic-a94b701a6) or Youtube (https://bit.ly/3kce4Er).
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mohan Bhagwat in Coimbatore for RSS Kerala unit meet||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived here on Monday to take part in a two-day executive committee meeting of the organisation’s Kerala unit. The meeting will be held at Chinmaya International Residential School at Karunya Nagar here on Tuesday and Wednesday. RSS sources said the meeting was shifted to Coimbatore owing to the COVID-19 situation in Kerala. It is learnt that around 20 senior functionaries of the RSS from Kerala will take part in the meeting. After reaching Coimbatore in the afternoon, Mr. Bhagwat paid respects to P. R. Krishnakumar, managing director of the Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore) Limited who died of COVID-19 last month, at his residence. Vehicle overturns Ahead of Mr. Bhagwat’s arrival, a vehicle carrying Central Industrial Security Force personnel assigned for his security overturned at Perur Pachapalayam while on way to Coimbatore airport. This occurred when the driver applied sudden brake to avert an accident. None of the personnel was injured. They left for the airport in another vehicle.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for death of co-worker||The Negamam police in Coimbatore rural have arrested a 20-year-old man from Karur for the death of his co-worker near Sulur in Coimbatore district on October 23. P. Ramar, a resident of Gudalur village in Karur district, was arrested on charges of murder of K. Arunkumar (21), a native of Kavalkarapalayam near Kulithalai in Karur. The police said that Ramar and Arunkumar were assigned by a contractor for fencing works at RMP poultry farm at Jallipatty near Sulur. Arunkumar used to quarrel with his co-workers under the influence of alcohol. On October 23, Arunkumar picked up an argument with Ramar at a shed where workers stayed. Ramar left the shed and went to the poultry farm. The police said Arunkumar also went to the poultry farm and continued to quarrel with Ramar. The police said Arunkumar punched Ramar on the face and the latter pushed him. Arunkumar fell on the ground and suffered a head injury. He died while being taken to the Government Hospital at Palladam. Ramar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on October 24.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for possessing marijuana||Two youths hailing from Palakkad were arrested by the Thadagam police in Coimbatore rural with two kg of marijuana on Sunday. S. Karuppasamy (39) and R. Aravindh (19) from Kottathara near Mannarkkad in Palakkad district were arrested with the contraband from the premises of a cemetery at Thadagam, the police said. The police also seized a scooter used by the two accused. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Worker drowns in river A 35-year-old man from West Bengal, who was working in a farm near Mettupalayam, drowned while taking bath in River Bhavani on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as Suresh Uran who had been working in the farm belonging to S. Ragu of Velankanni Nagar near Mettupalayam. The accident occurred around 11 a.m. when the man was taking bath in the river at Alangombu, said the police.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man injured as vehicle hits wild boar||A 35-year-old man was injured after the two-wheeler he rode accidentally hit a wild boar that crossed the road near Mettupalayam late on Saturday. While the man was rescued with injuries, the wild boar died on the spot. Forest Department officials said Senthil Kumar of Thekkampatty near Mettupalayam was injured in the accident that took place within the limits of Sundapatti section of Mettupalayam forest range. The man was heading from Mettupalayam to Vanabadrakaliamman temple when the accident occurred. A wild boar that came from Nellithurai reserve forest area crossed the road unexpectedly and Mr. Kumar’s two-wheeler hit the animal. Mr. Kumar, according to officials, was thrown off the two-wheeler in the impact of the collision. Boar dies He suffered multiple injuries while the wild boar died on the spot. Mr. Kumar was taken to the Government Hospital at Mettupalayam and later shifted to a private hospital in Coimbatore city. Mettupalayam forest range officer D. Senthil Kumar said that Mr. Kumar’s condition was stable. The carcass of the wild boar was autopsied and buried on Sunday.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units plan to step up awareness on industrial safety||Micro and small-scale units plan to step up awareness on industrial safety measures following the death of a 27-year-old micro unit owner on Sunday evening because of an electrical accident at his unit. According to J. James, president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, the unit owner had completed Navarathri pujas at the unit and had accidentally touched a live wire. There was a similar accident seven or eight years ago and the unit owner died in an electrical accident. The workers at micro units may not notice while cleaning the machinery wires that were unprotected. There was certainly a need to improve awareness among the micro and cottage units on electrical safety. “We plan to take up measures regarding this,” he said. B. Karthigaivasan, General Manager of District Industries Centre, said micro units normally did not come under the focus of the government for industrial safety measures. The government had taken a lot of steps to encourage units to go in for energy audits. A similar campaign could be taken up among micro and small units on industrial safety, he said. C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises Assocaition, said 90 % of these units functioned out of rented buildings. Earthing and wiring were important and the unit owners may not be aware of how strong these two were in the buildings. Several accidents could be prevented with proper earthing. “We keep telling the units that they need to focus on these two,” he said. Mr. James added that the Association would work with the DIC to create awareness among the units on electrical safety.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coir mill gutted||A coir mill at Malaypalayam near Sulur here was gutted on Sunday. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel said the mill on Malaypalayam to Kattampatti road caught fire around 5 p.m. on Sunday. Stocks of processed fibre and coconut husks were gutted even as fire brigades from Sulur and Kinathukadavu fire stations struggled to extinguish the fire. Excavators and private tanker trunks were also used to bring the fire under control. A dozen fire brigades led by fire officers M. Gopal and M. Kalimuthu from the two stations put out the flames completely by 4 a.m. on Monday. Mr. Gopal said the mill belonged to one Muthumanickam. The Fire and Rescue Services were yet to assess the value of the damaged materials.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Virtual workshop for school students||Regional Science Centre, Coimbatore in collaboration with New Delhi-based NGO Learning Links Foundation conducted a free virtual workshop for school students from October 20 to 23. According to a release, 67 students and teachers from G.D. Matriculation Higher Secondary School participated in the Shell NXplorers Virtual Workshop. District Science Officer J.R. Pazhaniswami and the school’s Principal Vimala Vijayan participated. The event was about addressing the challenges in availability of food, water and energy through NXplorers tools and methodology, to stimulate critical thinking and problem-solving skills in students. Mr. Pazhaniswami said schools could contact the Regional Science Centre if they wanted to conduct the workshop.
27 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Kuniamuthur sub-station on October 28 , there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas; Kuniamuthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, part of Sundarapuram part, part of BK Pudur, Kovaipudur, NS Puram, Sundakkamuthur, Ramachettipalayam, Arumugagoundanur, Perur Chettipalayam and Perur.
27 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Ash gourd smashed on roads despite warnings||In spite of the City Municipal Corporation’s warning that ash gourd and coconut should not be broken on roads as part of Ayudha puja celebration, violations continued causing inconvenience to pedestrians and motorists here on Monday. Though it is customary to break ash gourd and coconuts after the puja, the vegetable pieces left on the roads pose threat to road users. The civic body had asked residents, traders and shopkeepers to refrain from the practice. However, smashed gourds and coconut pieces were left uncleared not only on arterial roads, but also on roads in residential areas. Conservancy workers said that garbage, including banana steam, mango leaves and unsold items left by traders on the road, were minimum compared to last year. The quantity of items put up for sale by the traders was very less and hence less waste, they said. “After puja, we face a daunting task of removing the garbage. But this year, very few items were dumped on the road,” said a conservancy worker. He said that the bins did not overflow and all the accumulated garbage were removed on Monday.  Salem Staff Reporter adds In Salem, 30 youths from the ‘Salem Ilaignyar Kuzhu’ cleared ash gourds broken on roads at 50 places and discarded them in common bins. The volunteers lamented that in spite of repeated awareness campaigns, public continued to break the vegetable on roads. About 1,800 tonnes of garbage were collected within the Corporation limits during the last three days and nearly 2,120 sanitary workers were involved in the work, Salem Corporation officials said.
27 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Books being collected for children in Gundri Hills||Unarvugal, a non-governmental organisation and Rotary Club of Erode Central began a door-to-door collection of books from the public here on Monday for children in Gundri Hills, which did not have a library. No library Founder-president of Unarvugal Makkal G. Rajan said there were over 5,000 people living in hamlets in Gundri Hills where access to libraries was a key challenge to children. Children needed access to books outside of their syllabus in order to increase their knowledge. But there was no library in the hills and children could not access books, he said. Mr. Rajan said used and new books, and dress materials, would be collected till November 6 and handed over to the children in the hills. He called upon the public to contribute to this effort, pointing out such a gesture could transform the life of the children in the hills. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inaugurated the campaign by handing over books for the children. Later, Rotary and NGO members collected books from people in Periyar Nagar and Sampath Nagar. To contribute books Those who wish to contribute books can contact the NGO Unarvugal’s project directors Megala on 96889-80581 and Prabhu on 97883-98515.
27 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy for garden kits to encourage people grow vegetables in households||To encourage people set up vegetable garden in their households, the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops is providing garden kits with essential items at a subsidised price. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that under the Integrated Horticulture Development Scheme (IHDS), people were encouraged to set up their own garden so that vegetable needs of the family were fulfilled. A package containing coco-peat, organic fertilizers, pesticides, grow-bags and seeds that costs Rs. 890 is provided at a subsidised rate of Rs. 574. A drip irrigation system that costs Rs. 1,120 is provided for a subsidised price of Rs. 800. People can contact the Assistant Directors in each taluks in the district to buy the package. For details The contact numbers are as follows: Erode 94455-12170, Modakurichi 96266-62333, Kodumudi 96005-69830, Bhavani 99409-43079, Ammapettai 97507-51385, Anthiyur 94427-55132, Perundurai 97906-11101, Chennimalai 97870-45557, Gobichettipalayam 93621-19780, Thookanaickenpalayam 80721-02951, Nambiyur 94867-94383, Sathyamangalam 90959-50500, Bhavani Sagar 98427-28398 and Talavadi 96886-75883. Details can also be had from the Office of the Joint Director of Horticulture, Thindal Medu, Vidhya Nagar, Erode - 12.
27 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tension erupts over VCK chief’s visit||Tension prevailed in Kandasamiyanur village, near Kavindapadi in Erode, on Monday after Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) cadre allegedly threw stones at a police vehicle, in which Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre were being taken for raising slogans against the visit of VCK founder and Chidambaram MP Thol. Thirumavalavan for his interpretation of how Manusmriti viewed women. Mr. Thirumavalavan was scheduled to attend the wedding of a doctor’s son on the hospital premises in the village, where over 100 VCK cadre had gathered. As news of his visit spread, BJP cadre gathered at the spot and raised slogans. Tension erupted after cadre from both parties got involved in a wordy duel, and the police removed 15 BJP cadre in a police vehicle. The BJP cadre were taken to the Kavindapadi police station. Later, condemning the arrest, BJP cadre staged a road roko.
27 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elective surgeries resume in GRH||After focusing on COVID-19 pandemic for all these months, Government Rajaji Hospital here has gradually started performing elective surgeries, but with safety precautions. After relaxation of lockdown norms, the number of outpatients visiting the hospital is also on the rise. In the wake of COVID-19 positive cases, elective surgeries were suspended in a majority of government hospitals. Dean J. Sangumani said emergency and semi-elective surgeries had increased in the last two months, as 3,210 surgeries for non-COVID-19 patients were performed across all departments in September alone. On an average, around 50 surgeries were being performed every day,” he said. As many as 237 surgeries had been performed for COVID-19 positive patients from April till date. “If a patient displays clinical symptoms, we do a CT scan and do COVID-19 test. But if it is an emergency situation, we do not wait for the test results and perform the surgery, as saving a life is more important,” said Dr. Sangumani. K. Senthil, Treatment Coordinator for the COVID-19 speciality wing of GRH, said in case of COVID-19 positive patients, surgeries were performed only if there was an emergency. A majority of the surgeries were performed in the Obstetrics and Gynaecology department. Head of the department N. Sumathi said apart from deliveries, elective surgeries such as family planning procedures were also performed. “Performing surgeries after continuously wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) for long is quite challenging for the doctors,” Dr. Sumathi said. “Sometimes doctors feel suffocated, leading to dehydration. So, another team of doctors is kept on the standby to continue with the surgery, if needed,” she said. Dr. Senthil said doctors had been also advised to take short breaks between surgeries. Presently the number of outpatients visiting the GRH is around 90% of the pre-pandemic level. To deal with the influx, additional measures were being taken to manage crowds and to follow precautionary norms, said Dr. Sangumani. “Wash basins with soaps have been set up on the hospital premises so that patients and their attendants can wash their hands frequently. We are also repeatedly announcing the attendants to maintain adequate personal distance from each other while at the hospital,” he added. Dr. Senthil said entry was allowed only through three gates to prevent crowding.  Back in full swing 3,210 surgeries for non-COVID-19 patients were performed in September alone  Performing surgeries after wearing PPE for a long duration is challenging for doctors  Another team of doctors is kept on the standby to continue with the surgery
27 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai chapter of LUB inaugurated||The Madurai chapter of Laghu Udyog Bharati (LUB), a registered national-level organisation for micro and small industries, was inaugurated and its office-bearers were installed at an event here on Monday. The LUB must work towards implementing various schemes of the Central government for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), said M. Ramalingam, General Manager, District Industries Centre. “Many industries in the district will fall under the micro enterprises category, following the change in definition of MSMEs. So, LUB must work with these industries towards their upliftment,” he said. Mr. Ramalingam said Rs. 372. 4 crore had been sanctioned for 11,338 MSMEs in the district under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. The member-secretary of Centre for Entrepreneurship Development R. Jayaraman said LUB must empower, enrich and train more young entrepreneurs. K. Subramanian, zonal manager of Indian Bank, said LUB must work for industrial development in all the 13 blocks in the district. K.R. Gnanasambandan, who was chosen as president of the Madurai chapter of LUB, said individual organisations could not work alone in representing their grievances and demands. “But, LUB being a national-level body, it will work for the cause of the MSME sector,” he said. V. Jayakumar Venkatraman, State general secretary, LUB, said industrial development in the State was disproportionate. “There is a need to distribute more industries across the state for uniform growth,” he said. M.S. Vijayaragavan, president, who joined the event through an online platform, said their vision was nurturing the nation's growth through the development of micro and small enterprises. Hariharan Ramamoorthy, national vice-president, and M. Mohanasundaram, national secretary, spoke online. Earlier, K. Ramachandran, member, welcomed the gathering.
27 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Double murder in Kunnathur: two held||Two weeks after the murder of Kunnathur panchayat president R. Krishnarajan and pump operator A. Munisamy, 40, near Karuppayoorani, two persons - P. Balaguru, 26, of Kunnathur and K. Senthil, 40, of Varichiyur were arrested on Sunday. Senthil is the younger brother of history-sheeter ‘Varichiyur’ Selvam. Senthil had developed enmity with Krishnarajan over his wife Malarvizhi’s defeat in rural local body election and conspired with Balaguru to murder him. Malarvizhi lost the election to the post of councillor of Ward 18 of East Union. Krishnarajan supported her rival Tamilarasi who won the election. Besides, Balaguru, a relative of Krishnarajan, was angry with the latter as he failed to get him a tender as promised. Senthil and Balaguru, who were friends, murdered Krishnarajan and Munisamy when they were in a desolate place in Parai, Oomachikulam Deputy Superintendent of Police Vijayakumar said. Following the double murder, local people ransacked the houses of two other persons in the village, suspecting them to be the accused. Twenty persons were arrested in this connection.
27 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Children initiated into world of letters||A limited number of children were admitted to kindergarten at private institutions in the city on Monday on the occasion of Vijayadashami. Indira Pandiarajan, a member of Global Nursery and Primary Schools Association, said the admission rate of children to kindergarten was very low in private schools when compared to previous years on the auspicious day of Vijayadashami. At a few schools in the city, children were seen learning to write their first letter on a plate of rice as they were initiated into the world of letters. Ramanathapuram The Headmistress of Vallal Pari Municipal Middle School in Ramanathapuram district D. Esther Veni said there was an increase in the number of students admitted to their school this year. “Three postgraduate government teachers from other schools admitted their children to our school this year on Vijayadashami,” she said.
27 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks accused to supply rice bags to homes in Madurai||Granting bail to three accused in separate cases, remanded in judicial custody for illegal possession of rice meant for supply through public distribution system (PDS), the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the three to give rice bags to homes in Madurai. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the accused to supply rice bags to Anbagam, a home for special children on Race Course Road, and Rojavanam, a home for senior citizens in Uthangudi, both in Madurai. While, the court directed Arun from Tirunelveli to give 25 bags (50 kg each) of branded ponni rice to Anbagam, it asked Ayyappan from Tiruchi to supply 15 bags (50 kg each) to the home. Vinothkumar from Tiruchi was directed to give 25 bags (50 kg each) of branded ponni rice to Rojavanam. The three accused were arrested and remanded in judicial custody for illegal possession of rice meant for public distribution system.
27 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response on infrastructure in schools||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to file a response in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to provide adequate infrastructure for government tribal residential schools in Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the State to file the response in the public interest litigation petition filed by G. Pandiyan of Tirunelveli district in 2019 and adjourned the hearing to November 30. The petitioner said the Centre and the State had implemented the welfare programme for the benefit of children belonging to tribal communities.  ‘Provide facilities’ The residential schools provided primary and secondary education to students living in remote areas. As part of the welfare programme, these children should be provided three meals a day, hostel facility, access to clean drinking water and basic toilet facility. However, the basic infrastructure required was not made available in some of the schools, he complained. The petitioner said he visited some of these schools in the southern districts and found that the infrastructure was inadequate. Therefore, the State should take steps to ensure the required infrastructure is provided for the benefit of the children, Mr. Pandiyan added.
27 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||42 kg ganja seized||Madurai City police have seized 42 kg of ganja and arrested A. Dhilip Kumar, 25, of Keeraithurai and M. Hariharasudhan, 20, of Avaniapuram at Madakulam Main Road on Sunday. The S. S. Colony police said a car and a mobile phone were also seized from them. The police said six more accused, including one Sabarathinam, were involved in the crime.       A 59-year-old man, M. Murugan, of Chinthamani, and his daughter were assaulted by a gang when they questioned some people over theft of a mobile phone from their house on Sunday. Police said Murugan’s wife, a differently abled person, was alone at home when one Hari of the same locality is said to have stolen the mobile phone. So, Murugan and his daughter went to Hari’s house to question this when few people, including Bose and Senthil, assaulted them. They also reportedly harassed the woman. The Avaniapuram police have registered a case under various sections of Indian Penal Code and under provisions of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998.
27 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed when their car hit a palmyrah tree near T. Kallupatti on Rajapalayam-Madurai highway on Sunday evening. Retired village administrative officer M. Selvasekaran, 61, and M. Murugavel, 60, from Pandapulli near Sankarankoil were proceeding to Madurai in the car driven by G. Sangaiah of Kalingapatti. Near Solaipatti, Sangaiah lost control of the vehicle, which swerved to the right. After jumping into a huge pit, the car hit a palmyrah tree around 3.30 p.m. Selvasekaran and M. Murugavel were killed on the spot. The injured driver was admitted to Tirumangalam Government Hospital. T. Kallupatti police are investigating.
27 October 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district reports 68 fresh positive cases||Madurai recorded 68 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, which took the total number of positive cas es in the district to 18,513. A total of 96 persons were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases is 606. The district lost one more life to register a death toll of 415. Kanniyakumari registered 56 fresh cases – the daily tally was 57 on Sunday – to reach a total case count of 14,723. After 59 people were discharged, the district has 571 active cases. With two more fatalities, the district’s death toll stands at 242. Sivaganga added 46 new cases in the last two days, after which its tally rose to 5,814. There were 51 discharges. Theni had 38 new cases, which took the tally to 16,143. There were 67 discharges in the last two days. Thoothukudi too recorded 38 fresh cases – 42 cases on Sunday – to have a tally of 14,817. With 36 people having been discharged on Monday (35 on Sunday), the district has 500 active cases. The toll continues at 129. Thirty-one people tested positive in Dindigul, which now has an overall case count of 9,737. Hospitals discharged 64 people. 30 in Tirunelveli Tirunelveli’s tally rose to 14,106 on Monday – it was 14,075 on Sunday – with the addition of 30 cases. After 50 patients were discharged, the district has 309 active cases. The number of fatalities in Virudhunagar rose to 220 with the death of a 65-year-old man at a private hospital in Madurai. The district recorded 23 fresh cases to have a tally of 15,344. After the discharge of 17 people, the number of active cases in the district stands at 187. With an increase of 22, Ramanathapuram’s tally went up to 5,965. There were 45 discharges. Only three fresh cases were reported in Tenkasi – the single-day tally was four on Sunday – with which it marked a total case count of 7,791 on Monday. After 19 cases were discharged, Tenkasi has 125 active cases. The district lost a patient to the viral infection to report a toll of 153.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC rejects pleas for interim relief on OBC quota in T.N. medical colleges||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to order interim relief of implementing 50% reservation this year itself for NEET-UG students belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical and dental seats contributed to the All-India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run colleges in Tamil Nadu. A Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, refused to order interim relief on separate petitions filed by the Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate V. Giri; the AIADMK, represented by advocate Balaji Srinivasan; and the DMK, represented by senior advocate P. Wilson, among other parties. During the last hearing, the National Medical Commission had said it was not possible to extend the benefit of OBC quota this year to NEET-UG candidates because students had filled their application forms for NEET in January-February itself. “They had also filled the category under which they were applying. The NEET results would also show this category...The OBC reservation was not open then in January-February,” said Mr. Gaurav Sharma, representing the Commission. Mr. Sharma, who was supported by the Centre, said the reservation roster had already been fixed by the Directorate General of Health Services. The NEET results were declared on October 16, and were followed by counselling sessions. In August, the Tamil Nadu government and the other parties had challenged a Madras High Court decision to set up a committee to “finalise” the OBC reservation in State-surrendered seats for the All-India Quota in non-central medical colleges. They had objected to how the High Court had declined to straightaway order the Centre and the Medical Council of India (since replaced by the National Medical Commission) to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities in these seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses, in compliance with reservation rules followed in the State for the academic year 2020-21. The High Court, in its decision on July 27, had declined the mandamus “despite finding there is a clear substantive law providing for State-specific reservation formulated by the MCI”. “Instead, the court set up a committee when such a committee was unnecessary, consisting of the Directorate General of Health Services, the MCI and the Tamil Nadu government department concerned, to finalise the manner in which the facilities of OBC reservation are to be provided,” the Tamil Nadu government had said. The State had argued that the High Court was contradicting itself. “Once the court has determinatively found that the governing law provides for OBC reservation as per Tamil Nadu rules, then the proverbial ‘story’ ends there and the appropriate authorities ought to be directed to apply the law. The committee, therefore, is aimless and entirely redundant,” the State had argued. It said the High Court had further excluded OBC reservation for the current academic year despite finding that there is a legal right. This had denied a number of deserving OBC candidates seats in the All-India Quota for 2020-2021, it added. Mr. Sharma, who was supported by the Centre, said the reservation roster had already been fixed by the Directorate General of Health Services. The NEET results were declared on October 16, and were followed by counselling sessions. In August, the Tamil Nadu government and the other parties had challenged a Madras High Court decision to set up a committee to “finalise” the OBC reservation in State-surrendered seats for the All-India Quota in non-central medical colleges. They had objected to how the High Court had declined to straightaway order the Centre and the Medical Council of India (since replaced by the National Medical Commission) to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities in these seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses, in compliance with reservation rules followed in the State for the academic year 2020-21. The High Court, in its decision on July 27, had declined the mandamus “despite finding there is a clear substantive law providing for State-specific reservation formulated by the MCI”. “Instead, the court set up a committee when such a committee was unnecessary, consisting of the Directorate General of Health Services, the MCI and the Tamil Nadu government department concerned, to finalise the manner in which the facilities of OBC reservation are to be provided,” the Tamil Nadu government had said. The State had argued that the High Court was contradicting itself. “Once the court has determinatively found that the governing law provides for OBC reservation as per Tamil Nadu rules, then the proverbial ‘story’ ends there and the appropriate authorities ought to be directed to apply the law. The committee, therefore, is aimless and entirely redundant,” the State had argued. It said the High Court had further excluded OBC reservation for the current academic year despite finding that there is a legal right. This had denied a number of deserving OBC candidates seats in the All-India Quota for 2020-2021, it added.
27 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 144 new cases||No COVID-19 deaths were reported in Puducherry on Monday while 144 new cases were detected from 1,059 tests. Of the new cases, 127 were reported in Puducherry, two in Karaikal, five in Yanam and 10 in Mahe. The test positivity rate was 13.59%, case fatality rate 1.71% and recovery rate stood at 87.34%. In the last 24 hours, 189 patients recovered and were discharged. The overall tally in the Union Territory stands at 588 deaths, 3,758 active cases, a cumulative total of 34,336 cases and 29,990 recovered patients. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said health teams of ASHA workers and ANMs had been visiting patients who had recovered from infection to check their health status. “Once the findings are consolidated, we will frame a treatment strategy for those with long-term effects,” he said. The Minister said following decline in the caseload, instructions had been issued to stop referring COVID-19 patients to private medical colleges as a large number of beds and manpower at IGMCRI and Jipmer remained unutilised. The beds in the private sector can be earmarked as reserve capacity should there be a resurgence in the pandemic, he said. Cross 3-lakh The Union Territory, which had so far tested about 2,92,567 samples to date, would cross the 3-lakh mark shortly and attain a milestone of reaching 20 per cent of the population, the Minister said. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi called for better measures to encourage voluntary testing by the public. Chairing a review, Ms. Bedi noted that while things seem to be coming under good control, it is being reported that people are reluctant to be tested. “This needs better messaging to people to make them understand the purpose of testing, as it helps in early identification of the extent of prevailing infection,” she said. She called for IEC campaigns to focus on creating better understanding among the public and possibly use music for higher appeal. The LAD would monitor inspection of shops by municipal authorities for compliance with COVID-19 safety norms.
27 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Protesting school teachers arrested during procession to Raj Nivas||Over 100 aided school teachers were arrested near the Immaculate Conception Cathedral on Monday while taking out a march to the Raj Nivas demanding salary and pension arrears. The protesters had gathered in front of the Cathedral to proceed to the Raj Nivas when they were intercepted by the police. The teachers sat in a dharna and raised slogans. They were later arrested and taken to the Gorimedu police community hall when they tried to proceed with their Raj Nivas picketing plan. The teachers federation announced in the evening that they would not be deterred by arrests and would sustain their stir until their just demands were met. A police officer said a case was registered against the protesters for violating the norms under which permission for the demonstration was granted. Later, though the police released the protesters, they refused to budge from the police camp for a few hours. Around 400 teachers belonging to 32 aided schools have been on protest for the past three weeks demanding pay and pension pending for 11 months. The release of arrears has been caught up in red tape following difference in opinion between the Government and the Raj Nivas. While the government has sought to release at least a part of the arrears, the Raj Nivas has opted to withhold the payment until some of the school managements remitted their dues to the State coffers.
27 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts on to fill vacancies in U.T. govt. departments’||Steps are being taken to fill up vacancies in government departments, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Monday. Addressing a virtual press conference, the Chief Minister said the recruitment process for police constabulary would start next month. The government had also initiated steps to fill vacancies in the electricity department. Heads of departments had been asked to furnish details about upper and lower division clerk vacancies, the Chief Minister said. The Labour Department had been asked to conduct more job fairs in the coming days, he added. Blaming the Lt. Governor for the delay in providing salaries for government aided school teachers, he said the teachers are protesting for the last 10 months demanding salary. The Chief Minister said he was again forwarding the file for financial sanction. Sanction could be given to disburse two thirds of the pending salary and the remaining could be given after checking anomalies in the amount remitted by the schools to the exchequer. The aided schools are bound to remit the tuition fee collected from the students to the government coffers. Flays T.N. govt. The Chief Minister also flayed the decision of the Tamil Nadu government to register a case against VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan for his reported remarks about women. The BJP had twisted the statement of Mr. Thirumavalavan and filed a false complaint with the intention to tarnish his image, he said.
27 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Temples to issue receipts to donors||The Government has made it mandatory for temples to issue proper receipts for donations or offerings made by devotees. In a press note, A. Sivasankaran, Commissioner, Department of Hindu Religious Institutions and Wakf, said as per the instructions of Secretary, Hindu Religious Institutions, Government of Puducherry, it is notified that the public, devotees, organisations and others should get the signed acknowledgement from the temple administration for the donations, offerings, etc. made to the temples. The temple administration should make necessary entry into the registers maintained for this purpose. Further, those receipts are subject to audit by the Government and for regulating the income of the temple, the press note said. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi also sought that everyone donating anything to temples ask for a receipt. The measure is aimed at plugging leakages of public money meant for divine service. "Our duty is to keep plugging leakages wherever and whenever we detect (them) to serve the people to the best of our ability," Ms. Bedi said.
27 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Alliance question does not arise now: Rangasamy||All India N. R. Congress chief and Opposition leader N. Rangasamy on Monday said the question of forming alliance for the upcoming (Puducherry) Assembly election did not arise now. “You will have to wait for forming the alliance. It is not in my mind now,” said Mr. Rangasamy while answering a question from reporters at a function held to lay the foundation for the N. R. Congress office on East Coast Road. Asked whether his party would form the next government, he said “people will decide.” He did not respond to a query on the charge levelled against him by the Chief Minister that Mr. Rangasamy was visible only during elections. The foundation laying ceremony witnessed a gathering of several prominent members who had left N. R. Congress before the last Assembly election due to differences with Mr. Rangasamy.
27 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||One tonne of turmeric seized near Mandapam||Marine police on Monday seized a tonne of turmeric from an unregistered boat found abandoned near Mandapam here. Following a tip-off, a team led by Inspector Kanagaraj conducted a search on the boat and found bags loaded with turmeric. Recently, the Marine police seized huge quantities of turmeric near Thondi and Rameswaram shore. An investigating officer said the condiment was in huge demand in Sri Lanka due to Covid-19 pandemic. The smugglers, in return, received gold from their buyers. Hence, there was a rise in smuggling activity. Police intensified vigil along the coast and special check-posts were installed. Round-the-clock vehicle checks were conducted. Last month, a vehicle from Erode district was seized after the occupants had turmeric stashed in gunny bags. Similarly, in a dilapidated building near Mandapam, police seized the condiment and arrested two persons.
27 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Children admitted to schools on Vijayadasami||Special pujas were held in a few temples as part of Vijayadasami celebration here on Monday. Children took part in the Vidyarambham ceremony, in which they were initiated into the world of letters. The government schools in the district admitted children to kindergarten classes and distributed books and education materials. Salem Chief Educational Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy said that the admission process in government schools was carried out following COVID-19 safety protocols. A total of 108 students enrolled in LKG, 23 in UKG and 76 in Class 1. Parents were advised to follow safety protocols like wearing mask, maintaining physical distancing norm and using hand sanitisers during the admission process P. Ayyannan, CEO, Namakkal, said that about 60 children enrolled in schools till Monday afternoon. In Erode, the School Education Department had earlier issued guidelines for admission during the COVID-19 pandemic and had asked all the schools to make necessary arrangements to prevent overcrowding on the school premises. The schools in the city had placed boards with messages on COVID-19 safety guidelines . Many parents had turned up with their children for the admission process. After the admission, books and other study materials were given to students. Children, who had completed five years of age, from anganwadi centres were admitted to nearby government schools on the day.
27 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud sees good footfall during puja holidays||The hill station of Yercaud saw good flow of tourists during the puja holidays. Authorities at the parks, however, said that the tourist inflow was yet to return to pre-COVID-19 level. There are six parks under the Horticulture Department -- Anna Park, Lake Park, two Government Botanical Gardens, a rose garden and a genetic heritage garden. Officials said Anna Park on Saturday had a collection of Rs. 4,685, Lake Park Rs. 865, rose garden Rs. 8,450, both the botanical gardens collected Rs. .1,350 and the genetic heritage garden collected Rs. 10, 535. On Sunday, Anna Park collected Rs. 5,850, Lake Park Rs. .950, Rose garden Rs. 8,560, both the botanical gardens collected close to Rs. 2,000 and the genetic heritage garden Rs. 7,460. The officials said COVID-19 safety protocols were followed and steps were taken to prevent crowding.
27 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TAHDCO works inspected||Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation (TADHCO) Limited Managing Director J. Vijayarani on Saturday inspected various works being carried out by it here. Ms. Vijayarani inspected the construction works at the Ekalavya model school in Kolli Hills and visited establishments that had benefited from TAHDCO schemes. According to a release, loans amounting to Rs. 46.08 lakh were provided to 34 persons to start businesses, Rs. 16.59 lakh loans with subsidies to 13 persons for self-employment and Rs. .42.5 lakh loans with subsidies to women self-help groups.
27 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mosquito nets sent to Odisha||The Salem Railway Division on Monday transported mosquito nets from Karur to Odisha through its business development efforts. A release from the division said 42 wagons loaded with mosquito nets were sent to Mancheswar in Bhubaneswar, Odisha. The business development unit at the division has been working towards getting new streams of freight traffic to ensure uninterrupted movement of goods during the COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials, the transportation of nets from Karur to Mancheswar would fetch the Railways Rs. 47.8 lakh.
27 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Raja Raja Cholan Sathaya Vizha celebrated||Garlanding the statue of Emperor Raja Raja Cholan in the town and conduct of religious events on the Big Temple premises marked the 1035 ‘Sathaya Vizha’ celebrations held at Thanjavur on Monday. District Collector M. Govinda Rao and other government officials and dignitaries garlanded the statue of the Emperor installed at the Cholan Park near the Big Temple complex. Distribution of clothes to temple staff, recitation of Tamil hymns and special anointment for the presiding deities were organised at the temple by the Sathaya Vizha committee. Later in the evening, the decorated idol of Raja Raja Cholan was taken in a procession within the temple precincts. Though the Sathaya Vizha celebrations have been confined to a day this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the public thronged the temple right from Sunday evening itself as the Tamil Nadu Tourism Department had illuminated the temple premises and the Raja Raja Cholan statue with decorative lights. The Department had also provided special illumination at the Raja Raja Cholan Manimandapam complex on the Tiruchi Road. The Government had sanctioned Rs. 3 lakh for the special illumination, official sources said. Leaders of political parties and caste outfits also garlanded the Raja Raja Cholan statue on the occasion.
27 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Paddy procurement continues even on holiday||Officials and staff of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation carried out paddy procurement from farmers in Orathanadu Block on Monday, despite the day being a government holiday. Appreciating the act of the TNCSC staff, District Collector M. Govinda Rao inspected the quality of the paddy, winnowing and measuring processes at the Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) at Neivasal, Thalaiyamangalam, Ponnappur, Okkanadu Kizhaiyur, Kakkarai, Neduvakottai, Kakkaraikottai and other villages in Orathanadu block. Mr. Govinda Rao also scrutinised account books maintained at the DPCs with respect to the number of bags procured. He also checked the number of bags moved to the storage points from the centres and about the availability of gunny bags and threads.
27 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA launches online degree programmes||SASTRA University has launched undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes, in the online mode, pursuant to the recent University Grants Commission regulations. A total of 12 UG and PG programmes will be offered on the MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) platform, as per norms and standards prescribed by the UGC, providing a wide array of choices for learners with a diverse learning appetite, a press release said. The B.Com programme will be offered in collaboration with KS Academy, a CA coaching institute, providing dual engagement for students to pursue the degree programme as well as undergo foundational inter-final coaching. For the BBA in Logistics Management course, SASTRA has collaborated with the Logistics Skill Council of the Union Ministry of Skill & Entrepreneurship, to provide a focused approach to students to build capacity in the logistics sector, according to S. Gopalakrishnan, director of the Online and Distance Education Department. The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) course focuses on aspects of Indic arts and culture, with courses in music, yoga, temple architecture, harikata, Vaishnavism and Saivism. The other programs are BCA, B.A., M.Sc., MBA. M.Com and MA in Sanskrit and Divyaprabhandam . Memoranda of understanding was signed recently by S. Vaidhyasubramaniam, the vice-chancellor, with the Logistics Skill Council and KS Academy. Online registration for the courses has commenced, and one can register at www.sastra.edu, until December 31. Classes will begin from the 3rd week of January 2021, Dr. Gopalakrishnan added.
27 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Traffic disrupted||Traffic on Peravurani-Pudukottai Road near Valaiyankulam was disrupted for more than an hour on Monday after a group of people squatted on the road demanding that the corpse of a senior citizen belonging to Santamalam be allowed to be cremated at the Valaiyankulam burial ground. The group staged a protest as a section of people at Valaiyankulam opposed the burial there. Subsequently, the burial took place after the intervention of revenue and police officials. The demonstrators withdrew their protest eventually.
27 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Outfit opposes call for ban of ‘Manuneedhi Sasthiram’||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has opposed the demand raised in certain quarters for ban on ‘Manuneedhi Sasthiram’. In a press release, P. Maniarasan, president of the Periyakkam, said existence of ‘Manuneedhi Sasthiram’ would help the future generations to know for themselves the ‘anti-humanitarian’ concepts of ‘ariyam’. Calling on the proponents of ‘ariyam’ to counter the remarks made by Thol.Thirumavalavan, leader of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Mr. Maniarasan hoped for a constructive debate with ‘ariyam’ proponents. Condemning the filing of a case under sections 153, 153a, 295a, 298, 505(1) and 505(2) of IPC against Mr. Thirumavalavan, the TDP president urged the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palanisamy to use his special powers to appoint a special officer to look into the issue.
27 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||A Thoothukudi salon catches the PM’s eye||For his customers of Millerpuram in Thoothukudi, hairdresser Pon Mariappan’s passion for books is well known. His salon is equipped not just with hair-dressing equipment but also a mini-library to encourage clients to read a book until their turn comes. For his customers, his small but neatly maintained salon even during the pandemic is a ‘temple of knowledge’, where the portraits of gods and goddesses share space with photographs of icons like Thiruvalluvar, Mahatma Gandhi, Vivekananda, Bharati and Abdul Kalam. And his message on the importance of books and reading attracted national attention last Sunday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to an elated Mr. Mariappan during his latest national radio ‘Man ki baat’ after hearing about his hairdresser’s library. Though Pon Mariappan could not continue his studies after Class 8, his tenure as the clerk of an advocate brought home to him the importance of reading. After he started his hairdressing unit at Millerpuram a few years ago, Mr. Mariappan was pained to see his customers indulging in pointless small talk while waiting their turn. The situation, he says worsened with the advent of smartphones and social media. “So, I set up the library in my salon having experienced the benefits of reading. After the library became a part of my workplace, absolute silence prevails here as the visitors get involved in a book while waiting. When the waiting customers sit idle without reading anything, lectures of Sukhi Sivam, Nellai Kannan, Thamizharvui Manian, Parveen Sultana, mostly on positive thinking, literature, Thirukkural etc. is played to get them engrossed instead of allowing them to discuss ‘rubbish’,” Mr. Mariappan says. Once the hairdressing is done, customers are requested to record thier opinions on the books they read. “The valuable opinions of my customers encourage me to add more books on diverse topics,” he says. When Mr. Modi greeted him in Tamil saying “Vanakkam… Nallaa Irukkengala?” and asked him about the reason behind his creating a library in the salon, Mr. Mariappan was on cloud nine as he could voice his views on the importance of reading to an national audience. He also told the Prime Minister during the brief conversation that Thirukkural was close to his heart always. “The wishes I could get from the Prime Minister is something special,” he said.
27 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Spineless’ AIADMK will be taught a lesson in Assembly poll: Congress||The ruling “spineless AIADMK”, which is dancing to the tune of BJP-led Narendra Modi government at the Centre without resisting the anti-people and anti-farmer policies, would have to face the wrath of the people of Tamil Nadu, All India Congress Committee secretary Sanjay Dutt has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday after kick-starting the signature campaign against the recently introduced farm laws, Mr. Sanjay Dutt said the BJP government enacted the “anti-farmer laws” in Parliament without a debate even as Opposition parties were clamouring against it. In order to highlight the resistance to the Acts, the Congress was conducting the signature campaign across the country and planned to takeout ‘tractor rallies’ against them from November 1 to 10 in all districts. “Even as the BJP’s allies are opposing these laws and a Minister resigns from the Union Cabinet, the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu supports the laws as it is dancing to the tune of the BJP for obvious reasons. Even after the Narendra Modi-led government is taking several regressive anti-Tamil Nadu and anti-Tamil measures, the AIADMK is helplessly watching it silently. The smart Tamil Nadu voters, who are angrily following this ‘puppet show’, will teach a fitting lesson in the ensuing Assembly polls to the AIADMK and its ally, the BJP,” Mr. Sanjay Dutt said. The Congress functionary also alleged that the BJP government had miserably failed to protect women, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes from all forms of aggressions and said the Congress would stage a nation-wide agitation against the atrocities on November 5. Thoothukudi Town district president of Congress C.S. Muralidharan presided over the event.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Garbage blights Tiruchi roads||Ayudha Puja festival celebration on Sunday generated heaps of garbage on streets and commercial thoroughfares in different parts of the city. Though the usual fanfare attached to the festival was missing this year due to COVID pandemic fear, and the social distancing norms in place, most of the people including traders, two-wheeler and four wheeler mechanics, bus, taxi and auto rickshaw operators and others chose to perform no-frills pujas Associations of various workers, traders, drivers, taxi owners, auto rickshaw operators, merchants usually come together to celebrate the festival by erecting pandals, decorating their business establishments with sparkling lights and playing music with loud speakers. But, it was hardly noticed in the city this year. However, they did not fail to clean up their premises as per the practice. They removed the unwanted items and dumped them on the streets. According to sources in the Tiruchi Corporation, no sanitary worker, except those on medical emergencies and other pressing situations, was allowed to avail leave on Monday. However, despite their full attendance, garbage heaps were quite visible in several parts of the city. Discarded and unsold plantain, mango leaves, and pumpkins were found heaped on the roadsides. The seasonal traders and farmers, who set up shops along the roadsides in the thickly populated areas including Woraiyur, Thennur, Thillai Nagar, Srirangam, Palakarai and East Boulevard Road left after abandoning the unsold leaves and banana plantain. They left huge garbage on college road near Chathiram Bus Stand and the other temporary markets including at Anna Nagar and others. Garbage were piled up in Singarathope, NSB Road, Big Bazaar Street, Chinnakadai Street, Nandi Koil Street, Bheema Nagar and many other locations. Sanitary workers experienced a tough time to clear mounds of garbage on Satharaveedhi in Srirangam, one of the largest flower market in Tiruchi. The traders and workers, who worked overtime for the last two days to cash in on the demand of flowers on account of Ayudha Puja and Saraswathi Puja, had left behind a huge volume of waste. In some places, volunteers of Shine Treechy and the traffic policemen of Cantonment and Ariyamangalam went on a mission to clear pumpkins and coconuts broken by traders in front of their commercial establishments on Sunday night. Manoj Dharmar, founder of Shine Treechy, said that besides clearing pumpkins and coconuts, they created awareness among the people on avoiding the practice by highlighting the danger posed to the motorists. A senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu that the festivities had added about 50 tonnes of garbage to the daily collection of about 450 tonnes. Most of the garbage had been removed. Uncleared garbage would be removed on Tuesday, the official said.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Number of positive cases shows a steady decline||A total of 243 patients tested positive for COVID-19 virus infection in the central districts on Monday. Fresh cases continued to be on decline in all the eight districts in the region for the last 10 days. While Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded less than 10 cases, three districts such as Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai registered less than 30 cases Thanjavur recorded the maximum number of cases. As many as 63 patients tested positive for the virus in the district. Tiruchi district was next with 46 patients testing positive for the virus. The daily count was 45 in Tiruvarur, 28 in Pudukottai and 25 in Nagapattinam. Just three cases were recorded in Perambalur and six in Ariyalur. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department on Monday, the central districts recorded three deaths. Tiruchi, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai recorded one each. A 76-year-old male patient, who was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi on October 16 with complaints of fever for eight days, and cough and difficulty in breathing for two days, succumbed to COVID-19 pneumonia. He had a pre-existing complication of diabetic mellitus. The lone patient who died of COVID-19 pneumonia in Nagapattinam district was 68-years old. He was admitted to the Government Periyar Hospital in Mayiladuthurai on Sunday with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for the past four days. He was suffering from coronary artery disease for some time, sources said. A 55-year-old male from Pudukottai, who died on Sunday, was admitted to the Government Medical College hospital with type-II diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease on October 23, and subsequently tested positive for the virus the same day. He succumbed to the virus on Sunday.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Innovation centre at NIT-T envisages push for technology transfer||An Innovation Facilitation Centre jointly developed by the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) and National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi for fostering commercialisation of ideas was inaugurated on Monday on the institution premises. Christened NRDC-NITT- IFC, the facility envisages a push for technology transfer, mentoring student and faculty start-ups, and sensitising the academia about technologies that need to be developed and commercialised. Krishnan Balasubramanian of IIT-Madras, an expert in faculty start-ups, inaugurated the facility virtually, emphasised on convergence of research and innovation activities with societal impact. Guest of honour Prof. Satish Vasu Kailas of IISc, Bangalore, delivered his inaugural lecture on ‘Strategy to convert Pandemic Blocking Stone into Stepping Stone in Research Progress’. Prof. Satish dwelt on framing a hypothesis, executing experiments, writing manuscripts, and maintaining work-life balance. S. Muthukumaran, Dean - Research and Consultancy, said the Centre will work towards promoting activities of MSME sector, mentoring of Tiruchi fabrication clusters in technology areas, and boosting fabrication of indigenous defence related products in line with the requirements of Tamil Nadu Defence corridor. Presiding over the function, the Director of NIT-T, Mini Shaji Thomas said the Innovation facilitation Centre would strategise the research paradigm towards societally relevant research problems and product development.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Objects found in tank were not dinosaur eggs’||Amid claims in the social media that dinosaur egg fossils have been unearthed in Venkattan kulam, an irrigation tank at Kunnam in Perambalur district, a report prepared by the Curator of Government Museum, Tiruchi, indicates that the stone ball-like objects were concretions and a few of them were found to be ammonites. Ammonite is a marine organism that existed centuries ago and the coating with sediments and minerals makes it into a rock-like object, C. Sivakumar, Curator (in-charge), Government Museum, Tiruchi, who carried out an inspection on October 23 following a direction from the Commissioner of Museums, Chennai, said. Mr. Sivakumar was accompanied by Uma Shankar, Curator (in-charge) Ariyalur Fossils Site Museum and Kunnam Tahsildar during the inspection. During the course of the inspection, stone ball-like objects of varying sizes were found in the tank. The objects were found when dredging works were being undertaken in the sprawling waterbody. The objects were mild yellow in colour and found at a depth of 20-feet from the ground, said Mr. Sivakumar. Mr. Sivakumar said close examination of the upper portion of the objects at the site revealed they were all concretions that could have been formed centuries ago. Inspection of the upper layer of three big-size concretions that were flat, indicated that they were ammonites. Mr. Sivakumar said he had forwarded the inspection report with his observations to the Commissioner of Museums.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo launches daily service to Delhi||IndiGo airline has launched a daily service to New Delhi from Tiruchi. The airline, which launched the service from Sunday, will operate Airbus A-320 flight with 186 seats to New Delhi from Tiruchi via Bengaluru, airline sources said. As per the schedule, the flight will leave from Bengaluru at 5.40 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 7 p.m. It will leave for Bengaluru from here at 7.35 p.m. and land at 8.40 p.m. The flight will leave Bengaluru at 9.40 p.m. and reach New Delhi at 12.45 a.m., the next morning, said the sources. The connectivity to Delhi from Tiruchi airport has come after a gap of two years. During February 2018, Jet Airways had launched a daily service on the Tiruchi - Mumbai-Delhi sector. However, the service was suspended in October 2018 due to operational reasons.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver murdered||A 55-year-old auto driver was murdered by an armed gang near his house at Tiruvanaikoil here on Monday. Police identified the victim as V. Murugan who resided at fifth Praharam in Tiruvanaikoil. Police sources said the gang members armed with sharp weapons attacked Murugan killing him on the spot in broad daylight and escaped. Previous enmity between the auto driver and a group which allegedly attempted to steal goats from his house is suspected to be the cause behind the murder. The Srirangam Police are investigating.
27 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.52 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 14,510 cusecs and the discharge was 9,000 cusecs.
27 October 2020||TIRUCHI/ Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi to lead protest condemning police action||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin will lead a protest in Coimbatore on Tuesday to condemn police action against DMK workers who tore posters that appeared in different parts of the city, which, according to them, mocked and belittled party president M.K. Stalin. After 12 DMK workers were arrested for tearing the posters on Sunday, Mr. Udhayanidhi condemned the action on Twitter, stating that the Coimbatore city police were functioning as an extension of the AIADMK. DMK general secretary S. Duraimurugan also condemned the police action, in a statement, in which he asked the AIADMK to quit the politics of using “uncivilised posters” and seek votes by listing authentic facts. He also criticised the police for not taking action against those who put up the posters, which did not have the name of the printing press where they were printed. The cadre were released on bail on Sunday. Posters in Tiruchi In Tiruchi, the Fort police have launched an investigation into posters put up at a few spots, featuring caricatures of DMK president M.K. Stalin, coupled with insulting inscriptions. The police could not immediately determine where the posters, found at three spots near the Chathram bus stand, were printed.
27 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||120 trees to be uprooted and relocated at Vaeinthankulam||With new constructions coming up and existing structures being repaired at Vaeinthankulam bus stand, around 120 trees — 10 to 15 years old — have been uprooted and replanted along the tank that will brim with water during the northeast monsoon. When renovation and construction activity started recently at the bus stand under the smart city programme, 106 trees on the premises, mostly neem, were in danger of being axed. When the Corporation updated Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish about the progress of work, the civic body was asked to explore the possibility of relocating the trees. Sub-Collector, Tirunelveli, Siva Krishnamurthy inspected the trees that were to come under the axed and scouted for new locations where they could be replanted within the shortest possible time. Collector’s suggestion The Collector suggested that the uprooted trees be replanted along the bunds of the new-look Vaeinthankulam, which was desilted last year with public contribution of Rs. 12 lakh. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan consulted his counterparts in other urban local bodies and finally contacted Bharathiyar University, Coimbatore, for technical guidance from the Department of Environmental Sciences. Bharathiyar University Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj selected A. Manimekalan of Department of Environmental Sciences and ‘Osai’ K. Syed Kattuva, Project Officer, for the project. “We have to relocate 120 trees, including neem, pungan and nuna, to Vaeinthankulam bunds, which will consume a minimum of 30 days,” said Mr. Syed. When the first tree was relocated on October 25 with Ms. Shilpa planting it, there was a drizzle. When a crow’s nest with two eggs was found in a neem tree, it was left intact. “We will come to this tree only after the eggs hatch and the chicks fly away,” said Mr. Syed, who also spared another tree that nestled a squirrel’s home. After replanting the trees, he explains to each one of them the situation that necessitated their relocation and assures it of every possible care to ensure their germination. In order to relocate a tree, Rs. 6,500 is spent on slicing the branches to ensure easy transportation, applying cow dung to them and deploying heavy equipment to uproot, shift and replant in a new pit, taking thaai mann (original soil) in a lorry, and watering for some time. Organic manure and coconut pith are also put in the pit. To avoid drying up of the branches and the trunk, the entire portion is covered with gunny bags, which are kept wet throughout the day by sprinkling water. The contractor involved in the renovation of the new bus stand readily came forward to bear all expenses. Mr. Syed, who opposes felling of trees, said relocation of trees should be the last resort. “Can you manufacture a leaf? If you can not produce a leaf, how can you cut down a tree having thousands of leaves that ensure continuance of life on earth? The tree gives oxygen even to the woodcutter.When the situation demands, we should always strive hard to relocate the tree to a conducive spot instead of slicing it,” he said.  Palmyrah seed sowing On its part, Nam Tamirabharani Iyakkam has sowed seeds of palmyrah trees on the bund to make it stronger. “We have sowed 100 palmyrah seeds. We are getting 150 more,” said Nallaperumal of the Iyakkam that renovated Vaeinthankulam last year.
27 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Migratory birds begin to arrive at Nanjarayan Tank in Tiruppur||With migratory birds from various parts of India and world arriving at the Nanjarayan Tank near Uthukuli in Tiruppur district, birdwatchers remain hopeful about an increase in the number of birds visiting this year. A Forest Department official said on Monday that the birds started arriving in the first week of October and more birds were expected to arrive in the coming months. Whether the overall reduction in air pollution levels and other environment impacts of COVID-19 would affect the number of birds visiting this year were yet to be seen, the official said. K. Ravindran, bird watcher and president of Nature Society of Tiruppur, said the initial stages seemed to be satisfactory without any apparent drop in the arrival of the migratory birds. “The Nanjarayan Tank is attracting shore birds,” he said, referring to the birds found on shorelines or shallow waters across the world such as sandpipers (common, wood and marsh), ruffs and Temminick’s stints. Other migratory birds from Europe that arrived included garganeys and northern shovelers. Birds such as spot-billed pelicans, Indian cormorants, grey herons and painted storks were some of the birds that migrated to Nanjarayan Tank from other parts of India, Mr. Ravindran said. Most of the migratory birds would arrive by December and leave by the beginning of March. The forest official said that Forest Department staff visited the Nanjarayan Tank every day to ensure no activities that might disturb the migratory birds took place. “The public have been quite supportive so far,” the official said.
27 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in Noyyal||Personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services on Monday retrieved the body of a man who drowned in River Noyyal near Mangalam here. The police said Yogarathinam (26) and four of his friends were allegedly inebriated on Sunday afternoon and he went to take a dip at a check dam of the river. He was washed away as he was not able to swim, the police said. The personnel began the search operations on Sunday evening and recovered the body on Monday.
27 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani plans protest||Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam announced that a demonstration would be held in Andipalayam on November 2 against the alleged encroachment of temple land by the State government. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he alleged that the State government was attempting to construct a police quarters on the temple land in Andipalayam, where annual festivals would be held. Residents of the villages in Andipalayam area would stage the protest, he said. If no action was taken, the Hindu Munnani would organise State-wide protests, Mr. Subramaniam said.
27 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by gaur in the Nilgiris||A 26-year-old man has becom the second human fatality in a suspected gaur attack in the Nilgiris this year. Forest department officials identified the deceased as N. Ranjith Kumar (26). He was found dead in the Coonoor forest range near Vandisolai on Monday morning with injuries consistent with a gaur attack. Forest department officials were informed and the body was sent post-mortem. Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, K. Saravanakumar said preliminary inquiries made among local residents had revealed that Ranjith Kumar had a quarrel with his family and then ventured out of his home on Sunday night when the incident occurred. He might have also been in an inebriated condition. “This was a purely accidental interaction which resulted in the death,” said Mr. Saravanakumar. Forest department staff handed over a check for Rs. 50,000 to Ranjith Kumar’s next of kin as interim compensation. Officials said that this was the second human fatality in a human-gaur interaction in the Nilgiris this year. Earlier, a 70-year-old woman was killed near Kunapannai near Kotagiri. Three persons were killed in separate incidents of gaur attacks last year. Forest department officials said they would step up patrolling in areas prone to problematic human-animal interactions. The public would also be sensitised to the safety measures.
27 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephants damage houses in Pandalur||A herd of elephants damaged the houses of three tribal families near Pandalur on Sunday night. According to Forest Department officials, the herd entered Kozhikolli late on Sunday night and damaged the houses of S. Kothan, M. Beejan and V. Sankaran, and raided the kitchens. Hearing the commotion, the families fled from the houses and made their way to safety. The elephants, after feasting on the rice kept inside the houses, left the village. On information, forest staff rushed to the area and inspected the damages. They said they reported the incident to top forest officials in Gudalur forest division and funds would be sanctioned soon for the houses to be repaired. As the three families relied on the Public Distribution System to procure essential commodities, the forest staff handed over some rice, dhal and vegetables to them on Monday.
27 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Use POS machines to sell fertilizers’||Assistant Director of Agriculture, Quality Control, the Nilgiris, R. Zakir Nawaz, said fertilizer dealers had been given strict instructions to use Point-of-Sale (POS) machines to sell subsidised fertilizers to farmers. Mr. Nawaz said fertilizers were sufficiently stocked in the district in anticipation of the North-East Monsoon. Organic fertilizer usage was now highly recommended and was being taken up by a large number of farmers across the district, he said.
27 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Webinar held||A webinar emphasising the importance of libraries and their role in enhancing the overall personality of students was held at V.V. Vanniaperumal College for Women, Virudhunagar. Prof. A.S. Kumar pointed out how libraries played a vital role in transformation of the personality of students. He motivated the students to utilise digital libraries in their pursuit of knowledge. Principal of the College S.M. Meena Rani was present at the event.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 2,708 fresh cases||A total of 2,708 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 32 persons, including a 15-year-old girl, succumbed to the infection in the State on Monday. Chennai accounted for 747 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore with 253 infections. The State’s case tally rose to 7,11,713 and the toll increased to 10,956. As many as 4,014 persons were discharged following treatment. A total of 6,71,489 persons have been discharged till date. The number of active cases has dropped below 30,000. As many as 29,268 persons are currently undergoing treatment in the State, including 8,856 in Chennai and 3,753 in Coimbatore. Of the 32 fatalities reported on Monday, 18 persons died at government hospitals. The 15-year-old girl from Chengalpattu had no co-morbidities. She was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on October 19, and her swab returned positive for COVID-19 on October 22. She died on October 23 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, COVID-19 pneumonia, cardiogenic shock and myocarditis, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. A 39-year-old man from Chennai with chronic kidney disease and ischemic heart disease was admitted to a private hospital on October 15 with complaints of fever for four days and drowsiness. He died on October 26 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. With 747 new cases, Chennai’s tally rose to 1,96,378. The city accounts for 3,599 deaths. Salem recorded 165 new cases and Chengalpattu 143. There were 133 cases in Tiruvallur and 119 in Kancheepuram. A total of 109 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur. Thirty other districts reported less than 100 cases each. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours dipped to 72,236, taking the total number of samples tested to 95,89,743. One more private laboratory has been approved for COVID-19 testing — SRL Diagnostics Limited, Kilpauk, Chennai. Currently, there are 200 testing facilities in the State — 66 in the government sector and 134 in the private sector.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 253 cases||The eight districts in the Western region reported a total of 780 fresh positive cases on Monday. With Salem reporting 165 cases, all indigenous, Namakkal recorded 76 cases. Coimbatore district reported 253 COVID-19 cases on Monday. The district had 3,753 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and COVID Care Centres, while 193 persons were discharged on Monday. The district reported the death of a 67-year-old patient and the toll so far stood at 538. Tiruppur Tiruppur district saw 109 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,188. A 60-year-old patient died in the district and the toll stood at 180 so far. The number of active cases in the district fell below the 1,000 mark with 977 persons undergoing treatment. As many as 11,031 patients recovered. On Monday, 114 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 38 persons tested positive, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the district to 6,409, with 244 patients undergoing treatment. The toll stood at 38. All the 165 cases reported in Salem district were indigenous including 80 cases in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 76 indigenous cases were reported. Dharmapuri saw 30 cases and Krishnagiri 26. A 71-year-old patient died in Dharmapuri. Erode district reported 83 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,806. While 95 persons were discharged, 807 persons continue to be under treatment.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam releases water for irrigation from Sothuparai dam||Releasing water for irrigation of single crop cultivation and drinking purposes from Sothuparai dam here on Monday, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said the State government was keen to improve the standard of living of farmers and protect their livelihood. Following representation from farmers’ and water users’ associations, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami directed the release of water for the next 141 days from the reservoir, PWD officials said. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided over the function in which Cumbum MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan, Periakulam Sub-Collector D. Sneha, AC (Training) Thackeray Subam and PWD executive engineer Karthikeyan participated. The officials said 2,865 acres of cultivable land would benefit from the water release for single crop irrigation, and habitations, including Thenkarai, Lakshmipuram and Tamaraikulam, would get potable water. Thirty cusecs would be released from October 26 to December 15, 27 cusecs would be released daily between December 16 and January 15, 2021, and 25 cusecs from January 16 to March 15. The Deputy Chief Minister, who interacted briefly with the farmers, appealed to them to use the water judiciously and reap high returns.  Following an appeal from farmers in Dindigul, the Chief Minister directed authorities to release water for irrigation from Palar-Poranthalar reservoir near Palani on Sunday. Revenue Divisional Officer Asokan and PWD officials released the water from the dam. The officials said that following widespread rain along the Western Ghats, the dam received copious water and the storage was likely to reach the maximum level. Water would be released for irrigation for the next 130 days for the first single crop. Close to 850 acres would benefit from the water release, they added.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SC rejects pleas for interim relief on OBC quota||Mr. Sharma, who was supported by the Centre, said the reservation roster had already been fixed by the Directorate General of Health Services. The NEET results were declared on October 16 and were followed by counselling sessions. In August, the Tamil Nadu government and the other parties challenged a Madras High Court decision to set up a committee to “finalise” the OBC reservation in State-surrendered seats for the all-India quota in non-central medical colleges. They objected to how the High Court had declined to straightaway order the Centre and the Medical Council of India (since replaced by the National Medical Commission) to implement 50% reservation for the Backward Classes, the Most Backward Classes and the Denotified Communities in these seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses, in compliance with reservation rules followed in the State for the academic year 2020-21. Panel formed The High Court, in its decision on July 27, declined the mandamus “despite finding there is a clear substantive law providing for State-specific reservation formulated by the MCI”. “Instead, the court set up a committee when such a committee was unnecessary, consisting of the Directorate General of Health Services, the MCI and the Tamil Nadu government department concerned, to finalise the manner in which the facilities of OBC reservation are to be provided,” the Tamil Nadu government had said. The State had argued that the High Court was contradicting itself. “Once the court has determinatively found that the governing law provides for OBC reservation as per Tamil Nadu rules, then the proverbial ‘story’ ends there and the appropriate authorities ought to be directed to apply the law,” the State had argued.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala police take away woman living with friend in Nungambakkam||A police team from Kerala on Saturday took a 21-year-old woman away from a house in Nungambakkam, where she had been staying with her female partner, acting on a ‘missing person’ complaint from her parents. The police said the two women had become close friends on a social media platform. Following this, the woman from Kozhikode moved to Chennai to stay with her friend. Her parents, who were opposed to this relationship, filed a complaint with the Kozhikode police, alleging that she had gone missing. The Kerala police, accompanied by a sub-inspector from the Nungambakkam police station, on Saturday allegedly forced the 21-year-old to accompany them to Kozhikode. When she was produced before a magistrate there, she said she would stay with her parents for 10 days. Senior lawyer Sudha Ramalingam, however, said the police should not have taken her away, and should have instead directed her to present herself voluntarily, if needed. A senior police officer in Chennai said she was not forcibly taken away, and the city police had merely accompanied the Kerala police and were not involved in escorting her. “She said she would appear before the magistrate and return to Chennai,” the officer added.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In full flow||
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Towards normalcy||
27 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three men rounded up for questioning in murder case||The police have rounded up three persons for questioning in the murder of a repeat offender in Gangawadi in Belagavi on Sunday night. The three were rounded up from some villages surrounding the city, a police officer said. He is part of a team that is investigating the murder of Shahabaz Khan (24), who was facing several criminal cases. He also faced charges in some serious crimes and the police had included his name in the list of repeat offenders. A gang of four or five persons attacked him when he was leaning over his motorcycle near a hospital in Gangawadi. Eyewitness accounts told the police that Shahabaz Khan ran towards the residence of a former Deputy Superintendent of Police who is living in the neighbourhood after his retirement. However, the assailants gained speed upon their target and hacked him near the officer’s house. He was bleeding profusely when the police shifted him to the district hospital with help from local residents. He died in a few minutes as he had been grievously wounded. The police suspected that a long-standing dispute over money could have led to the attack. The police said that Shahabaz Khan went into hiding after attacking two persons near a hotel in Kakati. There were rumours that he was hiding in Goa and that he had returned to Belagavi in the recent months. A case has been registered in the Mala Maruti Police Station. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amate has constituted a team of officers led by B.R. Gaddekar to apprehend the accused.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three-year deadline laid down to complete suburban rail link to airport||The long awaited suburban rail project, which is finally inching closer to reality, will see the link to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) being given priority. The Central government, while sanctioning the project, has indicated that suburban rail linking KIA with the city will be prioritised. Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K–RIDE), the special purpose vehicle implementing the project, will take up the Bengaluru City – Devanahalli Line in the first phase. The proposed alignment also connects Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka before reaching Devanahalli. The length of the line is 41.4 km. The suburban rail project recently received approval of the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs, and the document states that the 148-km project, with four corridors, will be completed in six years and Bengaluru City-Devanahalli with airport link has been planned for completion within three years after sanction. A K-RIDE official said, “We have received sanction for implementing the project. The K-RIDE board will meet and decide on the future course of action. Land assessments and other related works are in progress. The tender is likely to be floated in November.” The other three corridors of the project are Baiyappanahalli to Chikkabanavara (25 km), Kengeri to Whitefield (35.52 km) and Heelalige to Rajankunte (46.24 km). Rail activists had demanded that the Bengaluru City to Devanahalli line be taken up on priority. The South Western Railway (SWR) has announced that it will operate train services to KIA using the existing railway line. An MoU has been signed by BIAL and SWR on managing the new halt station that has come up near the airport. The cost of the train ticket from KSR Bengaluru to the airport is likely to be Rs. 30. Project cost The suburban rail project is expected to cost Rs. 15,767 crore. The Central and Karnataka governments will bear 20% each, and the rest will be borrowed from banks and multilateral funding agencies. The project requires Rs. 1,470 crore for land, and Rs. 4,125 crore for alignment, formation and airport connectivity. The station building has been estimated at Rs. 1,981 crore. Other major spending includes Rs. 1,050 crore for traction and power supply, and Rs. 1,373 for signalling. “K-RIDE will approach international funding agencies, such as JICA, ADB and EIB, for implementing the project,” an official said. K-RIDE is also looking for private investments in development stations and running trains. The agency has floated tenders to study land developments and is hopeful of getting private investments for more than 30 stations proposed on the suburban rail alignment.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘People of Sira want to bring back focus on development agenda’||Senior Congress leader T.B. Jayachandra, who is facing byelections in Sira, entered the Legislative Assembly in 1978. The former Minister, who has won six times, held half a dozen portfolios in various governments and as chairman of nearly two dozen Cabinet sub-committees during the Congress government in 2013-18. In an interview, he speaks about the development works he has done in the constituency and what remains to be done.  This election is a fight between old and experienced politicians like you and new faces of the BJP and JD(S). Yes, I am an experienced politician. But, I am young in my mind and very healthy. I have not tired mentally or physically. I am in the constituency always and working. What kind of work in the constituency will favour you? I pumped in about Rs. 2,500 crore for various development works/schemes in the constituency during 2013-18 as the Minister. The taluk was drought-prone and the people faced severe drinking water crisis. Now, people in the town and villages are getting drinking water from the Hemavathi reservoir because of my efforts. The JD(S) candidate’s husband the late B. Satyanarayana and other JD(S) leaders had opposed bringing water to Sira from the reservoir. Unlike the traditional support base, there seems to be a shift in Vokkaliga voters towards the Hindutva ideology and BJP. The signs were visible in the last polls. How will you counter it? The BJP’s agenda will not work in Sira. People are intelligent. Development work has slowed down after my defeat by a slender margin two years ago. People want to bring back the development agenda. How do you view H.D. Deve Gowda, former PM, campaigning here? No doubt, it’s a triangular fight. The JD(S) and BJP leaders are campaigning actively. The BJP’s false propaganda will not work. The JD(S) has not brought any development work. I will say it is a fight between my services to the people versus the money power of the BJP candidate. It is better to ask Mr. Gowda about his campaign and not me. All three parties have fielded Vokkaliga candidates. How do you counter your opponents and also get your community’s support? True, all three parties have fielded candidates from one community. I am confident of getting support from voters of other communities as well, big or small. This time, what are your promises to voters of Sira? I promise to bring water to the constituency and district from the Upper Bhadra project, which is under progress. It will help fill 65 tanks. The Yettinahole project too will bring water to the district. I am sure Sira’s outlook will be much better than Tumakuru once the drinking water and pending infrastructure projects are completed.  I am young in mind and healthy. . I am in the constituency always and working.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hukkeri’s remarks shock colleagues||Prakash Hukkeri, one of the senior leaders of the Congress, shocked his party colleagues when he said that he would campaign for the BJP, if it decided to field a member of the late Suresh Angadi’s family in the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls. However, he has denied plans of joining the BJP. The Lingayat leader from Examba near Chikkodi has been a Lok Sabha member from Chikkodi once, a member of the State Cabinet twice, and has entered the Assembly five times from Chikkodi and Sadalaga. He conceded defeat before BJP’s Annasaheb Jolle in Parliament elections from Chikkodi last year. ‘Great friend’  Mr. Hukkeri reasoned that Suresh Angadi was a “great friend” and he had great affection for the late leader’s family. He said he would not ask the BJP to give party ticket to Angadi’s wife or children, but if one of them were to get it, he would work towards ensuring their victory. “I will be as involved in their campaign as I would be in my son’s campaign,” he said. He also said he would not bother much about the Congress high command’s response to his stand. “I would not care what they think or do. Angadi was a great friend and I will be doing my bit to help them win,” he said. Mr. Hukkeri said while he was a contender to contest for bypolls from Belagavi, that would change if the BJP nominates a member of Angadi’s family. “I will not seek Congress ticket to fight them. I will instead, campaign for them,” he said. On social media This triggered an angry reaction from some Congress leaders and workers. Some workers filled their social media pages with anti-Hukkeri posts where they said that such leaders should not be allowed to continue in the Congress. Some BJP supporters welcomed the statement and said the BJP high command should invite Mr. Hukkeri to the party. This was not easily accepted by the BJP either. Shankargouda Patil, Karnataka’s representative in New Delhi, said the BJP was not concerned about his statement. He also said he had no idea about Mr. Hukkeri’s plans or moves. ‘Unbecoming’ KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi told journalists in Bailhongal on Monday that such statements were unbecoming of senior Congress leaders like Mr. Hukkeri. He said he would advise Mr. Hukkeri to concentrate on his constituency Chikkodi, rather than giving tips about the Belagavi bypoll. To a question, he said the party high command would decide on whether his statement merits disciplinary action. A Congress leader, a State-level functionary, said such statements were not unexpected from Mr. Hukkeri. He had quarrelled with the Congress election committee that had rejected his application for party ticket from Belagavi Lok Sabha seat instead of Chikkodi. “Since then, he has been speaking in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP. He has also been showing interest in entering the fray from Belagavi,” he said. “Mr. Hukkeri has spoken thus to send a message that he is a formidable political force in the district.” Mr. Hukkeri told The Hindu that his statement was non-political and that he had made it based on his emotional relationship with the Angadi family. He saw no contradiction in being a Congressman and announcing support to a friend’s family who is from a different party. He denied suggestions that he was hinting that he would join the BJP.  My statement is based on my emotional relationship with the Angadi family. There is no contradiction in being a Congressman and announcing support to a friend’s family who is in a different party. Prakash Hukkeri Senior Congress leader
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Patients complain of pressure sores and marks owing to NIV masks||COVID-19 patients who were on non-invasive ventilator (NIV) in the intensive care units (ICUs) are returning to hospitals reporting scars on their faces, which are pressure sores caused due to the NIV masks. This, doctors pointed out, has occurred as many patients were on NIVs for over a week to 10 days. Gunasekar Vuppalapati, Chief Medical Director, GVG Invivo Hospital, said that around 15% of the patients who were in the ICU and had recovered are coming back to the hospital to report these scars. He said these marks are found on the nose and forehead, while a few of them have them on the cheeks as well. “Usually, for people who have recovered from COVID-19 after facing a near death experience, coming back to get their scars treated is not a priority. But we want patients to come to get these marks treated and we are suggesting non-surgical treatment that can help heal them faster,” he said. Mohammed Attaullah Khan S., Consultant Interventional Pulmonologist at Mallige Medical Centre, said that these scars were common among not just COVID-19 patients, but all patients who were on NIV for a long time. “When we are treating the patient, we put them on NIV as saving the life is more important for us. It is common to report these scars and if patients wish, they can be rectified by consulting a plastic surgeon,” he said. Jagadish Hiremath, chief executive officer, Ace-Suhas Hospital, said that to avoid these pressure sores, they ensure that they alternate between NIV masks and non-rebreather masks for a few hours. “When a person is on NIV, the blood supply to that area is less and it leads to complications such as ulcers or marks. So we try to ensure that the blood supply is adequate when we put the non-rebreather mask. ” He said that some of the patients who have recovered from COVID-19 and have been on NIV for long complain of darkness of the skin and they have given them the necessary treatment. A doctor of a city-based hospital who did not wish to be quoted said that the pressure sores could be avoided and the sores and the marks reflected poor nursing care.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Number of new cases drops||In what is one of the lowest number reported in the State in several weeks, 3,130 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Monday. Of these, 1,603 cases have been reported in Bengaluru Urban. However, the number of tests conducted on Monday had reduced to 65,892. The number of tests conducted on Sunday was over one lakh. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 that were reported on Monday was also relatively lower compared to the previous numbers. The number of deaths stood at 42, taking the total number to 10,947. The media bulletin also stated that the positivity rate for the day was 4.75% and the case fatality rate for the day was 1.34%. Out of the total 8.05 lakh positive cases reported in the State, 7.19 lakh patients have been discharged, with 8,715 discharges being reported on Monday. Munish Moudgil, who heads the Karnataka State War Room, said conducting high number of tests – particularly RT PCR tests was the way to beat COVID-19. “Even when the positivity rate and new cases reported fall, we should continue to conduct large number of tests and it would prevent the recurrence of a second wave,” he said, adding that this analysis would hold true if all other factors remained constant. He also said that all districts and States should ensure that their daily testing, particularly RT PCR tests, remains high if they want to reduce and contain COVID-19.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Fake’ posts: JD(S) to file plaint with EC||The Janata Dal (Secular) on Monday said it will complain to the Election Commission over a “fake” post against its Rajarajeshwarinagar candidate that is being circulated on social media platforms, and also distribution of set-top boxes and cable connection to voters by the BJP candidate. The post alleged that the Rajarajeshwarinagar JD(S) candidate V. Krishnamurthy had “compromised for the sake of money”. The party has also lodged a complaint with the cyber police against these posts on Kempegowda Vokkaligara Meesalathi Horata Samiti page. “The byelection has been necessitated since the BJP candidate resigned. Social media platforms are being used to spread misinformation about our candidate. This is being made deliberately to affect the morale of the party workers,” JD(S) spokesperson T.A. Sharavana told presspersons here on Monday. Alleging that the two national parties, the BJP and the Congress, were involved in election-related malpractices, he accused the Election Commission of turning a blind eye towards these violations. ‘Misuse of power’ “Power is being misused by the ruling party and caste card is being played by the Congress to win the elections,” Mr. Sharavana said, alleging that set-top boxes are being distributed by the BJP candidate to woo voters. “We have filed a complaint with the police on fake post and we will approach the Election Commission with a complaint on other issues,” he added. The party’s candidate Mr. Krishnamurthy, against whom the alleged fake posts have been circulated, said that he was being defamed because those who have done it had something to fear because of his presence in the electoral arena. “My party has given ticket to an ordinary worker. Is this wrong?” he asked.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders||In the backdrop of elections to the Karnataka Legislature Council, Deputy Commissioner of Police of Bengaluru West Sanjeev M. Patil has issued prohibitory orders from 4 p.m. of October 26 to October 29 4 p.m. The order states that on the day of the election (October 28), other than voters, gathering of more than five people is prohibited. Rallies by political parties, public address by political parties, provoking speech and others have been prohibited. However, the prohibitory order does not apply to marriage, prayers at religious places or any other function that has prior approval of the police. The prohibitory orders apply in the limits of Kengeri, Vijayanagar, R.R. Nagar and Chamrajpet police station limits.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Industrial power uptake almost back to normal’||Months after the lockdown, in signs of industrial activities picking up, industrial consumption under the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has bounced back to nearly the same levels as last year. Bescom officials said HT industrial sales for September was 312 million units (MU). Last year, for the same period, it was 317 MU. As for LT industries, there has not been a major change as the consumption has been around 96 MU, which is almost the same as last year, officials said. “Residential consumption definitely went up during the lockdown compared to last year. In April, residential consumption went up to 750 MU from last year’s 659 MU. Similarly, for May, it was 688 MU this year compared to last year’s 673 MU. But there is no major change in the peak load since July because of the rains, as irrigation pumpsets were not in use,” explained an official. On the other hand, commercial consumption is yet to pick up. Against last year’s 178 MU, it is around 138 MU now. “That is yet to return to normal probably because not all establishments are open and air-conditioning units are not in use,” said an official. Srinivas Asranna, president, Peenya Industries Association, said the functioning of industries was almost 85% back to normal. “The automobile sector, aerospace components sector has also improved. The medical equipment sector was any way doing well. Defence also there is movement now. But labour is still an issue as not all migrant workers have returned Once they come back, it will improve further,” he said. ‘Driven by auto sector’ Energy expert M.G. Prabhakar said increase in industrial consumption could be propelled by the automobile sector related to two-wheeler and passenger car as they have shown demand on account of the festival season. “But generally, the economy will not bounce back at least for the next six to eight months. We will probably see a real pickup in the third quarter,” he said.
27 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat on Nov. 8||The pension adalat for postal pensioners of North Karnataka region will be held on November 8, to address the grievances of retired employees of the Postal Department. According to a release from the Office of the Postmaster General, North Karnataka region, pensioners who desire to submit their grievances, if any, to the adalat may send it in writing to the Senior Accounts Officer, Office of the Postmaster General, North Karnataka Region, Dharwad-580001. They may also email toaccts.karnk@indiapost.gov.in, by November 4. In view of COVID-19, no meeting will be conducted at the regional office.
27 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Selection list||The Karnataka Public Service Commission on October 22 announced the provisional list of candidates selected for the posts of 6 (5+1 HK) postgraduate Kannada teachers, 5+1 (HK) Urdu teachers, and 4 (3+1 HK) librarian in Morarji Desai Residential Schools. Candidates may file objections addressed to the Secretary, KPSC, Udyoga Soudha, Bengaluru-560001 within seven days from October 23.
27 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘We need to increase our strength in Legislative Councils, Rajya Sabha’||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that considering the disrespect of people’s mandate by the Congress, it has become politically important to increase the party’s numbers in the Legislative Councils and also in the Rajya Sabha. Addressing presspersons along with Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar in Hubblali on Monday, Mr. Joshi said: “The Congress does not believe in democracy. As an Opposition party it should respect the mandate of the people and allow the government to work according to what it has promised to the people of the State. However, as the Congress and the Opposition parties have more strength in the Legislative Councils and in the Rajya Sabha, they are stalling important legislation of the governments,” he said. Considering the disrespect of the Congress to democracy, now it has become crucial for the BJP to increase the number of its representatives in the Legislative Councils, he said and added that it was now time for people to show the Congress its place. Referring to the pandemonium created by the Congress and the Opposition parties during the tabling of the farm Bills, Mr. Joshi said that the Congress believed that it was born to rule and now it could not digest the fact that it has been unseated from power. “The mentality of the Congress is that whenever there is a crisis in that party, its leaders tried to project it as if it was a crisis for the country. It is time to show the Congress its place,” he said. Terming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s statement on Indo-China conflict, Mr. Joshi said that Mr. Rahul Gandhi was issuing foolish and illogical statements and his own partymen disagreed with them. He said that they were confident of winning all the four Council seats and the two bypolls to the Assembly. “In Bihar too, the National Democratic Alliance will come to power with three-fourth majority,” he said. On MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statement on the Chief Minister’s post in the State, Mr. Joshi clarified that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was working actively and he would continue to be the Chief Minister.  ‘As an Opposition party, the Congress should respect the mandate of the people and allow the government to work according to what it has promised to the people of the State’
27 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1,573 crore released to State under NDA: Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said that in the last six years, the NDA government had released funds under National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) to the tune of 43.2% of the total demand by State, while it was just over 10% under UPA rule. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Joshi claimed that Union government led by the NDA had released more funds to the State under NDRF than the UPA-led government. Countering allegations by the Congress leaders about not much relief being given to Karnataka, which had seen frequent natural calamities in the last few years, Mr. Joshi gave details of the funds released. “From financial years 2003-04 to 2013/14 during which Karnataka was under coalition governments and under the BJP, the total demand for grants under NDRF submitted to the Central government was Rs. 44,542 crore. And the UPA government released just Rs. 4,609 crore, which was just over 10.35% of the total demand,” he said. “But under the NDA rule from 2014-15 to 2019-20, the State sought relief of Rs. 27,208 crore of which the NDA government released Rs. 11,753 crore, which is around 43.2% of the total demand,” he said, asking former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah to first look into reality before making statements for the sake of politics. Mr. Joshi maintained that in all sectors, including infrastructure, allocations under the NDA rule had been more than the UPA government. “If you ask any genuine farmer, he will tell you that highest Minimum Support Price for farm produce was fixed during the NDA rule,” he said. The Congress leaders, including Mr. Siddarmaiah, had launched an attack on the BJP government in the State and the Centre alleging that no relief had reached the flood-displaced people. Mr. Siddaramaiah had even alleged that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi had no time to visit Karnataka, even relief was not being released by the Central government.
27 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Special Assembly session sought to discuss consequences of floods||The former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has sought the convening of a special Assembly session to discuss the consequences of heavy rain and floods in the State in the last three months. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the life of flood-hit people has come to a grinding halt. Farmers have lost their standing crops and thousands of families in rural areas have become homeless overnight due to heavy rain and floods. In this case, convening an Assembly session would be appropriate to discuss the problems of the flood victims and the relief measures taken. He accused the State and the Union governments of not releasing compensation to the flood-affected people. He also pointed out that the victims of last year’s floods have not yet received compensation for their loss. He criticised Deputy Chief Minister and district in-charge of Kalaburagi Govind Karjol for not visiting the flood-hit villages in the district. Mr. Karjol has not visited Kalaburagi for the last five months, he said and added that this shows the lackadaisical attitude of the Minister towards the flood victims. Criticising Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s aerial survey of the flood-affected areas, he said that “through aerial survey, you cannot understand the pain of the affected people. When the flood victims in these districts were waiting to meet the Chief Minister, why did Mr. Yediyurappa not visit a single village and meet the affected people.” Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of showing step-motherly attitude towards the State, he said that Mr. Modi had toured Bihar when that State was grappling with floods and immediately released financial assistance. But he [Mr. Modi] neither visited Karnataka nor released financial assistance to take up relief measures, he added. Damage and loss The initial estimates have put the loss due to heavy rain and floods in the district at Rs. 700 crore — agriculture crop loss estimated to Rs. 100 crore, damage to roads, bridges and check-dams estimated at Rs. 360 crore and damage to houses and government buildings estimated at Rs. 240 crore. This estimation may go up four times after the actual damage is surveyed, he added. Mr. Siddaramaiah visited Saradagi and Katti Sangavi villages of Jewargi taluk and interacted with the flood victims. MLAs Ajay Singh, Kaneez Fatima, M.Y. Patil and others were present.
27 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Shaheen Institution extends scholarship for those who cleared NEET this year||The Shaheen Group of Institutions has announced to extend a Rs. 5 crore scholarship programme for those who have cleared the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for the current academic year, institution president Adbul Qadeer has said. At a press conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Dr. Qadeer said that the programme provides a financial award to students for their higher education. The aim is to encourage meritorious students from humble backgrounds to pursue academic excellence. At present, 200 students enjoy the benefits of the programme, according to Mr. Qadeer. “The institution was started in 1989 with just 17 students. Today, we have schools, PU and degree colleges with 42 branches in seven States. Every year, Shaheen accommodates over 17,000 students from across the country in different courses,” he added. The institution has helped dropouts and Madrasa students get direct enrolled into mainstream education through their innovative concept of imparting high-quality education under the Academic Intensive Care Unit (AICU). Karthik Reddy of Shaheen Institution, who secured an all-India ninth rank in NEET and was a State topper, spoke. Mohammad Arbaaz Ahmed, who scored an all-India 85th rank and stood third in the State, shared his experience of how the institution helped him. Mr. Ahmed’s father was a lorry driver who lost his limbs in an accident five years ago, he said. As many as 30 students have secured above 600 marks in NEET, he added.  The aim is to encourage meritorious students from humble backgrounds to pursue academic excellence, and, at present, 200 students are enjoying the benefits of the programme
27 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Speak up before your leaders for a special package for flood-hit districts, BJP MPs told||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has told BJP MPs representing the State to speak up before their Central leaders and urge them to release a special package for the flood-hit districts. Citing an example, he said how the Central BJP leaders were trying to cut funds and special grants allocated to the State. He also recalled the move of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman who had written to the Finance Commission to reconsider its recommendation on giving a special grant of Rs. 5,495 crore to the State under the 15th Finance Commission. “The intention of Ms. Sithraman was to see that the State did not get this special grant. She is doing injustice to the State she represents,” he said. Continuing his tirade against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his family members, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that the Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra was indulging in large-scale corruption. “Mr. Vijayendra is acting as the de-facto Chief Minister and is interfering in the functioning of the government,” Mr. Siddaramaiah told a press conference at the District Congress Committee office in Kalaburagi before visiting flood-hit areas in the district on Monday. The former Chief Minister said that Mr. Yediyurappa was receiving bribe through cheques; his family members were accepting bribe and commission through RTGS. Even public representatives have to give commission of 10 % to 20 % to get grants allocated for development works released to their respective constituencies, he said. The BJP government and its leaders have swindled a huge amount in procuring COVID-19-related medical equipment. “I have proved this allegation with documents in the Assembly. The government purchased medical equipment, including PPE kits, ventilators and masks, for Rs. 4,165 crore, and purchase details of equipment worth Rs. 2,000 crore were not available with the government,” he said.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||The curtain falls on low-key Navaratri festivities||The curtain fell on the nine-day festivities — Navaratri and Mangaluru Dasara — with chariot festivals at many temples dedicated to Goddess Shakti and tableau procession of Sri Narayana Guru at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple where the famed Mangaluru Dasara is celebrated. The festivities that usually attract lakhs of devotees during a normal year were scaled down to the minimum this time due to the COVID-19 situation. Though the festivities were limited on the premises of temples, devotees nevertheless thronged them taking due precautions to pay their obeisances to Goddess Shakti. “About two lakh devotees visited the Kudroli Temple and had darshan of Nava Durges besides the presiding deity Gokarnanatha,” said managing committee treasurer R. Padmaraj. The numbers would have been more if there were no restrictions. The lone tableau of Sri Narayana Guru was taken out in a mini procession along the main roads in the central parts of the city in the evening instead of the normal procession of Nava Durges, variety of other tableaux and Pili Nalike (tiger dance) teams. Mr. Padmaraj said that the Nava Durges would be immersed in the temple pond one by one late on Monday night. The process would continue till early Tuesday morning. At the historic Mangaladevi Temple, the Ratharohana (ascending the chariot) of the Utsava Murthy was conducted at noon. The Maha Rathotsava, which is normally conducted after 8 p.m., was conducted before sunset as per the advice of the administration. A large number of people gathered to witness the chariot festival. Amid the restrictions on Pili Nalike performance limiting the numbers to 10 dancers per temple and prohibition on public performance, dancers fulfilled their owes inside the temples. On the other hand, individual dancers from teams also performed in front of local deities such as Koragajja and other Daivas of the locality concerned. However, there was no Pili Nalike atop moving vehicles as witnessed earlier. Similarly, Navaratri festivities came to an end in other temples across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, including Kateel Durgaparameshwari, Polali Rajarajeshwari, Dharmasthala Manjunatha, Kadiyali Mahishamardini, Ambalapadi Mahakali, Mandarthi Durgaparameshwari and Kollur Mookambika.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger Vikram of Pilikula dies at 21||Vikram, the 21-year-old male tiger at the Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama’s Biological Park near here, breathed his last early on Monday morning. He had joined the park when it was opened in 2003 after being brought from Tavarekoppa Lion Safari in Shivamogga district at the age of four, said a communiqué from the park. Vikram sired 10 cubs — Kadamba, Krishna, Vinaya, Oliver, Akshaya, Manju, Amar, Akbar, Antony and Nisha — which have been given to other biological parks in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Mysuru. Being easily available for sighting, Vikram was suffering from age-related ailment for the last two months and was under veterinary care, the communiqué said. He stopped having food a week ago and was under intravenous fluids and antibiotics.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Facility for Carbon-14 dating of archaeological artefacts||The Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Radioactivity (CARER) at Mangalore University has established a facility for Carbon-14 dating of archaeological artefacts or material of biogenic origin based on Liquid Scintillation Counting technique. Carbon-14 dating is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon, a radioactive isotope of carbon. The method was developed in the late 1940s at the University of Chicago by Willard Libby, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work in 1960. Measuring the amount of Carbon-14 in a sample from a dead plant or animal, such as a piece of wood or a fragment of bone, provides information that can be used to calculate when the animal or plant died, a release from the university said here on Thursday. This facility has been established through financial support from the Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). Through a research project sanctioned by BRNS and with collaboration with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai, CARER had undertaken a study for standardising method for Carbon-14 measurements in the vicinity of nuclear power plants, it said. A team of scientists, led by Karunakara N., a professor and co-ordinator, CARER has, in collaboration with BARC, standardised a batch method for the thermal combustion of the samples by tube furnace system for Carbon-14 measurements. The spin-off application of this method is its application for determining the age of the material up to 30,000 years old, the release issued by Registrar (administration) K. Raju Mogaveera said. CARER has been established with state-of-the-art facilities by the university as a national facility through financial support from BRNS. The centre is serving the research needs of various research groups from national laboratories/institutions/universities of the country. Those who are interested in using this facility may contact through email carermu@gmail.com or drkarunakara@gmail.com, or Ph: 0824-2888754, the release added.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Trial run of PRS counters in new building commences at Mangaluru Central||The Palakkad Railway Division of Southern Railway on Monday commenced the trial run of the newly established passenger reservation system (PRS) counters as well as open ticket counters at the Mangaluru Central Railway Station. The PRS-cum-crew booking complex is located in the newly built two-storeyed building near Muthappa Temple (Wenlock Hospital), at the entrance of the Central Station, thereby making it easy for passengers to buy tickets before entering the station. One can access the counters from Platform 1 of the Central Station also. Hitherto, the open (general) tickets were sold from counters at the main entrance of the station leading to crowding, while the advance reservation tickets were issued from counters located in a building on the left side of the station building. After the formal inauguration of the new PRS and general ticket counters, facilities at the main entrance and old PRS centre would cease to exist, said senior officials concerned. The new facility has six counters at present with provision to add more number of counters whenever needed. Along with PRS counters, the building has the crew booking facility and accommodation for travelling ticket examiners.  Transferred Palakkad Divisional Manager Pratap Singh Shami, who was instrumental in taking up several development works in the Mangaluru region, has been transferred to North Central Railway, while Trilok Kothari would replace him on Tuesday, according to sources. Mr. Shami accelerated the process of doubling the Netravathi Cabin-Mangaluru Central (1.5 km) and construction of two additional platforms at Mangaluru Central that were crucial for handling more number of trains. During his tenure, the second entry at Mangaluru Central from Attavar was provided. Mangaluru Junction Station's yard remodelling was also taken up in a big way during his time.
27 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four star rating for IIC at Sahyadri College||The Union Ministry of Education has given four star rating to the Institution of Innovation Council (IIC) established at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management for 2019-20. The certificate said: “The council had undertaken various activities prescribed by Innovation Cell, under the Union Ministry of Education, to promote innovation and start-ups during the IIC calendar year 2019-20.” The Ministry has established the council to systematically foster the culture of innovation among all higher education institutions. The objectives of the IIC include conducting various innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities prescribed by the Central MIC in a time-bound fashion, to identify and reward innovations and share success stories, to organise periodic workshops/seminars/interactions with entrepreneurs, investors, professionals and to create a mentor pool for student innovators and have a network with peers and national entrepreneurship development organisations, a release from the college said. The objectives also cover creating an institution’s innovation portal to highlight innovative projects carried out by the institution’s faculty and students and to organise Hackathons, idea competition and mini-challenges with the involvement of industries, the release added. The IIC at the college is an eight-member body, it said.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Royal Dasara: Continuing a tradition amidst pandemic||The low-key Dasara of the Wadiyars held under the cloud of the pandemic concluded with the ‘victory procession’ taken out in the presence of a few select invitees but devoid of the usual paraphernalia, at the palace premises here on Monday. The religious rites associated with Navaratri were conducted over the last 10 days amidst the imperatives of maintaining social distancing. Though a battery of priests under the guidance of Dharmadhikaris supervised the rituals, their numbers were reduced this year in view of the pandemic and it was entirely a private affair. Though the Khas Durbar is devoid of any significance after the abolition of the privy purse, it is conducted for 10 days in what is a throw back to a bygone era and was no different this year. It entails the current titular king Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar ascending the golden throne in the presence of the courtiers dressed in Stately attire. A large crowd, mainly invitees, witness the proceedings during Navaratri but this year the palace was out of bounds to the invitees as well and it remained a low-key affair. Another practice of the bygone era held during the Navaratri used to be Vajra Musthi Kalaga in which the wrestlers wearing knuckledusters with spikes, engage each other and whosoever draws first blood was declared the winner. But this form of wrestling which has long gone extinct and conducted only during the Navaratri, was dropped this year due to the pandemic. The wrestling bout used to attract people in hundreds and posed challenges in ensuring social distancing. The last day of Dasara saw the culmination of the rites with special prayers to the Banni tree performed by Yaduveer. The ‘vijaya yatre’ (victory procession) entailed a visit to the Bhuvaneshwari temple accompanied by the caparisoned elephants, the royal cow and the royal horse in the backdrop of traditional music played by an ensemble of musicians. Though held far from the public gaze and the media spotlight, the private Dasara of the Wadiyars marked the continuation of the tradition started by Raja Wadiyar on ascending the throne at Srirangapatana in 1610 CE. This is also the link to the Navaratri as celebrated by the rulers of the Vijayanagar empire and inherited by the Wadiyars of Mysuru.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 was the running theme of this year’s Mysuru Dasara||This year’s Mysuru Dasara, celebrated to keep alive the tradition but with restrictions amidst the pandemic, had the theme of the prevailing COVID-19 reflected in many forms. While it was inaugurated by a doctor in the frontline of fight against COVID-19 and had COVID-19 warriors felicitated as part of the inaugural event, it was the theme of the tableaux as well on the festival finale on Vijayadashami day. This year’s Jamboo Savari was used as an opportunity to pay tribute to the COVID-19 warriors and also spread the word on the ways and means of containing and combating the pandemic that has claimed several lives, and destructed the economy globally. Platform for education As the finale was watched by millions of people with the event telecast live on some television channels and also live streamed on various social media networks although the entry to the palace was restricted, the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat and the Department of Health and Family Welfare made use of the occasion to extend the gratitude to the warriors. The tableau was dedicated to the frontline workers. With messages all around the artwork and models prescribing do’s and don’ts, the tableau showed a large figurine of a woman health worker covering her nose and mouth with a mask and wearing a PPE kit as a protection from the virus. It highlighted the necessity of taking precautions like use of sanitisers and the need for frequent hand washing and staying indoors unless going out was essential in the ongoing fight. Inaugural too The Dasara inauguration too was done by cardiologist and the director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research C.N. Manjunath, who is part of the COVID-19 expert committee. During the inauguration, Dr. Manjunath had prayed for the arrival of early vaccine. Six COVID-19 warriors were felicitated as well. This year, security was tight to ensure there was no crowding. However, while the gathering at the finale had a ceiling of 300, the actual numbers exceeded this.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Abhimanyu carries golden howdah with precision and ease||The 54-year-old Abhimanyu pulled off the big task of carrying the 750 kg golden howdah in his maiden attempt with precision and ease at this year’s Jamboo Savari at the palace here on Monday. Though he has been taking part in Mysuru Dasara for over 20 years now, the task of carrying the howdah was new. Known for its mastery in forest operations, Abhimanyu succeeded in seeing the job through with sheer stateliness, drawing accolades. Impressively decorated as the lead elephant, Abhimanyu, who emerged as the successor to Arjuna - who turned 60 this year and was retired from the Dasara task after eight years of carrying the howdah with finesse and perfection, was the cynosure of all eyes at the Vijayadashami procession on Monday. The good-natured jumbo waited for the artists to complete their embellishment on its trunk, head and legs. Four other elephants too were specially decorated being the star attractions of the event. Since its arrival here from the forest camp, Abhimanyu, who was the frontrunner when the Forest Department was looking for the successor to Arjuna, successfully underwent weight training so that it was fully prepared for the big day. When Arjuna was the lead elephant, Abhimanyu used to carry weights during the daily rehearsals as a stand-by and therefore the task was not that difficult for the tusker. After the successful Dasara sojourn, the gentle giants – Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Kaveri – are expected to return to their respective camps with their mahouts and kavadis for next year’s Dasara. The Forest Department officials took special care and precautions for the jumbos and the administration has extended special gratitude to the mahouts and kavadis for their efforts in making it a successful Dasara.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Manjunath advocates use of remdesivir in treatment||Cardiologist C.N. Manjunath has favoured the use of antiviral drug remdesivir in the treatment of moderately sick COVID-19 patients. His recommendation comes even after a World Health Organisation (WHO) study indicated that remdesivir appeared to have little or no effect on 28-day mortality or in-hospital course of COVID-19 among hospitalised patients. Participating in a virtual panel discussion on Infectious Diseases Control organised by e-Health magazine published by Elets Technomedia recently, Dr. Manjunath, who is also the Director of state-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said the expert pulmonologists in the State strongly felt that remdesivir is effective when it is given at the “right time to the right patient”. He described as “quite satisfactory” the experience of seven renowned pulmonologists, who are also part of the State’s Expert Committee on COVID-19 treatment. These pulmonologists treat hundreds of patients on a daily basis, Dr. Manjunath said. However, he emphasised that the antiviral drug should be given to patients before they turn “extremely sick”. About 300 people in Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Bengaluru too had tested positive and 30 of them were very sick. The patients were treated with a combination of remdesivir and other drugs. Fortunately, there was no mortality and all of them recovered. Also, Dr. Manjunath said the cost of the antiviral drug has been reduced since June-July along with other consumables. Contending that the healthcare scenario in the State was progressing positively, Dr. Manjunath said physicians engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 now have confidence that most of the infected patients will recover as about 90% of the positive cases had been cured on their own or through simple treatment. According to a study, Dr. Manjunath said about 8% required oxygen. He also made out a case for paying parallel attention to non-COVID-19 cases. “We are talking only about COVID-19, but a lot of non-COVID patients too are suffering today,” he said while pointing out that a study had indicated that several people were dying due to cardiac and renal issues.  Expert pulmonologists in the State strongly feel that remdesivir is effective when it is given at the right time to the right patient.C.N. ManjunathCardiologist
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||It was business as usual along procession route||It was business as usual on Monday on the 5 km Dasara procession route, which used to be swarmed by crowds on the Vijayadashami . With the procession confined to the Mysuru palace premises in view of the decision taken to keep Dasara celebrations simple and low-key on account of COVID-19, many shops and commercial establishments on Sayyaji Rao Road remained open and carried out their business as usual. The Torch Light parade grounds, which used to be out of bounds on Vijayadashami Day, had turned into a playground on Monday for youngsters to play cricket. With the district administration banning entry of the general public into the palace premises, the roads leading to the entrances were barricaded from all sides, which also led to the blocking of entry to City Bus stand. Buses operating The buses, however, operated from Agrahara, Ramaswamy Circle, Dasappa Circle, Five Lights Circle and Gun House Circle. The Suburban bus stand, however, was operational. However, a few people from nearby villages including a few youth were trying to gain entry into the Palace premises from the Southern Gate. Their efforts were thwarted by the police. Barricades had been put up near Sayyaji Rao Road, Gun House Circle and Chamaraja Circle, which led to the Palace. Restaurants open It was a rare sight to find many hotels and restaurants, besides textile shops on Sayyaji Rao Road remaining open and catering to the customers on Vijayadashami. Pavement hawkers too put up their wares and carried out business as usual on the road. However, a few establishments had downed their shutters on Monday. Many shops on adjoining D. Devaraj Urs and Dhanvantri Roads too remained open. However, a large number of people flocked the roads in the evening to enjoy the sight of the illuminated roads and circles. Protesters arrested Meanwhile, activist Vatal Nagaraj, who had opposed the government’s decision to restrict the Dasara celebrations, was arrested along with his supporters when they turned up at the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower, also known as Dodda Gadiyara, on Ashoka Road to take out their own procession of Chamundeshwari with a portrait of the deity on a chariot. He criticised Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa of restricting the Dasara procession to the confines of the palace and robbing people of the State an opportunity to watch the cultural and historic legacy of the Mysuru.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Five books released||Five books published by the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage and on the history and culture of the State, were released on Monday. The publications are Archaeological Excavation at Talakad Vol. 2, Buddhist Art and Culture in Karnataka, Hampi the Splendour That Was, Mysuru Dasara the State Festival and Karnataka, a Garden of Architecture.  The books were released by Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi and the District in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar. Mr. Ravi said history based on empirical evidence was imperative to understand the past. He said it will also dispel, what he termed as ‘false history’ and called for greater research and field work. The Minister said the education system introduced by Thomas Macaulay has failed to throw light on the scientific achievements of ancient India. Nor has any effort been made to project the valour of Indians and it is ironic that the country still pursues the same educational system. India’s achievements Mr. Ravi said there was widespread belief that science and technology originated in Europe. But the temples, flood-preventive embankments, monuments as at Belur, Badami, Aihole, etc., are testimony to the achievements and strides made by ancient Indians in the fields of science, technology and architecture, the Minister added.
27 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Await grand celebration next year: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday said Mysuru Dasara in 2021 will be conducted on a grand scale to compensate for turning the celebrations simple this year. Speaking to reporters after performing the Nandi Dwaja puja before flagging off the Jamboo Savari here, he said many events had to be cancelled this year to contain the spread of the infection. However, the tradition associated with Dasara was continued as usual though the festivities were scaled down. The Chief Minister, who arrived in an Airavat bus with some of his Cabinet colleagues and elected representatives besides special invitees, said people are in a state of distress over the pandemic and expressed confidence of winning over the crisis as the government has taken necessary steps in the fight against the virus. He thanked the people for cooperating with the government in the times of pandemic and following recommended precautions.
27 October 2020||Special Correspodent,KARNATAKA||Jamboo Savari confined to palace for third time in 25 years||This is not the first time Jamboo Savari in Mysuru has been limited to the Mysuru palace premises. The Vijayadashami procession was confined within Amba Vilas Palace in the past instead of the usual itinerary on the streets of Mysuru. The pneumonic plague had struck parts of Surat in Gujarat in 1994 and the Government of Karnataka led by then Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily decided to scale down the procession, confining the grand spectacle to the palace premises. The decision was taken as a preventive measure to contain the spread of plague since the Dasara finale used to attract tens of thousands of people from various parts of the country. In 2002, eight years later, the Jamboo Savari was again restricted to the palace in the wake of severe drought besides former Minister H. Nagappa’s kidnap by forest brigand Veerappan. Then Chief Minister S.M. Krishna decided to keep Dasara procession simple since his government was facing many issues with the State in the grip of successive droughts. This is the third time in a span of two and half decades that the procession was limited to the palace with the grand spectacle that usually accompanies the celebrations missing. The erstwhile Mysuru royal family too had kept the celebrations simple and by and large it was a family affair with no visitors and invitees to witness the family’s centuries’-old Dasara rituals. The number of elephants too was less this year with only five jumbos led by Abhimanyu. This year, the challenge faced by all those associated with the Dasara festivities was keeping the key staff at the venue COVID-19 free as the pandemic was posing a serious health risk even as Mysuru was reporting second highest cases in the State after Bengaluru and was also a COVID-19 hotspot. Keeping the elephants, mahouts and the staff safe from COVID-19 was a test which the forest officials successfully handled, taking all precautions like not allowing the key staff venture out of the palace fort, providing them with all essentials, and screening them periodically along with COVID-19 tests so that they remained fit and healthy for the occasion.
27 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Crops on 69,000 hectares of land, in all, lost in Yadgir district’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has failed to handle the flood situation in Kalyan Karnataka and has not announced any compensation after his recent aerial survey to assess the loss caused by floods in Yadgir and Kalaburagi districts, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said. He was addressing a press conference in Yadgir after visiting flood-hit Hurasagundagi and Roja villages in Shahapur taluk on Monday. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who visited flood-hit areas in Bidar and Kalaburagi districts before coming to Yadgir, said that “Yadgir district suffered a crop loss in 24,000 hectares in rain in September. Now, in October, it is said that the crops in 45,000 hectares may have been lost in rain. In all, crops in 69,000 hectares have been lost. However, not a single paisa of compensation has been announced for the district.” He also said that the Revenue Minister and district in-charge Minister paid namesake visits to the flood- hit areas in the district. The State government has availed itself of Rs. 1.30 lakh crore loan. It could have used the amount as compensation for flood and rain victims. But, it did not. It used Rs. 4,200 crore to tackle COVID-19. Where is the remaining amount? he asked and added that the government is involved in rampant corruption. Terming the BJP government as the most corrupt, he said that “then, Mr. Yediyurappa had taken bribe through cheque. Now, his son is taking bribe through RTGS. We were reiterating that administration should be transparent but these people have made corruption transparent.” He said that the government has become bankrupt and has no money to release compensation. Mr. Siddaramaiah also said that the Congress will move court against corruption in the purchase of COVID-19 equipment as “our demand for a judicial inquiry under the supervision of a Supreme Court judge has not been considered”.
27 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Nadekar is president of Yadgir Advocates Assn.||Advocate S.P. Nadekar was elected as president of the Yadgir District Court Advocates Association on Friday. Advocates and election officers Gururaj Rao and Bheemaraya Killanakera declared the election results. Mr. Nadekar defeated his opponent Chandrashekhar Allipur by 42 votes. He secured 125 votes, while Mr. Allipur polled 83 votes. Another contestant, Dattu Rao, who secured 36 votes, was pushed to the third place. A total of 284 advocates were eligible to vote but only 245 participated in the electing, the election officers said. Mr. Nadekar said that his priority was to help build a new district court complex. Advocates Shivakumar Anpur, Govind Jadhav, Nagaraj Yaragol and Mounesh were elected unanimously as vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer of the association.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||First elections in State amidst pandemic||In the midst of recent floods that have brought devastation to several North Karnataka districts, and a high-decibel campaign for byelections to two Assembly seats in South Karnataka, the State is set to witness its first elections during the COVID-19 pandemic, as polls will get underway for the four Legislative Council seats on Wednesday. The polls have been necessitated owing to the retirement of members representing Karnataka West Graduates’, North East Teachers’, South East Graduates’, and Bangalore Teachers’ constituencies on June 30. The four constituencies are spread across 18 districts in the State. The unprecedented times of COVID-19 had seen postponement of the elections, only to be scheduled for October 28. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. Why it is important The elections are being seen as important for the BJP, which is trying to increase its presence in the Upper House where it lacks majority. In a setback to the BJP government recently, the Upper House dominated by the Congress and the JD(S) voted against a Bill on labour reforms, stalled the Bill on land reforms, and did not allow placing of the Bill on APMC. In the House of 75 members, the Congress has 28 members and the BJP 27 members, while the JD(S) has 14 members. There is one Independent, besides chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty. Of the four vacant seats, two belonged to the JD(S), and one each to the BJP and the Congress. Members, who retired on June 30, S.V. Sankanur (West Graduates) and Puttanna (Bangalore Teachers) of the BJP, Sharanappa Mattur (North East Teachers) of the Congress, and R. Chowda Reddy (South East Graduates) of the JD(S) are seeking re-election. Former members Shashil G. Namoshi of the BJP and Ramesh Babu of the Congress are trying to get back to the Council from North East Teachers’ and South East Graduates’ constituencies, respectively. Former legislator and Kannada Vatal Paksha founder Vatal Nagaraj is also in the fray from North East Teachers’ constituency.  Some defectors Of these, Mr. Puttanna and Mr. Ramesh Babu, who were elected to the Council on JD(S) tickets before, are trying their luck from the BJP and the Congress, respectively. In a sudden turn of events last week, the JD(S), which is defending two seats Bangalore Teachers and South East Graduates, announced its support to Basavaraj Gurikar, the Independent candidate in West Graduates, and accused its candidate Shivashankar Kallur of staying away from campaigning. “The pandemic has brought untold misery to teachers, which is one of the issues in the teachers’ constituency. In graduates’ constituency, campaign issues are revolving around employment, loan and payment of interest,” Congress spokesperson Muralidhar Halappa said. Muted participation According to JD(S) spokesperson T.A. Sharavana, the elections could see muted participation in the constituencies, which already have low voter registration. He added that the government’s policy on appointments will be among issues in the graduates’ constituency.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Homeless woman rescued||There are over 5,000 people from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Odisha, and North Karnataka living in the colonies of Munnekolala and Thubarahalli. They work as maids and construction labourers in the adjacent areas. As the lockdown was announced, most of them lost work and many left the camps, while others hoped that things would get better. But many are yet to find work again, with apartment associations not allowing them in as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. “We are doing whatever is possible from our side to help them, but that is not enough,” said Zia Nomani, who was part of the rescue team. The team, with the help of locals, are now on the lookout for Mr. Alamin, who is absconding. “We want to trace him to help him and reunite him with his wife after treatment,” Mr. Kaleemullah said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. complains against Munirathna for ‘misusing’ cable TV network||The State Congress on Monday petitioned to the Election Commission of India for violation of the model code of conduct by BJP candidate Munirathna in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency, for broadcasting films projecting himself through the cable network owned by him and distributing set-top boxes. The Congress alleged that television channels, through cable networks, were displaying Mr. Munirathna’s name and photograph for the voters. In a complaint to the EC through the CEO of Karnataka, KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed and former MP and legal cell chairman V.S. Ugrappa said the BJP candidate was an additional director of cable network Rockline Telecommunications Pvt. Ltd. and the network had been providing feeds to TV channels. The Congress alleged that the BJP candidate freely distributed about 50,000 set-top boxes, each costing Rs. 1,000. On October 26, while campaigning, Mr. Munirathna himself stated that he has distributed set-top boxes to voters, the complaint said. “These acts of Mr. Munirathna is nothing but a bribe and undue influence on the voters for the furtherance of the prospects of his election which is an offence punishable under the provision of IPC and RP Act 1951 and the model code of conduct,” the Congress said. It further said that Mr. Munirathna waived the payment of charges for utilising cable services provided for the last two months. The Congress urged officials concerned to take steps to stop the cable television services being broadcast by Mr. Munirathna which display his name and photographs and register a criminal case against him for bribing the voters. In another compliant to the EC, the Congress alleged that Assistant Commissioners of Police Venkatesh Naidu, Malleshwarm Sub-Division, and Srinivas Reddy, ACP, Yeshwantpur Sub-Division, were directing subordinate police officers to register cases against workers and agents who were working in favour of Congress candidate Kusuma. The police officials working at the behest of Mr. Munirathna had registered cases against Congress workers, the complaint said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Quantum of festival waste dips||With the outbreak of COVID-19 in the city, the celebrations of Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami have been low-key. This has been reflected in the quantum of festival waste generated, say officials of the Solid Waste Management (SWM) cell of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Festival waste, largely comprising banana stems, ash gourds and flowers, was generated over the past two days. Every year, around 20% excess waste is generated during the last two days of Dasara festival. This year, however, with celebrations low-key, the waste generated was just around 10% in excess, officials added. The civic body had identified traditional markets and other vending places, and organised additional trips by compactors and auto tippers to clear the waste. However, in many places, the waste-laden vehicles were still seen parked by the side of the roads. This, SWM cell officials, explained was because all processing plants and even the landfill were closed on the occasion of Ayudha Puja. Additional trips “On Sunday, none of the plants functioned. That apart, just a little over 100 loads were dumped in the landfill. Additional trips were made to the processing plants on Monday, and over 400 loads were dumped in the landfill,” an official said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Target set for marshals to levy fines||Marshals in Bengaluru have been empowered to levy fines on citizens who are not wearing masks or maintaining social distance. The marshals in south zone have been given a target to achieve every day. In an order issued to a marshal supervisor, Munish Moudgil, Secretary of Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, who has been deputed as zonal coordinator in south zone, has said that marshals should book a minimum of 20 offenders per day in each Assembly constituency coming under the zone. Any failure to meet this target will lead to action on south zone marshal supervisor and the division supervisors concerned. Action would be initiated under Disaster Management Act, 2005, for “deliberate failure to take action to control COVID-19 without any further notice.” BBMP officials, on the other hand, are not taking this too kindly. A senior official, on condition of anonymity, said that setting such targets was highly unrealistic. “It is a double whammy for the marshals, who are also facing a lot of public ire. The setting of targets will also create ill-will among the citizens,” the official said. BBMP’s Special Commissioner D. Randeep said that with repeated instances of public aggression against marshals, he had suggested to civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad to ensure that there is a police constable accompanying the marshals.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP to seek HC nod to clear encroachments||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will be approaching the Karnataka High Court seeking lifting of the ban in removing encroachment on the stormwater drain (SWD) network in the city. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told The Hindu that the civic body would seek the court’s permission to take up the encroachment clearing drive once again. Earlier this year, the Karnataka High Court issued a blanket stay till November-end on clearing encroachments on drains. The city has a 842-km SWD network. With the heavy rains flooding several areas, especially in Hosakerehalli, Kumaraswamy Layout and Uttarahalli wards, the chinks in the civic infrastructure have been exposed, more so the immediate need to clear encroachments to ensure smooth flow of water. Attempts by the BBMP have not always been successful since many owners of buildings encroaching the drains went to court and got a stay. In April this year, the BBMP, in a statement submitted to the High Court, had claimed to have cleared 1,890 of the 2,626 encroachments. Of the rest, 348 were buildings that have been marked for demolition by the Department of Survey, Settlement and Land Records. The survey of the remaining 369 encroachments was under progress, the civic body had maintained. Compensation cheques Meanwhile, the BBMP has issued cheques to families that were affected by the flooding last week. While 304 affected families in Hosakerehalli ward received cheques, the relief was also given to 40 families in Kumaraswamy Layout and 181 in Uttarahalli wards. As was announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, each affected family received a cheque of Rs. 25,000. While Rs. 10,000 was from the State Disaster Relief Fund, the remaining was from the BBMP, Mr. Prasad said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Homeless and hungry woman rescued from Bengaluru field||Ms. Nasreen subsequently told the people that she had not eaten any food for four days. When the rescue team tried to feed her, she started throwing up. She was then taken to Bowring Hospital, where she was admitted at the COVID-19 centre for further treatment. 5,000 people There are over 5,000 people from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Odisha, and North Karnataka living in the colonies of Munnekolala and Thubarahalli. They work as maids and construction labourers in the adjacent areas. As the lockdown was announced, most of them lost work and many left the camps, while others hoped that things would get better. But many are yet to find work again, with apartment associations not allowing them in as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. “We are doing whatever is possible from our side to help them, but that is not enough,” said Zia Nomani, who was part of the rescue team. The team, with the help of locals, are now on the lookout for Mr. Alamin, who is absconding. “We want to trace him to help him and reunite him with his wife after treatment,” Mr. Kaleemullah said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Guard killed||A 41-year-old security guard was killed after a KSRTC bus knocked down his scooter while he was returning home from work on Old Madras Road on Sunday. The deceased, Trilokchandra, was from Odisha. He was working in a private company. Passers-by rushed him to a nearby hospital where he succumbed.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The intro of the report “Ullal CMC stops collecting non-segregated waste” published in these columns on Sunday should read as “Ullal City Municipality has stopped collecting waste from the doorsteps of people if segregated waste is not handed over to it, according to its Commissioner Rayappa”, and not as published.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||ACRIP work begins after initial hiccups||After an inordinate delay, work on the Alappuzha City Road Improvement Project (ACRIP) has begun. It was launched by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran recently. Mr. Sudhakaran said that the roads under the ACRIP would be developed using modern technology. He said that the roads would be white-topped. A total of 20 road corridors would be upgraded. In the initial phase, work on two roads- Kaithavana- Kalarcode Junction and Pichu Iyer Junction-YMCA will be carried out. A sum of Rs. 55.21 crore has been sanctioned for the project. Original plan The original plan was to execute the project through Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode on Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis. Although the Kerala Road Fund Board had signed an agreement with a Pune-based firm for the implementation of the project, the contract was later cancelled. The Public Works Department was then entrusted with the implementation of the project. As part of the project, the roads would be redesigned and strengthened with two-lane clear carriage way and with footpaths and pedestrian facilities. The existing pavements would be strengthened along with constructing drains among other facilities. The project also included the relocation of street lights, telephone poles, and signboards. Traffic conditions The ACRIP would improve traffic conditions on important roads in the city especially in the backdrop of considerable increase in motor vehicles in Alappuzha that resulted in traffic congestion and a spurt of road accidents. The project would likely bring about a proportional capacity augmentation in urban infrastructure.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha reports 332 cases||The district logged 332 COVID-19 cases and 497 recoveries on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 312 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of 17 people remains undetected. Three persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. The deceased were identified as a 55-year-old man from Arattuppuzha and a 37-year-old man from Cherthala. The 332 cases include 39 reported from Ramankary, 17 from Punnapra South, 29 from Ezhupunna, 28 from Alappuzha, 18 from Chwrthala, 17 from Cherthala South, 11 from Kainakary, and 10 each from Purakkad and Ambalappuzha North. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 7,725. The police have registered 56 cases and arrested 35 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 334 people for not wearing face masks and 1,006 for not maintaining physical distance. Violating norms Another eight cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 54 people in connection with the eight cases. Ward 2 in Nooranad grama panchayat and parts of ward 27 in Mavelikara municipality were declared as containment zones.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Vidyarambham’ held with COVID protocols||Hundreds of tiny tots were initiated into the world of letters on the occasion of Vijayadashami in the district on Monday. The ‘Vidyarambham’ ceremony was held adhering to strict COVID-19 protocols. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of parents conducted the ceremony at their homes. Although the ceremony was held in temples including Mullakkal Rajarajeswari Temple in Alappuzha, there was hardly any rush like in the previous years.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Farmers in distress due to paddy procurement delay||A delay in the procurement of paddy has put farmers in the district in distress. Paddy, which has already been harvested including in Kuttanad, remains piled up in fields. On the other hand, a large number of farmers have postponed harvesting following an impasse over procurement. Earlier, mills decided to keep away from procurement after they failed to reach an agreement with the government. Following this, the government decided to rope in cooperative societies to procure paddy directly from farmers. However, a lack of storage, among other facilities for cooperative societies in the district resulted in the delay. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday visited paddy fields in Kuttanad and Palakkad and interacted with farmers there. In a statement issued, Mr. Chennithala said he had discussed the issue with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over telephone. Mr. Chennithala said the Chief Minister had promised to find a solution to the issue on Tuesday. Mr. Chennithala said that the paddy farmers were facing a huge crisis. Cooperative societies “The State government’s decision to entrust cooperative societies with paddy procurement in place of mills has already destroyed large quantities of paddy. Harvested paddy is lying in fields. The thulavarsham (northeast monsoon) is set to begin in the next couple of days. This will result in total crop loss,” Mr. Chennithala said. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has urged the government to immediately intervene in the matter. Earlier, the August floods had destroyed the additional crop (second crop) in around 3,500 hectares in the district. However, crop in around 5,300 hectares survived the floods. This is the third year in a row that Kuttanad suffers crop loss in the additional crop season.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||District-level police training centre opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated a district-level police training centre via videoconferencing. Mr. Vijayan said that the centre would become a boon to the police force. The Chief Minister also appreciated the force for their role in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. For 60 personnel The police training centre has the facility to provide training to 60 personnel at a time. The new centre includes a training hall, lobby, dining hall, kitchen, store room, and rooms for trainees. Estimate of Rs. 90 lakh The facility was constructed at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran presided over the inauguration function. A.M. Ariff, MP, State Police Chief Loknath Behera, District Police Chief P.S. Sabu and others attended.
27 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||5% will do, says Vellappally||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Monday said that the reservation in government jobs for the economically backward in forward communities should be capped at 5%. The State has approved a 10% reservation for the financially backward sections in the general category. Mr. Natesan said he was not against providing reservation to the poor among forward communities. “The State government has made an error. They should not be provided 10% reservation. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and United Democratic Front convener M.M. Hassan should make their stance on the matter clear,” he said. He said the SNDP Yogam would contemplate launching protest on the matter.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,KERALA||Police take away girl staying with friend in Chennai||Acting on a “missing persons” complaint from the parents of a girl, a team of Kerala police on Saturday took away a 21-year-old girl from a house at Nungambakkam, Chennai, where she was staying with her female partner. The police said the two girls had become close friends on a social media platform. Thereafter, the girl from Kozhikode moved to Chennai to stay with her friend. Her parents, who were opposed to their relationship, filed a complaint with the Kozhikode police alleging that she was missing.
27 October 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Entering into world of letters||With major temples in Wayanad district not conducting Vidyarambham rituals on Vijayadasami day on Monday owing to COVID-19 related restrictions, many people performed the rituals at their homes. All major temples under the Malabar Devaswom Board in the district, including Sree Valliyoorkavu Bhagavathi Temple, Mananthavady; Sree Mahavishnu Temple, Thirunelly; and Sree Mahadeva Temple, Thrissilery, had already announced that the rituals would not be performed this year owing to the pandemic. However, the rituals were performed in some private temples and homes adhering to COVID protocol.
27 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Minister inaugurates food safety lab in Kannur||The Regional Analytical Laboratory of the Food Safety Department has been inaugurated in Kannur. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, inaugurating the laboratory recently, said that with the commissioning of the lab, the people of the region could avail of its services without having to go all the way to Kozhikode, as was done until now. People in Kasaragod, Kannur, and Wayanad districts used to rely on the Kozhikode Regional Analytical Lab to test food items, drinking water, milk, and oil. As a solution to this, it was decided to start a new food safety lab in the region, she said. The lab would start functioning immediately in a rented building as there would be a delay in completing the construction of the lab’s building, she said. Ms. Shylaja said that the lab had been operating on a trial basis since September 23.
27 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Rear Admiral K.S. Noor new Principal of INA||Rear Admiral K.S. Noor assumed charge as the Principal of the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, on Monday. Rear Admiral Noor, an alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, is a well-known educationist. The Flag Officer is a specialist in Anti-Submarine Warfare and has over 33 years of experience in the Indian Navy. The important appointments he has held include the posts of Joint Director, Director and Additional Principal Director at the Directorate of Naval Education, New Delhi, and Principal of Sainik School, Bhubaneswar. Prior to assuming his current appointment, he was the Command Education and Welfare Officer at the Eastern Naval Command, Visakhapatnam. The Rear Admiral is a recipient of Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavna and Rajbhasha Shree awards.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Growing number of cases poses threat to surveillance system||Systems that were in place in the district to trace contacts of COVID-19 patients and enforce quarantine are beginning to crumble beneath the weight of a growing number of active cases. Ward-level rapid response teams were formed to handle COVID-related exigencies earlier. The teams, comprising the local ASHA worker, Kudumbashree and anganwadi workers, local health officials and the councillor or panchayat member, were still keeping track of people in quarantine in the district, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. But it was no longer practical to trace and track all contacts and enter their details into the system. “We are relying on people being aware themselves,” said Dr. Numpeli. A junior health inspector in Kadungalloor said secondary contacts were no longer being traced. “Primary contacts in the family or workspace are alerted and then asked to inform people they came in contact with,” he said. A junior health inspector in Eloor also said that if there were 18 to 20 positive cases in a single division in a day, it was no longer possible to identify and alert all contacts. Ward-level meetings While the ward-level response teams would meet regularly earlier, those meetings rarely happen at present, said P.M. Harris, councillor representing Kaloor. Besides, some of the community-level health workers also ended up in quarantine routinely, making such meetings nearly impossible, he added. A senior police officer who asked not to be named said the services of the police in the contact tracing process were currently marshalled only in some cases where the source of infection was unknown and a patient’s memory jogged using call records retrieved by the police. “With law and order problems, there is little time to trace contacts or enforce quarantine as we did earlier,” he said. The Ernakulam Rural Police had introduced an app,Happy@Home, in April to enforce quarantine norms. But, the app was barely in use any more and enforcing quarantine even among primary and secondary contacts was proving to be difficult considering the number of active cases in the district, he added. Data entry A doctor part of the District Surveillance Unit for COVID-19, who also asked not to be named, said some of health workers at the field level were engaged in entering data onto three different software portals – the State government’s Healthmon and COVID Jagratha, and the district administration’s Coronasafe Network – and at least five spreadsheets that collated information from the local level on testing and details of patients. Besides tracing contacts and symptom surveillance, health workers in some places where data entry operators had not been appointed, also had to enter large volumes of data, he said. The system hinged on such data being made available on time even from private labs, to avoid a situation where the control room was not immediately aware of patients who tested positive and asked to be shifted, he added.  Primary contacts in the family or workspace are alerted and then asked to inform people they came in contact with Junior health inspector
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Panel, trial court blame Walayar parents||Despite knowing about the sexual molestation of their elder daughter, the parents of the deceased Walayar girls, who are on a warpath demanding justice, remained silent till the death of the younger daughter, inculpated a judicial commission and trial court. It was about two months after the death of the younger daughter that they raised the allegation of sexual abuse to the police. If the parents were “really bothered about the welfare of the daughter, they would definitely have taken action against the accused, at least after the death of the victim,” noted the trial court, which acquitted all the accused in the case. The observations of the trial court were quoted in the report of the State government-appointed P.K. Haneefa Commission, which was accessed by The Hindu . ‘Tardy probe’ The commission had held sub-inspector P.C. Chacko and prosecutors Latha Jayaraj and Jalaja Madhavan responsible for the tardy investigation and prosecution. It was to Dy.SP Sojan that the parents made the statement that the mother had “witnessed the penetrative sexual assault committed by the accused on the victim.” The long delay in giving statements against the accused “itself is a doubting circumstance with regard to their deposition,” the court noted. Mr. Sojan deposed to the commission that the parents were aware that the accused, Valiya Madhu and Kutty Madhu, had sexually assaulted the elder girl. However, he said he refrained from registering a case against them for not informing the police about the crime, apprehending that they would not give evidence against the accused if booked, the panel noted.  Though the mother had given the statement to the police implicating Valiya Madhu and Kutty Madhu, she retracted her statement before a magistrate by dropping the name of one of the accused, the court noted. Though the father deposed that he did not file a complaint against the accused, considering the future of the victim, it was later revealed that he had not cited any such reason to the police. Though he told the police that he saw the accused inappropriately touching the girl, he subsequently denied it. The contradictory statements showed that even at the time of recording of his statement, he had no case that the girl was abused by the accused, the trial court noted. Witnesses The court found that the statements of some of the witnesses were either fabricated or gathered under compulsion to put the accused behind bars. It also noted that the prosecution failed miserably in proving the charges against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||From their homes, children enter the world of letters||Sitting on her mother’s lap, two-and-a-half-year-old Dhara Sadhvi was initiated into the world of letters at their apartment in Kaloor on the occasion of Vijayadashami on Monday. In the company of her parents and grandparents, the child wrote her first letters on a platter of rice without raising any objections. “We had promised to initiate her into the world of knowledge at a temple in Thrissur as an offering. However, we dropped the plan considering the restrictions in place in view of the pandemic. We consulted the temple and followed all the rituals,” said Meenu Nidhun, the child’s mother. A majority of parents followed the same path as most places of worship did away with the customary Vidyarambham rituals in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Technology-driven events were also held in compliance with physical distancing norms. Sukrutham, an Ernakulam-based organisation, joined hands with Bhagavatham Village in Chalakudy to introduce children to the world of letters through an online meeting. “Around 20 children participated in the hour-long event in which Swami Udit Chaithanya played the role of guru. Parents had arranged everything associated with the event at their homes and wrote the first letters on their wards’ tongues using gold rings immersed in honey. Without hot and humid conditions and with no strangers around, it proved to be a smooth initiation for the children,” said Sunil Illam, vice president of Sukrutham. The famed Dakshina Mookambika Temple at North Paravur, usually thronged by thousands of devotees on Vijayadashami day, had a scaled-down ceremony to mark the occasion. From the regular list of gurus, the temple only roped in those aged below 65 years this time. “We strictly followed the COVID-19 protocol and did not let devotees into the nalambalam , with the event restricted to the makeshift pandal outside. Not more than 600 children took part in a function that lasted over six hours from 5 a.m.,” said P.D. Pushpalatha, a temple office bearer. The Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple did away with all Vidyarambham ceremonies. “It was a big loss both for us and the devotees, many of whom were saddened by the decision to cancel the event. There was no other alternative since we could not have controlled the event,” said an office bearer. The Ernakulam Siva Temple had no official event, though some parents chose to conduct the ceremony at the temple’s Saraswathy Mandapam. “Only a percussion performance by child artistes was held to mark the occasion,” said Rajendraprasad T., president of the temple committee.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ahead of polls, Corpn. tries to revive bottled water project||With the term of the current Kochi Corporation council set to end in a few weeks, the civic administration is attempting to revive a bottled drinking water supply project that did not take off despite an ambitious launch in 2016. Of the three plants that were set up four years ago, one each at Ravipuram, Edappally and Fort Kochi Veli, only the one in Fort Kochi is still running. The Ravipuram plant is likely to begin operations soon, according to local councillor David Parambithara. “The project is to be handled by Kudumbashree groups.After years of trying to get a group to take it up, five members have come forward to run the plant,” he said. The place was cleaned and the water recently sent for testing, he added. The plant was set up at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh in association with the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation, and had been lying defunct for the most part of the past four years. While the project initially involved selling a 20-litre can of water for Rs. 20, that amount might not be feasible any more considering the amount it could cost to supply the water, said Mr. Parambithara. The plant at Fort Kochi, which is being operated by three Kudumbashree members, had hiked the rate of the can from Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 to meet the expenses of handling logistics. The Kudumbashree group had purchased a goods autorickshaw to supply the cans and had to pay off the loan taken for the vehicle, said Sheeba Lal, councillor representing Fort Kochi Veli. The spread of COVID-19 in West Kochi had briefly hit their supply, but till then, it had been running fairly well with a supply of 200 to 300 cans daily, she said. The plant was still operating much below its capacity, but loading, transporting and delivering the cans was a time-consuming process. Soumya Sunil, who is part of the three-member team running the project in Fort Kochi, said the COVID-19 restrictions had hit them hard. The closure of banks, schools and homestays meant that business had dipped. The cost of hiring another vehicle and driver for supply, besides having to pay off the loan, had been eating into the little revenue they were making, she said. While they began as a five-member team, two women dropped out when they found it difficult to bear the weight of the 20-litre cans. Of the Rs. 30 from each can, Rs. 10 would go towards the operations of the plant, Rs. 10 would be paid to hire the second vehicle, and only Rs. 10 was left to for the three of them together, she said.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nefertiti resumes service||The KSINC's cruise vessel Nefertiti, the sole seaworthy luxury vessel in the region that is capable of carrying up to 200 passengers into the sea, has resumed service with a four-hour sunset cruise from its terminal here, after a seven-month gap due to the pandemic. The number of passengers has been temporarily capped at 100, considering COVID-19 regulations. Thermal screening and other aspects mandated by the protocol have been adhered to. The sunset cruise begins at 3.30 p.m. and ends at 7.30 p.m. This is an hour more than the cruise the vessel used to operate during pre-COVID days. The KSINC has fixed Rs. 499 as the tariff for children aged between 5 to 10 years, while it is Rs. 1,999 for adults. The tariff includes dinner that is served on board at dusk. The vessel operates up to 12 nautical miles into the sea. Its next scheduled cruise is slated for November 8. The tickets can be booked at www.nefertiticruise.com. For details call 97446 01234 or 98462 11144. The KSINC’s vessels that conduct multiple cruises every day - Sagara Rani-1 and Sagara Rani-2, will resume service shortly, from Marine Drive. In the meantime, the agency is set to commence operation of the first of two roro vessels in the Willingdon Island-Bolghatty Island route from November 1. The vessels owned by IWAI were built at the Cochin Shipyard.
27 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||As testing dips, cases drop||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam dipped to 457 on Monday, accompanied by a fall in testing. A total of 3,780 samples were sent for testing from government and private facilities. The number of tests has fallen from 5,377 samples on Sunday and over 7,000 samples each on Friday and Saturday. While 337 people have contracted the infection through local contact, the source of infection of 111 persons could not be traced. Eight health workers have newly been infected. Positive cases were reported from areas including Nayarambalam, Thripunithura, Thrikkakara, Vazhakulam, Fort Kochi, Kaloor, Kadungaloor and Kalamassery. With 1,096 recoveries, the district’s active caseload stands at 11,771. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 199 patients are being treated. As many as 47 patients are at PVS Hospital, and 682 patients are at private hospitals. At first-line treatment centres, 979 people are being monitored and 173 patients are at second-line treatment centres. A total of 9,163 people are recovering at home.
27 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rabins Hameed taken into custody||Rabins Hameed, the 10th accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), was taken into custody on Monday evening. The accused was taken into custody from the Cochin international airport on his arrival from Dubai. An NIA team, which had visited the UAE, had sought his arrest along with that of Faizal Fareed. He is also the 18th accused in a case booked by the Customs in connection with the gold smuggling case. Hameed was earlier arrested in the UAE after the NIA approached Interpol and issued a blue corner notice. Contacts with accused A flow chart on the connection of the accused with others and the smuggling of gold, prepared by the NIA, indicated that Hameed, a native of Muvattupuzha, had established contacts with as many as 10 accused, including Faizal Fareed. The NIA case is that the accused had smuggled gold about 21 times through diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate from November 2019 with the intention of threatening economic security of India.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One arrested for robbery||The North police on Monday arrested a person, who was allegedly the kingpin of a gang that roamed around on a motorcycle and robbed people at knife point. The arrested man was identified as Anilkumar, 21, of Nedumangad in Thiruvananthapuram. The police said that he was the key accused in the case in which a youngster was robbed of his money at Kathrikadavu on October 10 at 4 a.m. Reportedly, the gang stopped the petitioner and demanded money. When he refused, they brandished a knife and robbed him of Rs. 5,000.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of murder||The Palluruthy police arrested a person in the early hours of Monday on charge of murder. The arrested was identified as Rajesh, 32, of Alappuzha district. He is accused of murdering Sudharmani, 65, of Palluruthy, on Sunday. The police said the two families had a row earlier in the day and later, when the victim had turned up to dump waste in a nearby drain, the accused confronted her. A verbal spat erupted amidst which the accused shoved the victim, who collapsed to the ground . She died while being rushed to the hospital.
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of theft||Nearly two years after he allegedly cheated a courier company of gold ornaments worth Rs. 6 lakh in 10 bogus transactions, the Aluva East police arrested the accused from Kundara in Kollam on Monday. The arrested was identified as Sandeep, 31, of Azhikode in Kannur district. The accused had allegedly cheated the courier company based at Thayikkattukara in Aluva where he was employed from February to March 2019. The police said the accused had resorted to a rather novel method to pull off the theft. He used to place orders for gold ornaments to fake addresses using the cash-on-delivery option through his courier company. Later, when he was entrusted with the parcels for delivery, he allegedly took the articles and returned the parcels in sealed condition claiming that the buyer was away. The cheating was exposed when the Bengaluru-based company found the valuables were missing in the returned parcels. The police have registered a case invoking IPC Section 381 (theft).
27 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Biennale postponed to Nov. next year||The 5th edition of the Kochi Muziris Biennale has been postponed to November 1, 2021. Originally, it was to get under way on December 12 this year. Spike in COVID cases In a communication, the Kochi Biennale Foundation stated that the move to postpone the visual arts festival was taken as there were no signs of the pandemic abating in India and with Kerala having slipped into a second spike in COVID-19 cases. “We expect that circumstances will be conducive [by November 1, 2021] for visitors, artists, staff, and others for a safe and complete Biennale gathering. In the interim, the Kochi Biennale Foundation and its programmes will continue to function. “The fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale has been re-structured to take place online, and the programme towards the online opening on 21/2/21 has commenced under the leadership of five curator-mentors namely, Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K. Nair, and Vasudha Thozhur,” the foundation said in a statement.
27 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC upholds DGCA order||The Kerala High Court has upheld an order of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to conduct breathalyser test on personnel engaged in aircraft maintenance, air traffic control services, aerodrome operations, and ground handling services to detect alcohol consumption. Justice N. Nagaresh observed that the DGCA issued the order with an intention to ensure public safety. The security of aircraft and air passengers was of concern to the national security as also public safety. The circulars and orders issued by the DGCA therefore should be viewed in this angle.
27 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||316 new cases reported in Kollam||The district reported 316 new COVID-19 cases and 722 recoveries on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 310 contact cases, two persons with no known source, one health worker, one NRI, and two persons who had travelled from other States. Unknown source Cases with no known source have been reported from Kulasekharapuram and Vilakudy while the health worker who tested positive is a 61-year-old Chathannur resident. The district currently has 16,637 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,20,073. Primary contacts While 2,103 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 75,015 primary and 7,422 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. At present Kollam has 6,257 active cases.
27 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kerala Congress splinter groups lean towards UDF||Keen to fill the void created by the exit of Jose K. Mani, two smaller parties from central Travancore that share the legacy of the Kerala Congress have come forward to align with the United Democratic Front (UDF). While a secretariat meeting of the Kerala Congress has entrusted its chairman P.C. Thomas to negotiate with the Congress-led coalition, the Kerala Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA, will discuss the proposal at a meeting in Kottayam on November 1. Confirming the move, Mr.Thomas said the party had decided to pull out of the National Democratic Alliance and looked forward to join the UDF ahead of the local body elections in December. “The UDF leadership has extended us an invitation through informal channels in view of the exit of Mr. Mani from the coalition. With UDF chairman Ramesh Chennithala openly expressing the coalition’s willingness to take us on board, formal discussions will begin in a few days,” he said. Mr.Thomas said party workers were disappointed with the NDA in view of the unending wait for adequate representation in the government led by the coalition. “The Kerala Congress had been promised representation on a few corporations and boards, including the Rubber Board. It has been two years since then and we are not in a position to wait any more,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said a few leaders with the KC(M) faction led by P.J. Joseph had expressed concern over the entry of Mr.Thomas into the coalition. The move is attributed to the anxiety that Mr.Thomas, son of Kerala Congress founder-leader P.T. Chacko, may undermine their respective positions, especially in case of a merger of the KC groups. Congress strategy The Congress, though unsure about taking Mr. Thomas into the UDF fold, wants to woo voters of central Travancore who are disenchanted with Mr.Mani through Mr.Thomas, also from the dominant Christian community. Meanwhile, resentment is brewing within the Congress over a purported move to induct the Kerala Janapaksham into the coalition. Two days ago, the Poonjar block committee of the party even adopted a resolution seeking not to cooperate with the veteran legislator. While Mr.George seemed favourably disposed towards joining the UDF, he remained non-committal about closing a deal ahead of the elections. “I have been approached by a few UDF leaders with an offer to join the coalition. The matter will be taken up for discussion at a meeting of the party leadership in Kottayam on November 1,” he said.
27 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS seeks reservation norm change||Taking exception to some of the conditions set by the State government in implementing 10% reservation for the economically backward sections (EWS) among forward communities in government jobs, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has called on the authorities to make urgent intervention and make corrections. In a statement, G. Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the organisation, said the reservation norm for EWS candidates was quite different from those set for other backward classes (OBCs) and SC/ST categories. Against this backdrop, he urged the authorities to make sure that the new norms adhere to the concept of equal justice. “The recruitment done and advice memos issued since January 3, 2020 should be revised to ensure reservation for EWS reservation candidates with retrospective effect,” said Mr. Nair. Further, Rule 15 (a) of the Amendment Act stipulated that the vacancies in the EWS category being reported in a recruitment year need not be left vacant if no candidates are available. “This is against the norm of equal justice,” he added. Mr. Nair also called for a revision in the turn system for EWS category, which stipulates one recruitment for every nine recruitments.
27 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Wall putty units by women entrepreneurs||As part of the plans to restore the Travancore Cements Ltd in Kottayam, the State government will start wall putty units for women entrepreneurs in 10 districts, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said. Laying the foundation stone of the new grey cement production unit by the Travancore Cements Ltd, Mr. Jayarajan said the wall putty to be produced in these units would be marketed under the company’s brand name. The new plant will be operational in January next year. “It’s a fresh start. The objective is to gain more strength and maximise the profits so as to make the venture profitable by next year,” the Minister said. He also spoke of the plans by the State government to intervene in the market to regulate the price of cement by importing cement through the Malabar Cements Ltd and Travancore Cements Ltd. On the occasion, Mr. Jayarajan also distributed the retirement benefit arrears to former employees of the company. Power Minister M.M. Mani laid the foundation stone of the electric pole construction unit as part of the diversification of Travancore Cements.
27 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||194 cases in Kottayam||As many as 194 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 189 persons including three health workers contracted the virus through local contact. The cases included 22 persons above the age of 60 and 25 children. Among the local bodies, Kottayam reported 37 cases while Maravanthuruth, near Vaikom, came second with 13 cases. With 188 recoveries, Kottayam currently has 7,254 active cases.
27 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Civic body polls: Thottathil Raveendran opts out of race||Mayor Thottathil Raveendran has decided not to run for the Kozhikode Corporation council polls slated for December this year. However, the 74-year-old popular Mayor will not hang up his political boots, possibly hinting to be in the electoral race for the Assembly polls next year. “Certainly, it is for the party to decide on my candidature,” Mr. Raveendran, who had been elected to the council for a record five times since 1979, told The Hindu on Monday. Incidentally, the post of the Mayor will be reserved for women for the next five years. Clean image Known for his clean image, Mr. Raveendran was the first Mayor to complete the full five-year term in office (2000-2005) since the formation of the Kozhikode Corporation in 1962. He also had a stint as Deputy Mayor during the 1995-2000 period and for a brief term of one month as Mayor in-charge in 1998. The CPI(M) chose him to hold office from June 2016 after V.K.C. Mammed Koya, who was the Mayor, had to step down following his election to the Assembly from the Beypore segment. In the 2015 civic body polls, the party was compelled to field many leaders after facing anti- incumbency. Mr. Raveendran was also the chairman of the Guruvayur Devaswom Board from 2007-11. It was during his time the management changed the centuries-old dress code, allowing women to wear churidars to enter the Sree Krishna temple. Previously, the custom insisted that only women clad in saris or traditional ‘mundu’ and ‘veshti’ could enter the shrine. ‘Radical changes’ He said that his five-year tenure had made some radical changes in the functioning of the corporation including a facility to obtain building permits without having to physically visit the office and also the smooth online payment of property tax. “These e-platforms have to go full- fledged enabling citizens to secure the services of the civic body,” Mr. Raveendran said. The Kozhikode Corporation, the Mayor said, had been able to achieve several milestones such as the full utilisation of the Plan fund. Apart from infrastructure development, the corporation had given top priority to prevent waterlogging during the monsoon. Some of the projects were implemented under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Rural Transformation (Amrut) project. The newly constructed foot overbridge with escalator linking indoor stadium and the Kozhikode moffusil bus stand was the first of its kind in the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would inaugurate the project, constructed under the Amrit Nagaram scheme at a cost of Rs. 11. 35 crore, on November 1, he said Quality of governance Mr. Raveendran claimed that the corporation had improved the quality of governance and municipal services to a great extent. “The city should have a perfect sewerage system as well as a waste treatment plant. These would come up in the near future. Also, corruption in the office has been reigned in, ” he said.
27 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh cases, test positivity rate decline in Kozhikode||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases dropped below 500-mark in Kozhikode district after a long time on Monday, and active cases are now below 10,000 too. The test positivity rate slipped to 9.72%. According to the District Medical Officer, only 497 new cases were reported on the day when 5,108 samples were tested. Active cases now are 9,907. As many as 1,023 people recovered from the infection. A total of 476 of the fresh cases were through local transmission of the infection and the source of 15 others was not known. There were 133 cases of locally acquired infections from within Kozhikode Corporation, 64 in Perumanna, 62 in Peruvayal, 33 in Koduvally, and 25 in Olavanna. Meanwhile, a 43-year-old man from Kozhimanna in Malappuram, a 78-year-old man from Chaliyam in Kozhikode, and a 57-year-old man from Pozhuthana in Wayanad died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday. A 65-year-old woman from Madavoor in Kozhikode, a 65-year-old woman from Iringallloor in Malappuram, and a 65-year-old man from Perambra in Kozhikode died on Sunday. In Malappuram While 853 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Monday, 1,002 infected persons recovered from the disease. As many as 813 of them had contracted the disease through direct local contacts. The source of infection could not be traced in 28 cases. Among the newly infected people were three health workers. The district has 11,551 active cases currently under treatment. Most of them were being isolated at their respective homes. The number of people quarantined across Malappuram crossed 57,000 on Monday. In Kannur Kannur reported 174 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. As many 157 contracted the disease through local contact. While one person came from abroad, seven returned from other States. Nine health workers were among the infected. Of the active cases in the district, 4,602 are being treated at home and the remaining 962 are at various hospitals and FLTCs. The district has so far reported 22,926 COVID-19 cases and 16,965 recoveries. There were also 95 COVID-related deaths. In Kasaragod Kasaragod saw 64 more people testing positive for the virus on Monday. Of these, 60 are local transmission cases. While three persons came from abroad and one came from another State. There are a total of 4,980 people under observation in the district, including 4,227 in home and 753 under institutional observation. The district has so far reported 17,896 COVID-19 cases. In Wayanad A total of 28 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. Of the total cases reported on the day, 22 persons were infected through contact and six persons came back from other States. Active cases The district has so far reported 6,456 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 5,571 have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases in the district is 843. As many as 6,367 persons are under observation.
27 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rein in COVID fatalities: Shylaja||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has called for high alert by people as well as health workers to reduce the number of deaths due to COVID-19, pointing out that experts had predicted a high mortality rate in Kerala compared with other places. Addressing the media after a review meeting here on Monday, she claimed that a majority of those who died in the State owing to COVID-19 had other health issues. The high prevalence of lifestyle diseases, high population density and a large number of senior citizens were some of the reasons. Constant vigil would be required to reduce the number of deaths. Telemedicine facilities would be set up at medical college hospitals to ensure individual attention to people who get admitted there. Ms. Shylaja claimed that the death rate in the State since October this year was lower compared with that in previous years, even during the situation caused by the pandemic. She said quoting health experts that the infection spread was likely to come down by November. This was mainly due to the enforcement of the social distancing norms, wearing of face masks, and hand hygiene. The health systems, however, had been equipped to address a possible spike in cases. Patients should not die due to lack of treatment facilities, she said. The Minister noted that directives had been issued to medical college hospitals to make required number of ventilators available to the patients. Sixty-eight ventilators had been set aside for COVID-19 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Only 14 among them were being used by patients now, She said. Steps had also been taken to increase the number of beds with oxygen support. Right now, there was stock of 177 tonnes of oxygen, of which only 31 tonnes were being used daily. The Kozhikode MCH right now had 300 beds with oxygen support and 211 of them were being used now. Another 200 such beds would be set up. Ms. Shylaja claimed that there was a shortage of doctors though the government was trying to solve the issue. Ayurvedic clinics would be set up in all districts to address the issue of post-COVID syndrome among people who had recovered from the infection, she said.
27 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Statement recorded||The Enforcement Directorate recorded the statement of Congress leader Aryadan Shoukath for the second time on Monday in connection with a case of a Nilambur native allegedly swindling money from people for arranging seats for medical degree courses. The ED is probing a case of financial irregularities against Siby Valayil , chairman of Mary Matha Educational Trust.
27 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||All exams of Calicut varsity postponed||Calicut University has postponed all examinations scheduled till November 2 after the Malappuram district authorities declared as containment zones the panchayats where the its campus is located. In a release on Monday, the Controller of examinations said that the new dates for the examinations would be announced later. Meanwhile, another release said that the offices situated on the university campus would not function until further orders. However, essential services such as security, water and electricity, Pareeksha Bhavan, and the finance section would continue to function. Employees would have to work from home during the period. All the official meetings too have been postponed, the release said
27 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man accused of parcel theft on trains held||Mohiddin Mehaboob Sayed, the prime suspect in a number of inter-State parcel theft cases on trains, has been nabbed by the Railway Protection Force (RPF). The man, suspected to be a leader of many such local criminal groups which target train passengers and parcels, was detained from Mumbai by a special squad led by RPF Inspector Vijayakumar. According to RPF sources, the accused was mostly involved in major parcel thefts reported from the Konkan railway route. One of his close aides, Chetan Ramdas, had already been arrested by the squad. Mohiddin was arrested from Mumbai on October 24 and brought to the State on transit warrant. He was remanded in judicial custody on Monday. RPF officials said that Mohiddin had about 10 years’ criminal history in executing well-planned parcel thefts. It was the frequent thefts at the Kannur railway parcel office that prompted the RPF to make a serious investigation.
27 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Child assaulted by father admitted to MCH||A nine-year old girl, who was allegedly beaten up by her own father, was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital on Monday. It was the Childline India Foundation volunteers who first came across the incident and helped the minor girl seek treatment at the hospital along with her mother. A Childline official, who visited the spot near Payambra on Monday, said the girl had wounds all over her body. “We also got a video proof showing the man’s action against the girl child,” he said. Based on the video clipping, the Chevayur police have started a preliminary investigation into the incident. They said the suspect was in their custody for interrogation.
27 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Review quota decision, Muslim bodies ask govt.||A meeting of Muslim organisations convened by the Indian Union Muslim League national chairman Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal here on Sunday demanded that the government review its decision to implement reservation for forward communities. The meeting said that it was not fair to implement economic reservation for forward communities, especially as the issue was under the consideration of the Supreme Court. The meeting said that the government was trying to appease the forward communities and challenge the minorities. It said that the government move would undermine the basic purpose of reservation. A meeting of the leaders of various stakeholder groups will be convened at Kochi on Wednesday. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP; organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP; and State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed; later demanded that the reservation structure should be reorganised on the basis of population strength.
27 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar, Hathras typify government terror, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala equated the death of two minor sisters at Walayar to the ‘gang rape and murder’ case at Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. “There’s no difference between the Hathras and Walayar cases. Both were examples of government terror. It’s time that Kerala stood up united against such acts,” he said. He was addressing the media after visiting the parents of the Walayar victims at Attappallam near here on Monday. The parents launched a week-long dharna in front of their house demanding a reinvestigation into the alleged rape and murder of their daughters. Mr. Chennithala said the agitation by Walayar girls’ parents reflected the government’s failure in ensuring justice to ordinary people. “The UDF raised the Walayar children’s issue many times in the Assembly. But the government has turned a blind eye to it. The government helped the accused go scot-free and protected the police officers who scuttled the case,” he said. He said if the UDF came to power, no one who scuttled the case would be retained in service. He criticised Minister for Welfare of SCs, STs and Backward Classes A.K. Balan for ‘ignoring the parents’ agitation.’ BJP leader’s visit BJP State president K. Surendran also visited the parents and expressed the party’s solidarity with them. He accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of scuttling the case. “It was the Chief Minister who tried to influence the parents with the help of an envoy. But the Chief Minister betrayed the parents after giving them false hopes and promises,” said Mr. Surendran. The BJP leader demanded that the Walayar case be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “There is no point in the State police investigating cases in which the CPI(M) workers are the accused,” he said. Mr. Surendran criticised the government for not taking any action on the Haneefa Commission report.
27 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad to double number of daily tests||The district authorities have decided to double the daily COVID-19 tests as part of enhancing the fight against the pandemic. District Collector D. Balamurali said here on Monday that the daily tests would be increased to 6,000. At present between 2,000 and 5,000 tests, including those held in private hospitals and laboratories, are being conducted daily in Palakkad. The district currently has a caseload of 7,516 COVID-19 patients. While 5,830 of them are undergoing treatment at home, 1,410 are in different hospitals and first-line treatment centres. As many as 1,430 beds have been readied in first-line treatment centres. However, only 603 of them are currently occupied. The district has 40 COVID ventilators and 20 non-COVID ventilators. There are 96 ventilators in private hospitals. Untraced sources Meanwhile, 276 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Monday. As many as 164 of them contracted the disease through direct local contact when there were 109 cases without an identifiable source of infection. There were 454 recoveries in Palakkad on Monday.
27 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||24 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 24 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases reported on Monday, 21 cases contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of five persons are yet to be traced. Among the local bodies, Panthalam reported four cases, followed by Thiruvalla with three cases. With 153 recoveries during the day, the total number of recoveries rose to 11,533. Total cases The total number of cases, on the other hand, stood at 14,172 .  The contact source of five persons are yet to be traced
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||513 new cases in capital||Consequent to the fall in testing, the COVID-19 case graph in Thiruvananthapuram continued its slump over the last few days. The district reported 513 COVID-19 cases on Monday, a marked fall from the 712 cases and 909 cases that were detected during the last two days. Besides, only 3,331 people were tested during the last 24 hours, whereas the number of tests stood at 4,182 the previous day. Testing has remained over 5,000 for several weeks in the district. Nonetheless, the test positivity rate was yet to drop below 15. Probably for the first time in several months, no cases of confirmed COVID-19-related death were reported in the district on the day. 14 health workers Among those who tested positive, 359 people are known to have contracted the infection through local transmission, while the source of infection in 137 others are unknown. Fourteen health workers also tested positive for the disease. With as many as 747 people recovering from the illness, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 8,835. A total of 2,655 people were quarantined during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of people being monitored in the district to 25,143 in houses and 183 in various institutions. Meanwhile, the district administration continued to crackdown on the violations of the prohibitory orders that were clamped in the district. As many as 1,166 people have been taken to task by sectoral magistrates during the last two days for flouting norms. These included 22 people who were nabbed for violating the COVID-19 protocol. While the sectoral magistrates slapped fines of 107 others for other offences, the police fined 55 people separately. As many as 982 people were reprimanded and cautioned against repeating their offences. In all, the authorities have initiated action against 11,076 people since the enforcement of the prohibitory orders to rein in the surge in COVID-19 cases.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No reason to oppose 10% quota: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said backward class organisations had no reason to go on the warpath against the government over the issue of extending 10% reservation in government jobs to economically disadvantaged persons from socially and educationally privileged forward communities. Mr. Vijayan said the organisations should realise that the 50% reservation for historically deprived Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes and Backward Class communities remained intact. The 10% reservation extended to financially disadvantaged persons from the forward communities did not infringe on the Constitutionally mandated 50% job quota for backward class and SC/ST communities. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Kerala Pulayar Maha Sabha (KPMS) and the SNDP Yogam had opposed the move vehemently. They had accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of betraying the interests of historically marginalised communities. Leaders of the organisations are scheduled to meet on October 28 in Kochi to chart out their future course of action. Sign of backwardness Mr. Vijayan said the organisations had no ground for any grouse. The LDF manifesto promised social justice for all. He said all political parties had recognised poverty as a marker of backwardness. The Lok Sabha had passed the Constitution (124th Amendment) Bill, 2019, with an overwhelming majority to succour the poor among forward castes without diminishing the existing quota for SC/ST and backward class communities. Forward caste candidates from families that have an annual income of less than Rs. 4 lakh will be eligible for this reservation. The quota would not apply to job aspirants from families that possess more than 2 acres of land in grama panchayats; more than 75 cents in municipalities or more than 50 cents in Corporation limits. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan had also cautioned the IUML and others against agitating over a “non-issue.”
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dip in road accidents, fatalities in State||Increase in penalties following amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act and the COVID-19-induced lockdown have resulted in accidents coming down by 9,700, injuries by 11,325 and in saving 1,233 lives on roads in the State during the 12-month period ending September 2020. The accidents, injuries and fatalities that were 41,206, 46,140 and 4,468 respectively in the 12 months from September 2018 have come down to 31,508, 34,815 and 3,235 respectively from September 2019 to September 2020. The reduction is 30%, 31% and 33% respectively for road accidents, injuries and fatalities. Analysis of the road accident statistics by the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) has revealed that there were no significant changes in the accidents from September 2019 to December 2019, the period after the Motor Vehicles Act amendment. However, there was a slight decline in their severity. After the penalties for various offences on the road went up, there was a 4% reduction in crashes and injuries and 17% reduction in road fatalities in January-March 2020. In the April-May 2020 period when the lockdown was enforced due to the pandemic, the road accidents declined by 75% and fatalities by 78% in the State. In the ‘Unlock’ period from June to August 2020, the road accidents and injuries across the State were lesser by 40% and fatalities by 34%. Enforcement measures  A 25% decline in road fatalities during the period, excluding the lockdown period, can be attributed to the stern enforcement measures by the MVD and the police following the MV Act amendment and the roll out of the Safe Kerala Project, says KRSA Executive Director, Road Safety, T. Elangovan. The accident data for the period from January 2020 to September 2020 period has also shown a decline of 34.7% in accidents and 40.1% in fatalities.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Children initiated into world of letters||Given the COVID-19 scenario, many parents in the district appeared to have opted for an ‘at-home’ Vidyarambham for their children this year, but popular venues such as temples and cultural centres still found takers on the occasion of Vijayadashami on Monday. COVID-19 containment protocols governed the conduct of the ceremony at the public venues in the capital city. Writing on rice Hundreds of tiny tots took their first step into the world of letters by writing on rice at venues including the Saraswathi Mandapam, Poojappura; Thunchan Smarakam, Iranimuttom; Attukal Bhagavathy Temple, and Karikkakom Sri Chamundi Temple. Unlike in past years, this time the children sat on the laps of their parents who helped them write. At some venues, 'acharyas' were present to offer verbal guidance. This year, the organisers had also directed parents to bring the rice and trays to further reduce any chance of infection. “The queues were way shorter this year,” said Poojappura Krishnan Nair, patron, Saraswathi Devi Temple and Mandapam, Poojappura. Approximately 600 children sat for Vidyarambham at the popular venue on Monday, where the ritual began at 5.30 a.m. “'Last year, there were around 1,700 children and 55 acharyas. This year, the COVID-19 guidelines were strictly observed. The children were assisted by their parents,” Mr. Krishnan Nair said. The Poojappura Mandapam drew families from places outside the city limits including Nedumangad and Karakkamandapam. Less than 50 children sat for Vidyarambham at the Thunchan Smarakam at Iranimuttom. “'Usually, the number is above 1,000. The families were allowed inside in batches of five every half hour,” said Sudha Harikumar, secretary. The temples in Thiruvananthapuram also witnessed shorter queues this year, according to the temple trusts. Approximately 300 children each were ushered into the world of letters at the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple and the Karikkakom Sri Chamundi Temple. Less crowds Both temples usually see crowds exceeding 1,000. Taking into account the COVID-19 situation, the State government had requested parents to perform the ceremony at home to reduce the chances of the virus from spreading. The Health Department and the Thiruvananthapuram district administration had issued guidelines for safely conducting the ceremony at public venues. At Cliff House The Cliff House, the official residence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, also witnessed a Vidyarambham ceremony this year. Mr. Vijayan initiated Devana, granddaughter of his driver Vasanthakumar into the world of letters. Mr. Vijayan's wife Kamala and Vasanthakumar's family members were present. Five children at the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare also were initiated into the world of letters on Monday by V. P. Mahadevan Pillai, Kerala University Vice Chancellor,
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Complete work on water plant, Minister tells KWA||Minister for Co-operation Kadakampally Surendran has directed the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) and the project contractor to complete the construction of the 75 mld water treatment plant (WTP) at Aruvikkara by November 30. The Minister visited the site on Monday. Mr. Surendran expressed satisfaction at the pace of work on the Rs. 56.29 crore project. He also directed officials of the various departments concerned to review the progress of work on a weekly basis. The 75 mld plant is being constructed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The Water Resources Department had initially planned to commission the plant, which would help to significantly improve the water supply to Thiruvananthapuram city, by March 2020. But various factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the delay in timely allocation of funds by the government had affected the pace of the work, awarded to Chicago Constructions International Pvt Ltd.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reporting all COVID deaths: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday claimed that the State government was reporting all COVID-19 deaths in the State “responsibly” and “without fail.” He claimed that the government did not need to fudge the State’s mortality data because even if all the “suspicious COVID-19 deaths” were included on the official list of COVID-19 deaths after a death audit, Kerala’s case fatality rate would still be lower in comparison to other States. He claimed that earlier in 2018, when dengue cases were audited, in the initial phase only less than 40 deaths had been reported. But after auditing, even when the number of deaths turned out to be much more, the government published the report. Kerala had been approaching COVID-19 containment in a very scientific manner and strategies were being revised in tune with the evolving epidemic. Blames media He accused the media of publishing negative stories without taking into account ground realities, which he said was demoralising health-care workers who had been working hard to contain COVID-19.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Universities to admit students to distance education courses||State universities have initiated steps to enrol students for their distance-education courses. The move brings to an end the uncertainty over the prospects of open and distance learning (ODL) this academic year and follows the government’s advice to gear up for the admission process. The promulgation of the Ordinance for the Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) had virtually barred other universities from conducting distance education programmes and private registrations as such domains were brought under the purview of the SNGOU. However, the recent stay by the Kerala High Court of the Ordinance provisions dealt a blow to the government’s hopes of fully operationalising the fledgling university. Official sources now concede that the court order has made it unlikely for the SNGOU to start any academic programmes this year, and the turn of events has paved the way for other universities to continue with their distance education programmes for one more year. The developments have also stalled the necessity for existing students to migrate to the new university midway through their courses. UGC’s permission Currently, only the University of Kerala has obtained recognition from the University Grants Commission to offer programmes under the ODL mode in the 2020-21 academic year. R. Vasanthagopal, Director, School of Distance Education, Kerala University, said the admissions for UG and PG courses were under way. Registrations can be done online till October 31 and November 18 respectively. The university admits 10,500 students for its ODL courses on an average annually. The University of Calicut, which attracts the highest number of distance education learners in the State, has sought the UGC nod for offering such programmes. The university recently submitted its application after the apex body had extended deadline for applications till October 31, Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Extend support to the quarantined, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has flagged the unhealthy practice of victimising people who have been quarantined in the district. During his customary briefing on Monday, Mr. Vijayan highlighted the rising instances of such persons or families being subjected to harassment by their neighbours and others in their localities. Such intolerant tendencies did not auger well for the containment efforts. Terming those quarantined as part of the frontline warriors in the battle against the pandemic, he appealed to the public to extend all possible support for such sections. The Chief Minister also cautioned against exceeding the permissible number of attendees during meetings. Urging restraint during neighbourhood gatherings and meetings of residents associations and other collectives, Mr. Vijayan called for excluding senior citizens from such gatherings. Besides, the guidelines of the ‘Break the Chain’ campaign must be strictly adhered to. He also lauded religious and community leaders for ensuring strict compliance with the campaign norms in places of worship in the district. All sections of the public have extended wholehearted support towards the cause, he added.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM inaugurates work on Nazir memorial||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated online the construction of a memorial to yesteryear actor Prem Nazir at Chirayinkeezhu, his native place in Thiruvananthapuram district. The memorial will serve to keep the actor's memory and contributions to cinema alive in the hearts of future generations, the Chief Minister said. He regretted the fact that the State had to wait 32 years after the actor's death for a memorial to him. It should have come up in the very next years after his death. The first superstar of Malayalam cinema, Prem Nazir acted in around 600 Malayalam films and more than 30 Tamil films in a career that spanned four decades, Mr. Vijayan noted. Planned in three storeys, the 15,000 sq ft memorial includes a mini theatre, museum, open-air theatre, stage, library, cafetaria and board rooms. The facility is being constructed by the Cultural Affairs Department at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. Minister for Cultural Affairs A. K. Balan presided. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi unveiled the foundation stone of the memorial building.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held for burglary||The Medical College police arrested two habitual offenders whose alleged burglary bid was thwarted late Sunday. Those arrested were identified as Anil Kumar alias Parunthu Anil, 36, of Manacaud, and Biju alias Bruce Lee Biju, 42, of Powdikonam. They were apprehended by a patrol team who found them loitering around Chalakuzhy lane on a motorcycle. On being questioned, they made a bid to flee from the area but were soon intercepted and overpowered by police personnel. They allegedly admitted to have stolen the bike from within the Vilappilsala police limits. The duo also purportedly confessed to have been involved in as many as five theft cases that were reported in the rural limits and others in the city. They also allegedly stole nearly Rs. 1 lakh while burgling shops .
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed after an ambulance heading to hospital and a tipper lorry collided at Vembayam in the district on Monday afternoon. The deceased were identified as Pradeep, the driver of the ambulance, and Narayana Pillai, a patient who was being taken to hospital in the vehicle. The accident occurred around 2.30 p.m. at a bend in the road near the Thevalakkad junction. Pradeep hails from Vembayam. Narayana Pillai belongs to Thevalakkad, the police said .
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One arrested for theft||The Vanchiyoor police on Monday arrested a 31-year-old man for allegedly breaking into a shop and burgling the outlet a week ago. The police identified the accused as Nasarudeen Shah alias Dheena of Beemapally. He has been accused of burgling a store on Theatre Road in Pettah on October 20. He purportedly stole Rs. 15,000 and various valuables from the shop.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dialysis unit at taluk hospital||District Panchayat president V.K. Madhu on Monday inaugurated a new dialysis unit installed at the Government taluk hospital in Vithura. An amount of Rs. 45 lakh was spent for the purpose. Mr.Madhu said that there has been a sea change in the rural health sector in the district in the past five years.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. hasn’t let down parents: Chief Minister||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said he was not in the habit of cheating any person let alone the anguished parents of the Dalit girls in Walayar. Mr. Vijayan was responding to the allegation that he had done little to reverse the shoddy investigation that led to the acquittal of three persons suspected to be responsible for the suicide of the sisters. Mr. Vijayan said the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party were attempting to weaponise the grief of the parents against the government ahead of the elections. The government had filed an urgent memorandum in the High Court to overturn the verdict and order a reinvestigation. The court had stayed the release of the suspects. Moreover, the government had appointed a commission of inquiry headed by retired district judge P.K. Haneefa to probe the matter. The report was tabled in the Assembly. Flaws in prosecution and investigation had led to the acquittal of the accused. The government had removed the errant prosecutors and suspended the investigating officers.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One online classes from Nov. 2||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has developed a single video-on-demand (VOD) platform for enabling access to all First Bell classes being telecast through the KITE Victers educational channel from June 1. “All digital classes, including those in Tamil and Kannada medium, will be available through thefirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.inportal,” K. Anvar Sadath, CEO, KITE, said. Over 3,000 classes Over 3,000 classes can be selected on the basis of medium, class, or subject on the First Bell portal. Telecast of digital classes for Plus One will begin on November 2. Initially, there will be two classes for Plus One from 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. With this, educational classes benefiting 45 lakh students from classes 1 to 12 will be telecast through Victers channel every day.
27 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated classrooms||Mayor K.Sreekumar on Sunday inaugurated the renovated classrooms and open hall at the Government Lower Primary School in Manvila. Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar presided over. He also inaugurated a new community hall in Mannanthala.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,KERALA||CPI opposes bid to amend police Act||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has expressed concern that the recent decision of the government to amend the Kerala Police Act, 2011, could reverse the course on media freedom, muzzle free speech and jeopardise civil liberties. The party’s newspaper, Janayugam , has expressed serious apprehensions about the proposed executive order.
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM inaugurates new facilities for police||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that the government would spare no efforts to equip the police force with modern facilities. Speaking after inaugurating the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network training centre at the police headquarters here, he hailed police officers for working in tandem with the Health Department to enforce the COVID protocol in Kerala.
27 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Restrictions get tighter in Thrissur||Against the backdrop of a spurt in COVID-19 cases, District Collector S. Shanavas has asked the police and sectoral magistrates to strengthen restrictions in critical containment zones and containment zones in Thrissur district. The decision was taken after a review meeting held here on Monday observed that violation of safety measures by people and business establishments had resulted in a case surge. Local bodies that record more than 30 COVID-19 cases a day have been declared as critical containment zones. Areas with more cases among elderly people and children also will be monitored. More COVID-19 tests will be conducted at Sakthan and Jaihind markets, which are currently closed, to assess the spread rate. A decision to open the markets will be taken only after reviewing the results, the Collector said. Vigil Day tomorrow October 28 will be observed as COVID-19 Vigil Day, as part of which campaigns and awareness programmes will be held. The Collector held discussions with representatives of traders and urged them to take precautionary measures to check the spread of the disease. District Medical Officer (DMO) K.J. Reena said people were violating Beak-the-Chain norms in public places. Many business establishments were not maintaining the guidelines, she said. Critical zones In the wake of an increase in cases, 31 areas in Thrissur Corporation, Chavakkad, Irinjalakuda, Guruvayur, Kodungallur, Chalakudy and Wadakkanchery municipalities; many wards in Pariyaram, Alagappa Nagar, Kodakara, Pananchery, Puthur, Velur, Madakkathara, Padiyur, Cherpu, Choondal, Pavaratty, Mattathur, Kattur, Vallathol Nagar, Parappookkara, Melur, Nadathara, Manaloor, Vallangallur, Avinissery, Varantharappilly and Kaipamangalam panchayats have been declared critical containment zones. Special teams of the Motor Vehicle Department will be deployed in the areas. The Health Department, led by the DMO, will conduct inspections. Rapid response teams are distributing awareness notices in all houses. Officials said children were going out in many places, violating COVID-19 guidelines. Strict action would be taken against this. Shops closed Shops will be closed on Tuesday and Wednesday in Chalakudy as part of disinfecting the units. Street vendors have been banned in the Chalakudy municipal area. People have been asked to avoid unnecessary journeys.
27 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Vidyarambham rituals scaled down||Against the backdrop of a spurt in COVID-19 cases, Vidyarambham functions were reduced to symbolic rituals at various temples in Thrissur on Monday. Most children entered the world of letters through simple functions at their homes. In a symbolic ceremony at Thiruvullakkavu Sree Dharma Sastha Temple, Cherpu, famous for Vidyarambham ceremonies, only one child participated in the ritual. Acharya Sreedhara Warrier led the child to the world of learning. Usual scenario Usually around 10,000 children attend the Vidyarambham rituals in the temple, which start around 4 a.m. and last till 7.30 p.m. This time, around 500 people had darshan in the temple by maintaining physical distancing, temple sources said. Special pujas Special pujas, including Saraswathi Puja, were held. Devotees entered the temple through West Nada and exited through East Nada. Earlier, the District Collector had asked the people to strictly maintain COVID-19 guidelines while conducting the Vidyarambham functions at homes.
27 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||480 cases in district||Thrissur recorded 480 COVID-19 cases on Monday while 723 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,940 active cases in the district and 115 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 34,832 cases have been reported in the district and 24,590 people recovered from the disease. Of the new cases, 479 contracted the disease through local contact. As many as 7,033 patients are under home observation. In all, 3,885 samples were tested on Monday.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road not to be taken||
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fact-checking||
27 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chitravathi oustees demand compensation||About 180 residents of Marrimakulapalli in Tadimarri mandal of the district organised a dharna in front of the District Collector’s office here on Monday seeking immediate sanction of compensation for the houses submerged in the Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir on the Anantapur-Kadapa district borders. While compensation was given to them in 2006, no rehabilitation was taken up and no houses built for them with no water impounded so far, but in 2020 when the government decided to impound water, as a one-time settlement people in three villages were given compensation, but in Marrimakulapalli those who had crossed 18 years of age were neglected and not given any compensation, as per the government order, alleged the displaced youth. Family members of some of them had got compensation as they had crossed 18 years in 2006, but many of those agitating now, had turned 18 later and demand cut-off date be taken as September 27, 2020 as in the case of other villages in Anantapur and Kadapa districts. “The District Collector promised us compensation money, but they were not implementing it nor showing us in the total list of people now being given compensation and we have doubt that some outsiders were also being added to the list,” alleged the displaced persons. They submitted a memorandum to the Collector on Monday and waited for him to meet at the Spandana on the Collectorate premises, but when the Collector did not turn up, they held a demonstration and the CPI(M) leaders promised to continue the agitation on their behalf if the administration did not respond, said CPI(M) Hindupur secretary Intiyaz.
27 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Owners demand restoration of Nizam Sugar factory land||The owners of Nizam Sugar Factory have made a representation to the District Collector on Monday demanding that the land be returned to them as the new company that had acquired the factory land was allegedly selling it as a real-estate venture. Around 110 families had given 144 acres of their lands in 1977-78 for setting up of the Nizam Sugar Factory at Parigi in Anantapur district and within 10 years of its functioning, the factory was sold to Renuka Sugars. Again, the Renuka Sugars shifted the machinery out of the factory in 2001, and in 2006, they sold the land to Rasai Properties, who had promised to set a few industrial units that would provide employment to locals. As per the original agreement, one job per family was to be given in the factory set up in their lands acquired at Rs. 1,800 per acre. With no industrial activity forthcoming in that land, which includes 25.28 acres of Anjaneyaswamy Devasthanam Endowment, the locals, who still hold the title deeds, began cultivating in those lands, said CPI(M) Hindupur District secretary M. Intiyaz. The land values have now risen and the land acquired for the industrial activity was sold as house sites against the Supreme Court stipulation, said CPI(M) activist C. Vinod Kumar.
27 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 constables booked for ‘stealing’ 200 gm gold||The Chilamatthur police on Monday booked a case against two constables from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and civilian police for allegedly taking away gold biscuits weighing 200 gm from a clerk of Tirumala Jewellers while checking for illegal transportation of liquor from Karnataka. According to the police, on October 24 the clerk Chandrasekhar was passing through the Kodikonda checkpost on the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border in Anantapur district, when the SEB and police conducted a routine search in a bus and allegedly found liquor bottles in the possession of the clerk, which they confiscated. During the check, they also found gold biscuits, which he was carrying from Bengaluru to Prodduturu in Kadapa district and allegedly threatened and took away two gold biscuits from him. A case has been registered following a complaint from the owner of the jewellery store, and the constables are being interrogated.
27 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||252 police personnel in Anantapur donate blood||As part of the National Police Martyrs’ Week celebrations, 252 police personnel donated blood in Anantapur district on Monday. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said the National Police Commemoration Day is observed on October 21 to pay homage to the 10 policemen killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh’s Hot Spring area. At the District Police Office here, a special camp was set up where 49 personnel from the city donated blood under the supervision of Additional SPs I. Nagendrudu and Hanumanthu. Circle Inspector Pratap Reddy and K. Srinivasulu and Garladinne SI Kiran Kumar Reddy were among the first to donate. The SP said even those who had survived the COVID-19 had donated plasma in Anantapur.
27 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restore schemes for Muslim minorities’||The members of the Indian Muslim Minority Organisation on Monday held a demonstration at the District Collector’s office complex seeking the immediate restoration of welfare schemes meant specially for the Muslim Minorities. The ‘Dulhan’ scheme is not being implemented for the past two years in addition to the non-payment of monthly honorarium to the Imams and Mouzins for the past eight months, said IMM president S. Mahaboob Basha. Raising slogans, women said that several poor families were burdened without the assistance under the scheme. Several financial assistance schemes, for setting up of small businesses without bank linkages and for other purposes, used to be given, which have been stopped, though the total amount with bank linkage has been increased, added Mr. Basha.
27 October 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plans afoot to give Maddilapalem, Dwaraka bus stations a facelift||The Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS), popularly known as RTC complex, and the Maddilapalem bus complex of APSRTC will soon get a facelift, if the plans of the corporation are any indication. The RTC complex is the busy hub of the city, with buses moving in and out of the vast bus station-cum-shopping complex right from the early hours of the day to late in the night. The Main Road, going towards LIC Junction, is chock-a-block which traffic, as whenever buses try to make their way into the complex, the vehicles going behind are held up till the buses enter into the premises. “Our idea is to develop it into an integrated bus station-cum-commercial complex. The plan is to develop multiplexes and modern passenger amenities,” says Regional Manager M.Y. Danam. “The Sulabh complex close to the entry gate and the old cycle parking stand will be removed to provide a wide parking area. Though there are three roads leading into the complex, one beside the other, the entry is haphazard. We will widen the entry and allot the three entry points, exclusively for city and rural buses and the third for vehicles coming for parking,” Executive Engineer (DBS) K. Venkata Raju told The Hindu , when contacted. The Maddilapalem bus complex and one of the two RTC Depots, adjacent to it, would be removed and a multi-storeyed bus station-cum-commercial complex will be constructed. The project has been given to a consultant. This bus station and depot are located in a prime area in the city just beside the National Highway. A plan was made to develop this bus station into a multi-storeyed bus station-cum-commercial complex with multiplexes and modern amenities, a few years ago, but the plan failed to take off. Now, this is one of the six projects in the State, proposed by the government, for development under BOT (Build, Operate and Transfer). The Maddilapalem Bus Station Complex will have 30 platforms and the DBS Complex will also have about the same number of platforms. With Visakhapatnam poised to become the Executive capital of the State, a huge growth in population and traffic is anticipated and these two main city bus stations can meet the growing needs to a large extent. The MVP Colony Bus Station, Madhurawada, Simhachalam, Kurmannapalem and other bus stations can be developed, based on future needs of the growing city.
27 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corruption rife in government hospitals, alleges Congress||Cadres of the Congress party on Monday alleged that several thousands of files pertaining to public health matters were pending at the medical and health department at Amaravati, leading to lack of supervision and corruption in government hospitals. The party activists led by All India Congress Committee member K. Prameelamma and State SC cell convener P. Prabhkar staged a protest in front of the Government Children’s Hospital in Tirupati demanding immediate solution to the public health issues in the district. ‘Shortage of medicines’ The Congress leaders alleged that though a 300-bed exclusive children’s hospital was set up in Tirupati during the UPA government, lack of supervision and funds led to its getting almost defunct over years. They alleged that though over a hundred patients visit the hospital daily, it is not in a position to treat them, forcing the parents to approach private hospitals. In spite of the presence of medical and surgical specialist, the hospital is hit by acute shortage of medicines , they said. They deplored that though 25% percent of the people in Tirupati were affected with coronavirus, the government was playing down the figures, besides initiating risky treatment to patients through sanitary workers. The Congress leaders also alleged corruption in SVIMS and SVRR Hospitals, throwing public health of the poor and downtrodden in jeopardy.
27 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in Kuppam after police foil walkathons by TDP, YSRCP||Tension prevailed in Kuppam, Ramakuppam, Shantipuram and Gudupalle mandals of Kuppam Assembly Constituency on Monday, after the police foiled the “maha padayatra” programme of the Telugu Desam Party, while at the same time preventing YSR Congress Party cadres from taking out a counter-protest over local issues. According to information, TDP cadres, under leadership of MLC Gownivari Srinivasulu, had planned the maha padayatra from Ramakuppam to Kuppam, in support of the demand for completion of the Handri Neeva Kuppam Branch canal. The party had mobilised its cadres, and planned to launch a five-day padayatra from Ramakuppam mandal headquarters to Kuppam on Monday. Reacting to this TDP’s protest plan, the YSRCP leadership in Kuppam gave a counter call of walkathon from the same mandal on Monday, alleging that the TDP was behind stalling of distribution of house pattas to over 25,000 beneficiaries in Kuppam constituency by taking the matter to the court. Reacting to the schedules of the two parties, the Palamaner sub-division police on Saturday issued notices to both parties, denying permission to their programmes. About 300 police personnel were deployed at Ramakuppam mandal headquarters on Sunday midnight, followed by confining key TDP functionaries to their houses, including former minister N. Amarnatha Reddy at Palamaner, MLC Gownivari Srinivasulu at Kuppam and party cadres at the four mandals. Similarly, the police also blocked the movement of YSRCP cadres towards Ramakuppam at a few places. Naidu flays ‘house arrest’ Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu in a statement condemned the “house-arrest” of the party leaders in Chittoor district, terming it as “atrocious.” He demanded that works of the Kuppam branch canal be completed immediately to benefit the farmers of the region, besides providing drinking water to the parched villages of Kuppam constituency.
27 October 2020||GUDIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police band performs in Gudivada||Police band organised a show and took out a rally in the town in connection with the ongoing Police Commemoration Day programmes, on Monday. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) N. Satyanandam, trainee DSP Ramya, CIs, SIs and other staff participated in the rally. At Jaggaiahpet, police personnel distributed masks to those moving without them in the town. They asked the public to maintain social distance and follow rules to prevent the spread of COVID-19. SI Chinna Babu distributed sanitisers and masks to the public at different centres.
27 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLAs hail industrial policy for SCs, STs||Hailing the new industrial policy -- ‘Jagananna YSR Badugu Vikasam’, YSRCP MLAs Merugu Nagarjuna, Alajangi Joga Rao and Talari Venkat Rao have said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is following in the footsteps of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and Jyotirao Phule who strove for the betterment of SCs and STs. Mr. Nagarjuna said ‘Jagananna YSR Badugu Vikasam’ was a special industrial policy for the SC, ST entrepreneurs with a benefit of Rs. 1 crore each to start a new venture. He said the government would be providing incentives worth Rs. 278 crore to the SC and ST entrepreneurs and skill development programmes would be held to improve skills among them. He said the Chief Minister proved that welfare and development were two eyes of the government with the new industrial policy. He said 16.2% of the industrial units in the APIIC would be reserved for SCs and 6% for ST entrepreneurs. The MLA said the new policy provides fiscal incentives besides exemption of stamp duty, land allotment, power, interest subsidy, net SGST, quality certification or patent registration, seed capital and other assistance as required Meanwhile, Mr. Joga Rao said that while former Chief Minister N. Chandrbabu Naidu looked down upon the SCs and STs and never allowed them to come up in life. It was Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who turned out to be the saviour of the Dalits by introducing the new industrial policy. c He said it was a boon for the Dalits. He said the schemes such as Vasathi Deevena, Vidya Deevena, Asara, Cheyutha, Amma Vodi and introduction of English medium at primary school level initiated by the Chief Minister were for the all-round progress of the Dalits. ‘Historic decision’ While hailing the new industrial policy, Mr. Talari Venkata Rao said Dalits should be thankful to the Chief Minister for taking the initiative to make them entrepreneurs. He said the new industrial policy for Dalits was a historic decision taken by the Chief Minister which has not been implemented in any other State. He said all the 28 SC MLAs and seven ST MLAs were indebted to the Chief Minister for his outstanding decision for the uplift of the Dalits.
27 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital inaugurated||Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha expressed delight at corporate treatment coming to denizens of Kadapa. Speaking after inaugurating Jagadish Neurocare Hospital on Monday, he acknowledged the importance of 50-slice advanced CT scanner in reducing mortality rate, especially in accident and trauma cases. “Earlier, we used to rush either to Tirupati or Kurnool for super speciality treatment, but now corporate medical care is within our reach,” the Deputy Chief Minister observed.
27 October 2020||KAIKALUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan mortgaging Polavaram with Centre for self-interests’||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh has alleged that the State government has failed in rescuing farmers from floods and claimed that about 750 ryots committed suicide after the YSR Congress Party came to power. Mr. Lokesh, who toured Krishna district to inspect the crops damaged due to floods on Monday, criticised the government for not coming to the rescue of the farmers whose crops were inundated in floods and suffered huge losses. Cotton, paddy, chilli, horticulture and aquaculture crops, worth crores of rupees, were damaged due to heavy rains that lashed in the last one month, he said. The former Minister walked into the fields and observed the damage suffered by the crops in the island villages on the Krishna and West Godavari district borders. While the TDP government had completed 70% of the Polavaram project, the YSRCP government could not take up any construction work in the last 17 months but had mortgaged the national project with the Centre for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s self interests, the TDP leader alleged. Instead of helping the farmers in the State who are in distress, the Ministers were insulting them and even ration was not being supplied to flood victims, Mr. Lokesh said as he interacted with paddy farmers. Loss assessment Aquaculture farmers, who invested Rs. 5 lakh per acre, suffered huge losses due to the floods, but the government is yet to start enumeration, Mr. Lokesh alleged. “How can the YSRCP government claim itself as Rythu Rajyam, when the farmers are weeping with losses?” he said, demanding that the government bail them out of losses.
27 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Acquire land for tourism infra in Konaseema, Maredumilli’||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar on Monday directed the AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) and district authorities to gather 20 acres to develop tourism infrastructure in Konaseema and Maredumilli forest cover in Rampa Agency in East Godavari district. In an online meeting of the District Tourism Development Council, Mr. Muralidhar said the existing tourism facility centres at Adurru and Pasarlapudi should be renovated to put them into use in the Konaseema area. The officials concerned, including the APTDC, have been told to prepare an action plan to convert the Havelock Bridge across river Godavari in Rajamahendravaram city into a tourist destination. The Indian Railways has in principle recently consented to handover the bridge to the State government for tourism purpose. “The Environment Education Centre (EEC) built by the APTDC at the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary should be handed over to the AP Forest Department to utilize the available infrastructure for the promotion of the tourism in the sanctuary,” said Mr. Muralidhar. The EEC was built in recent years with the special grant sanctioned by the Union Ministry of Tourism. Potential in Agency areas to be explored Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA- Rampachodavaram) official Praveen Adithya and ITDA Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana have been directed to explore the tourism potential in the Agency, with focus on tribal tourism. APTDC Regional Director T. Raja, APTDC Divisional Manager (East and West Godavari districts) T. Veera Narayana and other officials were present.
27 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stopped from playing online games, boy ‘ends life’||A 14-year-old boy allegedly ended his life by jumping into a local pond reportedly after his mother stopped him from playing online games on the cellphone, at Kadali village under Razole police limits in East Godavari district. The incident occurred on Saturday and the boy’s mother lodged a complaint with the police on Sunday after the his body was found in the local pond. According to Razole police, Appari Nagendra Prasad’s mother had taken away the mobile phone from him 10 days ago, preventing him from playing online games. The boy, who was allegedly addicted to the online games during the lockdown, reportedly jumped into the pond. The boy's father works abroad. The body has been sent to government hospital in Amalapuram for post-mortem. Those with suicidal tendencies and distress can call police helpline 100 for help and counselling.
27 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mask must at religious places’||Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik on Monday appealed to the elders of various religions to ensure that visitors at places of worship mandatorily wore a mask in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. At a meeting, Mr. Kaushik reminded them that practice of ‘No mask-no entry' would help prevent the spread of COVID-19 within the religious places as well as outside areas.
27 October 2020||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 10 lakh seized, one arrested||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids and seized liquor stocks, worth about Rs. 10 lakh. On a tip-off that a lorry driver, Md. Ahmed Ali Shah, was allegedly smuggling liquor, the team seized 300 liquor bottles from his house, located near Nidadavole on Monday. Based on his confession, police raids on two other places at Samishragudem village and seized more stocks.
27 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bunny festival: tension mounts at Devaragattu in Kurnool||The annual Bunny Utsavam - 2020 at Devaragattu Mala Malleswaram Swamy Temple has been banned by the State government in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the backdrop of the ban, over 1,200 police personnel were deployed in the village in Aluru constituency, while tension prevailed in the area on Monday evening. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said anyone found with sticks or torches would be booked. All liquor shops were closed down in the border region of Karnataka and RTC bus services to the area suspended. All roads leading to Devaragattu were closed by erecting 15 checkpoints. “All rituals as part of kalyanam will be allowed only with the main organisers participating in it, but none from outside will be allowed to participate in the traditional fight with sticks in the light of ‘Kagadas’ will not be allowed,” he added. Even as police clampdown continues, people are making all preparations for making of the torches, and people from several villages in Karnataka were eagerly waiting to enter the region from the hillocks. Drone cameras and 100 CCTV cameras were installed in the region. People from three different villages form into two groups and fight with each other with sticks fitted with metal rings to secure the ceremonial statues, as they believe development will take place in the village that secures the statues. More than one lakh devotees took part in the festival last year.
27 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre should bear entire cost of Polavaram project: Minister||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav on Monday said that the TDP was responsible for capping of the cost of the Polavaram Project at Rs. 20,399 crore by the Centre and the party should apologise to the people of the State for it. “'There is no question of compromise on the issue. It is the responsibility of the Centre to fund the entire project cost, including the rehabilitation of the displaced persons. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will write to the Centre and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi shortly with facts and figures to press the State’s case,” the Minister told the media at Tadepalli on Monday. Dig at TDP The State government is only playing the role of a facilitator in constructing the project. If the construction cost goes up, it is the responsibility of the Centre to bear it and there can be no two opinion on this, he explained. “It was the Centre’s responsibility to construct the project as per the A.P. State Reorganisation Act. Why then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu government took over the project,” he asked. Revised estimates The TDP owes an apology to the people of the State for not dissenting though it was part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre, when the irrigation component of the project cost was capped by the Union Cabinet in March 2017 as per the revised estimates for 2014. The YSRCP, which was in the Opposition then, had raised objections, the Minister pointed out. “When the total project cost, after being considered by the Polavaram Project Authority and approved by the Central Water Commission, was put at Rs. 55,450 crore at the 2017-18 price level, how did the then Chief Minister agreed to Rs. 20,399 crore,” he asked. Special package It is natural that the estimated cost goes up over time in the case of a big project such as Polavaram. “However, it was unfortunate that then TDP government had agreed for the Special package announced by the Centre and hailed it through a resolution passed in the State Assembly, instead of insisting upon the Centre to bear the entire project cost as assured by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the floors of the Rajya Sabha at the time of State bifurcation,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. Mr. Naidu, who went to Polavaram to review the progress of the irrigation component of the project on Mondays, did not take any interest on the issue of rehabilitation over one lakh people displaced, said the Minister, adding that the TDP regime had neglected the project by spending only Rs. 265 crore between 2014 and 2016.
27 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health situation improves further in south coastal A.P.||Coronavirus loosened its grip over south coastal Andhra Pradesh as fresh cases came down to a couple of hundreds in Nellore and Prakasam districts. Over 1,600 patients recovered in the two districts while three more patients-- two in Nellore district and one in Prakasam succumbed to the dreaded disease taking the toll in the region to 1,052, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. The number of discharges outnumbered fresh admissions by 1,633 in the two districts. With 98 fresh cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 60,648 in Nellore district. The caseload came down further to just 1,682 with 555 patients getting discharged. The count increased to 58,663 in Prakasam district as 104 persons tested positive for the disease. At the same time, as many as 1,280 patients recovered from the illness, bringing down the number of active cases down to 2,159. Meanwhile, the Nellore district administration urged pensioners not to personally visit EPF office to give life certificate as it was not safe for them. They could digitally submit the certificates by accessing Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance(UMANG) App. Anticipating a surge in coming days, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar exhorted the health workers to pro-actively identify new coronavirus cases and keep a tab on their blood oxygen level so that they can be shifted to the hospitals if need be. The number of new cases might go up in the coming days, he said, while interacting with the village-level functionaries from the assembly constituencies of Ongole, Chirala, Parchur, Addanki, and S.N.Padu.
27 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara festivities end on a traditional note||Curtains came down on the nine-day Dasara festival with the traditional ‘'Paruveta'. The cultural traditions of Ongole were in full limelight as the processional deities of gods and goddesses from temples, big and small, passed underneath the ‘Jammi chettu’ in Lawyerpet here which had withstood the onslaught of several cyclones in the past. Wearing face masks to avoid contracting coronavirus, devotees from far and near offered worship to the tree. According to a legend, the Pandava princes had hidden their arms and ammunition during their visit to the forests in the tree branches. Devotees organised ‘Kalaram’ procession from Vijayadurga temple at Chenna Kesavaswamipet, the last in the series to celebrate the victory of the mother goddess over the buffalo-headed demon ‘Mahishasura’.  Processions held Devotees offered worship to the glittering mother goddess as traditional torchlights illuminated the entire area, praying for health, wealth and prosperity. Artistes, dressed like gods and goddesses and led the procession dancing in tune with the drum beats, were the cynosure of all eyes. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal along with his wife Megha donning traditional Telugu attire performed special pooja to 500 of the most sophisticated weapons and police vehicles on the occasion.
27 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||GPRS helps police trace stolen lorry in 24 hours||A lorry that went missing within Dornala police station limits in the early hours of Sunday was traced within 24 hours by Prakasam police with the help of General Packet Radio Service(GPRS) software. When the reports of the vehicle going missing reached Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal, he formed two special teams under overall supervision of Markapur DSP G.Nageswara Reddy to crack the case swiftly and began checking vehicles on all routes. The SP, who himself closely observed the network of CCTVs linked to the Integrated Command control Centre here, noted that the vehicle was fitted with GPS tracking system. The IT core team personnel in no time traced the vehicle moving near Vellatur, near Vinukonda in Guntur district.
27 October 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister to inaugurate NIT buildings today||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Minister of State for Education Sanjay Shyamrao Dhotre and A.P. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh will inaugurate the new buildings of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh, at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district on Tuesday. The Ministers will launch the Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan academic block and the Godavari and Krishnaveni hostel buildings for boys and girls, the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam laboratory complex and Athidi guest house constructed under phase-1 through a videoconference, said NIT in-charge Registrar Dinesh P. Shankar Reddy at a press conference here on Monday. NIT Director Prof. C.S.P. Rao will preside over the function at 4.30 p.m. virtually onhttps://youtu.be/ wn2mXP85xGo. Transport and West Godavari district in-charge Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, Tadepalligudem MLA Kottu Satyanarayana, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, NIT Board of Governors (BoG) Chairperson Mridula Ramesh and other officials would attend the programme, Mr. Reddy said. Associate Dean (Planning and Development) N. Jayaram said the first phase buildings were constructed at a cost of Rs. 415 crore. The NIT had developed an app for the virtual launch, he said. Head of Electrical Engineering department V. Sandeep said the buildings were constructed on a sprawling 172.6 acre campus in two years. Institute Training and Placement Officer Kartikeya Sharma said 1,200 boys and 800 girls could be accommodated in the hostel buildings, and the academic building was constructed with 120 rooms.
27 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayudha puja performed at Tirumala||Ayudha puja was performed at the TTD’s Matrusri Tarigonda Vengamamba Nitya Anna Prasada complex here on Monday. Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said that the puja was performed invoking the blessings of Lord Venkateswara and Goddess Nava Durga for a perpetual supply of annadanam to the devotees visiting the shrine. Recalling the victory of Goddess Durga over demon Mahishasura, he said performing special pujas to all the cooking utensils and tools (machinery) was an age-old practice generally observed on Vijaya Dasami in the country. Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, Deputy EOs Nagaraj, Balaji, Damodaram, Selvam, VGO Manohar and catering officer Saibaba Reddy were among those who took part in the programme.
27 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala online tickets from today||The online quota of Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets for November will be released at 11 a.m. on Tuesday. In view of COVID-19 restrictions, the TTD has resolved to provide about 19,000 tickets a day. The TTD already resumed issuance of sarva darshan tickets from Monday. About 3,000 tickets will be issued on a daily basis at its counters in the Bhudevi complex in the vicinity of the Alipiri bus station in Tirupati. The tickets will be issued a day in advance and only the ticket holders will be allowed at the Alipiri checking point to travel up to the town.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mrs. India AP’ winner felicitated||Mrs. India Andhra Pradesh 2020 title winner Bindu Madhavi was felicitated by former ZP chairperson Gadde Anuradha at a function here on Monday. Bindu Madhavi, a city-based doctor, won the title in the pageant organised by 'Mrs. India Andhra Pradesh'. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Anuradha said that Dr. Madhavi who plays multiple roles as responsible doctor, homemaker and also a sportswoman proved her talent and won the title. Dr. Madhavi said that she was happy for winning the title. She said it was possible only with the support of her parents and husband Sudhakar. Another guest and city doctor M. Madhavi and others appreciated the winner.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 30,000 in State||The State reported 1,901 new COVID-19 infections and 19 new deaths in the past day as of Monday morning. On Sunday morning, 2,997 new and 21 deaths were reported. The tally has gone up to 8,08,924 and the death toll increased to  6,606 with a death rate of 0.82%. The recovery rate has further increased with the recovery of 7,557 patients in the past two days, including 3,972 in the past day. The number of active cases for the first time in several months came down to less than 30,000. Currently,  28,770 patients are undergoing treatment, while 7,73,548 persons , which is 95.63% of the total infected patients have recovered. Lowest new infections The number of tests conducted in the past day was low compared to that of the past several days, yet the positivity rate at 3.69% was lowest in about past three and a half months. The overall positivity rate of 76,21,896 tests conducted so far was 10.61%. The single-day tally of new cases was also the lowest in three months. All the districts reported less than 400 new cases in the past day and eight districts reported less than 100 new cases. The district-wise new case and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (397 and 1), East Godavari (313 and 2), Guntur (295 and 1), Chittoor (289 and 4), Prakasam (104 and 0), Nellore (98 and 1), Kadapa (85 and 3), Visakhpatnam (85 and 1), Krishna (74 and 3), Kurnool (63 and 0), Vizianagaram (59 and 0), Anantapur (21 and 2) and Srikakulam (18 and 1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,13,673), West Godavari (83,224), Chittoor (76,849), Guntur (65,346), Anantapur (63,719), Kurnool (59,286), Nellore (59,082), Prakasam (58,663), Visakhapatnam (55,209), Kadapa (51,252), Srikakulam (43,551), Vizianagaram (38,953) and Krishna (37,222).
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure use of mask: Collector||The district administration has made it mandatory for the shops, establishments and religious institutions to display the note 'No mask, no entry' at their entry points and enforce the same to contain the spread of COVID-19. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz conducted a meeting with the representatives of all religions and officials of the Endowments Department, Minority Welfare Department, revenue and others here on Monday. He said 80% of the virus transmission can be avoided by strict usage of masks and all the people should compulsorily wear masks. He asked institution heads to ensure all COVID safety measures were in place. District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini said that the government would provide COVID testing bus for institutions where there would be a gathering of more than 50 persons. She said Dr. Naveen at 9849585871 can be contacted for the same. Dr. Suhasini said that action would be taken against the establishments that fail to enforce mask rule and also display the note.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs imposed on non-duty paid liquor transport||The government issued a notification on Monday clarifying its position on the transportation of intoxicants manufactured outside the State. This was necessitated by the transportation of liquor from other States without payment of duty, fees etc. which is not only causing loss of revenue but also resulting in the transport of liquor through non-duty paid means. According to the notification contained in G.O. MS No.310 issued by Special Chief Secretary (revenue -excise) Rajat Bhargava, transport of two litres of duty-free liquor is allowed without any permit in respect of persons travelling from outside the country. No transport of any intoxicant which is manufactured/produced outside the State and on which applicable duties, taxes, fees payable under the AP Excise Act, 1968 are not paid is permitted except under permits granted by the competent authorities in advance.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||50.47 lakh farmers to get Rythu Bharosa aid||In the second phase of Rythu Bharosa, over 50.47 lakh farmers will be extended financial assistance of Rs. 1,114 crore on Tuesday, according to State Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu. Addressing the media here on Monday. Mr. Kannababu said the transfer of the amount to the bank accounts of the farmers would be initiated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at one stroke of a button at 11 a.m. In the first phase, 46 lakh farmers were benefited from the scheme. The number was increased to 50.47 now, said the Minister. Mr. Kannababu said the government had already released an amount of Rs. 113.11 crore towards input subsidy to the farmers who incurred loss due to floods and rains in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Kurnool, Kadapa, and Anantapur districts. For the horticulture farmers, Rs. 22.59-crore input subsidy was released, he said. Mr. Kannababu said that Rythu Bharosa amount would also be given to farmers in the Agency areas who were given forest land rights on October 2.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends G.O. on pvt. junior college intake||A single-judge bench of the High Court ordered the interim suspension of G.O. MS No.23 through which the government sought to restrict the intake of all private junior colleges to 360 except those having a permanent affiliation subject to the availability of infrastructure and staff, for four weeks with effect from October 21. Justice D. Ramesh was hearing the writ petitions filed by Kolli Brahmaiah, president of the Central Andhra Junior College Managements’ Association, Atmakur (Nellore) and V. Srinivasa Durga Prasad, correspondent of Sai Geethanjali Junior College, Bapulapadu (Krishna district). ‘Pressure on students’ The judge observed that though the impugned G.O. was issued to make an amendment to G.O. MS No.114 and there was no dispute about the scheme (of imposing curbs on the intake of private junior colleges) formulated as per the directions of the High Court, there was no reason mentioned in the controversial G.O.s for the imposition of restrictions leaving out government colleges, aided private colleges and private junior colleges having a permanent affiliation. The court, therefore, directed the government to place the G.O. under suspension. The petitioners contended that reducing the intake of only private junior colleges from 792 to 360 was discriminatory and it would exert tremendous pressure on students in the present situation when all those who appeared in the 10th class were declared as passed in the examinations.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID incidence high in 16 mandals in Krishna’||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has asked Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and other officials to focus on COVID containment strategy at the mandal-level as there is an increase in the number of infections in the district. Ms. Sawhney reviewed the situation in the district via video conference on Monday. Mr. Imtiaz told her that COVID incidence was high in 16 mandals, including A. Konduru, Chatrai, Bapulapadu, Vatsavai, Vijayawada Rural, Machilipatnam Urban, Pedana, Nuzvid, Nandigama, Jaggaiapeta and others, in the district. Ms. Sawhney said special focus should be on schools as they were going to reopen. She asked officials to appoint a teacher in every school as nodal officer through whom students could be tested, if necessary. The district tally had gone up to 37,222 and death toll increased to 551. In the past day, 74 new cases and three new deaths were reported. There are 3,414 active cases.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two new lifts inaugurated at Gudivada railway station||Officials of the South Central Railway, Vijayawada division, inaugurated two new lifts at Gudivada railway station on Monday. The lifts were commissioned on platform No.1 and on island platforms 2 and 3, connecting the three platforms, said Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas.
27 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to expedite Kadapa steel plant project||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to expedite the implementation of the integrated steel plant project proposed in Kadapa district. In a review meeting at his camp office on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the departments concerned should complete the formalities required to commence the works at the earliest. Officials informed the Chief Minister that seven companies including some multinational companies had evinced interest in setting up the plant, and it would take at least seven weeks to select a qualified bidder. A target has been set to start the construction works in a month after that.  Electronic cluster Taking stock of the development of the Kopparthy Electronic Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) in Kadapa district, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a top priority should be accorded to it keeping in view the prospects of large-scale employment the project offered. Officials said the consumer electronics maker Dixon Technologies had proposed to set up its manufacturing unit in the cluster at an investment of Rs. 300 crore. Some other companies were also keen on investing in the Kopparthy EMC. Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven, Andhra Pradsh High Grade Steels Limited Managing Director S. Shan Mohan and others were present on the occasion.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to complete Vizag Metro Rail project by 2028||Vizag Metro Rail project, proposed to be taken up in four corridors covering a total distance of 75.3 km at an estimated cost of Rs. 15,933 crore, is expected to be completed by 2028. The first phase, extending over 46.40 km, is expected to be completed by 2025. A master plan has already been prepared for development of 79.91 km of light metro corridor and 60 km modern tram corridor. The project consultants would prepare separate DPRs for the metro and tram corridors and submit them by mid-November and mid-December respectively. The consultants have made detailed traffic study and recommended four metro corridors with 52 stations, extending over a length of 75.31 km. Corridor-1 will be from Steel Plant to Kommadi junction, covering a distance of 34.23 km, corridor-2 from Gurudwara to Old Post Office, covering 5.26 km, corridor-3 from Thatichetlapalem to China Waltair, covering 6.91 km and corridor-4 from Kommadi to Bhogapuram Airport, covering a distance of 28.91 km. The modern tram will be in three routes: corridor-1: NAD junction to Pendurthi, covering 10.20 km., Steel Plant Gate to Anakapalle, covering 18.20 km and corridor-3 from Old Head Post Office to Bheemili beach via Rushikonda 31.80 km. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana inaugurated the regional office of AP Metro Rail Corporation here on Sunday. Unique features Addressing the media later, the Minister said: “The project is being taken up for the development of Visakhapatnam city as part of the decentralisation plan of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.” Mr. Satyanarayana further said that the unique features of Vizag Metro were that it would not have overhead electrical lines as in the case of other metros in India, and would be powered by 750 volts DC power. It would be a driver-less metro. ]Six multi-level car parkings were planned at Steel Plant Gate, Gurudwara, Maddilapalem, BVK College, Sampath Vinayak temple and Gajuwaka. Each would have a capacity for parking 200 to 300 cars. Of the 75.3 km of light metro corridors, 70.5 km would be fully elevated and 4.5 km would be at grade level near Bhogapuram Airport. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Metro Rail Project MD N.P. Ramakrishna Reddy, VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao and GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and MLAs Tippala Nagi Reddy and Adeep Raj were among those present on teh occasion.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 from Punjab, Kerala held for ‘stealing cash’ from ATM||The city police on Monday arrested two persons on the charges of robbing Rs. 9.59 lakh cash from an ATM in Sundarnagar in the city. The arrested have been identified as Samarjot Singh (32), a native of Punjab, and Jafer Sadik (28), a native of Kerala. Both are reported to be habitual offenders and had become friends in a prison. DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that the duo came to the city on October 16 from Bengaluru in a flight and stayed in a hotel with the plan to loot cash from ATMs. The duo reportedly hired a two-wheeler to conduct recee in the city to identify potential ATMs to commit the crime. Using the gas cutter and other equipment, the duo allegedly cut open the safe of the SBI ATM and stole the cash in the early hours on October 21 and left for Bengaluru on October 22. The duo was caught by police in Bengaluru. Mr. Suresh Babu said that they had recovered Rs. 1.32 lakh cash, mobile phones and other goods worth Rs. 2.10 lakh from the duo. The duo had earlier committed offences at an ATM in Hyderabad where they robbed about Rs. 16 lakh and in Bengaluru to the tune of Rs. 8 to Rs. 10 lakh. According to the DCP, the duo were habituated to flamboyant lifestyle and the recovered goods include a leather waist belt that cost around Rs. 10,000, one shoe around Rs. 23,000 and one jogging suit that cost around Rs. 8,000. It is learnt that about Rs. 3 lakh was transferred to the account of Samarjot’s brother and the cash has been frozen by the bank, on request from the city police. The case was cracked within 35 hours, despite the accused being from out of the State and fleeing the city within 24 hours of committing the offence. According to the Mr. Suresh Babu, evidences gathered from the spot and some CC TV footages, helped them solve the case. On the date of the offence, the police had come to know that the offence was carried out by an outstation gang and modus operandi matched with the offences carried out in Hyderabad and Bengaluru. This was confirmed from CC TV footages at the airport.  Special teams Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha formed special teams and one team was sent to Bengaluru. The case was cracked with the help of police teams from Anantapur and Bengaluru.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrictions on large gatherings make Dasara a low-key affair||The Dasara festival was a low key affair this year due to the restrictions imposed on large gatherings. There were hardly any puja pandals in the city unlike scores of them, which spring up at all major junctions in the city during normal times. A majority of the citizens remained confined to their homes. ‘Bommala Koluvu’, the arrangement of dolls in a step-like pattern, was organised by some families at their homes. A beautiful ‘Bommala Koluvu’ arranged by Bhagyalakshmi, a classical singer, with the support of her husband P.B. Govinda Kumar, Deputy General Manager, NTPC, Parawada township, and her daughter Vaishnavi, won the appreciation of the residents of Deepanjali township of NTPC.  Consumer durable shops, textile and automobile showrooms did brisk business during the Navaratri festival. Automobile dealers said they were unable to meet the demand from consumers in view of the shortage of supply due to the lockdown. Wine shops, meat and chicken stalls did roaring business on Sunday. “There was a temporary lull in sales after the lockdown was lifted. Subsequently, the demand picked up gradually. The festive season has seen a surge in demand for new cars with many people shunning public transport in view of the pandemic situation. We have seen very good demand this season but it would have been much higher, if we had more stock,” says Sunny of Jayabheri Maruti. Pandemic situation He estimates that the sales of cars of all brands in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts this month at 3,500 as against the normal sales of 2,000 a month. If there were adequate supplies, the sales would have gone up to 4,500 this month, he says. Kumar Raja, GM (sales) of Mango Hyundai, concurs with his views and says there is supply scarcity due to the pandemic situation and decline in production.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AUCET/AUEET counselling from today||The schedule for certificate verification/counselling for AUCET/AUEET-2020 for admission into various P.G. courses in sciences, arts and commerce offered by A.U Campus Colleges, A.U affiliated colleges for the academic year 2020-21, through AUCET- 2020 and 6-Year B.Tech.+M.Tech. Dual degree programmes offered in A.U. College of Engineering (A) and A.U. College of Engineering for Women has been announced by D.A. Naidu, Director of Admissions, AU.  Rank cards The qualified candidates can download their rank cards and register online for certificate verification and web counselling by paying the counselling fee from Tuesday (October 27) onwards. Web options can be changed from November 5 to 9. Provisional allotment of seats will be done o November 12. Fee has to be paid online between November 13 and November 15 and the candidates admitted have to report to the respective Principals on November 16 and 17. The online classes will commence on November 18. More details can be seen on the websitehttp://audoa.in/
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘smothers’ son to death||Vexed with his harassment, a woman allegedly killed her 20-year-old son by smothering him with a pillow at her house at Marikavalasa under PM Palem Police Station limits here in the early hours of Monday. The police said that Anil was reportedly addicted to vices and had been creating a lot of problems for his mother Madhavi (40). On Sunday night, he had come home late in an inebriated condition and allegedly picked up a fight with his mother. On Monday morning, when the neighbours informed about the incident to the police, she reportedly admitted to the crime. The police registered a case and took Madhavi into custody.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 272 COVID cases, 3 deaths in 48 hours||The district recorded 272 fresh COVID-19 positive cases in the last 48 hours, taking the total count to 55,721 cases, here on Monday. During the same period, three deaths were also recorded taking the count to 471. As per the district COVID-19 health release, 357 persons affected with the virus were discharged or recovered in the last 48 hours, taking the total discharges to 53,000. The active cases are 2,250.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amarnath takes dig at TDP chief||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath has said that it is ridiculous that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and general secretary N. Lokesh are trying to project the recovery of 40 acres of government land from the GITAM Deemed to be University as nothing but a ‘political vendetta’. “The YSRCP government has adopted a policy of protecting government land. However, the TDP leaders are giving it a different colour,” Mr. Amarnath said here on Monday. He alleged that some vested interests were spreading falsehood against the State government.  The common people are supporting the action of the government in recovering the encroached land. The 40 acres of land is valued at Rs. 800 crore, he said.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance Awareness Week begins today||The Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) and Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL) are jointly observing the Vigilance Awareness Week, as per the guidelines of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), from October 27 to November 2. Both the organisations will be conducting various activities to create awareness among all the stakeholders, employees and other citizens, especially youth, to promote and uphold ethical values, which helps in developing a sustainable culture of honesty and integrity, since corruption is one of the major obstacles for the overall development of the nation. Special focus will be given to internal (housekeeping) activities during the week. They include land management, allotment of quarters, management of assets, clearing of complaints, gender sensitisation, inspections and leveraging technology.
27 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive conducted against open drinking||A special drive was conducted against open drinking across the city over the weekend from October 23 to 25. During the three-day drive, cases were booked against 679 persons on the charge of open drinking. Also 122 cases were booked under Town Nuisance Act and 127 persons were booked. People also urged to pass information regarding their problems on city police WhatsApp number 9493336633.
27 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI urges govt. to check sale of sand in ‘grey’ market||Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India’s AP State chapter general secretary K. Subhash Chandra Bose has urged the government to control the sale of sand in grey market and ensure hassle-free supply to revive construction activity in the State. He expressed concern over the sale of sand at exorbitant rates in black market in the North Andhra region and other parts of the State. Mr. Bose, the managing director of Pride Developers and Constructions, Vizianagaram said that the entire economic chain and construction activity were badly affected in the State. “Hundreds of projects under construction in the 13 districts were stalled due to the non-availability of sand. “A lorry load of sand costs around Rs. 12,000 as per the government rates but it is being sold at Rs. 30,000, which is a huge burden on buyers,” he said and urged the government to take stringent measures to check black marketing of sand. Workers badly hit “Apart from builders, 17 lakh labourers lost their livelihood. Many labourers who returned to their native places during the lockdown period are eagerly waiting for works to resume. That is why, CREDAI has sent a detailed letter, requesting the government to resolve sand problem and other issues immediately,” said Mr. Bose. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has introduced a good sand policy to streamline the rates and supply but its implementation at the ground level needs to be improved,” he added. Online booking According to him, CREDAI sought the attention of AP Mineral Development Corporation over technical glitches in online submission of bulk orders. The portal allows booking only at a particular time in the day and offers a limited quantity of sand at different locations. The stock is exhausted within minutes of opening of the website, he said, adding the government has to ensure supply of sand from nearby reaches to avoid huge transport charges. Non-availability of fine quality sand is another concern for the construction industry.  Many labourers who returned to their native places during lockdown are eagerly waiting for works to resume. That is why, CREDAI has sent a detailed letter, requesting the government to resolve sand problem immediately. K. Subhash Chandra Bose, CREDAI AP chapter general secretary
27 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok’s family to stay away from Sirimanotsavam||Former Union Minister Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju’s family has decided to stay away from the direct participation in the ‘Sirimanotsavam’, scheduled to be organised on Tuesday. Mr. Ashok used to offer prayers on the occasion of ‘Tolellu’ and the Sirimanotsavam of Pyditalli Ammavaru till last year when he was the chairperson of the MANSAS Trust. The deity is believed to be the incarnation of Pydimamba who, the legends says, had sacrificed her life by jumping into the Pedda Cheruvu after hearing the death news of her brother Peda Vijayarama Gajapathi Raju in the Bobbili war in 1757. MANSAS Trust row Mr. Ashok and his family members are unhappy with the reported priority being given to MANSAS Trust chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, daughter of Uma Gajapathi Raju, the first wife of Mr. Ashok’s elder brother late Ananda Gajapathi Raju. Ms. Sanchaita offered prayers at the Pyditalli Ammavaru temple on Monday morning. “I would have a virtual darshan. I am not expecting any special respect from the temple authorities. As per tradition, the male heir of the Pusapati royal family used to play a key role in the Sirimanotsavam and the temple affairs,” Mr. Ashok told the media here. The appointment of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju the MANSAS Trust chairperson and the removal of Mr. Ashok from the post without any prior notice may have an affect on the festival. Mr. Ashok, along with his wife Suneela Gajapathi Raju and daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju, would watch the the Sirimanotsavam from the Vizianagaram fort every year. However, they would not participate this year, even as they have got an invitation from the temple authorities. Meanwhile, the State government haws made all arrangements for the festival. Usually, around 3 lakh people from different parts of the State participate in the event every year. But this time, the devotees will be not be allowed to take part in the festival, due to the coronavirus pandemic. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Modnay went to Hukumpet where the ‘Siri Manu’ was being decorated. Visakhapatnam Range DIG L.V.K. Ranga Rao, SP B. Rajakumari said that the restrictions would remain in force till the end of the festival. The APSRTC has not been allowed to operate buses from other places this time. The district administration has also asked the residents not to allow anyone to watch the Sirimanotsavam from their establishments.
27 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. won’t interfere in affairs of MANSAS Trust’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday made it clear that the government would not interfere in the affairs of the MANSAS Trust or in the reported disputes among the Pusapati family members. His words assumed significance in the backdrop of the MANSAS Trust’s reported attempt to privatise the government-aided MR College in Vizianagaram, where Mr. Satyanarayana had studied. The Minister, along with Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, visited the Government Junior College which introduced several degree courses in the 2019-20 academic year. “The government will intervene only when some malpractices take place in the MANSAS Trust. Otherwise, we will not interfere in the day-to-day affairs and decisions of the trust. The government is in no way connected with the MR College issues,” he said. However, it will ensure free education for students from poor financial background by strengthening the newly established degree college. More faculty members will be appointed and new courses will be introduced,” he said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, TDP mired in corruption: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that both the YSRCP and the TDP have belied the expectations of the people on Amaravati, whereas the Central government has made a significant contribution to the development of the State by sanctioning many projects. Mr. Veerraju said the BJP’s stand on the capital was very clear and it was committed to the establishment of the High Court in Rayalaseema. “The YSRCP government has neglected many projects undertaken by the previous dispensation. Both the YSRCP and TDP governments are mired in corruption. The BJP will expose the alleged complicity of the YSRCP MLAs in irregularities in 21 projects sponsored by the Central government,” he said. He insisted that N. Chandrababu Naidu should give the details of the financial assistance extended by the Centre for the development of Amaravati.  ‘TTD funds being diverted’ The BJP leader demanded that the government should refrain from diverting the funds belonging to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The BJP has already written a letter to the government, he said. “There are many issues in which the government owes an explanation to the public,” Mr. Veerraju said, adding that the BJP and the JSP would soon stage protests to protect people’s interests.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a jolly mood||
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former MLA’s services recalled||CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy garlanded the statue of former MLA G. Demudu on his fifth death anniversary, at Velagalapalem of Koyyuru mandal in the Agency area of the district on Monday. Mr. Murthy described Demudu as a honest politician, who had given great importance values. He had fought relentless to solve the problems of tribal people.
27 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Dasara festivities end on fiery note||Sri Ram Leela Mahotsavam, the breathtaking event featuring the burning of demon king Ravana’s effigy to mark the triumph of good over evil, added sparkle to the otherwise low-key Vijayadashami celebrations at the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Monday. Vijayadashami (Dasara) was celebrated in conformity with the COVID-19 safety protocols at the shrine, popularly known as south Ayodhya, on Monday. Sri Ram Leela Mahotsavam was preceded by a host of religious rituals including Sankshepa Ramayana Havanam, Purnahuti, Ayudha Puja and Sami Puja earlier in the day. The Dasara Mandapam near the temple complex came alive with a flurry of activity late in the evening with the venue playing host to the spectacular Sri Ram Leela Mahotsavam. Quite a few devotees mainly the denizens of the temple town watched the event with rapt attention, temple sources said. The effigy of Ravana went up in flames at the end of the event at the mandapam, exemplifying the valour of Lord Rama and symbolising the victory of good over evil.
27 October 2020||BOBBILIGAM (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Bringing cheer to farmers in distress||In a rare gesture of social assurance, that too on a festival day, a team of police and jail officials reached out to the farming community and celebrated Dasara with them on Sunday. The women farmers celebrated the occasion with joy as though it was their own brothers who came all the way to great them on the festival day. Bobbiligam village in Sadashivapet mandal has a large number of farmers, and majority of them are tenants who take land on lease to cultivate crops. For past several years they have been cultivating cotton. This year too they sowed cotton and the recent rains damaged most of the standing crop. As a result these farmers are now deep in debt and many of them are not in a mood to celebrate the festival. In a move to create confidence among them and assure them that they are with the farmers, Sangareddy Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Sridhar Reddy, District Jail Superintendent Shivakumar Goud, social activist Ch. Uday Kumar from Gummadidala and Puram Pandaiah from Sangareddy came together and gave away new clothes and sweets to the tenant farmers. “We are here to assure you that we are with you in difficult times. Though we could not reach out to everyone, we want to celebrate Dasara with the farmers, who are filling our plates and what we have done is our responsibility,” said Mr. Sridhar Reddy. Mr. Shivakumar Goud said farmers are in distress due to crop loss. “A good tradition of celebrating festival with farmers has started in this remote village. We wish that this tradition could spread to more villages,” he said. “We are happy that you came here all the way from Sangareddy to celebrate. It’s like our brothers coming and offering new clothes. We never had such an experience in the past,” several women said with a smile.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,152 double-bedroom units launched in Hyderabad||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has, on Monday, launched a total of 1,152 double-bedroom dwelling units at three locations in the city. Of these, 840 units were built at Jiyaguda, 192 at Ghode ki Kabr, and 120 at Kattelamandi, with a total outlay of Rs. 95.58 crore. At Jiyaguda, the structure is stilt plus five floors with a cost of Rs. 71.4 crore, with 568 units allotted for the slum dwellers who vacated for in situ construction of homes. At the remaining two locations, the structure is ground plus three floors. At Kattelamandi, the cost of construction is Rs. 9.3 crore, with 103 allotted for the in situ allotment, while at Ghode ki Kabr, the cost of construction is Rs. 14.88 crore, with 139 earmarked for in situ allotment. Help to the poor Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rama Rao said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is pitching in with financial assistance with regard to two most difficult life tasks of the common man, namely building a house and getting a daughter married. The government is building a total of 2.5 lakh double-bedroom units across the State with an outlay of Rs. 18,000 crore. Market value of these houses would be to the tune of Rs. 70,000 crore, Mr. Rama Rao said. Already 50 per cent of the houses have been completed. Of the total, one lakh houses are being constructed for the urban poor within the city, with an expenditure of Rs. 9 lakh for each, he claimed, and said the market value of each house would be around Rs. 40 lakh. He questioned the veracity of the figures about construction of 40 lakh houses under the weaker sections’ housing programme since 1985, and wondered had it been true then why there were still poor families without homes. Existence of the double-bedroom dwellings built by the Telangana government, on the contrary, can be verified on the ground, he said. The Minister has cautioned people against trusting any middlemen for allotment of the units, and said the selection of beneficiaries would be done by officials in a transparent manner. Infrastructure At Jiyaguda, beneficiaries in the housing colony have been urged to form a society and take care of the maintenance and sanitation of the colony with the rents obtained from the shopping complex built within the premises, comprising 56 shops. All the colonies will have Basti Dawakhana, Anganwadi centre, library, and all infrastructural facilities including roads, drinking water, and electricity on a par with gated communities, he said. Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali, T. Srinivas Yadav, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin, and a posse of officials including GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar and Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty participated in the programme.
27 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||5 held for theft at businessman’s house||Five Nepalese, including a woman, have been arrested by the Rachakonda police for committing theft at a businessman’s house. They recovered stolen property worth Rs. 7 lakh from their possession. The accused, who committed the theft on October 19 at the businessman’s house at HMT Colony of Nacharam, were arrested by the sleuths of Central Crime Station, Malkajgiri in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, between October 22 and October 25, and were brought to Hyderabad, said Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat. He said that two of the accused worked as servants at the victim’s house. “The complainant and his wife were not at home. The duo gave tea laced with sedatives to the former’s 70-year-old mother. After she lost consciousness, the duo made away with 18 tolas of gold jewellery, 40 tolas of silver ornaments and Rs. 10 lakh cash. When he returned home around 9 p.m. from his office, the complainant found his mother in an unconscious state. Then immediately he went to the first floor and found that that the bedroom door, cupboard and almirah lockers were broken and the servants were missing,” Mr. Bhagwat said. The complainant strongly suspected his maid servant for the offence and for the attempt to kill his mother, he said. Based on his complainant, a case was registered and 15 teams, consisting of 45 officers from CCS, SOT, IT and law and order police, were pressed into service to nab the accused. Teams were sent to Mumbai, Pune, Jhansi, Lucknow along with railway stations, airport and to Nepal borders, including Rupadiah and Gourifanta checkposts. They were nabbed in Lucknow, he said.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teething problems continue to haunt Dharani||As the date for the official launch of Dharani — the integrated land records information management system — draws closer, teething problems continue to haunt the new software conceived as one-stop solution for land-related transactions. A brainchild of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the State government has decided to integrate the entire land records and host them on the Dharani portal facilitating speedy online transactions avoiding cumbersome procedures which are making the people to run from pillar-to-post. A special session of the legislature was convened to pass the new revenue laws last month and this was followed by stoppage of the registration process until further notice from September first week. The stoppage of the registration process has raised concerns among the people who paid huge amounts for purchase of lands as the transactions were halted abruptly. Intense training sessions are being conducted for the field-level staff for smooth operation of Dharani, but doubts persist on the efficacy of the system as there are lapses in the existing land records which need to be rectified before opting for the new system. Spot registration The online system envisages on the spot registration and mutation of the documents and handing over of the records the same day itself. Revenue officials are, however, apprehensive that allowing transactions with details available online could result in problems. They suggest that the government continue the existing system of registration till the new system is successfully tested and its efficacy established. They are pointing out to the discrepancies in the data of Resettlement Register (RSR), which could pose a major problem in the coming days. Moreover, there were numerous instances where the extent of land shown in the revenue records is different from what is recorded in the survey numbers. This was because of pattas distributed to the poor by successive governments without actually showing land. “The extent of land shown in the passbooks is much higher than the actual land available,” an official said.  Multiple registrations This apart, there are instances of registration of same land more than once that is set to make it difficult for the field-level officers to update the record. The process is likely to progress smoothly from payment of stamp duty, obtaining digital signatures of the parties concerned and uploading record online. But errors pertaining to the RSR data are likely to show up at the time of endorsement by the approving authority, the tahsildar in case of agricultural lands and sub-registrar for non-agricultural properties. The record-related problems apart, problems related to connectivity and speed of the network are said to have shown up during the trials conducted. Sources said there were server related problems during the peak hours as a result of which the officials were unable to upload documents in time.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, order food for delivery at airport||Desire to get the taste of a city as soon as one de-boards the plane might be a bit too unreasonable. A food delivery startup from the city, nevertheless, promises to cater to this irreverence too, at reasonable prices. Foody’s, a business venture by Naeem Khan, aims to bridge the gap between Hyderabad’s patent delicacies and the palates of its visitors, without the latter having to alter their packed itinerary for that. Claimed to be India’s first B2B2C (Business to Business to Customer) food delivery vertical, Foody’s recently launched its delivery kiosks at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here, to deliver the city’s signature cuisines, including its famed biryani. By booking in advance through Foody’s, customers may pick up their orders from the airport, upon arrival or at departure, from either of the two kiosks set up at the airport. App in the works While an app is in the offing, the startup has already tied up with online travel booking agencies such as MakeMyTrip and GoIbibo, so that the customers may choose their delicacies while booking the tickets. Once the app is launched, they may book standalone orders too, six hours in advance, to receive the delivery at airport, Mr. Khan promises. In addition, customers may choose from the Foody’s over-the-counter sales too at the airport. This will also help hungry passengers who choose to avoid the supremely expensive food outlets at the airport. For a variety of cuisines catering to vegetarian and non-vegetarian connoisseurs, he has tied up with six restaurants in city — Shadab, Bawarchi, Rayalaseema Ruchulu, Ohri’s, Terrassen cafe, and Euphoria. Based on the air passengers’ choice, newer restaurants and menus too will be added to the fare, he says. While Mr. Khan, an advertising and marketing professional and food critic, was one among the pioneers in food delivery in Hyderabad, his business got uprooted with arrival of Zomato and Swiggy which are on market acquisition spree. “With this startup, we are banking on the logistic costs involved in the food delivery. For any of these food aggregator apps, each order requires a delivery executive, whereas we ply trucks between airport and the city to carry the orders in bulk at once,” Mr. Khan says. Further, who could say no to a chicken biryani served at Rs. 250 inside the airport? Based on the success here, he plans to expand the operations to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru airports too.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi jr docs seek non-COVID services, threaten boycott of duty||Post-graduate students from Gandhi Medical College threatened to boycott duties if non-COVID services do not resume at the State government hospital from November 1. The junior doctors stated that they are losing out on clinical exposure from the past seven months. Over 550 junior doctors pursue Post-Graduation there. From the end of March, only COVID-19 patients are being admitted at the tertiary care centre. House surgeons (MBBS interns), PG students also known as junior doctors, faculty, nurses, Class-IV workers, are engaged in attending to only COVID-19 patients. As on October 25, 402 out of 1,890 beds were occupied at the hospital. In a representation addressed to the hospital’s superintendent Dr M. Raja Rao, Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) members stated that resumption of non-COVID services will help patients suffering from diseases other than COVID-19. President of the association Dr V. Naveen said that as part of the PG course, they attend to patients with various health complications, discuss intricacies of cases. “Now,we are attending only COVID-19 cases. We are not gaining expertise in other health complications. Why should PGs only from Gandhi Medical College lose out on the crucial clinical exposure?,” questioned Dr Naveen. The junior doctors stated that this could affect their final examinations. Earlier, the State Health department too announced plans to resume non-COVID services at the hospital. At the end of September, the State Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials to resume non-COVID services at the hospital.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood relief only partially distributed, claim residents||Several instances of discrepancies have come to fore with regard to the distribution of financial relief to the victims of recent flooding in the city, especially in the Old Malakpet area flooded by the Musi River. Quite a few families have claimed that they had received only Rs. 5,000 in place of the Rs. 10,000 announced by the government, while people who have not experienced inundation too were reportedly offered more than the allotted amount. “I stay in the same house with my four brothers and their families. Officials arrived and offered Rs. 50,000, calculated at Rs. 10,000 per family. And come to think of it, my house was not even affected during the floods,” said Syed Bilal, a social activist who stays in the Shankar Nagar basti. He claims that the distribution in Old Malakpet is ridden with politics and those whoever questioned the same are being threatened. “As per our survey, only 178 homes were affected in Shankar Nagar, and as per the MRO’s survey, the number was 200. But here, the undeserving too are being paid full compensation, while those who have been hit very badly by the flood are denied the same,” he complains. Mohammed Ayoob Qureshi, another resident of Shankar Nagar has lost all his belongings to the flood, yet received only Rs. 2,500 as his share. “Water entered waist deep, and our fridge and washing machine have conked out. We had to throw away even our clothes as they were full of sludge, and unusable. Staying away with relatives for a couple of days, later we found shelter in a mosque,” Mr. Qureshi related. Officials who visited the home, however, gave Rs. 10,000 in total for the four families living in different portions of the same building, he said. Akbar Qureshi, resident of Padma Nagar, said he got only Rs. 5,000 in compensation for the loss suffered, but entries were made in the records that he had received Rs. 10,000. “They said, by grace of God I was getting even that amount, and I should be grateful for that. I lost my ration, mattresses, clothes, television, set-top box, and several valuables. Neighbours helped by giving shelter in their home, or else my wife and I would have perished,” he said. Bibi Reshma, another resident of Padma Nagar said her family, one among the two tenants in the building, got Rs. 5,000, within which to recompense her loss of cooler, refrigerator and washing machine. Women were seen on a video clip, vouching that they had received only Rs. 5,000. Residents under the condition of anonymity also complained that they were asked to produce ration card too in addition to Aadhaar for disbursement of relief. Officials from GHMC, however, denied all the allegations and said details along with photos were uploaded on to the app, which functioned on the basis of the house numbers. However, relief was distributed to all houses in the affected localities, irrespective of whether a home was inundated or not, they said.  I stay in the same house with my four brothers and their families. Officials offered Rs. 50,000, calculated at Rs. 10,000 per family. And come to think of it, my house was not even affected during the floods. Syed Bilal,social activist
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘File counter in Work Inspectors’ petition’||Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana High Court had directed the State government to file counter affidavit in a writ petition challenging the disengagement of services of temporary Work Inspectors of Mission Bhagiratha department. The petitioners, 137 Work Inspectors of Mission Bhagiratha department, approached the HC stating that the government removed them from services shirking social responsibility during COVID-19 pandemic. They said no prior notice was given to them about their removal. They requested the HC to set aside the government order of their removal and instruct the government to pay them salaries on the par with regular employees of their cadre since the time of their appointment. The petitioners also prayed that their services be regularised by absorbing them into different government departments. The matter is now posted to November 4 for the next hearing.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wakefit.co sets up a factory in Hyderabad||Sleep and home-solutions startup Wakefit.co has announced the setting up of a factory in Hyderabad to bolster its manufacturing capabilities and help cater to growing consumer demand in the region. Spread across 30,000 sq.ft. and entailing an investment of Rs. 5 crore, the facility in Medchal-Malkajgiri district will make sofas and furniture products. Hyderabad is among the top five focus cities for Wakefit.co and witnessed a significant rise in demand for sleep and home solutions products in the last few months, a release from the company on Monday said. CEO and co-founder Ankit Garg said, “Ever since we have set up our infrastructure presence in the city, our order volume has increased significantly reducing delivery time in and around Hyderabad.” Besides catering to a growing market, the Hyderabad factory is expected to help the company achieve its target of Rs. 450 crore revenue this fiscal. It had closed last financial year with revenues of around Rs. 200 crore. Conceived as an online sleep solutions company in 2016, Wakefit.co entered the home solutions segment over the last 18 months. It is planning to further strengthen its manufacturing capabilities as well as in-house research and development and will set up additional factories in Pune, Delhi and Bengaluru. Its product portfolio in the sleep solutions range includes mattresses, beds, mattress protectors, pillows, comforters, bedsheets, neck pillows and back cushions, while home solutions range consists of study tables, book shelves, bedside tables, coffee tables, TV units, sofas,shoe racks, wardrobes and dining tables.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB’s programme ranked 1st in India||The PGPMAX (Post-Graduate Programme in Management for Senior Executives) offered by the Indian School of Business (ISB) has been ranked as number one in India and 53rd globally in the Financial Times 2020 EMBA rankings released on Monday. A release from ISB, announcing this, said the PGPMAX is a 15-month global executive MBA-level programme for senior executives and business owners with a minimum of 10 years of experience. The ranking reaffirms ISB’s leadership in management education, it said. Dean Rajendra Srivastava said “the rankings not just highlight the relevance of the PGPMAX programme but also the importance of an Executive MBA for working professionals.”
27 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Social distancing missing at flower market||It was business as usual at Gudimalkapur flower market on Monday morning as hundreds of farmers, traders and buyers descended to make their Dasara purchases. The COVID-19 lockdown appeared like a distant memory as the men and women jostled to bid, bargain and buy mostly marigolds, chrysanthemums and roses. “I was afraid that business will be affected due to COVID-19 fears but over the last three days it was like old times,” said Jagannath Reddy, a wholesale flower trader, while adjusting his mask. While some traders wore masks and gloves, a majority of the shoppers could be seen without masks and social distancing norms were observed more in the breach. Hyderabad has seen closure of multiple wholesale markets including Osman Gunj, Begum Bazar and even Laad Bazaar due to COVID super-spreader events. The Durga Puja celebrations in the city have been low key events where the size of idols was limited to 2.5 ft, worshippers to 50 and the bhog (food) distribution among devotees was barred. The rush at the flower market was not surprising as flowers form a big part of Dasara celebrations in Telangana where they are used for the 9-day Bathukamma festival, as offerings for goddesses, and also for decorating vehicles and machinery for Ayudha Puja. “We sold the chrysanthemums for Rs. 300 per kg for two days and now the price has dipped to Rs. 140 as festival shopping is almost over,” said Venkatesh Reddy, who buys flowers in bulk and sells them in different parts of the city to retailers. At the retail level, chrysanthemums were hawking for Rs. 20 for 50 gm (chatak) in the city as people made last-minute purchases before the puja.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana sees 582 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded only 582 COVID-19 cases on Sunday with just 14,729 people getting tested. In September, around 55,000 to 60,000 samples were being put to test every day. Gradually, by the fourth week of October, it has reduced to a maximum of 45,000 per day. On Sunday, testing fell to less than 40% of that, leading to detection of fewer cases. Four more COVID patients died. The new 582 cases include 174 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 87 in Nalgonda, 55 in Rangareddy, 38 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 22 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem. Of the 14,729 people, 13,212 underwent tests at government facilities while 1,517 opted for private labs. Till October 25, a total of 40,94,417 samples have been tested in the State and 2,31,834 have tested positive for coronavirus. Of those, 18,611 are active cases while 2,11,912 have recovered, and 1,311 have died. The recovery rate in the State stands at 91.40%. The number of COVID-19 deaths reported by the Health department has always been seen with suspicion. Earlier, eight to 12 COVID deaths were being recorded daily, as per the media bulletin. Telangana High Court, on September 4, observed nine to 10 deaths a day due to COVID given by the State government were unbelievable.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Innovation cell to host assistive technology expo||The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) will be hosting a State-level online exhibition for assistive technology (AT), as a part of the forthcoming Assistive Technology Summit 2020, to recognise and showcase assistive and rehabilitative solutions for the elderly and persons with disabilities (PWDs). It is inviting applications from innovators of the State, including startups, students and grassroots innovators. The applications will be accepted till November 14, a release said. Details of the exhibition and application process are available on www.teamtsic.org/at-summit-exhibition. According to the website, the online exhibition is scheduled to be opened on December 3.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD/Siddipet,TELANGANA||TRS Govt failed on all fronts: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home and senior BJP leader G.Kishan Reddy on Monday charged the TRS government of having failed in COVID-19 pandemic control and mitigation, relief and rehabilitation during the recent floods and for being unable to construct two-bedroom housing in the twin cities and in the districts. In an informal chat with media persons, Mr. Reddy also observed that the forthcoming GHMC polls will be fought mainly on the issue of construction of free two-bedroom housing. He expressed the confidence that the party candidate Raghunandan Rao will emerge victorious in the Dubbak bye-election and accused the ruling TRS party of getting “frustrated” because of the people’s support to the BJP. Mr. Reddy, who rushed to Siddipet on Monday evening to extend support to the family of the party candidate, has objected the police behavior at Siddipet and its violation of election code. He said party incharge Jitender Reddy was sent to Hyderabad by the police and charged that the TRS was misusing the official machinery. Noting that searching the houses without search warrant is highly objectionable, the Union Minister of State for Home said Mr. Raghunandan Rao is being targeted and harassed by police. “Never before has official machinery been misused like this by any previous government. We will take this issue to the notice of Election Commission, Union government and party central leadership,” he said expressing confidence that ECI will do justice. He referred to transfer of Collector by ECI on the complaints that he was favouring ruling party. Mr. Reddy said he would be participating in the election campaign in the next few days. Mr. Reddy condemned attack on Bandi Sanjay and other leaders. Party leaders also claimed Home Minister Amit Shah had telephoned party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to enquire about the incident. Meanwhile Mr. Bandi Sanjay has alleged that police behaved like goondas and threw him into the van forcibly by catching his neck.
27 October 2020||Kakinada,TELANGANA||Man stabs wife to death||A 54-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by her husband reportedly following an argument over sale of property, at Vegayyammapeta village under Draksharamam police limits in East Godavari district on Sunday night. Pithani Suryakantam reportedly objected the proposal of her husband, P. Satyanarayana, 64, to sell their family property, including land and cattle, at a price lower than the market rate, in recent months. Satyanarayana had recently sold out a piece of land and cattle to the locals. According to Draksharamam police, the couple reportedly ha an argument on Sunday over the sale of their properties. Around 1.30 a.m. on Sunday, Satyanarayana allegedly stabbed his wife with a knife. Suryakantam died while undergoing treatment in Government General Hospital in Kakinada on Monday. A case has been registered and investigation is on.
27 October 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Who will help this hapless woman?||Nagamalla Uma Rani cannot control her tears. While all homes in her neighbourhood of Katta Rampoor here are still engulfed in Dasara celebrations’, she is struggling to come out of the sorrow of her husband Venkata Narsaiah’s suicide. A cotton trader, Narsaiah, ended his life by consuming poison unable to bear alleged harassment by suspended police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) B. Mohan Reddy and others. “Mohan Reddy’s harassment killed my husband. While other families are having happy moments this Dasara, we are pushed into deep sorrow,” she said on Monday, after performing third month ritual of her husband’s death. On August 28, her husband was found dead in a room in a lodge in Nacharam in Hyderabad. A suicide note purportedly written by Narsaiah accusing Mohan Reddy of occupying his nearly 300 square yards of land in Bommakal of Karimnagar was found in the room. In 2012, Narsaiah purchased the plot in Bommakal from a person Nagaraj but some tried to take possession of it claiming that Nagaraj had already sold it to them. Worried about his hard-earned money invested in the plot being lost, Narsaiah approached Mohan Reddy who was working as ASI then for help. “The ASI convinced my husband to transfer plot rights to him stating that no one would interfere if people know that the plot belonged to him,” Uma Rani recalled. The ASI got the plot first transferred onto the name of one of his associates, Pulgam Mallesh, and later on the name of his wife B. Srilatha. On learning that Mohan Reddy started construction in that plot, Narsaiah begged him to give back his plot. “Mohan Reddy started dilly-dallying the matter. Meanwhile, the ASI got arrested in 2015 over multiple charges of land grabbing, extortion and corruption.” The first case, however, against him was that of a private school correspondent Prasada Rao who committed suicide allegedly due to Mohan Reddy’s harassment. For next two years, Mohan Reddy was either in prison or roaming around courts in the cases slapped against him. Mohan Reddy eventually came out on bail and started his ‘activities again’. “My husband started requesting Mohan Reddy to give back the plot so that he would sell it to clear his debts. For past two years, he met him almost every week,” Uma Rani said. She claimed that her husband realised that Mohan Reddy would never return the plot. Uma Rani and Narsaiah had two daughters. The couple performed their marriages but further slipped into debt. Selling the plot was the only option for Narsaiah. “My husband died because of Mohan Reddy. At least even after his death, will the police help us get back our plot,” Uma Rani pleads with folded hands. Who will listen to the hapless woman’s pleas reach Karimnagar police who claim to be proactive in crime controlling using drones and modern gadgets.
27 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||High drama at Siddipet, police arrest BJP president Bandi Sanjay||Several hours of high drama was witnessed at Siddipet and at Dubbak on Monday among police, activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The police arrested BJP State president and Karimnagar Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay on the outskirts of Siddipet stating that his entry into the town was likely to lead to tensions. He was forcibly sent away to Karimnagar. In a related development, BJP leaders G. Vivek and Jitender Reddy were arrested and sent back to Hyderabad. Police raid It all started around noon when some police personnel reached the house of Ramgopal Rao, father-in-law of BJP candidate in Dubbak bye-election M. Raghunandan Rao, at Lecturers Colony in Siddipet town. The police also claimed that they conducted raids on houses of eight persons and seized as much as Rs. 18.65 lakh cash. The police also stated that they conducted raids on the residence of TRS leader and Municipal chairman K. Rajanarsu and could not find any amount. According to information, BJP workers confronted a police personnel, when he was found moving in a “suspicious manner” and found that he was allegedly carrying money in a bag. They alleged that the bag was brought from a neighbouring house. BJP workers charged the police with trying to plant the cash bag at the residence of BJP leaders only to implicate them in election-related cases. Though police claimed that they have seized the amount from BJP leaders, party activists said that police came with the money and tried to plant it in house of Mr. Ramgopal Rao. Recorded evidence They even recorded police coming with money bag and tried to overpower the police and seize the bag. At one video that went viral on social media a party worker is seen snatching the money from the police and showing it to the camera. Hectic activity was witnessed at the residence of Mr. Ramgopal Rao for sometime. Meanwhile Police Commissioner Joel Davis has alleged that an amount of Rs. 5.87 lakh from Rs. 18.65 lakh at the house of relative of Raghunandan Rao was stolen by unidentified persons and it was recorded. He said all the culprits would be identified and be arrested shortly.
27 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Make poll arrangements perfectly: Collector||Collector Bharathi Hollikeri has directed the officials to make poll arrangements perfectly. She took charge as Collector of Siddipet in the place of P. Venkatarami Reddy, who was shifted to Sangareddy, reportedly based on complaints lodged by the leaders of both the Congress and the BJP. “See that elections are held in peaceful atmosphere. Conduct all required checking. There must not be any violations of code of conduct. Take action against those violating regulations,” she said while holding a meeting with election officials at here on Sunday. She has also directed the officials to focus on problematic polling stations and not to spare trouble mongers. Enquiring about online and off line streaming, she said that hand gloves, sanitizers, masks and thermal screening should be made available at polling stations. Ms. Bharathi Hollikeri has also visited Returning Officer’s office at Dubbak and reviewed arrangements. Returning Officer. B. Chennaiah has explained about arrangements to the Collector.
27 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Congress, BJP leaders will leave after elections’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that leaders of both the Congress and the BJP will be here till the elections are over, whereas he and party candidate S. Sujatha will be here permanently. Participating in Alai-Balai programme of Arya-Vaishya community here on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy never visited Dubbak while he was a minister and now also after the election he will never come again to visit the constituency. “Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked during Huzurnagar bye-election that what will be the use if Telangana Rashtra Samithi wins the election. We have taken up development activities with a cost of Rs. 200 crore. Similar development activities will be taken up at Dubbak as well and it is my responsibility as the district Minister,” he said. “In Narayanakhed we have implemented development works with Rs. 200 crore and roads were laid in interior areas. Only in Telangana assistance is being extended to the poor from OBCs,” the Minister for Finance claimed. Later in the day, he admitted some Bharatiya Janata Party activists in the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi.
27 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Congress, BJP condemn police action||Finance Minister T. Harish has charged the BJP with trying to get sympathy and playing games as part of that. “BJP is depending on money and playing games. When police raided the house of the relative of Raghunandan Rao the BJP activists behaved like goondas and took away the money. Money being sent to the BJP candidate was caught on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Police checked the house of our party leader Rajanarsu. They have even stopped my vehicle and party candidate S. Sujatha vehicles. Why are BJP leaders not cooperating with the police if they are sincere and right?” asked Mr. Harish Rao while addressing a gathering. ‘Transfer police’ Congress party national spokesperson Dasoju Shravan in a statement said Telangana police had stooped down to such a low level in Dubbak bypolls. He questioned whether the ECI has the guts to take action. He demanded that the entire existing police under Siddipet Commissionerate and Dubbak be transferred immediately to ensure fair and free elections. Former PCC president V. Hanumantha Rao accused the TRS and BJP of playing money politics in Dubbak bye-elections. The BJP strongly condemned the police raids at the residences of party candidate Raghunandan Rao and his relatives in Siddipet ahead of the bye-elections to Dubbak assembly constituency on November 3. ‘Political vendatta’ BJP MLC N. Ramachander Rao, in a statement, termed the police raids “political vendetta”. The TRS party is using police as it is fearing defeat. It was a police high handedness to create fear in the minds of party workers, he alleged and asserted that party candidate Raghunandan Rao would win the seat with thumping majority as people are fed up with the functioning of State government and they are determined to teach a lesson to the ruling TRS. Further, the police did not show any notice or authorization before conducting the raids and even threatened inmates of house, he alleged. He said Raghunandan Rao on getting information of police raids abandoned his campaign and rushed home. But the police not only prevented him from entering his own house but also did not allow him to speak to his wife. Later, Raghunandan Rao asked police officers the reason behind the raids and wanted to know what they achieved by the raids.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Until next year||
27 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha temple priests to resort to unusual protest||The unusual decision to bang gongs or ring bells in front of all temples across Odisha on Wednesday as a mark of protest against non-opening of temples may make the State government see red. But, by doing so, priests across the State would be venting their anguish. Ask Bhabani Shankar Mishra (54), a priest at Balunkeswar Temple at Dandamukundapur in Puri district, why he would bang gongs and ring bell which is not part of any worshipping. “Since March 22, I have been confined to my home. The income has since dried up. Before the COVID-19 pandemic struck, I used to earn from the donation of devotees. My family did not face any food shortage as the monthly income of around Rs. 10,000 was enough,” said Mr. Mishra. During past eight months, the priest’s family has already exhausted the little savings they had and also borrowed from their relatives. His family members have meanwhile resorted to making brooms and selling them in market. In Mayurbhanj district, Kameswar Tripathy, who heads the Odisha Mandir Sevayat Sangh — a priests’ body, also works as a priest in Jagannath Temple at Baripada. “The situation is worsening every passing day. I usually earn Rs. 50,000 during Rath Yatra celebration. The lockdown snatched my major income of the year,” said Mr. Tripathy. August and September mark beginning of festival seasons in Odisha. Apart from regular income from temples, priests are called to homes for Pujas. With fear of pandemic reigning, devotees have postponed the rituals to next year.  ‘Open with guidelines’ Urging the government to take immediate steps to open temple in accordance with COVID-19 guideline, Janardan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, head of Chhatisa Nijog, a sevayats’ body in Jagannath Temple, Puri, said, “priests are in acute financial crunch. Only opening of temple will solve the crisis. Once devotees start flocking temples, the economy around the religious institutions would get back to normalcy.”
27 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Bulandshahr bypoll: ASP and AIMIM trade charges||The Bulandshahr police have lodged FIRs under Section 307 (attempt to murder) after the Azad Samaj Party (ASP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) accused each other of attacks on their party chief and party candidate respectively during the campaign for the bypoll for the Bulandshahr Sadar seat. Police sources said while the AIMIM candidate Dilshad Ahmed had named the ASP in the complaint, the latter had blamed unidentified persons for the attack. The incident gained traction late after ASP chief Chandrashekhar Aazad tweeted that his convoy had been fired upon by unidentified men in Bulandshahr when he was campaigning in the old city area. He said their rivals had committed the cowardly act worried by the rise of the party. Madan Pal Gautam, the district president of ASP, who had lodged the complaint, said the incident occurred when Mr. Azad was campaigning for the candidate Haji Yamin near the Maniharan Chowk area of the old city. “I was part of the convoy and heard 5-6 gunshots. We don’t know what party the assailants belonged to. It is for the police to investigate. Our rivals are worried about increasing voter base of the party. They want to silence us but we will continue our struggle for the deprived,” he said. However, Dilshad Ahmed, the AIMIM candidate for the seat, said he was holding a meeting in the area when the members of the ASP attacked his party workers and fired in the air. “My clothes were torn off and chairs were thrown at us. I had to run to save my life. The brother of the ASP candidate has a criminal record and he has brought his cronies to Bulandshahr. I appeal to the administration to provide me security,” he told reporters. SSP, Bulandshahr Santosh Kumar Singh, however, said the skirmish was more incidental than deliberate. “There was no firing from either side. We have videos of party workers from both sides where they deny that shots were fired. The locality is so congested that had there been firing, it would not have gone unnoticed,” said Mr. Singh. “It was a minor incident that happened because the ASP convoy reached the same lane where AIMIM candidate was holding a meeting. There was a wedding in the area as well. As the lane got blocked, the ASP workers started throwing chairs which led to a heated argument and pushing and shoving,” he explained. Mr. Singh claimed it was Mr Azaad’s tweet that created a buzz around the incident. “So, I urged both the parties to lodge complaints .”
27 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP councillor booked for beating woman gets U.P. award||A Bharatiya Janata Party councillor from Hathras who was booked by the police for rioting and trespassing after she allegedly thrashed a woman, has been awarded with a commendation certificate under the U.P. government’s Mission Shakti programme for women safety and empowerment. On October 16, a video had gone viral where Babita Verma could be seen purportedly beating a woman identified as Rukmini by the local media. According to local sources, Rukmini had opposed some men who were demolishing the wall of her rented accommodation. She could be seen pleading with Ms. Verma but the latter did not stop the men from demolishing the wall. Ruchi Gupta, Circle Officer Hathras (City) said a case regarding a councillor who is facing charges getting the award had been brought to her notice. “I am looking into the matter and action would be taken,” she said.
27 October 2020||Kolkata,||Low-profile immersion of idols in Bengal||A low-key immersion on idols on Monday marked the end of week-long Durga Puja festival in West Bengal that was held amidst the COVID-19 pandemic under extreme caution. No immersion procession was allowed at the immersion ghats and only one or two members of the Durga Puja committees were allowed to go to the river.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Muslim forum condemns beheading in Paris||Intellectuals and activists from the Muslim community condemned the beheading of a French schoolteacher, at a webinar organised by Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy (IMSD) on Sunday. The webinar began by observing a two-minute silence to pay homage to history teacher Samuel Paty who was murdered by a Chechen extremist on October 16 for showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammed to pupils in a discussion on free speech in a school near Paris. IMSD convener Javed Anand said, “We are here to condemn in unequivocal terms, no ifs and buts, not only the man responsible for this barbaric act but all those who had any role in the instigation of the crime as also all those who seek to justify it. We are here not just to condemn the slaying of Mr. Paty, but also to demand the abolishing of apostasy and banishing of blasphemy anywhere and everywhere across the world.” ‘Killing against law’ Mumbai-based Islamic scholar Dr. Zeenat Shaukat Ali said killing people for blasphemy or apostasy is not permissible in Islam. “The Quran never mentioned such punishments. The Quran has stood for peace and justice in a non-violent way. It will be very fruitful if scholars and Ulema scrutinised and sifted through the Hadith literature, which has been pending over the years. The confirmation of a Hadith has to be in consonance with the verses of the Quraan,” she said. “Respectfully, the Paris beheading is a wake-up call to the Ulema and leaders of the Muslim world,” Dr. Zeenat added. Delhi-based columnist Arshad Alam argued that the prime objective of such acts of terror is to silence any critique of Islam.
27 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Student discovers new species of Echinops in Sahyadri mountains||A Mumbai University M.Sc. (Botany) student is reported to have discovered a new species of Echinops Sahyadricus (English Common Name — Sahyadri Globe Thistle) from the Rajgad Fort in the Sahyadri mountains in collaboration with researchers of Fabio Conti of the University of Camerino, Italy, and Harshal Bhosale of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Echinops is a genus of about 130 species of flowering plants found in tropical and north Africa, the Mediterranean basin and West Asia, extending eastwards to China and Japan. The highest number of taxa (76) are concentrated in the Iranian plateau. Five species are found in India including two in Maharashtra. The new species was discovered while the botanists were working on a project called “Assessing the endemic biodiversity of high elevational plateaus of northern western ghats” led by Mr. Bhosale. “The new species is unique because of the size of its composite inflorescence which measures up to 9 cm in diameter that is relatively large compared to other Echinops species found around the world,” said Sushant More, M.Sc., Sathaye College, Mumbai University, who discovered the species. “I love to study the angiosperms aka flowering plants and love exploring the Western Ghats mountains,” he said on the reason why he ventured into the project as part of the curriculum. The team worked last year during the monsoon, he said. The discovery and the research paper has been published in the Nordic Journal of Botany , an international scientific journal. The species is endemic to western Maharashtra and found only on a few open hilltops in the northern Western Ghats. It is named after the Sahyadri mountains. As per the research paper, the new species is close to other Indian species called Echinops echinatus aka Indian Globe thistle and one European species called Echinops sphaerocephalus. But it differs in size of inflorescence, types of whorls of spine-like Bracts around the floret and type of leaves surface. “In India, Echinops is represented by five taxa out of which three, E. cornigerus DC, E. niveus Wall and E. prionolepis Bornm & Mattf are restricted to the Himalayas and neighbouring areas,” the paper said. Echinops rajasthanensis R.P. Pandey & V. Singh is endemic to Rajasthan and E. echinatus Roxb is seen throughout India, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Myanmar in dry open scrub lands, it said. It grows vegetatively on open grassy slopes of mountains in four months of monsoon and blooms in November. Fruiting can be seen in December. The researchers said projects like road widening in the ghats and construction activities on forts could affect populations of this species and this should be protected at all costs.
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Won’t make statements against Bhatts, actor Luveina Lodh tells HC||In what may bring an interim relief to filmmakers Mahesh and Mukesh Bhatt, actor Luveina Lodh’s lawyer told the Bombay High Court on Monday that she has not and will not make any defamatory statements. A single judge Bench of Justice A.K. Menon was hearing a suit filed by the Bhatts seeking urgent injunctive reliefs against Ms. Lodh and refraining her from making, publishing, circulating any defamatory/slanderous comments against them and also seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore each for the act of defamation on the part of the actor by publishing an offending video making various grossly defamatory, slanderous, distasteful and patently false allegations and statements against the director on her Instagram account. The advocate appearing for Ms. Lodh told the court that his client will not make any statements against the brothers. The court then restrained Ms. Lodh from making and circulating any defamatory statements against the Bhatts and granted her three weeks to file her reply. In the video, Ms. Lodh has alleged that her husband Sumit Sabharwal is Mr. Mahesh Bhatt’s nephew and supplies drugs and women and Mr. Bhatt operates the system. According to the plaint, “On October 23, Ms. Lodh posted an offending video making some allegations against the duo. The next day the video was picked up by various news agencies and was published in various media reports which has further resulted in dissemination of defamatory material against the Bhatts.” It mentions, “On October 24, a notice was sent to Ms. Lodh stating: delete the video from Instagram and/or any public platform within 24 hours, furnish an unconditional apology and post it on Instagram by saying the contents of the video are untrue and stand withdrawn and furnish a proof that you have complied with the above requisitions.” The plaint adds, “Despite the receipt of the said notice, Ms. Lodh has till date neither removed the video from her Instagram account nor has she complied with any other requisition in the notice. Hence the suit.”
27 October 2020||Mumbai,||Actor Payal Ghosh joins Ramdas Athawale’s party||Actor Payal Ghosh joined the Republican Party of India (Athawale) on Monday in the presence of its chief and Union Minister Ramdas Athawale. She was appointed vice-president of the women’s wing of the party. Mr. Athawale said the entry of Ms. Ghosh and others into the party would strengthen it. Mr. Athawale also claimed that filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, whom Ms. Ghosh has accused of raping her, would be arrested soon. The filmmaker has continuously denied the allegationsleveled by Ms. Ghosh.
27 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Nitin Raut seeks reforms in islanding system||Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Monday visited the Maharashtra State Load Dispatch Centre to study the reasons behind the recent power failure and review the functioning of the facility. Officials from Tata Power and Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) were also present at the meeting. “We discussed how to secure the islanding of Mumbai in such situations. The embedded power for the city should remain stable in any given circumstance. Considering the demand and supply of electricity by 2030, we have to plan the transmission and distribution of electricity. The peak hour power demand of Mumbai is now 2800 MW and is estimated to reach 5000 MW by 2030. Factors like production, load, frequency, and maintenance need to be considered in future planning. The islanding system will need changes to ensure smooth power supply,” Mr. Raut said. “The islanding system came into existence in 1981 and officials were asked if it was regularly maintained and updated. Even as Tata Power and AEML assure 1400 MW, the power provided by them is usually around 900 MW. Both Tata Power and AEML have been instructed that such an event should not occur in future,” Mr. Raut said. The Minister told Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd officials that provisions should be made to collect real time data which would help in tackling such situations and there should also be coordination with the weather department.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-traffic pollution drive launched in Delhi||Environment Minister Gopal Rai, while launching the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in all the 70 Assembly constituencies on Monday, said that everyone, including MPs, MLAs, agencies and the residents should participate in the campaign and contribute on their behalf, leaving their political affiliations aside, to combat the problem of air pollution in the Capital. He said that a single vehicle contributes to 15%-20% pollution while idling at traffic signals and the aim is to reduce that percentage by switching vehicle ignitions off. Mr. Rai also announced that from November 2, the government will be taking this campaign forward in all the 272 wards in the city, so that more and more people can participate. “The Delhi government believes that active participation from the people is required to combat the problem of air pollution. The impact of the campaign and other measures will be ascertained by the scientists,” he also said. The Minister, answering a question regarding whether the government was considering issuing any advisory on pollution for the people in the coming days said the governments and all agencies concerned such as the Supreme Court, the EPCA, the DPCC were monitoring the situation and would take action wherever needed. He alleged that the Delhi government had not received a positive response from the BJP MLAs and MPs. Air quality ‘very poor’ Meanwhile, the Capital’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category for the fourth consecutive day as a layer of toxic haze lingered over it. A central government monitoring agency said the air quality was likely to remain in the same category till October 31. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was 16% on Monday; 19% on Sunday and 9% on Saturday. NASA’s satellite imagery also showed a very dense cluster of fires in Punjab, Haryana and nearby regions. SAFAR said the farm fire count was 1,275 on Sunday.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Effort on to block child pornography’||Search engine major Google has informed the Delhi High Court that there is an ongoing effort to develop more effective automated tools to prevent hosting of child pornographic content on its platforms. Google said that when any child pornographic content hosted on its platform is reported, it is removed immediately. “However, it is difficult to prevent uploading of the same prior to the content being reported,” senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, appearing for Google said. Google was responding to High Court’s query on removing “offending images” of children and preventing them from resurfacing.  ‘Technology limitations’ Mr. Poovayya submitted that Google does use artificial intelligence and Machine Learning to prevent the uploading of child pornographic content in respect of any known and reported image. “However, the said technology has its limitations because a known hash file or a digital fingerprint is then applied for removing images with the same value,” the senior advocate said. The senior advocate explained that even a minor change in the properties of the image would enable it to evade discovery or action through the automated processes.
27 October 2020||Pune,||‘Anger against NDA in Bihar will result in Mahagathbandhan win’||Predicting victory for the Mahagathbandhan in the Bihar Assembly polls, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said there was resentment against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and cracks in the alliance between the party and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United). “There is internal resentment against JD(U), which is riven by factionalism,” said Mr. Chavan, MLA from Karad South in Satara district. The statements came in the wake of a new row between the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners after some BJP posters dropped Mr. Kumar’s image, while retaining only that of the Prime Minister. Alleging that it was the BJP that directed its covert ‘ally’, the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) to oppose the JD(U), Mr. Chavan said the poll would result in a win for the grand coalition of Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and other Left parties. Mr. Prasad’s son, Tejashwi, is the projected chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. ‘New line of leaders’ “There is an undertow of sympathy for Lalu Prasad as he has been shunted in jail for many years now. A new generation of young leaders from the grand coalition has now emerged,” he said. Mr. Chavan said the BJP’s announcement to give free COVID-19 vaccines in Bihar was “reprehensible” and a crude vote-garnering tactic. “I condemn that statement in their manifesto... The Centre is shamelessly politicizing the pandemic by saying, in effect, that Bihar will get free vaccines if it votes for the BJP. This is intolerable. Vaccines must be provided to all States, irrespective of whether they are poll-bound or not,” he said. “Instead of developing a fair and equitable strategy to distribute Covid-19 vaccine to all Indians, BJP’s Bihar manifesto suggests #vaccinepolitics to win Bihar election. Singling out one state for free vaccines for a political advantage is blatantly unfair, illegal and inhuman,” Mr. Chavan earlier tweeted. Launching a broadside on the Modi government, Mr. Chavan said it only wanted to win elections at any cost and that it had no concerns for either the farmers or the crumbling economy. “India’s economy was in freefall even before the pandemic. Demonetisation, imposition of the Goods and Services Tax and now the lockdown has resulted in a lethal situation where the economy is poised to collapse. In the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21, India’s economy regressed by an unprecedented 24% — something that has never happened in 200 years,” Mr. Chavan said. Castigating the Centre for steamrolling the agriculture reform Bills in Parliament, he said the BJP had neither consulted its allies nor any of the 250 farmer outfits before passing them by voice vote. ‘Will intensify protests’ “The Congress’s agitation against the agrarian reform laws will intensify in the coming days. Today, even Bangladesh, a country that India helped create, has surpassed us in terms of the per capita income…India’s economy has become a source of real concern,” he said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring COVID-19 warriors||
27 October 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden, Trump on final campaign blitz||President Donald Trump plans to intensify an already breakneck travel schedule in the final full week of the presidential campaign, overlooking a surge of coronavirus cases in the U.S. and a fresh outbreak in his own White House. Mr. Trump is expected to hit nearly a dozen states in his last-ditch effort to recover ground from Democrat Joe Biden, including Sunday’s trip to Maine and Tuesday’s to Nebraska. Both States award electoral votes by congressional district and could be crucial in a tight election. Mr. Trump will hold 11 rallies in the final 48 hours alone. Mr. Biden is staying close to his Wilmington, Delaware, home on Monday. But he plans to pick up his travel schedule later in the week, aiming to hit the six battleground States the campaign sees as key to his chances, some with socially distanced in-person events and others with virtual events. On Tuesday, the former vice president is traveling to Georgia, a state that hasn’t voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in more than a quarter-century but where polls show a tight race. The final week of the campaign is colliding with deepening concerns about a public health crisis in the U.S. Mr. Trump is eager for voters to focus on almost anything else, worried that he will lose if the election becomes a referendum on his handling of the pandemic. Mr. Biden is working to ensure the race is just that, hitting Mr. Trump on the virus and presenting himself as a safer, more stable alternative. Pence’s aides infected The stakes were clear this weekend as the White House became the locus for a second outbreak of the virus in a month. Several close aides to Vice-President Mike Pence tested positive for the virus, including his chief of staff, Marc Short. Mr. Pence, though, was insistent on maintaining his aggressive calendar, even though he was deemed a “close contact” of his adviser, claiming the privileges of being an “essential employee.” The latest outbreak has served as a potent metaphor for the divergent approaches the Trump and Biden campaigns have taken to the virus. On Sunday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said that “we’re not going to control the pandemic” and the focus should be on containment and treatment. Mr. Trump aims to pack thousands of people, most without face coverings, across some of the upper Midwestern states bearing the brunt of the surge. “We want normal life to resume,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday. “We just want normal life.” Mr. Meadows, pressed to explain why the pandemic cannot be reined in, said, “Because it is a contagious virus just like the flu.” He told CNN’s “State of the Union” that the government was focused on getting effective therapeutics and vaccines to market. ‘White flag of defeat’ Mr. Biden, in a statement, said Mr. Meadows’ comments continued with the Trump administration waving “the white flag of defeat” in the face of the virus. Mr. Meadows, for his part, attempted to do some cleanup on Monday, telling reporters that while the administration is “not going to control” the virus it “will try to contain it as best we can.” “The only person waving a white flag along with his white mask is Joe Biden,” Mr. Meadows said. Mr. Biden’s team argues the coronavirus is likely to blot out any other issues that might come up in the final days of the campaign — including Mr. Biden’s recent debate-stage comment in which he affirmed he’d transition away from oil, later walked back as a transition away from federal subsidies. That strategy appeared to pay off as the outbreak in Mr. Pence’s staff refocused the national conversation once again on the pandemic. Mr. Trump and his team, meanwhile, have struggled to settle on a closing message, with the undisciplined candidate increasingly trusting his gut over his advisers. He’s grasped for dirt on his Democratic rival and used apocalyptic terms to describe a Mr. Biden presidency, but Mr. Biden has thus far proven more resilient to such attacks than Mr. Trump’s 2016 rival. “You can certainly expect that (Biden) will focus on COVID as it continues to, unfortunately, rise all across the country,” Biden deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said in an interview. “It is disrupting people’s lives and people are looking for a leader to put in place plans to get it under control.” With more than a third of the expected ballots in the election already cast, it may become increasingly challenging for Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden to reshape the contours of the race.
27 October 2020||Santiago,||Chileans vote for new Constitution||Chileans voted overwhelmingly in a landmark referendum on Sunday to replace their dictatorship-era Constitution, long seen as underpinning the nation’s glaring economic and social inequalities. The result set off wild celebrations across the capital and other cities after voters threw out the Constitution left by the regime of 1973-1990 dictator Augusto Pinochet. Thousands of people flocked onto the streets of Santiago amid a cacophony of horn-blaring to celebrate a crushing victory for the “Approve” campaign — by 78.28% to 21.72 with over 99% of the votes counted. “I never imagined that us Chileans would be capable of uniting for such a change!” said a jubilant Maria Isabel Nunez, 46, as she walked in the crowd hand-in-hand with her daughter. Acknowledging the result, President Sebastian Pinera called on the nation to work together for a “new Constitution” in a speech broadcast from his Moneda Palace surrounded by his Cabinet. ‘It’s the beginning’ “This plebiscite is not the end, it is the beginning of a path that we must all walk together to agree on a new constitution for Chile,” Mr. Pinera said. “Until now, the Constitution has divided us. From today we must all work together so that the new Constitution is the great framework of unity, stability and the future.” The new Constitution would expand the role of the state in providing a welfare safety net, ensuring basic rights to health, education, water distribution and pensions. Many conservatives, however, say the Constitution has been key to Chile’s decades of economic growth, and a greater state role would add pressure on an economy struggling to emerge from the pandemic.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s Communist Party holds key policy conclave||China’s Communist Party (CPC) on Monday began a key conclave of top leaders that will set the direction for the country’s economic policies for the next five years. The 14th five-year plan (2021-2025) and a longer-term “Vision 2035” blueprint will be in focus at the fifth plenary session, or plenum, of the CPC’s Central Committee, which meets for such sessions once a year. China’s State media reported President and CPC General Secretary Xi Jinping on Monday delivered a work report at the start of the plenum, attended by the around 200 members of the Central Committee, and “explained a draft document of the CPC Central Committee's proposals for formulating the 14th Five-Year (2021-2025) Plan for Economic and Social Development and future targets for 2035.” This is the first such party meeting since the COVID-19 pandemic, and is also the highest-level economic policy meeting held once every five years. The party will likely hold two more such party plenaries, focusing on other themes such as party governance, before its next leadership congress in 2022 when it will choose a new Politburo and Central Committee. As with the economy-focused plenum five years ago, the current four-day session, being held at the high-security Jingxi hotel in Beijing, will firm up the next five-year plan. The 14th plan (2021-2025), the official Xinhua news agency reported, will "lay out measures to nurture a new development pattern”. Three themes are expected to be in focus. The first is what Mr. Xi has pushed as a new “dual circulation” model, placing greater emphasis on self-reliance and the domestic market as a driver of growth — a task that has taken on greater urgency against the backdrop of the trade war with the U.S. and the pandemic triggering a collapse in global demand and unemployment problems domestically — while striking a better balance with external demand. Rising debt China’s rising debt problem is another concern, one exacerbated by the pandemic with the government loosening the purse-strings to sustain growth. According to a forecast by UBS, China’s debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to rise by 25 percentage points to 300 percent of GDP this year because of recent measures. The five-year plan and the 2035 blueprint are also expected to highlight more balanced growth, with a focus on greener development. To meet the target announced last month by Mr. Xi at the United Nations General Assembly for the country to go carbon neutral by 2060, China will need to reduce the share of coal in its energy mix from the 58% as of 2019 to less than 50% by 2025, according to an estimate from Zou Ji, head of Energy Foundation China, reported Reuters.
27 October 2020||Beirut,||‘Russian strikes kill 78 Turkey-backed rebels in Syria’||Russian airstrikes killed 78 Turkey-backed rebels in northwestern Syria on Monday, a monitor said, in the bloodiest surge in violence since a truce almost eight months ago. More than 90 others were wounded when Russian warplanes targeted a training camp of the Faylaq al-Sham faction in the Jabal Duwayli area in Idlib province, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. In March, a truce brokered between Moscow and Ankara stemmed a deadly months-long Russia-backed regime military offensive on the country’s last major rebel stronghold in Idlib That onslaught from December had displaced almost a million people from their homes in one of the worst humanitarian crises of the nine-year civil war. Observatory head Rami Abdel Rahman described Monday’s strikes as the “deadliest since the ceasefire came into force”. The National Liberation Front, an umbrella group of Ankara-backed rebels based in Idlib that includes Faylaq al-Sham, told AFP that Monday’s Russian strikes hit one of its positions and caused casualties. It did not give an exact death toll. NLF spokesman Sayf Raad denounced the “Russian aircraft and regime forces continuously violating the Turkish-Russian deal in targeting military positions, villages and towns”. Of the almost one million people displaced in the last Idlib offensive, more than 2,00,000 have returned home to their towns and villages, most since the ceasefire went into force. Endangers truce The March truce has largely held, despite some intermittent bombardment in the area from both sides. Russian air strikes have from time to time targeted military positions, including those of Turkey-backed groups, Abdel Rahman said.  After a string of military victories backed by Russia, the Syrian government has regained control of around 70 percent of the country, the Observatory says. Syria’s war, which broke out after the brutal suppression of anti-government protests in 2011, has killed more than 3,80,000 people.
27 October 2020||COLOMBO,||COVID-19 cases continue to surge in Sri Lanka||Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 cases continued to surge, taking the total number to nearly 8,000, as more contacts linked to two new clusters identified this month were tested for the coronavirus over the weekend. The total number of deaths rose to 16. On Monday, authorities said Sri Lanka’s Parliament would be shut for two days for disinfection, after a member of the Special Task Force, on security duty, tested positive. The development comes days after the House convened for the debate on and subsequent passage of the controversial 20th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution with nearly all the 225 legislators attending the session. Meanwhile, police expanded its “quarantine curfew” orders to include several localities in and around Colombo this weekend. Health authorities said there was no evidence yet of community transmission, as all positive patients have been traced to one of the two latest clusters — at a garment factory and a fish market in Colombo — or their immediate contacts. No isolated case has been reported outside of these two key clusters, to be termed as a community spread, according to Dr. Sudath Samaraweera, Chief Epidemiologist at the Ministry of Health. However, the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) — a trade union of medical professionals in the public sector — warned that Sri Lanka is on the “verge of” community transmission of COVID-19 and any neglect on the part of the authorities could spell dangerous consequences. As the number of COVID-19 positive cases continues rising, Sri Lanka’s coronavirus infrastructure, including the army-run quarantine centres, appeared to be under pressure. On Monday, Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva, who heads the National Centre for the Prevention of COVID-19, told media that first-tier contacts of COVID-19 patients will henceforth be asked to self-quarantine themselves in their homes, instead of being taken to quarantine centres. Source unidentified After the global pandemic hit Sri Lanka in March, the country went into a stringent lockdown for about two months, in addition to closing its borders. The country’s early measures to contain the pandemic drew high praise including from the World Health Organization, allowing authorities to go ahead with the general elections in August. However, the recent wave appears to have caught the country unawares. Health authorities are yet to identify the source of this outbreak, identified on October 4, that has since spread to 19 of the island’s 25 districts, according to data published by the Epidemiology Unit.
27 October 2020||Beijing,||China to levy sanctions on U.S. companies||China will impose sanctions on Lockheed Martin, Boeing Defense, Raytheon and other U.S. companies it says are involved in Washington’s arms sales to Taiwan, a foreign ministry spokesman said on Monday. The two U.S. giants were involved in a recent sale of nearly $2 billion worth of missiles to Taiwan, alongside Raytheon, and foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian urged the U.S. to stop arms sales to the island. The status of Taiwan holds potential for conflict between the United States and China, during a wider struggle for technology, security and trade supremacy. Beijing says Taiwan is an inviolable part of China to be reclaimed, by force if necessary. Mr. Zhao said the sanctions were “to safeguard national interests” and would apply to those who have “behaved badly in the process of arms sales to Taiwan”. “We will continue to take necessary measures to safeguard national sovereignty and security interests,” said Mr. Zhao, without giving further details on the sanctions. Under the administration of President Donald Trump, the U.S. has brought Taiwan into play as part of a wider diplomatic and economic squeeze of its rival, sending high-level envoys and boosting arms sales. The State Department said last week it had approved the sale of 135 air-to-ground missiles, in a move welcomed by Taiwan. Also approved was the sale of six MS-110 air reconnaissance pods and 11 M142 mobile light rocket launchers, taking the value of the three arms packages to $1.8 billion. ‘Future threats’ Beijing has ramped up diplomatic and military pressure on Taiwan since the 2016 election of President Tsai Ing-wen, who views the island as a de facto sovereign nation and not part of “One China”. A statement from the U.S. State Department last week said the SLAM-ER missiles would help Taiwan “meet current and future threats”. The missiles provide “all-weather, day and night, precision attack capabilities against both moving and stationary targets”, the statement added.
27 October 2020||Ankara,||Erdogan for boycott of goods, amid Macron row||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday joined calls for a boycott of French goods, ramping up a standoff between France and Muslim countries over Islam and freedom of speech. Mr. Erdogan has led the charge against President Emmanuel Macron over his robust defence of the right to mock religion following the murder of a French schoolteacher who had shown his class cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. ‘Mental checks needed’ On Monday, the Turkish leader added his voice to calls in the Arab world for citizens to spurn French goods. “Never give credit to French-labelled goods, don’t buy them,” Mr. Erdogan, who caused a furore at the weekend by declaring that Mr. Macron needed “mental checks,” said during a televised speech in Ankara. French goods have already been pulled from supermarket shelves in Qatar and Kuwait, among other Gulf states, whereas in Syria people have burned pictures of Mr. Macron and French flags have been torched in the Libyan capital Tripoli. The October 16 beheading of high-school teacher Samuel Paty by a Chechen extremist caused deep shock in France. Paty had shown his pupils some of the Mohammed cartoons over which 12 people were massacred at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in 2015. In the aftermath of Paty’s murder, Mr. Macron issued a passionate defence of free speech and France’s secular values, vowing that the country “will not give up cartoons.” As the backlash over France’s reaction widened, European leaders rallied behind Mr. Macron. European support German Chancellor Angela Merkel condemned Mr. Erdogan’s “defamatory” remarks about the French leader. The Prime Ministers of the Netherlands and Greece also expressed support for France, as did European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen. Mr. Erdogan on Monday compared the treatment of Muslims in Europe to that of Jews before Second World War, saying they were the object of a “lynching campaign.”
27 October 2020||Bangkok,||Bangkok, Oct 26, 2020 (AFP) -||Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha said Thailand needs to bring “illegal protests” under control on Monday during a special parliamentary session. Mr. Prayut, the former military chief who staged the 2014 coup, has faced increasing pressure in recent weeks from tens of thousands of protesters demanding he step down. The student-led rallies are also calling for a rewrite of the Constitution and an end to alleged government harassment of political opponents, as well as reform of the monarchy.AFP
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The President who called a spade a spade||This October 27, K.R. Narayanan would have been 100 years old. But no one would perform any rites of remembrance. Another day and another time, Narayanan would have been showcased as a prime success story of an India that made one and all ‘meritorious’ Indians believe that they could find a place under the constitutional sun. A man from an ordinary, humble background could get inducted into the elite Indian Foreign Service — all that counted was his calibre and competence. He had no godfather or a clan to speak up for him. Example of an inclusive India And that K.R. Narayanan would hear the call of public office, get elected to the Lok Sabha, become the Vice-President of India and preside over the Rajya Sabha, and, then, go on to occupy the Rashtrapati Bhavan, told the tale of a Nehruvian India where all that mattered was the requisite temperament and character. India could take pride that it was an open system, a democratic arrangement, and a society committed to an egalitarian social order — and was comfortable with excellence and accomplishment. In the process, K.R. Narayanan became a prime example of an inclusive India. He had the distinction of being the first Dalit President of India. His elevation to the Rashtrapati Bhavan had more than a token significance; and, even though the new, aggressive Ambedkarites may not think much of him, his election as President did announce the arrival of a new social assertion. It needs to be kept in mind that he was the presidential choice of the United Front coalition, a political dispensation that sincerely believed that if India had to progress and become a great nation, then it must be a country for all Indians, from all strata, unimpeded with competitive parochialism. In his long innings of public service, K.R. Narayanan conducted himself as a modern man, well-tutored in scientific temper; he became the first Indian public figure when as Vice-President, he shook hands with an HIV-infected person, whereas the self-proclaimed charismatic saviours were shying up making the gesture. He was urbane and cosmopolitan, at ease with the best and the brightest at home; he never felt over-awed and certainly never felt intimidated in the world’s chancelleries because of his immense faith in the nobility of the great democratic experiment under way in the country he represented. However, it was as the President that K.R. Narayanan repaid his debt to the republic. Circumstances demanded that he creatively explored the potential of the office; and, he turned out to be a responsible custodian of the Constitution. Reining in Governors In the process he became the protector of constitutional morality, the most cherished republican virtue. Most gratifyingly, he twice used his position to rein in errant Governors, even though they had the ruling establishment’s patronage. First, it was Romesh Bhandari at the Lucknow Raj Bhavan, who fell afoul of President Narayanan’s sense of constitutional fairness. Within months of taking over as the President, Narayanan stood up to the United Front political bosses and would not go along with the I.K. Gujral cabinet’s preference to invoke Article 356 to get rid of the Kalyan Singh Government in Uttar Pradesh. In his memoirs, Matters of Discretion: An Autobiography , Gujral himself notes that the President firmly reminded him of the Bommai judgment and the Sarkaria Commission recommendations. It was the first time that a President had asked the Union Cabinet to reconsider a proposed constitutional act. The second time President Narayanan ticked off a Governor’s conduct was in July 2001 when the Raj Bhavan in Chennai disappointingly remained a mute spectator as a former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi (and two serving central Ministers) were roughed up by the Tamil Nadu police, at the behest of an extremely vindictive Chief Minister Jayalalitha. It was President Narayanan who suggested to Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to demand a report from Tamil Nadu Governor M. Fathima Beevi. A presidential rebuke was implicit in the Rashtrapati Bhavan suggestion; soon, the Governor was recalled. In both these instances, the Governors had allowed the Raj Bhavan to be used to give respectability to shabby political calculations. Not on his presidential watch, insisted Narayanan. Speaking his mind The Indian Constitution does not envisage the President of India to be a power centre, leave alone set himself up as a rival power centre (to the Prime Minister). Yet, there is always considerable wiggle room for a President to have his presence felt. Once A.B. Vajpayee became the Prime Minister, the National Democratic Alliance bosses learnt to their discomfort that the man occupying the Rashtrapati Bhavan was no push-over. No wonder, L.K. Advani, in his memoirs, disparagingly called him an “activist president.” Perhaps, for good reason. After its 1999 Lok Sabha victory, the BJP crowd thought that it had earned a licence to make amendments to the Constitution. There was even a commission to review the ‘working’ of the Constitution. K.R. Narayanan used the prestige and the pulpit of his office to warn the nation of inherent danger to the Constitution from small minds, strutting around with an over-inflated sense of self importance. And, a few months later, K.R. Narayanan again made his presence felt during U.S. President Bill Clinton’s visit to India. At the Rashtrapati Bhavan banquet for the visiting American, President Narayanan horrified the ministerial posse by reminding everyone of non-alignment as an instrument of Indian foreign policy in pursuit of autonomy and independence. That was the time when the Vajpayee government was doing all it could to cosy up to the Americans. The ruling coterie was not amused; it thought the President had gone off the reservation. Yet, it was a battle that the ruling politicians lost in the face of a resolute presidential rectitude. President Narayanan, also, had a sense of political moment. In 1999, when A.B. Vajpayee lost the vote of confidence by a solitary vote, and, when an alternative government had to be formed, he tried to nudge the non-BJP forces to suggest the possibility of the West Bengal Chief Minister, Jyoti Basu, becoming a prime ministerial choice. The upper caste Congress leaders, led by M.L. Fotedar and Pranab Mukherjee, were dead set against the idea of a ‘communist’ becoming prime minister. Had President Narayanan’s hint been taken up, there would have been no second term for A.B. Vajpayee, and there would have been no “Gujarat, 2002” and no Narendra Modi. As the President, Narayanan was nobody’s man. A President need not be anybody’s man or woman. The Constitution thrives on a dynamic interlocking institutional balance; failure of one functionary to perform his or her dharma ends up injuring the health of the entire Republic. Narayanan demonstrated how it was possible to be brilliantly creative in upholding the institutional obligations of an office — and, preserve the republic’s equilibrium. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The many lessons from COVID-19||The global pandemic is marching on. As I had said at the JRD Tata Oration, hosted by the Population Foundation of India on its 50th anniversary, of the lessons I have learned over the last nine or 10 months, the most important one is the significance of investing in public health and primary healthcare. Countries that invested in primary healthcare over the past decade or two are reaping the benefits now. Another lesson is the positive role of science and scientists. The global collaboration between scientists to take forward advances in knowledge so that science is continuously informing our response to the pandemic has been encouraging. Gendered impact In India, the pandemic has had a differential impact on women. Despite gaps, India had seen progress in maternal mortality. There have been significant gains in infant mortality, institutional births and replacement level fertility. However, there is still a high unmet need for family planning and improved access is required to contraceptive services and safe abortions. A recent modelling study showed that because of the reduction in coverage of essential services, the prevalence of wasting in children could increase by 10% to 50%. There could also be 60% more maternal deaths because interventions like the administration of uterotonics and antibiotics, and clean birth environments, are no longer available. COVID-19 has also disrupted the education system. It has also adversely affected access to nutritious food as a huge number of children depend on school meals. Another worrying development is the surge in domestic violence. In India, a third of women said that they had previously experienced domestic violence, but less than 1% sought help from the police. Governments can include response to violence against women in the package of essential services. Many women have lost their work and livelihoods. More women than men work in the informal economy and therefore their income fell by over 60% during the first month of the pandemic. In India, the number of women and girls living in extreme poverty is expected to increase from 87 million to 100 million. A few months ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) emphasised the importance of gender analysis and gender-responsive public health policies. One of the major issues is the lack of availability of data that is disaggregated by sex and age. We also do not have data on violence against women and children. We have urged WHO Member States to collect data, report and analyse it, disaggregated by sex, and include responses to violence against women as an essential service. Over 70% of countries reported partial or complete disruption of immunisation services. Other services disrupted include diagnosis and treatment of non-communicable diseases, cancer diagnosis and treatment, family planning, contraception, antenatal care, malaria and TB case detection, treatment facility-based births, and urgent blood transfusions, as well as emergency surgery. This will have a huge impact. On the one hand, essential services have to be provided; on the other hand, we must ensure financial protection. This can be guaranteed only if there is either a health coverage scheme, like Ayushman Bharat, or through private health insurance. Out-of-pocket payments cause about 100 million to fall into extreme poverty every year, and 800 million globally spend more than 10% of their household budget on healthcare. The World Health Organization has been urging countries to ensure financial protection and effective coverage of health services.  The effective coverage index is a useful measure of the quality of health services — it looks at the provision and efficacy of services in terms of health outcomes. This metric suggests that 3.1 billion people worldwide would still not be covered if we continue to do what we’re doing. The index enables us to move away from just measuring process towards measuring outcomes. Many countries do not have the data systems to be able to accurately measure both mortality and the incidence of certain diseases. India needs to invest more in its vital registration system. What can we do better? Many countries have moved to digital technology, especially using platforms to provide telemedicine, for example, to overcome the problem that people could not meet physically. Platforms like ECHO have been used in many States to train healthcare workers and the government’s e-Sanjeevani platform is enabling telemedicine appointments. We now have a national digital health blueprint and a road map. We want to move towards electronic and portable health records. It is important to think about not only data governance principles, but also new ways of collecting, using and sharing data, enabling local, contextualised decision-making. We also need to think about working with the private sector, which is already playing a very big role in technology. But we need to think about technologies that are considered public health goods. At the Aravind Eye Hospital in Puducherry, for example, they did an experiment with shared medical appointments. This seemed to result in better health outcomes as well as higher productivity, apart from reducing costs and saving a lot of time for doctors. We need to further integrate social protection systems, food systems and health systems in order to really have an impact on nutrition. India has done much to ensure these services, but it needs to expand these to protect its most vulnerable population groups. We must ensure that the pandemic does not further increase food insecurity. False or misleading information leads to harmful behaviours, and mistrust in governments and the public health response. In the last eight months we have done an incredible amount of work with many tech companies. But infodemic management is not straightforward; it is linked to people’s beliefs and behaviour. Therefore, we’ve set up a behavioural insights group to provide advice on behaviour change. We often think about health as purely as delivery of services to take care of the sick. The risk factors and the social and environmental determinants of health, such as the quality of water and air impact our health. But investments here are much more difficult as they lie outside the health sector. It is a question of all arms of the government looking at the impact of their policies on health. Empowering our frontline health workers will yield rich dividends. We need to invest in them to ensure that they have the tools they need, receive regular training and mentoring, and are well paid. We need to invest in strong institutional mechanisms and capacities in our regulatory bodies, research centres and public health institutions. We have seen so much fear, stigma and discrimination circulated on social media. This must be countered by health literacy. India is on the path to investing in Universal Health Coverage. Financial resources are very important for this, but we also need investment in human resources and to engage and empower communities. A health system cannot only be about the supply side. It has to keep in mind how to involve citizens and the people it is trying to serve and have them involved in developing the services that we are bringing to them. Soumya Swaminathan is Chief Scientist at WHO
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Contesting neighbours, revised geopolitical playbooks||The year 2020 has been a watershed moment for relations between India and China following the most serious clashes between the two countries in the Galwan region of Ladakh since the 1962 war; relations between New Delhi and Beijing are at new lows. These events have had a cascading effect on the very thought process of foreign policy, not just for New Delhi with regard to its neighbourhood but also Beijing’s understanding of its own threat perceptions as well. What dictates alignment now Strategic autonomy is today a term New Delhi’s power corridors are well-acquainted with. According to a former Foreign Secretary of India, Vijay Gokhale, the ideation of ‘strategic autonomy’ is much different from the Nehruvian era thinking of ‘non-alignment’. Speaking in January 2019, Mr. Gokhale said: “The alignment is issue based, and not ideological.” For Beijing and New Delhi, one region where both contesting neighbours have employed similar versions of ‘non-alignment’ thinking is in West Asia, and the ethos of equitable engagement with the three poles of power in Saudi Arabia, Iran and Israel, without stepping into the entanglements of the region’s multi-layered conflicts and political fissures. Such were the commonalities in thinking that at one point in time, suggestions were made to construct an ‘importers OPEC’ in order to put forward the interests of major oil importers, mostly developing Asian economies, against the producers’ cartel. However, the year 2020 and the tectonic geopolitical shifts it has brought in its wake, from deteriorating U.S.-China ties, to the COVID-19 pandemic that started in China, followed by the Ladakh crisis, is forcing a drastic change in the geopolitical playbooks of the two Asian giants, and, by association, global security architectures as well. Pre-dating 2020, India’s outreach to West Asia sharpened since 2014 with the coming of the Narendra Modi government. As the powerful and oil-rich Gulf states looked for investment alternatives away from the West to deepen their own strategic depth, persuaded by Mr. Modi’s centralised decision-making style, India doubled down on its relations with the likes of Abu Dhabi and Riyadh, giving open economic and political preference to the larger Gulf region. While engagements with Israel moved steadily forward, Iran lagged behind, bogged down by U.S. sanctions, which in turn significantly slowed the pace of India-Iran engagements. Advantage Beijing Meanwhile, China’s overtures have been steadily more adventurous as it realises two major shifts that have taken place in West Asia. First, Beijing has tried to capitalise around the thinking in the Gulf that the American security safety net is not absolute, and they need to invest more in others. China, being second only to the U.S. in both economic and military terms today, is the obvious engagement. The fact that the United Arab Emirates (UAE) obtained Chinese Wing Loong drones in 2016 — a copy of U.S.’s infamous armed MQ-9 ‘Reaper’ drone that Washington refused to sell — offers a good example of the Gulf’s resolve of attaining military capabilities from wherever possible. Second, the Gulf economies such as Saudi Arabia, even though attempting a hard shift away from their addiction to the petro dollar, will still need growing markets to sell oil to in the coming decade as they reform their economic systems. The obvious two markets here are China and India. Sharp contrasts However, Beijing’s recent plays in the region have not been subtle. A report in September shone light on a $400 billion, 25-year understanding between Iran and China, with Beijing taking advantage of U.S. President Donald Trump’s abandonment of the Iran nuclear deal. Scholars such as Scott J. Harr have pontificated that China is no longer happy with a passive role in West Asia, and through concepts such as “negative peace” and “peace through development”, in concert with tools such as the Belt and Road Initiative, Beijing is now ready to offer an alternative model for “investment and influence”. Over the past month, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi during an in-person meet with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif suggested the development of a “new forum” to address the region’s tensions — an alternative to the West-led ecosystems that have prevailed for decades. It remains to be seen, however, how China balances itself between the poles of power while backing one so aggressively. From India’s perspective, as it maintains its trapeze-wire balancing act of diplomacy in West Asia, the overt outreach to the Gulf and the ensuing announcements of multi-billion-dollar investments on Indian shores by entities from Saudi Arabia and the UAE  is only New Delhi recognising the economic realities of the region . Despite entanglements in the Yemen war and general tensions between the Gulf states and Iran, the likes of Saudi Arabia, the UAE and so on have maintained relatively strong and stable economic progression. Israel’s recent peace accords with the UAE and Bahrain add much further weight towards a more stable Gulf region — the caveats withstanding that the operationalisation of the accords is smooth and long-lasting. The theory of interests superseding ideology in foreign policy is fast unravelling practically, both from the perspectives of India and China. While in the recent past, the Indo-Pacific, with the development of the Quad, has taken centre stage, other geographies such as West Asia have also started to showcase bolder examples of New Delhi and Beijing’s metamorphosing approaches towards the international arena. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategies Studies Programme and Head, West Asia Initiative, Observer Research Foundation. The views expressed are personal
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The magic of mythmaking||Social historian Daniel Boorstin, writing in the 1960s, called advertising “the most characteristic and remunerative form of American literature”. Writing around the same time, Marshall McLuhan ranked advertising among the 20th century’s greatest art forms. As it has played out, neither man was exaggerating. The ‘persuasion industry’ is well entrenched today, and it is hardly surprising that the 45-second commercial created by jewellery brand Tanishq should have taken up so much mindspace these past few weeks. We are no strangers to religious controversy nor has fanaticism been the preserve of any one community. From the exile of M.F. Husain to the blacklisting of Taslima Nasreen to regular book burnings and film bans, the fanatics excel at outrage. But this time they outdid themselves. The ad that was trolled showed a Muslim mother-in-law celebrating her Hindu daughter-in-law’s pregnancy with Hindu rituals. In other words, they were offended not by intolerance but by tolerance. A tenuous argument Besides the usual commentariat on either side of the debate, a third stream emerged asking if brands need ideology. This argument is tenuous. Through the 20th century, as advertising took upon itself the role of shaping the aspirations and desires of entire societies, its function expanded vastly beyond the mere selling of products to selling a way of life. The streaming images — beautiful woman, muscular man, uniformed chauffeur — point not just to a car but to mindsets and life choices that can make that car come true. That’s why Roland Barthes called advertising the supreme mythmaker of our age and ads the closest modern approximation to ancient myths. When Nike uses Serena Williams to relate the story of women in sports, it isn’t just selling sports shoes, it is selling the myth of women’s empowerment — the social condition that lets women play sports and buy sports shoes. By ‘selling’ at this subliminal level, advertising insinuates itself into everyday customs and practices, and becomes popular culture. It defines social constructs, such as ‘modernity’ or ‘success’ — ‘modern’ men load washing machines; ‘successful’ women use food delivery apps. And via these definitions, advertising is able to construct new social mores — where men aren’t ridiculed for washing clothes, nor women for not cooking. The motive might be commercial, but that advertising is constantly moulding and reflecting society is indubitable. Creating desirable myths Less than 3% of marriages in India are inter-religious, and this figure is unlikely to change dramatically anytime soon. A majority of Indians will continue to marry within their own religion and community, just as a majority of women will continue doing the household chores. But by depicting an inter-religious marriage, advertising creates a certain desirable myth — not of a society where such marriage is a norm but one that accepts it when it happens. When online portal ‘Myntra’ featured a lesbian couple in its 2015 ad, it essentially conjured up a society that accepts a non-heterosexual relationship. By placing them within conventional tropes of shopping, clothes and parents, it erased the taboos and ostracism such couples face in real life. It allowed them social sanction. As society gets more secularised and modernised, we begin to seek our moral markers from places other than religion. Cultural studies scholar Judith Williamson said, “Advertising has a function which I believe in many ways replaces that traditionally fulfilled by art and religion — it creates meaning.” This meaning-making is not optional but intrinsic to advertising. The Amul girl doesn’t just innocently sell butter — she sells an image of the nation, reflected through sporting triumphs, national tragedies, election results or, increasingly, even Rafale plane deals. As we consume, we subconsciously also seek such reflections that let us reimagine ourselves and the world we inhabit through the lens of the ad. Whether the Tanishq commercial or the Surf Excel ad last year that showed a Hindu girl protecting a Muslim boy from being splashed with Holi colours on his way to namaaz, both propose a myth of harmonious co-existence — of the kind an Amar Akbar Anthony created — which could well be self-fulfilling in the long run. (Just as men who load washing machines are no longer unicorns.) These myths reflect not just who we are but who we want to be. The trolls shut down these stories not because they are real but because they could become real. It might no longer be possible to eradicate trolls in this hyper-malevolent era, but we need to cling at least to our myths. If we meekly let these be destroyed and the dream factories shut down, we will foreclose for good the possibility of our cultural reinvention. And that will signal our final bankruptcy of imagination. Yet, it’s more clear than ever now that  imagination, after all, is also a nation. vaishna.r@thehindu.co.in
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Women at the heart of recovery||India’s fight against COVID-19 is at a critical juncture. Against the backdrop of recent economic reforms by the government, and significant stimulus packages, recovery measures are poised to lift millions from this unprecedented economic and health crisis and tackle widening inequalities. The recovery is offering India two golden opportunities: one, to build climate resilience for the most vulnerable by ensuring that stimulus measures are green; and two, to meaningfully address long-standing gender equality issues. The pandemic has exacted a heavy toll. Fragile health systems and frontline health workers are overburdened and lives and livelihoods impacted. The poor, Adivasis, migrants, informal workers, sexual minorities, people with disabilities and women all face a greater brunt than most. Beyond this, the causes and effects of climate change — stressed agriculture, food insecurity, unplanned urban growth, thinning forest covers, rising temperatures and shrinking water resources — have also hit vulnerable groups disproportionately. Vulnerable group Women in particular have their work cut out for them. Greater demands of unpaid care work during the pandemic and rising rates of reported violence are a stark reminder of the work that remains to be done. According to the India Voluntary National Review 2020, female labour force participation rate for the 15-59 age group is showing a declining trend and stands at 25.3%. This is one of the lowest rates in the world. Meanwhile, the International Monetary Fund estimates that equal participation of women in the workforce will increase India’s GDP by 27%. The Indian government has invested nearly $22.5 billion in COVID-19 recovery. Strengthening social protection using targeted and appropriate fiscal and policy measures is a good start. Aligning these recovery packages with India’s commitments on climate change by investing in green jobs will improve lives and make our planet healthier. These green investments ought to be reflected across agriculture, urban planning, energy and the health sectors and in climate-resilient civil works, including under MGNREGA. Women, particularly those from indigenous and marginalised communities, play a significant yet unsung role in various sectors. Comprising more than 50% of the agricultural labour force, and nearly 14% of all entrepreneurs, women’s relationship with the environment and the informal economy can be a useful lever of action to transform the lives and livelihoods of their families and communities. Equipping women with skills Disha, a UNDP initiative supported by the IKEA Foundation, has reached one million women and girls with skills and livelihood opportunities. This initiative has shown the benefits of investing in local jobs for women and vulnerable communities. These investments energise local economies, reduce carbon emissions, enhance climate resilience and disrupt social norms and behaviours that restrict women’s participation in the workforce. Another example comes from an initiative by the Self-Employed Women’s Association and the Electronics Sector Skills Council of India, and supported by the UN Environment Programme. By training young rural women to develop a cadre of 15,000 solar technicians for the maintenance of solar pumps in remote locations, the initiative will not only introduce clean energy options but also reduce production costs. Accelerating the transition to renewable energy will lower carbon footprints and can help provide sustainable livelihoods to poor women. Creating the right financial incentives, fostering sustainable public-private partnerships and enabling women entrepreneurs to access markets, training and mentoring will be critical in scaling up these approaches. The Asian Development Bank projects that India’s GDP growth rate will rebound to 8% in 2021-22. Putting women at the heart of this recovery will make it faster, just and inclusive. Shoko Noda is UNDP Resident Representative in India; Atul Bagai is Head, UN Environment Country Office, India
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Clearing the air||President Donald Trump’s scathing description of India’s air as “filthy” may have come as an embarrassment for the government, but it has not provoked a fierce nationalistic backlash in response to a foreign leader’s insult. Looking at the worsening pollution in northern parts of the country, triggered by stubble burning and later the Dussehra festivities, even Mr. Trump’s critics found no cudgels to pick up, while others readily agreed with him. The U.S. President’s remarks are, of course, gratuitous, considering that he has spent his term dismantling many environmental regulations, including those relating to pollution and emissions from coal plants and automobiles; his criticism of India and China is also incongruent as they have pledged to implement the Paris Agreement while Mr. Trump has pulled the U.S. out of the pact. Unfortunately, mere resolve cannot raise India’s stature. Sensors of the Central and State Pollution Control Boards and other private stations across the north currently show PM2.5, or fine particulate matter levels, in the very unhealthy or even hazardous bands. There is mounting concern about the health impacts, but the Centre has so far attempted to brazen it out by denying any confirmed link between bad air quality and a shorter lifespan. Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar last year said no Indian study on such a correlation was available. That view has been challenged, and WHO expressed worry about the situation. There is the added dimension of COVID-19 infection today, with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health contending that a one microgramme rise in PM2.5 is associated with an 8% increase in the death rate due to the novel coronavirus, based on long-term exposure data in the U.S. India is seeking to address its chronic air quality crisis partly by raising emission standards and fuels. The country adopted the BS-VI fuel standard earlier this year, potentially lowering vehicular pollution, although the national air quality standard for annual average PM2.5 is 40 mcg per cubic metre, which is four times the WHO limit. It took the COVID-19 lockdown to let people experience clean air once again, with the conspicuous absence of vehicles. The unlock phase has reversed the ephemeral experience, as the burning of vehicular fuels has reverted to pre-lockdown levels, with no significant transition to green mobility, such as bicycle use, in urban centres. Continued burning of crop stubble in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh shows that the central sector scheme providing remedies in the form of farm mechanisation and management alternatives needs fresh impetus. No more time can be lost in addressing the crisis of foul air, as the country prepares to hasten with development in a post-COVID-19 era.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The shade of grey||The decision by the Paris-based watchdog, the Financial Action Task Force, last week to retain Pakistan on its greylist has clearly disappointed the Imran Khan government. His cabinet had projected confidence that the country would be taken off the greylist — monitored jurisdictions on terror financing and money laundering activities — having been cleared on 21 of the 27 mandated action points. Pakistan will now face international strictures on its markets and on its ability to procure loans until the next FATF plenary in February 2021, by which time it is expected to complete the six pending issues. A bigger problem for Islamabad was that Turkey was the only other country in the 39-member FATF to push for Pakistan to be let off, by making a suggestion that the last six points be cleared by an “on-site” visit by an FATF team. The proposal was dropped when even other traditional backers of Pakistan such as China, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia did not support it. Clearly, Pakistan has little option but to complete its tasks in the next four months, which include: more action against UNSC-banned terrorists and terror groups, action against charitable organisations (Non-Profits) linked to these banned entities, tracing fugitive terrorists and pursuing convictions against them, revising the list of banned entities under the Anti-Terrorism Act to reflect all those banned by the UNSC, and cracking down on other channels of terror financing through narcotics and smuggling. For those in New Delhi watching the outcome of the FATF decision, there are some broader dividends to consider from this process. To begin with, the fact that the FATF has retained Pakistan on the greylist for the third time this year, and not automatically downgraded it to the blacklist (with Iran and North Korea) when its deadline for action ended in September 2019, has ensured the pressure has continued to make Pakistan accountable on terror. The Khan government has been forced to make a real legislative push to bring Pakistani anti-terror laws in line with international standards, while, at least for the interim, also ensuring sufficient pressure on groups such as the LeT and the JeM that target India, to refrain from public comments and publicly raising funds. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s support to the U.S.-led Afghan process and talks with the Taliban are crucial to the peace process, and the FATF process has made Islamabad more amenable to helping Afghanistan. It remains to be seen if the actions it takes will permanently change Pakistan’s course in supporting and sheltering cross-border terror groups. India’s eventual goal is not just in stopping attacks by these groups, but for Pakistan to fully dismantle the infrastructure of terror in the understanding that it is in Pakistan’s own interests to do so. It is hoped that the prolonged FATF process will enable this realisation in Islamabad.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Victoria Institute||A proposal was made at the time of the Women’s Work Exhibition which was held in Madras in the cold weather of 1919, that efforts should be made to establish a permanent organisation for the sale of women’s work in the city. The matter had been under discussion since, and as a result the Committee of the Victoria Technical Institute, of which H.E. Lady Willingdon is the President has offered to attach to the Institute a small Woman’s Sub-Committee (oh which Her Excellency is the President) and to give it accommodation for showing women’s work on the Institute premises. It is proposed that this Sub-Committee should try to encourage the sale of lace, embroidery and other work and should help the workers with information as to the classes of work for which there is a demand and keep patterns that can be copied and stocks of materials, which would be bought wholesale and issued to workers in small quantities at the wholesale rate. The Sub-Committee proposes to work on the same line as the Victoria Institute, i.e. either to buy the work outright for resale or to take it on commission sale.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sobers tenders apology||West Indies cricket captain G. S. Sobers has apologised to West Indian cricket administrators for any embarrassment he caused by playing cricket in the white-minority ruled, Rhodesia. Sobers said last night [October 25, Bridgetown (Barbados)] he accepted the invitation to play in a single-wicket competition in Rhodesia because he had been assured there was no racial discrimination in that country. He added, however, that he had not been made aware of the deep feelings of West Indian people on the issues involved. Sobers’ apology was contained in a letter to Mr. Noel Pierce, President of the West Indies Cricket Board of Control. Sobers said that since his visit to Rhodesia last month, when he was greeted by Premier Ian Smith, he had learnt of the feeling of the West Indian people and the wider international issues involved. He added: “I therefore wish to convey to you and the members of the Board my sincere regrets for any embarrassment which my action may have caused and to assure you of my unqualified dedication whenever I may be called upon to represent my country – the West Indies – and my people.”
27 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Future shrugs off Amazon challenge||A day after Amazon.com Inc. secured an interim order from Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) and Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. (RRVL) to go ahead with their Rs. 24,713 crore assets acquisition deal, Future Retail said it was not party to the agreement under which Amazon has invoked arbitration proceedings and it would proceed with the proposed transaction ‘unhindered’ without any delay. RRVL has also said that it would enforce its rights without delay. “The company has received a communication from the SIAC, enclosing an interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator in the arbitration proceedings under shareholders’ agreement between Amazon, Future Coupons Private Ltd. and the promoter group,” Future Retail informed the BSE. “The company is examining the communication and the order. It may be noted that the company is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon has invoked arbitration proceedings,” it said. “All relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act... and this matter raises several fundamental jurisdictional issues which go to the root of the matter. Accordingly, this order will have to be tested under the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act in an appropriate forum,” FRL said in a regulatory filing. “In any enforcement proceedings, FRL would take appropriate steps to ensure that the proposed transaction will proceed unhindered without any delay,” it added. In a statement issued late Sunday, RRVL, the subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), said, “the rights and obligations are fully enforceable under Indian law.” Soon after the order, an Amazon spokesperson said, “We are grateful for the order which grants all the reliefs that were sought. We remain committed to an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process.” “SIAC’s decision to put a stay on the sale of Future Group’s consumer business to RIL is unlikely to impact the latter’s credit profile, given its position as the leading retailer in India and its strong financial position.” Sweta Patodia, analyst, Corporate Finance Group, Moody’s Investors Service, said. ‘May delay retail plans’ “Nonetheless, the decision will likely delay RIL’s plans to expand its retail footprint in India,” she added. RIL’s shares dropped 4% to Rs. 2,028.70 on the BSE on Monday, while Future Retail’s shares plunged 5% to Rs. 73.85.
27 October 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Interest-on-interest waiver to cost exchequer Rs. 7,500 crore’||More than 40% of system credit and 75% of borrowers stand to benefit from interest-on-interest concession announced by the government, an analysis by Crisil Ratings showed. It indicated that the ex-gratia payment of interest-on-interest by banks and non-banking financial companies for the moratorium period (between March 1 and August 31) would amount to Rs. 7,500 crore of benefit for eligible borrowers. Lenders will not be impacted as the Centre had agreed to pick up the tab. The benefit will be extended to borrowers with outstanding loans (standard as on February 29, 2020) of less than Rs. 2 crore under select categories, irrespective of whether the moratorium was availed of or not. Such loans account for more than 40% of systemic credit and 75% of borrowers, Crisil said. The cost to the exchequer would have halved if the waiver were allowed only for cases where moratorium was availed of, it added. The government has asked lenders to credit the amount to eligible borrowers by November 05, 2020. The amount will be the difference between compound interest and simple interest over six months (March 1 to August 31). Borrowers who had availed of higher-yielding loans would benefit more than others. Consequently, borrowers of unsecured, micro and gold loans will benefit more than those who had taken home loans.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Responsible’ fuel pricing needed: PM||Global energy producers must pursue more ‘responsible pricing’ policies and India needs ‘affordable and reliable’ energy sources, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, arguing that world fuel prices have been on a ‘roller coaster’ for far too long. India has been drawing investments across the oil and gas value chain and other sectors even during these challenging times, and the country is a bright spot in an otherwise difficult year for the sector, the PM said at the inaugural session of the India Energy Forum, ahead of a two-hour closed-door meeting with CEOs of top global energy firms. “This year has been challenging for the energy sector — demand fell by almost one third; there has been price instability, investment decisions have been impacted and leading global bodies project contraction in global energy demand over the next few years also. But these agencies project India... as a leading energy consumer, set to double its energy consumption over the long term,” he said. ‘Continued investments’ “During these challenging times, we have witnessed investments through the oil and gas value chain and are seeing similar signs in other sectors too,” Mr. Modi said, stressing that a self-reliant India, with energy security at its core, ‘will also be a force multiplier for the global economy’. “For too long, the world has seen fuel prices on a roller coaster. We need to move towards responsible pricing and work towards transparent and flexible markets for both oil and gas,” Mr. Modi said at the forum where top officials and Ministers from OPEC nations as well as India’s large energy suppliers such as the U.S. and Saudi Arabia were present. “India believes that access to energy must be affordable and reliable. That is when social economic transformation can take place. We view the energy sector [as one] that empowers people and improves ease of living,” he said, highlighting the government’s ambition to ‘ensure energy justice’. The PM listed seven key drivers of change on India’s energy map — accelerating efforts towards a gas-based economy; cleaner use of fossil fuels, particularly petroleum and coal; greater reliance on domestic sources to drive biofuel; achieving the renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030; increasing the contribution of electricity to decarbonise mobility; moving into emerging fuels, including hydrogen; and digital innovation across all energy systems. The 2019 exploration and licencing policy has shifted the focus from revenue to production maximisation, he said, expressing plans to raise India’s refining capacity from about 250 million metric tonnes (MMT) a year to 400 MMT by 2025.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||OPEC hopeful fresh lockdowns will not dent energy demand||The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is hoping that lockdowns and curfews in some countries in the event of a second or third wave of COVID-19 infections will not dent global energy demand as much as in the second quarter of this year when the world was virtually in lockdown mode. The OPEC is keeping a ‘very close’ watch on the fresh surge of COVID-19 infections in Europe, prompting fresh lockdowns in some countries, as well as the virus’s trajectory in India and America. “We were hopeful that the second half of 2020 would begin to see a recovery in the global economy as well as energy and oil demand… there were projections of a V-shaped recovery,” said OPEC secretary general Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo. “Unfortunately, both economic growth as well as demand recovery remain anemic at the moment, due largely to the virus spread,” he said. “We remain hopeful that governments around the world, having learned the lessons of what transpired in the second quarter of 2020 and the consequences of the lockdowns on the global economy and society, would try to modify their responses and measures in the event of a second or third wave of infections,” Mr. Barkindo said at the India Energy Forum on Monday evening. “We don’t expect a relapse to the massive contraction [in oil demand] that we saw in the second quarter,” the senior OPEC official stressed.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aurobindo to sell Natrol to PE entity for $550 mn||Drugmaker Aurobindo Pharma has reached a definitive agreement to sell Natrol LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc., to private equity firm New Mountain Capital and its affiliate Jarrow Formulas. The all-cash transaction is valued at $550 million (Rs. 4,048 crore at the current exchange rate), Aurobindo Pharma intimated the stock exchange Monday morning. The transaction is expected to close by January. Aurobindo Pharma had acquired the assets of Natrol in December 2014. “Natrol has been a consistently profitable business, growing on all fronts under Aurobindo’s ownership,” the company said. “Natrol’s annual sales for the 12 months ended March 31, 2020 was about $157 million,” it added. The net worth of Natrol as on March 31 was $82.41 million. “We are pleased to sell the Natrol business to an outstanding private equity player, who could focus additional resources to grow Natrol, its products and brands further,” Managing Director N. Govindarajan said. The proceeds from Natrol’s divestiture will be used to reduce debt and for other new strategic initiatives. he said. Jefferies served as the sole financial adviser, and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP acted as legal counsel to Aurobindo.
27 October 2020||Chennai,||Aiming to make CG Power debt-free in 5 years: TII||Tube Investments of India (TII) Ltd., which recently received the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) nod to acquire CG Power and Industrial Solutions, has set a five-year target to make the latter a debt-free firm, said a top TII official. “We see significant growth drivers such as exports, new product development and service revenues in the existing business,” S. Vellayan, MD, TII, said during an analyst call. “In the five-year time frame, we will also make the company debt-free.” CG Power had total debt of Rs. 2,161 crore, out of which TII benefited from a haircut of Rs. 1,100 crore of original debt as of March 2020. CG Power has a restructured term loan of Rs. 650 crore, a very low coupon NCD of Rs. 200 crore, and a Rs. 150 crore balance sheet item, to be adjusted from sale of company property. On the funding, he said the acquirers were looking at it as an adjustment of debt and equity infusion. “Our broad belief is that over 4-5 years, we should be able to get the company to a Rs. 5,000 crore topline with Rs. 500 crore PBT,” Mr. Vellayan said.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||CCI probe on e-tailers: HC to decide on plea||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Karnataka High Court to decide on the CCI’s plea for vacating a stay on the investigation against Amazon and Flipkart for alleged anti-competitive practices. The Bench comprising Justices A M Khanwikar, Dinesh Maheswari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to approach the High Court for relief. In deference to the observation made by the Court, learned Solicitor General (appearing for CCI) has agreed to move the HC, in the first instance, for appropriate directions, including for modification and vacating the interim relief granted to the respondents (e-comfirms), the bench said.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings’ fifth win on the trot lifts them to fourth||When Mandeep Singh reached a well-deserved fifty, he raised his bat towards the sky. He was dedicating the knock to his father Hardev Singh, who passed away on Friday. His measured 66 not out (56b, 8x4, 2x6) and Chris Gayle's swashbuckling 51 (29b, 2x4, 5x6) — the pair added 100 for the second wicket — guided Kings XI Punjab to a comfortable eight-wicket victory over Kolkata Knight Riders at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Monday. A target of 150 for a formidable batting line-up on a ground with small boundaries was never going to be enough. KXIP romped home with seven balls to spare. It was the fifth win in a row for K.L. Rahul's men. What a turnaround it has been for them; two weeks ago, they were placed right at the bottom. They are playing so well now that not even the absence of Mayank Agarwal, the edition’s fifth-highest scorer with 398 runs, has affected them. They have moved up to fourth on the table with 12 points, the same as KKR, which has an inferior net run-rate. The win was set up by a spirited effort from the KXIP bowlers, who justified their captain's decision to field first. KKR was reduced to 10 for three in the second over. Though Shubman Gill (57, 45b, 3x4, 4x6) and captain Eoin Morgan (40, 25b, 5x4, 2x6) rallied with an 81-run stand for the fourth wicket, another collapse, in the lower-middle order, meant the side could not end up with enough runs on the board for the bowlers to make a match of it. Disastrous start KKR had begun disastrously, with Nitish Rana, the hero in the last match, choosing to sweep the first ball he received. He ended up giving Gayle a comfortable catch at short fine-leg and bowler Glenn Maxwell a reason to smile. The second over proved even more dramatic, as Mohammed Shami struck twice within the space of three balls. Both Rahul Tripathi and Dinesh Kathik were forced to edge behind the stumps. Although the latter reviewed the decision, it was in vain. This wasn't going to be KKR's night.   Kings 104 for one  Kings were 104 for one in 14 overs in reply, with Mandeep (39) and Gayle (35) at the crease. Rahul (28) was the batsman dismissed
27 October 2020||Portimao,||Hamilton on top of the world||Lewis Hamilton became Formula One’s record all-time race-winner on Sunday when he claimed his 92nd victory at the Portuguese Grand Prix to pass Michael Schumacher at the top of the list. Hamilton’s win lifted him one clear of Schumacher’s 14-year-old record of 91 triumphs after a thrilling inaugural F1 race at the Algarve International Circuit here. Historic “Get in there Lewis, what a race. You are rewriting the history books,” Mercedes told him over the team radio. Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff said simply: “92 Lewis, 92.” Hamilton fought back after an early scare, when he led but dropped to third after a rain shower, to demonstrate impeccable tyre management and flawless judgement as he claimed an eighth win in 12 races this year. The six-time World champion finished 25.5 seconds clear of his Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas with Red Bull’s Max Verstappen a familiar third. Hamilton’s triumph added another unprecedented feat to his roster of records. He now has the most wins, a record 97 pole positions, a record 161 podium finishes and a record 45 consecutive points finishes. The 35-year-old Briton extended his championship lead over Bottas to 77 points. A seventh World title, which would equal another Schumacher record, now looks all but inevitable with only five races remaining this year. Leclerc fourth Charles Leclerc was fourth for Ferrari ahead of a surging Pierre Gasly after an excellent drive in his Alpha Tauri. Carlos Sainz came home sixth for McLaren to beat Sergio Perez, who recovered from a first-lap clash with Verstappen, to finish seventh for Racing Point ahead of the two Renaults of Esteban Ocon and Daniel Ricciardo. Four-time world champion Sebastian Vettel, in his final season at Ferrari, finished in the 10th place.  I don't think I’m at my peak. I'm in a good area for sure but I still want to continue to race. I don't know how much longer that will be Lewis Hamilton
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hanuma Vihari excited about Test series down under||Hanuma Vihari says that there will be enough time to adapt and get back into the desired mode, as the team will play a couple of practice games too, to take on Australia in the forthcoming tour down under. “Personally it is all about mindset. I just want to be mentally and physically fresh in the run-up to the first Test. I will use all the available opportunities, including the warm-up games, to get into the right frame of mind for the major challenges ahead,” the 27-year-old Vihari told The Hindu recently. “Definitely it is not the kind of 100 per cent preparation I should have had before the tour because match practice is something totally different,” he said referring to the fact that his last First-Class game was the Test in New Zealand this March before the pandemic broke out. “We have to work more on fitness and fielding once we land there,” he said. “It certainly takes time for anyone to get back to competitive cricket after such a long break. It is fine with batting and bowling which I have not missed in the last seven months thanks to the makeshift nets at my place of residence,” Vihari said. “Fortunately, I worked with our Indian team fielding coach Sri sir (R. Sridhar also from Hyderabad) a lot on catching and fielding,” he said. Vihari said this Australia series would be different as some of the big names are back and in form too. “But our captain (Virat Kohli) and the coach (Ravi Shastri) always ensure that we have a positive approach to any task on hand,” he said. “Their attack is similar to what we played last time. Of course, we have to expect tough battles,” he added. Pink ball Test The soft-spoken Vihari is also excited at the prospect of playing a pink ball Test. “It will be great to play in that pink ball Test at Adelaide. My earlier playing experience is only in the Duleep Trophy match,” he said. On his targets, Vihari says he wants to be a key performer in the Indian team which is aiming to clinch the prestigious ICC world Test championship.  I just want to be mentally and physically fresh in the run-up to the first Test
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||CSK exits playoffs race despite RCB win||Chennai Super Kings was eliminated from the playoffs race following Rajasthan Royals’ eight-wicket win over Mumbai Indians. Earlier on Sunday, CSK had beaten Royal Challengers Bangalore by eight wickets at the Dubai International Stadium to keep its faint hopes alive. But RR’s thumping victory meant that CSK wouldn’t feature in the playoffs for the first time. Clinical CSK’s performance against RCB was clinical. MS Dhoni — without the benefit of hindsight — even called it the “perfect match”. His side took to the slow, spin-friendly conditions like a duck to water and chased down the 146-run target with eight deliveries to spare. It was the same pitch on which Kings XI Punjab had defended 126 against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Saturday. But the result came too late; it was only the fourth win of CSK’s campaign, a poor return for which it ultimately paid the price. RCB, which could have almost sealed a playoff berth, didn’t help itself with an underwhelming bowling performance. All the good work by Virat Kohli (50, 43b, 1x4, 1x6) and A.B. de Villiers (39, 36b, 4x4) after winning the toss was undone. The batting mainstays combined for a meticulous 82-run third-wicket stand (68b) to hold the innings together. There were only six hits to the boundary, as the spin trio of Mitchell Santner, Imran Tahir and Ravindra Jadeja bowled stifling lines. But Kohli and de Villiers, with some excellent strike rotation, allowed just 16 dot balls. The CSK medium-pacers, Deepak Chahar (4-0-31-2) and Sam Curran (3-0-19-3) prised out de Villiers and Kohli in a span of 10 balls to restrict RCB. Ruturaj comes good In contrast, Kohli’s quicks bowled erratic lines and gave the CSK batsmen enough pace to work with. Ruturaj Gaikwad took full advantage, top-scoring with an unbeaten 51-ball 65 (4x4, 3x6), his maiden half-century in IPL. He was ably assisted by Ambati Rayudu (39, 27, 3x4, 2x6) and the two came together for a stroke-filled 67-run second-wicket partnership. But in the end, it all proved merely academic for CSK.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Brilliant Stokes keeps RR in contention||A Ben Stokes special helped Rajasthan Royals live to fight another day. His stunning hundred (107 not out, 60b, 14x4, 3x6) powered RR to a crushing eight-wicket victory over table-topper Mumbai Indians, with 10 balls to spare, at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Sunday. The win kept Steve Smith’s men in contention for the playoffs. It was Stokes’ unbroken third-wicket stand of 152, off just 82 balls, with Sanju Samson (54 not out, 31b, 4x4, 3x6) that made light of a 196-run chase. Having reduced the opposition to 44 for two, MI was very much in the game. But Stokes and Samson showed how to chase a big total without taking too many risks. Stokes had been criticised for not scoring briskly enough at the top of the order, while Samson had been accused of giving away his wicket too easily. On this night, there was no room for complaint. Earlier, a savage 60 not out off just 21 balls from Hardik Pandya (2x4, 7x6) gave a strong finish to the MI innings, which had lost some momentum in the middle.  From the last four overs, Mumbai plundered 74 runs, as Hardik put on a splendid exhibition of power-hitting. His blitz seemed to have swung the game MI’s way. But later on in the night, Stokes and Samson swung it right back for RR.
27 October 2020||LONDON,||Vardy’s header ends a drought||Leicester City won at Arsenal for the first time in 47 years on Sunday, with substitute Jamie Vardy’s late close-range header enough to secure victory in the Premier League at The Emirates. The win lifted Brendan Rogers’ side to fourth on 12 points, while the Gunners stay in 10th place on nine after six games. Vardy, who came on with half an hour to play having missed Leicester’s previous two games with a calf injury, broke the deadlock in the 80th minute, heading home Cengiz Under’s cross. The striker’s 11th Premier League goal against Arsenal — more than any other player apart from Wayne Rooney — gave his side its first win away to Arsenal since 1973. Everton tops despite loss Everton, which lost to Southampton 2-0, remains top of the standings with 13 points and a healthier goal difference than champion Liverpool. The Reds had beaten Sheffield United 2-1 on Saturday on a day when Manchester United and Chelsea had drawn goalless. Juventus substitute Dejan Kulusevski rescued a point for the champion at home to Verona as it was held to another 1-1 draw in Serie A on Sunday.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 0 lost to Leicester 1 (Vardy 80); Southampton 2 (Ward-Prowse 27, Adams 35) bt Everton 0; Wolves 1 (Jimenez 80) drew with Newcastle 1 (Murphy 89); Liverpool 2 (Firmino 41, Jota 64) bt Sheffield United 1 (Berge 13-pen).   Serie A: Cagliari 4 (Lykogiannis 25, Simeone 35, Sottil 45, Joao Pedro 84) bt Crotone 2 (Messias 21, Molina 43); Benevento 1 (R. Insigne 30) lost to Napoli 2 (L. Insigne 60, Petagna 67); Parma 2 (Gagliolo 34, Kucka 90+3-pen) drew with Spezia 2 (Chabot 28, Agudelo 31); Fiorentina 3 (Castrovilli 11, 51, Milenkovic 21) bt Udinese 2 (Okaka 43, 86); Juventus 1 (Kulusevski 77) drew with Hellas Verona 1 (Favilli 60); Lazio 2 (Alberto 54, Immobile 76) bt Bologna 1 (De Silvestri 90+1).   LaLiga: Valladolid 0 lost to Alaves 2 (Pina 55, Sainz 85); Cadiz 0 drew with Villarreal 0; Getafe 0 lost to Granada 1 (Montoro 45+3-pen).   Real Sociedad 4 (Oyarzabal 35-pen, 54, Portu 68, Isak 75) bt SD Huesca 1 (Mir 46); Sevilla 0 lost to Eibar 1 (Kike 41); Osasuna 1 (Santos 81-pen) bt Athletic Bilbao 0; Atletico Madrid 2 (Llorente 46, Suarez 90+1) bt Real Betis 0.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Rajnigandha Achievers takes the honours||Daniel Otamendi scored four goals in guiding Rajnigandha Achievers past Sphiro-Cavalry-ASC 8-3 in the final of the Cavalry Gold Cup 10-goal polo tournament here on Sunday. The deputy chief of Army staff, Lt. Gen. A.S Bhinder, presented the prizes.  The results (final): Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 4, Kuldeep Singh Rathore 2, Padmanabh Singh 2) bt Sphiro-Cavalry-ASC 3 (Dhruvpal Godara 2, Aman Singh) .
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,||CCFC and Akbar Nawas mutually part ways||Former I-league champion team Chennai City FC (CCFC) and head coach Akbar Nawas have mutually parted ways. The announcement was made on Monday through the cub’s social media. “CCFC would like to thank Akbar for his exemplary contribution to the club. We wish the very best for his future endeavours. We would like to thank Akbar for our long-standing collaboration,” read the message on Twitter. CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh lavished praise on Akbar. “Akbar Nawas was instrumental in putting us on the Indian footballing map and we hope he joins us soon in the future and wish him the best,” he tweeted. Satisfying time Akbar said that his stint with CCFC has been quite an enduring one. “My time with CCFC has been a satisfying one professionally and personally. Together we achieved great things. Won the I-league, qualified for the AFC Cup and produced players of the highest quality many of whom are now playing in the National team and in key clubs in ISL,” he tweeted. “Unfortunately all good things should come to an end. I will always carry my time with CCFC in my heart with great fondness. Lastly, I would like to thank the entire management [of CCFC] — the players and specially Rohit Ramesh — whose guidance and assistance have been of utmost importance. The CCFC fans deserve a special mention, they are just great.” Akbar took over from head coach V. Soundararajan in March 2018 — he was earlier CCFC’s technical director — after the team had finished eighth in the 2017-18 season. In his first full season, CCFC became the I-league champion. However, Akbar couldn’t recreate his magic in the subsequent 2019-20 season as the side ended up in the seventh position.
27 October 2020||Turin,||Messi up against a likely Ronaldo-less Juventus||The highly anticipated match-up of Cristiano Ronaldo against Lionel Messi, when Barcelona visits Juventus in its Group G encounter, likely won’t happen because the Portuguese has the coronavirus. Juventus has not reported many details of Ronaldo’s status but the forward has not played since appearing for Portugal earlier this month and isn’t expected to be named to the Bianconeri’s squad.  Could this be the week Chelsea manager Frank Lampard finally unleashes his very own Fab Four — a four-man frontline comprising Christian Pulisic, Kai Havertz and Hakim Ziyech behind lone striker Timo Werner? A mixture of injuries and rotation meant this has yet to happen, but the option is there for Lampard in Chelsea’s match at Krasnodar on Wednesday. Both Chelsea and Krasnodar are seeking a first win after drawing their opening Group E matches against Sevilla and Rennes, respectively. Injuries plague City Manchester City would simply like to get a striker on the field against Marseille in Group C on Tuesday, but it is unlikely. Sergio Aguero, just back from a long-term knee injury, sustained a muscle problem against West Ham in the Premier League on Saturday and joins fellow striker Gabriel Jesus on the sidelines again. For all his evident talent, Neymar is having a worrying lean spell in Europe’s elite competition. The star forward has not scored in his last four Champions League games, having squandered chances galore during the Final Eight in Lisbon and in last week’s 2-1 home defeat to Manchester United in Group H. That loss has PSG under some early pressure, and Neymar’s performance was widely criticised.  The match at Turkish side Istanbul Basaksehir on Wednesday is likely to be a physical encounter and Neymar, who has already been sent off this season, will have to keep his cool. Zidane’s demand Zinedine Zidane wants Real Madrid to play with the same intensity the team showed in its win over Barcelona in the Clasico on Saturday. Madrid visits Borussia M’Gbach in Group B on Tuesday and is seeking to bounce back from a surprise opening home loss to Shakhtar Donetsk. Eden Hazard was added to the Madrid squad and could make his season debut after nursing a muscle injury. Rebound needed Atletico Madrid and Luis Suarez are also looking to rebound. Diego Simeone’s side was thrashed 4-0 by defending champion Bayern Munich and next hosts Salzburg in Group A on Tuesday. Bayern’s biggest challenges seem to be how to maintain its outstanding form and meet its own burgeoning expectations. Hansi Flick’s team has scored at least four goals in its last three games in the Bundesliga.
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Good spell by Girinath||Titans XI scored a three-wicket win over Chargers XI in the league phase of the Karbonn Harmoncity ACA T20 league championship at Anantapur on Monday. Chargers XI scored 182 for five in 20 overs with K.P. Sai Rahul making an unbeaten 83 (48b, 3x4, 8x6). In reply, Titans achieved the target off the last ball of the innings thanks to useful contributions from C. Kranti Kumar (49, 35b, 3x4, 3x6) and Gulfam Saleh (31, 24b, 1x4, 3x6). D. Naren Reddy struck a breezy unbeaten 62 (32b, 1x4, 7x6) to help Kings XI score a five-wicket win over Champions XI.  The scores:   Chargers XI 182/5 in 20 overs (K.P.Sai Rahul 83 n.o., Nitish Kumar Reddy 46) lost to Titans XI 183/7 in 20 overs (C. Kranti Kumar 49, Gulfam Saleh 31, K.P. Sai Rahul 3/25).   Champions XI 175 in 20 overs (Ricky Bhui 42, M. Vamsi 38, K. Bhima Rao 3/19) lost to Kings XI 176/5 in 19.4 overs (C.R. Gnaneswar 57, P. Tapaswi 3, D. Naren Reddy 62 n.o.).   On Saturday: Warriors XI 120 in 18.2 overs (D.B. Prasanth Kumar 60, Girinath Reddy 4/26) lost to Titans XI 124/3 in 16.2 overs (Ch. Kranti Kiran 33, Shoaib Md. Khan 41).   Chargers XI 178/7 in 20 overs (K. Srikar Bharath 60, Nitish Kumar Reddy 57) bt Champions XI 165/9 in 20 overs (K.P. Sai Rahul 3/33).
27 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||ISL: HFC signs Dubey and Zothanpuia||Hyderabad FC signed 19-year-old goalkeeper Manas Dubey and 18-year-old midfielder Mark Zothanpuia on a long-term deal ahead of the 2020-21 ISL season. They join defenders Nikhil Prabhu, Kynsailang Khongsit and attacker Ishan Dey who have all been promoted to the first team for the upcoming season. “I am delighted to continue nurturing my abilities with Hyderabad FC,” Manas said. “I am very happy to sign a long-term contract with the club,” said Mark.
27 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Rohit out of Oz tour with injury; Rahul back for Tests||Rohit Sharma, who has missed the last two Mumbai Indians games in the Indian Premier League after sustaining an injury, has been omitted from the squads for India’s tour of Australia. The BCCI on Monday announced the squads picked by the senior national selection panel, headed by Sunil Joshi, for three ODIs, three T20Is and four Tests to be played from November 27 to January 19. “The BCCI Medical Team will continue to monitor the progress of Rohit Sharma and Ishant Sharma,” stated a BCCI media release. Ishant, the pace spearhead, returned home from the IPL after getting injured. While Rohit and Ishant have fitness concerns, wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant has been dropped from the limited-over squads. While K.L. Rahul, who has also been elevated as vice-captain for the ODIs in Rohit’s absence, is the sole ’keeper in the 50-over format, he has back-up in Sanju Samson, who has retained his place in the T20I squad. Rahul also makes a return to the Test squad. In Ishant’s absence, Mohammed Siraj has been named as the fifth pacer for the Test series in a squad of 18. Varun in T20I squad Varun Chakravarthy, the mystery spinner from Tamil Nadu, couldn’t have timed his maiden IPL five-wicket haul better, as he has earned a maiden call-up for the T20I squad. In fact, he is the only uncapped cricketer to have been selected across three squads. In addition to the 28 players who will feature in the three squads combined, the selection committee has chosen pacers Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Kartik Tyagi, Ishan Porel and T. Natarajan to travel to Australia as back-up.  Pant left out of white-ball squads while Hardik returns
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The jivatma in samsara||Every jivatma through countless births is heir to the joy and sorrow in samsara, and thereby also compelled to come to grips with the challenges it poses. This means that either one gets used to the attractions of worldly life that are not easy to renounce, or chooses to get out of it by renouncing it in favour of salvation. Of course, all want salvation; but the effort to strive for it in earnest arises in a jivatma through the grace of God and the effects of one’s good samskaras. The episode of Vibhishana seeking repose in Rama exemplifies this situation very clearly, pointed out Velukkudi Sri Krishnan in a discourse. Vibhishana is by nature a dharmatma and a devotee of the Lord. When he is spurned, humiliated and chased away by Ravana, he sees no option but to seek Rama who he knows is the Lord incarnate. So he leaves Lanka along with four well known attendants and reaches the other shore where Sugriva and the monkeys watch him poised above in the skies. Fully aware of the sensitive nature of his coming from the enemy camp, he explains to the monkeys the purpose of his visit. He wishes to seek refuge in Rama. He has tried in vain to convince Ravana to hand over Sita to Rama. But Ravana, impelled by fate, has not heeded the good advice. He announces that he has abandoned Lanka, his possessions, sons, wife, etc. That is, he has renounced hold on whatever he thinks belongs to him and seeks Rama as the only support and succour. Such a mindset that engenders a direct and personal relationship between the jivatma and God is crucial in the act of surrender. As one begins to reflect deeply on one’s inability to protect oneself; he also becomes aware of the untold benefits of reposing total faith in God, the ultimate protector.
27 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Mendonca triumphs||IM Leon Luke Mendonca of India earned his maiden GM norm after winning the title in the Rigochess International Festival chess in Hungary. Mendonca, 14, won six games, drew two and lost one to emerge winner in the 10-player field, which included three GMs and was played over the board.
27 October 2020||Antwerp,||Bopanna & Middelkoop lose in final||Rohan Bopanna and Matwe Middelkoop lost 6-3, 6-4 to second seeds John Peers and Michael Venus in the doubles final of the €472,590 ATP tennis tournament.  In the Challenger in Germany, seventh seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost 7-6(6), 6-1 in the semifinals to unseeded Botic van de Zandschulp of the Netherlands.  The results: €472,590 ATP, Antwerp: Doubles (final): John Peers (Aus) & Michael Venus (NZ) bt Matwe Middelkoop (Ned) & Rohan Bopanna 6-3, 6-4. Semifinals: Middelkoop & Bopanna bt Sander Gille & Joran Vliegen (Bel) 4-6, 6-3, [10-8].   €44,820 Challenger, Ismaning: Semifinals: Botic van de Zandschulp (Ned) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 7-6(6), 6-1 .
27 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Seventh title for Jubin||Thiruvananthapuram: Jubin Jimmy continued his fine run by winning the seventh title in the qualifiers of the all-Kerala Open online chess tournament. The FIDE Master won the Thiruvananthapuram leg with nine points here on Monday. Jubin had earlier won the Kannur, Kozhikode, Alappuzha, Idukki, Kottayam and Thrissur legs. The standings (open): 1. Jubin Jimmy (Klm 9), 2. H. Goutham Krishna (Tvm 8), 3. Aadithya Pradeep (Pkd 7.5), 4. V.U. Mohamed Fasal (Ekm 7.5), 5. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz 7.5), 6. C.R. Raveendran (Ekm 7), 7. G.S. Sreejith (Ekm 7), 8. N.K. Anwar (Koz 7), 9. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm 7), 10. K.A. Unas (Ekm 7).   Qualifiers: H. Goutham Krishna, 2. G.S. Sreejith, E.M. Akhilan, Sanjay Pradeep, Aniruhd Krishna, Somanshu Saha, Vishnu Menon, Eshwar Lankalapalli, Parteev Sunil and M.A. Unnikrishnan .
27 October 2020||London,||Pogba to take legal action||Manchester United’s Paul Pogba said on Monday he will be “taking legal action” after reports claimed he had retired from international duty in protest against French President Emmanuel Macron’s comments about radical Islam. According to reports in the Middle East picked up by British tabloid The Sun , World Cup-winner Pogba wanted to end his international career after Macron vowed to take the fight to Islamic radicals after the October 16 beheading of history teacher Samuel Paty. “I am appalled, angry, shocked and frustrated some 'media' sources use me to make total fake headlines in the sensible subject of French current events and adding my religion and the French National Team to the pot,” Pogba posted on Instagram. “I am taking legal action against the publishers and spreaders of these 100% Fake News,” he added.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kapil Dev discharged||India’s first World Cup winning-captain Kapil Dev was on Sunday discharged from a city hospital, two days after undergoing an angioplasty, and was said to be doing fine. “Mr. Kapil Dev got discharged today [Sunday] afternoon. He’s doing fine and can resume his regular daily activity soon. He’ll be under regular follow-up consultation with Dr. Atul Mathur,” the Fortis Escorts Heart Institute said in a statement.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||KXIP turns the tables on SRH||Chris Jordan’s three for 17 helped Kings XI Punjab defend the lowest total — 126 — this edition and edge past Sunrisers Hyderabad by 12 runs at Dubai on Saturday. With SRH needing 17 off two overs, captain K.L. Rahul threw the ball to Jordan. The Englishman vindicated the decision, conceding just three runs and taking two wickets.   The day in numbers  Second lowest total defended by KXIP in the IPL after the 119 against MI in 2009 This is the lowest target SRH has failed to achieve in the tournament. It had faltered while chasing 137 versus MI in 2019 SRH lost its last seven wickets for just 14 runs to slump from 100/3 to 114 all out)
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Aditya and Sivaranjini emerge champions||FireBall BA’s A. Aditya Narayen and Sivaranjini Sivakumar clinched the boys’ and girls’ under-17 titles in the Chennai District Badminton Association championships.  The results (finals):   Boys: A. Aditya Narayen (FireBall BA) bt P. Girish Venkat (Wal Greens BA) 21-17, 15-21, 23-21.   Girls: Sivaranjini Sivakumar (FireBall BA) bt Praveena Mary (ASR) 21-14, 21-6 .      Abhinav Kannan’s 73 off 50 balls was the highlight of Elite CA’s 104-run win against Adambakkam CA in the final of the Young Talents under-14 inter-academy tournament recently.  The scores (final):   Elite CA 205/6 in 30 overs (Abhinav Kannan 73, J. Jai Simha 45, M. Dhruva 28 n.o., Farhan 3/36) bt Adambakkam CA 101 in 29.2 overs (Pranav 40).    Elite CA defeated Cricket Drome by 72 runs in the final of the Cricket Drome inter-academy under-14 tournament recently.  The scores (final):   Elite CA 172/6 in 25 overs (S. Saran 64, Dhruva 49 n.o.) bt Cricket Drome 100/8 in 25 overs.      Super Giants beat Max CC by 21 runs to win the SSCA Cup recently.  The scores (final):   Super Giants 177/7 in 25 overs (S. Praveen 66 n.o., S. Abhinandh 51, Vikram 3/39) bt Max CC 156 in 24.5 overs (M. Sreejith 78, M. Krishna 26, S. Abhinandh 4/33, S. Lakshit 3/17).      The Aram T25 cricket league will begin on November 1 at the CCA Sports Centre, Sithalapakkam. The tournament will be held only on Saturdays and Sundays. For details, call Raju 98402 91022.
27 October 2020||October 27 2020 11:00 IST,||Sudoku - October 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Family of ASI denied ex gratia||The family of a 53-year-old Delhi Police Assistant Sub Inspector has been denied ex-gratia of Rs. 1 crore by the Delhi government. ASI Shesh Mani Pandey was posted in Crime Branch’s fingerprint bureau and passed away on May 30 after testing positive for COVID-19 on May 26. In a letter dated October 7, accessed by The Hindu , it is stated that the case had been examined and “is not found covered under the Cabinet Decision No. 2835 dated 13.05.2020, as the deceased was performing his routine duty assigned to him and was not deployed for COVID-19 duty which is a mandatory condition to become eligible for grant of ex-gratia of Rs. 1 crore”. Mr. Pandey’s case filed had been processed in April. His son Krishna Kumar Pandey said that the family was shocked to hear about the denial on Saturday. “We were informed by Delhi Police that our file has been rejected. We were shocked because we were heavily dependent on this money. Also, we were always assured by authorities that we would get this money,” he said. “How can they say he was not on COVID-19 duty? He was a policeman… employees in rest of the country were asked to work from home but people in the force did not have that option. My father caught the virus after visiting a murder spot in Nabi Karim and the deceased was COVID-19 positive,” Krishna said, adding that he had asked his father to take leave from work. “He said he would not be able to get leave. But added that he was in a government job and if something happened to him, the government would take care... though none of us had thought that anything will happen,” he added. Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava, after Mr. Pandey’s demise, had tweeted: “Delhi Police family mourns the loss of 2 brave police officers in our fight against Corona pandemic despite best efforts to save them. We pay homage to ASIs Vikram and Shesh Mani Pandey and may their souls rest in peace. We are committed to providing all help to their families [sic].” Mr. Pandey was an ex-serviceman who retired as Naik Subedar in 2012 and joined Delhi Police in 2015. He was from Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa, and is survived by his wife and two sons. “My brother is pursuing engineering in Delhi. I, along with my mother, wife, son and grandparents live in Rewa. We had received about Rs. 25 lakh from Delhi Police and managed to repay our loans,” added Krishna.  My father caught the virus after visiting a murder spot in Nabi Karim and the deceased was COVID-19 positive Krishna Kumar Pandey Son of the deceased
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Mayors sit on dharna outside CM residence||The Mayors of the three BJP-ruled Municipal Corporations sat on a dharna outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence on Monday demanding financial dues to the tune of thousands of crores. North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash, South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh and East Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Nirmal Jain demanded that the Delhi government release Rs. 13,000 crore to the civic bodies. The alleged fund crunch is understood to have affected an estimated two lakh municipal employees, including doctors, nurses and sanitation workers. The three Mayors said they had reached Mr. Kejriwal’s official residence at 6, Flagstaff Road, in the morning to meet him but were not allowed to enter the premises. They remained outside his residence till 8 p.m., following which Health Minister Satyendar Jain met them and, according to the BJP, assured them that the needful would be done. “I told the three Mayors that the Centre is supposed to give Rs. 12,000 crore to the civic bodies. The Centre is supposed to give Rs. 488 per individual as grant to civic bodies but they have not paid for years. The Delhi government also has outstanding loan of Rs. 6000 crore on the municipalities and if there is any due on us we will repay them,” Mr. Jain said, adding that he had received instructions from Mr. Kejriwal to meet the Mayors at 2 p.m. but the BJP leaders did not turn up. He accused the Mayors of politicking over the issue instead of seeking to solve it. “If they were facing trouble in running civic bodies, they could have asked the Centre for help,” Mr. Jain said, adding: “We have given an open invitation to hand over the civic bodies to us.” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Mayors will seek a meeting with the CM again on Tuesday and added that the funds were being deliberately stalled by the Delhi government.
27 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Travel agency director fined for harassment||Holding the director of a travel agency here guilty of sexually harassing a woman employee at the workplace, the Local Committee (Gurugram) has directed the accused to pay Rs. 10.8 lakh to the complainant as one-time compensation and tender an unconditional apology. It also ordered his immediate removal from his current role. Fine on start-up too The committee also imposed Rs. 50,000 fine on the agency for failing to provide a safe environment to the employees. Set up under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Local Committee, also known as Local Complaints Committee, has the mandate to hear cases for companies without Internal Complaint Committees or in case the accused is a Director/CEO of the firm. The 27-year-old complainant had accused the company’s director Amit Rai Malhotra, 45, of sexually harassing her on several occasions between September 2019 and January 21, 2020. She said she brought up the matter with her supervisor, department head, and even the Chief Executive Officer, but to no avail.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2,800 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi in 24 hours||As many as 2,832 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,59,488, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The death toll has increased to 6,312 with 54 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 3,27,390 patients have recovered and there are currently 25,786 active cases in the city. Delhi government data show that 34,411 tests were conducted in 24 hours. There are 16,396 patients in home isolation and 6,558 in hospitals. Delhi’s current recovery rate is 91.07%. The number of containment zones has now reached 2,930.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for stabbing driver over Rs. 20 fare||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly stabbing an e-rickshaw driver in Hazrat Nizamuddin after a fight over Rs. 20 fare. DCP (South East) R.P. Meena said the accused have been identified as Mohammed Shamim and Mohammed Bilal. On Sunday, the police received information from AIIMS Trauma Centre about the incident. A team reached the hospital where the victim, Mamum alias Mamu, told the police that two persons had boarded his e-rickshaw from Bhogal to Nizamuddin for Rs. 20 but when they reached the destination, they refused to pay him.
27 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ex-Assam CM in ‘high spirits’ after discharge from hospital||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi has been in “high spirits” 60 days after he was discharged from the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on October 25. Mr. Gogoi had been admitted to the intensive care unit of the GMCH on September 24 following a drop in his oxygen saturation level. Doctors had attributed his condition to post-COVID-19 complications. The 85-year-old veteran Congress leader was admitted to the GMCH on August 26 after testing positive for COVID-19. “We cannot say he is fully recovered, but he is in high spirits,” Congress spokesperson Rhituparna Konwar said.
27 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hindu Rao crisis a sign of systemic failure: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday said that it “takes serious exception to the unfortunate situation in Hindu Rao Hospital, which is under the management of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation”. Highlighting the issue of non-payment of salaries to the municipal doctors for several months, the association said the situation pointed towards systemic failure. “Doctors who have served the nation during the pandemic deserve appropriate accolades and incentives. It defies logic when they have to resort to roadside agitations to get their salaries. Retreat of the political class from governance across India seems to be a byproduct of the pandemic,” the IMA said in a statement. All the three municipal corporations in Delhi are controlled by the BJP. “The Supreme Court had directed that salaries of healthcare workers should be paid in time. The IMA demands that the authorities should pay the salaries of the doctors along with the dues immediately,” said the IMA. Meanwhile, senior doctors of North Corporation-run hospitals went on a day-long casual leave en masse on Monday as the crisis over pending salaries deepened with no resolution in sight. R.R Gautam, president of the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA) said, “If our demands are not met, we will go on indefinite strike from Tuesday.”
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for mowing down cyclist||A 26-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly mowing down a person in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri, the police said on Monday. The accused has been identified as Rohit from Gurugram. The victim, Akhilesh (30), was on a cycle when the incident took place. On Saturday at 8.40 p.m., the police received information regarding an accident near Rosewood farm. When a team rushed to the spot, they saw Akhilesh and rushed him to a hospital where he died during treatment. During probe, the police analysed the CCTV cameras and found the accused’s car at the time of the incident.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for sexually assaulting friend||A 27-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his friend in south-east Delhi’s Govindpuri, the police said on Monday. On October 19, the police was informed that a woman was lying injured under a footover bridge in Harkesh Nagar. She was shifted to AIIMS. Her husband said she had gone missing on October 18. CCTV footage and technical surveillance helped police nab the accused, who had fled to Patna, Bihar. He allegedly told them that he was in a relationship with the victim.
27 October 2020||new delhi,||Respond to plea seeking directions to provide passport, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to respond to a mother’s plea seeking directions to the government to provide a passport to her son who has been stuck in Italy for eight years as he does not have a valid travel document. The HC asked the Ministry of External Affairs to give its stand on the mother’s plea, which claims her son’s passport was damaged when he was in Italy and had applied for a duplicate in 2012. The Indian consulate in Italy had refused to issue him a passport as a dowry case was pending against him here, the woman said in her plea.
27 October 2020||New Delhi,||Wife, partner held for killing man in Kapashera||A 28-year-old woman and her partner were arrested for allegedly killing her husband in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera, the police said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Brijesh Singh (22) and Sugandha (28), both from Salapur Khera Village, they said. It was revealed that Singh had an affair with Sugandha.
