27 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Three killed, crops damaged as Nivar crosses Tamil Nadu coast||Severe cyclonic storm Nivar, which made landfall early on Thursday at Marakkanam in Villupuram district, between Puducherry and Chennai, left three persons dead and caused considerable damage to crops and fields, besides leaving many areas inundated. The storm system is likely to move northwestwards and weaken into a low pressure by Friday. Several interior areas such as Ambur, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Arani experienced rain and strong winds of 50 kmph. Light to moderate rain may continue over a few places in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal for the next 48 hours. The Indian Army of Dakshin Bharat Area Headquarters, which had positioned 22 rescue teams in Puducherry, Chennai and Tiruchirappalli, helped clear uprooted trees on the arterial roads following landfall. The team helped the Puducherry administration to resume normal activities with minimum loss of time, a press release said. NDRF teams helped in relief and restoration activities in areas where they were stationed. They helped evacuate people in the Mudichur area that saw severe flooding. Rain deficit wiped out During landfall that started at 11.30 p.m. on Wednesday night and lasted till 2.30 a.m. on Thursday, Nivar dumped extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal areas. Tambaram, a southwestern suburb of Chennai, recorded the highest rainfall at 31 cm, followed by Puducherry at 30 cm, Cuddalore, 27 cm, and Chidambaram, 13 cm. In Chennai city, Nungambakkam recorded 11 cm, and Poonamallee and Taramani 10 cm each till 6.30 a.m. on Thursday. Deputy Director-General of Meteorology (Chennai) S. Balachandran said Chennai’s seasonal rainfall deficit that stood at 11% had now moved to an excess of 36%. Puducherry’s shortfall of nearly 37% has moved to a surplus of 13% in a single day, thanks to the cyclonic storm. While the State still has an overall deficit of 18%, Nivar has brought down the shortfall by 8% over the past few days, Mr. Balachandran said. Extensive preparations by the Tamil Nadu government, including moving more than 2.27 lakh vulnerable persons to relief camps as of 10 a.m. on Thursday gave way to post-landfall restoration work, including clearing fallen trees, pumping out water from low-lying areas. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over central parts of the south Bay of Bengal around November 29. It is likely to move west and has the potential to become a cyclonic storm and impact south Tamil Nadu, according to the Meteorological Department. On the new system, Mr. Balachandran said the Bay of Bengal had churned out back-to-back weather systems.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Strike puts normal life on hold for 24 hours in State||The 24-hour nationwide general strike from Wednesday midnight in response to a call given by a joint committee of 10 Central trade unions was near total in the State. The strike call was given by all major trade unions, except the BMS, in protest against the Centre’s policies, including new labour and farm laws and privatisation of public sector units. Shops, barring those providing essential services, and business and commercial establishments remained closed. No untoward incident was reported. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses were off the road. However, two hospital services from Ernakulam, services to Pampa from Chengannur, and chain services in the Nilackal-Pampa-Nilackal sector plied. Private buses, taxies, and autorickshaws did not operate. But, private vehicles, especially four-wheelers and motorcycles, were seen on roads. Train and Kochi metro services functioned as usual. Exams postponed The functioning of the Secretariat was affected as only heads of departments turned up. Employees of Central and State government offices, banks, and insurance sector offices kept away. Universities had postponed all examinations scheduled for the day. Barring a few in certain pockets, almost all shops in the State capital remained closed. The City police arranged transportation for those who arrived in trains for medical care. In Kochi, markets remained closed, while activities at the port came to a standstill. The otherwise busy commercial streets at Palayam and Valiyangadi in Kozhikode were almost deserted. However, by afternoon, provisions stores, supermarkets, and some hotels opened. In Kollam, the three head post offices in the district did not function. The Railway Mail Service was affected as very few employees turned up for work. The strike affected cashew, fisheries and plantation sectors. Food supply from jail In Kannur and Thiruvananthapuram, the food supplied by the Central Jail turned out to be a huge relief for migrant workers and those dependent on hotels. In view of the local body elections, the trade unions had exempted the activities of the State Election Commission from the strike. The distribution of ballot papers from government presses to local self-government institutions went on smoothly. The trade unions did not organise mass rallies because of the pandemic and restricted the protest to corner meetings. CITU State president Anathalavattom Anandan inaugurated the State-level protest meet in Gandhi Park here. A chain dharna was organised on the Ernakulam Town Hall-Menaka street.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka has seen seven lineages of SARS-CoV-2, says virologist Ravi||Although SARS-CoV-2 is a genetically stable virus compared to other flu viruses, it has seen smaller changes within the genetic composition in the last eight months, said V. Ravi, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS. Not much change Dr. Ravi, who will retire this month, told The Hindu that when the parent strain of SARS-CoV-2 in Wuhan, China, is compared to the virus, now there is no great degree of change. “The current virus is nearly 98% similar to the Wuhan virus. But we have noticed some geographical lineages and Karnataka has had seven such lineages from the U.S., Europe, Dubai, Iran, China, Indonesia/Malaysia, and Italy,” he said. Pointing out that these lineages came directly into Karnataka from other countries or through other States, the virologist, who is also a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said it was genetically established that the Nanjangud cluster was very similar to the European lineage. “Although the source of infection in Nanjangud has not been detected, visitors from an European country had visited the plant in mid-February,” he said. “However, the index case in Nanjangud cluster — an employee of a pharmaceutical company — was detected positive in mid-March. We are unable to establish a link between the European visitors in mid-February and the index case in mid-March,” he explained. The evidence for linkage to the European lineage has been established by genetic sequencing. Therefore, there must have been someone who got infected between mid-February and mid-March, Dr. Ravi said. “We observed that the Indonesian/Malaysian lineage was predominant among those who attended the Tablighi Jamat religious congregation in Delhi,” he added. The other lineages can be traced to foreign returnees from these countries, Dr. Ravi added.  The current virus is nearly 98% similar to the Wuhan virus. But we have noticed some geographical lineages. V. Ravi, Head of the Department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS
27 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Test zone at Mumbai airport||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) here has created a dedicated zone inside the airport for domestic passengers arriving from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan without COVID-19 negative certificates. As per the latest State government rules, they would need to undergo the RT-PCR test upon arrival at the airport before entering the city. Such passengers will be directed to the test zone located near the baggage carousel, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a statement. “In keeping with the latest edict from the State of Maharashtra, passengers arriving at CSMIA from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan are required to provide proof of a negative RT-PCR test prior to boarding their flight or undertake the test upon arrival at Mumbai,” it said. “Since the implementation of the new directive on 25th November 2020, CSMIA has tested over 200 passengers who have arrived from these earmarked regions, of which none have tested positive for COVID-19,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government exempted armed forces personnel and their families from undergoing the mandatory RT-PCR test after the Indian Army informed that they follow stringent COVID-19 protocols for all individuals arriving at their respective military station/unit.  (With PTI inputs)
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Apex court stays HC order in A.B. Venkateswara Rao case||The former Additional DGP (Intelligence) A.B. Venkateswara Rao suffered a setback in the Supreme Court on Thursday after the apex court stayed the order passed by the High Court in May revoking his suspension by the State government. A two-Judge Bench comprising Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and B.R. Gavai ruled in favour of the government which filed a Special Leave Petition challenging the High Court judgment. Mr. Rao is charged with serious misconduct in the procurement of security equipment from an Israeli firm, and other acts of impropriety. He was placed under suspension in February this year as per All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. The suspension was upheld by the Central Administrative Tribunal and confirmed by the Union Home Ministry. However, the High Court gave a judgment lifting the suspension. Mr. Rao had allegedly brought pressure on the officials to get an order for supplying surveillance equipment to the Police Department, to a company which his son headed as CEO. This firm is said to be the Indian representative of Israel-based RT Inflatable Objects Limited. The government questioned if the High Court was correct in doing an intense scrutiny of facts and circumstances of the case, and disagree with the conclusion of the competent authority on the necessity to place a public servant under suspension when national security was at stake.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police stop farmers’ march to Delhi at Haryana, U.P. borders||Tens of thousands of farmers are planning to storm Delhi on Friday to protest against the Centre’s new farm reform laws. With the Delhi police moving to prevent their entry, the alliance of farmers groups demanding the repeal of the laws has called for an “indefinite siege” of the Capital. Convoys of farmers from Punjab surged across Haryana throughout the day, having broken through or bypassed police barriers at multiple locations. At other points in Haryana and along the Uttar Pradesh border, however, farmers were blocked, while leaders were detained or arrested. Within Delhi, two protests were broken up by the police, and hundreds were detained. Although Delhi’s borders have not been sealed, barricades and pickets have been activated to prevent entry by the marching farmers. Five sand-laden trucks have been stationed at the Singhu border point to stop tractors, said senior Delhi police officials, adding that drones have also been deployed for security purposes. “It is expected that more than 50,000 farmers will be standing at the Delhi border by today evening. The numbers are expected to swell through the night as thousands of tractors and trolleys are carrying farmers, women and children from interior areas of Punjab,” said a statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an alliance of farmers’ groups. Trade unions join stir The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, and various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union are leading the protest under the SKM banner. Protests and strikes were also held in eastern and southern States, with trade unions joining in the agitation. At the Punjab-Haryana border in Shambu, the Haryana police resorted to use of tear gas and water cannons to disperse agitating farmers, who toppled and dismantled barricades. “The way we are being stopped from reaching Delhi, it seems Punjab and its people are not citizens of India. Barbed wires have been put at many places at Haryana border, which gives an impression as if it’s ‘Attari-Wagah’ border,” said Nirbhay Singh, senior leader of the Kirti Kisan Union. More than 10,000 farmers from Punjab managed to cross over to Haryana at two border points in Fatehabad as well as the crossings at Kaithal and Ambala, Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava told The Hindu . Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, who was taken into preventive custody at Gurugram’s Rathiwas village along with a dozen protestors around noon, said it was unfortunate that farmers were being deprived of their basic constitutional right to go to the national capital for protest on Constitution Day.  (With inputs from Ashok Kumar in Haryana, Vikas Vasudeva in Punjab, and Saurabh Trivedi and Priscilla Jebaraj in Delhi)
27 November 2020||KOCHI,||Police absolve medical college of negligence in patient’s death||The Kalamassery police have absolved the staff of the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, of any negligence in connection with the death of a COVID-19 patient back in July. The family of C.K. Haris, a 51-year-old resident of Fort Kochi, who died in the hospital on July 20, after being admitted on June 26 on testing positive for COVID-19, had petitioned the Kalamassery police alleging negligence by the hospital. He had returned from Kuwait on June 19. The police on Thursday handed over a one-page summary of the investigation report signed by Kalamassery Station House Officer to Anwar Haneef, brother-in-law of the deceased, stating that the probe had not revealed any negligence or wrongdoing by the hospital staff or authorities that warranted legal action. “Even the date of death has been wrongly shown as July 24, which points to the laxity of the police while also raising suspicions whether they have inquired about the death of someone else. We have asked for a copy of the full report and will go ahead with our legal battle till we get justice,” said Mr. Haneef. The family had lodged a police petition only on October 19 after a leaked audio clip suspected to be that of the nursing superintendent of the Medical College had gone viral in the social media in which the speaker could be heard alluding at medical negligence leading to the death of a COVID-19 patient.
27 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||CMs spar as Haryana denies entry to Punjab protesters||The Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana were embroiled in a war of words as farmers from Punjab, marching to Delhi to protest against the Centre’s recent agriculture laws, were denied entry into Haryana en route. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh alleged that Haryana was forcibly stopping the marchers, which was condemnable and also cautioned the BJP-led government against pushing the farmers to the brink. ‘Undemocratic action’ Capt. Amarinder issued a statement saying, “Why is M.L. Khattar govt. in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional.” Terming it a “sad irony” that on Constitution Day, the constitutional right of farmers to protest was being suppressed, the Chief Minister flayed the use of brute force by the Haryana police to stop the Punjab farmers from marching through the State. Hitting back, Mr. Manohar Lal accused Capt. Amarinder of indulging in “cheap politics” and asked him to stop “inciting innocent farmers”.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Specific inputs on attempts to create communal trouble: DGP||There were specific inputs about some “anarchist elements attempting to create trouble by triggering communal passions” in parts of the State and Hyderabad during GHMC elections, Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy said on Thursday. Stating that the entire State police machinery was monitoring such anti-social elements, the State police chief said their details would be divulged at the right time. Addressing a press conference at State police headquarters here, he said troublemongers were using social media platforms to stoke communal animosity. “We learnt some communal elements planned violence. When they try to implement their plans, police will catch them,” the DGP said. Making it clear that some individuals were attempting to trigger communal clashes and not parties or organisations, the DGP said the “information is under development and we are watching them”. “We’re keeping a tab on them adopting modern technology. I appeal to people to be part of policing and help police in checking such divisive forces,” Mr. Mahender Reddy said. Replying to a query on ‘provocative statements like surgical strikes’, the DGP said speeches made by leaders of all political parties during the ongoing GHMC election campaign were being examined. Such speeches with hate content were sent for legal opinion. Based on legal opinion, action would be initiated against the speakers, he said. Replying to a question on Rohingyas, the DGP said over 60 cases were registered against Rohingyas for fraudulently procuring identity documents like Aadhaar cards and voter ID cards.    An appeal DGP urges people not to share provocative info through social media without verification  Alert police if communal content is being spread disturbing peace  Since GHMC election code of conduct came into force, 50 cases registered.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Now, CAMPCO to regularly collect arecanut from farmers’ doorsteps||With a turnover of Rs. 1,848 crore, Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Ltd. (CAMPCO) has earned a net profit of Rs. 32.24 crore in the financial year 2019-20, said CAMPCO president S.R. Satishchandra here on Thursday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Satishchandra said that despite the lockdown in the month of March and restrictions following COVID-19, CAMPCO has been registering good sales and purchase of arecanut, pepper and rubber. While arecanut worth Rs. 1,430 crore was purchased, arecanut worth Rs. 1,535.38 crore was sold. The purchase and sale of pepper was Rs. 37.77 crore and Rs. 28.08 crore and that of rubber Rs. 23.37 crore and Rs. 22 crore, respectively. Cocoa worth Rs. 91.39 crore was purchased. Chocolate worth Rs. 231 crore and copper sulphate worth Rs. 2.82 crore were sold in 2019-2020. Mr. Satishchandra said that with CAMPCO obtaining permission from the State government and starting purchase of arecanut during the lockdown, the price of arecanut rose from Rs. 200 per kg to Rs. 400 per kg. “We started buying arecanut at Rs. 250 per kg. The present price of Rs. 400 has sustained for the last two months. This is the longest period in the history of CAMPCO that the price has remained high,” he said.  On wheels CAMPCO, he said, will start from January “Campco on Wheels” through which it will procure arecanut from the doorsteps of farmers. “We did it on a pilot basis in Puttur and purchased about 5,000 quitals of arecanut. We will do it on a regular basis from January,” he said and added that this facility will be helpful for farmers aged 60 and above. In addition to the three units of windmills that generates 38.95 lakh units of power, CAMPCO has installed 500 kW roof-top solar system at its factory. It was moving towards self-sufficiency by utilising 7 lakh units through solar generation. The annual energy requirement of the factory from KPTCL was around 65 lakh units. Mr. Satishchandra said that CAMPCO has proposed to increase the medical relief amount for its active members for dialysis, angioplasty, open heart surgery and kidney transplant. It was tying up with Vivekananda College of Engineering and Technology, Puttur, to establish a state-of-the-art soil testing centre. Master godowns have come up in Baikampady, Belthangady and Thrissur to help farmers store their produce, he said.
27 November 2020||ONGOLE/VIJAYAWADA,||Life hit as Nivar brings heavy rain to Prakasam, Nellore||Heavy rain pounded different parts of south coastal Andhra Pradesh as the severe cyclonic storm Nivar weakened into a cyclonic storm on Thursday. Widespread rain continued both in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts under the influence of Nivar, which is expected to weaken further into a deep depression and later into a depression subsequently. The incessant rain threw normal life out of gear in Nellore, Gudur, Buchireddipalem and Ongole. Weathermen predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain likely in the region in the next 48 hours. SPSR district received an average of 13.8 cm rainfall in the last 24 hours, inundating low-lying areas in Nellore city and other places, including Sulurpeta, Naidupeta, Kaligiri, Kaluvaya and Venkatagiri. Vehicular traffic was hit at several places as rivers and rivulets, including Swarnamukhi and Kaivalya, were in spate. Paddy seedlings on 2,500 hectares were submerged as also black gram crop on over 3,500 hectares in Nellore district, while standing crops on 34,000 hectares, including cotton on 21,000 hectares, black gram on 4,500 hectares, paddy on 8,500 hectares were affected in Prakasam district. Six people who were stranded in floodwaters were rescued in Chittoor district on Thursday. Two farmers stranded in gushing waters were rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team from Rallavagu in Renigunta mandal on Thursday. Three farmers had reportedly gone to their field to check agricultural motors but were stranded as the outflow from the Mallemadugu reservoir increased. NDRF members rescued two of the farmers who had climbed a tree. The status of the third is unknown. In another incident, four persons, including three women, had a miraculous escape when their car got stuck in the gushing waters of Pathuruvanka. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Mydukur) T. Vijay Kumar, passing by that route, found the car struggling to stay on the road in the face of pressure from the flowing water. With the local sub-inspector Arun Reddy joining him, the duo pushed the vehicle to safety. Directive to officials Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials to take all steps to contain the damage caused by Nivar. Taking stock of the rainfall triggered by the severe cyclone, Mr. Reddy said that along with measures for rehabilitation of the affected people, officials should assess the damage caused to crops so that the government could seek Central assistance thereafter. Officials told Mr. Reddy that though the cyclone had crossed the Tamil Nadu coast and its impact was gradually coming down, they continued to be alert to face any emergency.  (With inputs from Ongole and Tirupati)
27 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Burglar avails Rs. 21 lakh loan by mortgaging stolen gold||Enterprises that extend loans against gold came under the scanner after a burglar managed to mortgage stolen gold to secure a loan of Rs. 21 lakh in Odisha’s Ganjam district. The novel plan unravelled when the Berhampur police launched an investigation into a series of burglaries reported in the city. After a month-long operation, two burglars were arrested and 540 grams of gold ornaments, worth Rs. 25 lakh, was recovered from them. The accused confessed to their involvement in no less than 15 burglaries. But that wasn’t all. “One of the burglars was found to have opened an account with a gold loan company. Over a period of time, he deposited stolen gold with the company to secure Rs. 21 lakh as loan,” Berhampur Superintendent of Police Pinak Mishra said on Thursday. ‘Expanding probe’ “Customers pledge their gold ornaments as collateral deposit to secure loan. It is up to the companies to find out the source of gold being mortgaged. We have decided to expand the purview of our investigation to see if these companies have become a point for converting ill-gotten gold into loans,” Mr. Mishra said. The burglars would do a recce during the day and break into houses they found to be under lock and key at night. High-end vehicles One of the burglars used a high-end car for the heists, but he could not satisfactorily explain how he mobilised Rs. 15 lakh to buy the vehicle. Moreover, motorcycles costing more than Rs. 2.5 lakh were used to flee after the burglaries, the police said, adding that the air travel history of the accused was also being probed. “The burglars were leading a luxurious life and were involved in gambling,” the officer said. “They admitted that they had learnt a simpler method of breaking open doors. They learnt tricks for melting stolen ornaments into gold ingots from YouTube,” he added. Three other persons who had purchased gold at lower than the market rate were also arrested. A retired police officer said that earlier, criminals would find it very difficult to dispose of stolen goods. “If burglars can mortgage stolen gold and get cash in lieu of it, they will be encouraged to commit similar crimes in the future. Accountability must be fixed on the companies offering gold loans,” he said.
27 November 2020||Kolkata,||All of Bengal to be under Swasthya Sathi scheme||At a time when West Bengal is battling an outbreak of COVID-19 infections, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that the Swasthya Sathi health scheme of the government would cover the entire State population. Speaking to journalists, Ms. Banerjee said that her government planned to extend the cashless scheme where Rs. 5 lakh insurance is provided to every family to the entire State. “It is a smart card and is being issued in the name of a female family member. I am announcing today that every family in West Bengal, every person, be it a child or an old man or woman, irrespective of their religious affinity, will be covered under this scheme,” she said. COVID-19 spread In the past 24 hours, the State has recorded 52 deaths due to COVID-19, taking total fatalities in the State to 8,224. The State also recorded 3,507 infections in the past 24 hours, taking the total infections to 4,70,498. The discharge rate in the State increased to 93.01% and the active cases have fallen to 24,670. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas recorded 12 deaths each in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the city to 2,553 and in the district to 1,939. In all, Kolkata has recorded 1.03 lakh COVID-19 infections, while North 24 Parganas has registered 97,000 infections.
27 November 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||Governor should be prosecuted: TMC||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday launched its most scathing attack yet on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, with party MP Kalyan Banerjee demanding the Governor’s prosecution. “The Governor is speaking on behalf of the accused and obstructing the investigation,” Mr. Banerjee said at the TMC party headquarters. While the TMC has so far accused the Governor of being a spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the allegations made on Thursday are quite serious. “The Governor has secret links with BJP criminals and other criminals. He is targeting the Chief Minister and preventing investigation. Those who obstruct the criminal investigation can be prosecuted under Sections 186 and 189 of the Indian Penal Code. So, I will request the Kolkata Police to file a case against him for it,” Mr. Banerjee, an advocate, and chief whip of the party in the Lok Sabha, said. Constitutional expert and retired Supreme Court Justice Asok Kumar Ganguly said there was no provision in law to start criminal proceedings against a sitting Governor. Reacting to the allegations, Mr. Dhankhar said that it was “a classic case of memory lapse and law and Constitution”. He described it as the “unfolding of a strategy to take diversionary route so that burning issues get to back burner”. He said in a statement that he could not “fiddle” in the Raj Bhavan when the “state is in flames of political violence.
27 November 2020||Special CorrespondentPune,||Maharashtra adds more than 6,000 new cases||COVID-19 cases continued to outweigh recoveries with Maharashtra reporting 6,406 fresh cases on Thursday as opposed to just 4,815 recoveries. The total case tally has now breached the 18 lakh-mark to stand at 18,02,365. The number of active cases has now surged to 85,963. The cumulative recoveries stand at 16,68,538, with the State’s recovery rate decreasing to 92.57%. As many as 65 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 46,813. Pune district reported 978 new cases to take its case tally to 3,49,792, while nine deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,313. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has risen further to 10,310, while its recovery rate incrementally dipped to 94.51%. Mumbai reported 1,147 new cases to take its case tally to 2,79,744, of which 14,185 are active. With 15 more fatalities, the city's toll has risen to 10,740. Nagpur district reported 370 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,12,350, of which just 3,839 are active. Six deaths took the total death toll to 2,935. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported six deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,626. A heightened spike of 257 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 51,865, of which 2,149 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 65 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,455, of which just 968 are active. Its toll stands at 1,714. Kolhapur district saw another low surge of just 23 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 48,439. The district’s active case tally has now come down to 207, while its total death toll remains at 1,671.
27 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni files fresh bail plea in murder case||Counsel for Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who is now remanded in judicial custody in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, filed a fresh plea for bail for him on Thursday. Vinay Kulkarni’s counsel filed the bail petition in the Special CBI Court in Dharwad. However, it did not come up for hearing on Thursday and it is likely to be taken up for hearing on Friday. The former Minister’s counsel had filed a bail application on November 16 which was admitted for hearing and the CBI was given time to file objections. However, before the CBI counsel could file objections, Vinay Kulkarni’s counsel told the court that they were withdrawing the bail application raising many an eyebrow. At present, Vinay Kulkarni, who is in judicial custody till December 7, is lodged in the Hindalaga Jail in Belagavi.
27 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Accused escape after attacking policemen in Dharwad||A high drama unfolded in broad daylight in Dharwad on Thursday, as five of six members of the notorious Irani gang managed to escape from the clutches of the police after attacking and injuring them. Even as onlookers watched, the members of the Irani gang wanted by the police in Bengaluru in various theft cases managed to give them the slip, after attacking them with beer bottles at Hanuman Temple on Line Bazaar Road. Two policemen who tried to catch them suffered injuries. While five of the gang members escaped, the police managed to overpower the sixth member identified as Bilal. On being alerted, Assistant Commissioner of Police G. Anusha rushed to the spot. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the five men who escaped. According to the police, a four-member team from Vijayanagar Police Station in Bengaluru arrived in Dharwad in search of the six Irani gang members for their involvement in various theft cases reported in Kamakshipalya and Magadi Road in Bengaluru. The policemen from Bengaluru reportedly tracked their cellphone numbers and finally found the accused sitting in a tea shop near the Hanuman Temple. Although the police managed to round them up initially, the offenders offered stiff resistance and subsequently, one of them pushed the policemen to the ground and then started beating them up before five of the gang members escaped from the scene. The visiting policemen reportedly did not seek any assistance from the local police which apparently helped the accused to escape, sources said. The two policemen who suffered injuries are being treated at a private hospital in Hubballi.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Stamp duty waived for documentation under ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to waive the stamp duty payable on loan documentation under “Jagananna Thodu” scheme in response to a representation by the beneficiaries, who said they have to spend around Rs. 324 per person towards the loan process. Moreover, it delays loan disbursement. Keeping this in view, Mr. Jagan directed the Revenue Department to issue orders for waiver of stamp duty. This helps around 10 lakh street vendors and traditional artisans.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||First ‘wave’ of vaccination to cover 30 crore Indians||About 30 crore people will be part of the first “wave” to get the COVID-19 vaccine in India. They consist of health care workers, police personnel, those above 50 and those younger with underlying illnesses that make them vulnerable, said Principal Scientific Adviser K. VijayRaghavan. Vaccine committee He was speaking at a meeting organised by the Science Ministry and the Confederation of Indian Industry on Thursday. Mr. VijayRaghavan said the national vaccine committee, headed by V.K. Paul, had finalised a broad blueprint. He said from “March to May”, vaccines were likely to be available in significant numbers and would be progressively rolled out over the years using the national immunisation programme.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||862 new COVID cases in TS||A steady increase in the COVID-19 positive cases is continuing in Telangana with 862 new cases reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on Wednesday. A total of 961 persons were declared recovered from the disease during the period and three deaths were reported. According to bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare on Thursday on the status of COVID-19, the number of positive cases in the State has gone up to 2,66,904 and that of recoveries is up to 2,54,676. The number of deaths have increased to 1,444. The bulletin stated that the number of active cases in the State on Wednesday was 10,784 with 8,507 of them in home and institutional isolation and 2,277 patients were in government and private hospitals. The case fatality rate in the State is 0.54% against 1.5% at the national level and the recovery rate is 95.41% against 93.7% at national level. Of the 862 cases reported, 164 were reported from GHMC area, followed by 91 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 63 from Khammam, 57 from Rangareddy and 53 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem. In the remaining districts, the positive cases reported were in the range of 2 (Nirmal) to 38 (Karimnagar). As on Wednesday, there are 63 containment areas in GHMC, including Charminar (16), Khairatabad (20), Serilingampally (16), Kukatpally (10) and Secunderabad (1) zones. There are another 61 containment areas in districts – Rajanna-Sricilla (33), Jagitial (12), Mahabubnagar (8), Nirmal (6), Rangareddy (5), Wanaparthy (2) and Suryapet (1) districts. Vacant beds In 61 government hospitals, a total of 7,702 out of 8,561 regular, oxygen and ICU (ventilator/CPAP) beds were vacant as of Wednesday. In 220 private hospitals, 6,615 out of 8,033 total beds were vacant.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||High Court has taken over Executive functions, SC told||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has “virtually taken over the executive functions of the State”, the Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy government told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The State complained that the High Court had now assumed for itself the power to decide even something as “innocuous” as the construction of a guest house. “In doing so, the High Court has completely ignored the warning that the Supreme Court has, time and again, sounded advising the courts to respect the other co-equal organs of the state and to refrain from assuming such powers to itself,” the petition said. The bone of contention is a November 2 direction of the High Court to the State to submit before it the construction plans for a guest house proposed in Vishakapatnam. The High Court had “seriously violated the doctrine of Separation of Powers”, the State, represented by advocate Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, contended. 2008 order The State’s petition referred to a 2008 judgment of the Supreme Court which said “in the name of judicial activism, judges cannot cross their limits and try to take over functions which belong to another organ of the State”. The State government pointed to what former Chief Justice of India J.S. Verma had said in the Dr. K.L. Dubey lecture about judiciary intervening in all and sundry, including “a ‘mysterious car’ racing down Tughlaq Road in Delhi, allotment of a particular bungalow to a judge, specific bungalows for the judges, monkeys capering in colonies, stray cattle on the streets...” The State drew the court’s attention to the U.S. Supreme Court’s lesson in history on how “the independence of the judiciary is jeopardised when courts become embroiled in the passions of the day”.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Take a call on night curfew in Delhi: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday told the city government to take a call “without losing further time” on whether night curfew is required to be imposed in the entire Capital or some parts of it, to contain the spread of COVID-19. The court issued the direction after the Centre submitted that States and Union Territories can now impose local restrictions, such as night curfew.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||No sipper to give Stan Swamy: NIA||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday told the special NIA court that it did not have a straw and sipper to give 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy. Special NIA judge D.E. Kothalikar, presiding over the case, had directed the medical officer to reply to the requirement of a straw and sipper, along with winter clothes. The matter will be heard on December 4. On November 6, Father Swamy had filed a plea seeking permission to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail as he cannot hold a glass because he has Parkinson’s disease. On October 22, his medical bail was rejected by the same judge who relied upon the directions of the high-powered committee constituted to release undertrial prisoners during pandemic. The court said, “The accused is involved in commission of offence punishable under UAPA and cannot be said to be entitled for interim bail.”
27 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Do not judge a person by his caste’||Assistant Solicitor General of India for High Court of Karnataka Arun Joshi has said that patriotism would have no meaning if brotherhood and equality were not imbibed in it and brought into practice. Inaugurating the Constitution Day programme organised by Karnatak University at the senate hall of the university in Dharwad on Thursday, Mr. Arun Joshi said: “Equality is the soul of the Constitution and without cherishing it, the Constitution cannot be strengthened.” He said that although seven decades had passed post-Independence, caste differences and atrocities continue to plague society. Emphasising the need for preventing vested interests from creating a divide based on caste, he said that persons with such ulterior motives should be punished severely. “A person should be judged by virtue of his work and wisdom and not by his caste. If the caste system continues to dominate, the future of the coming generations will be bleak,” he said. Member of Legislative Council S.V. Sankanur spoke. Vice-Chancellor of the university K.B. Gudasi presided over the programme.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||PM pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday again pitched for ‘One Nation, One Election’, saying it is the need of the country as elections taking place every few months hamper development works. Mr. Modi was addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference via videoconference. He also said there should be a single voter list for all polls in the country. The Prime Minister asked the presiding officers attending the meet to apply their mind to simplify the language of statute books and allow for an easier process to weed out redundant laws.
27 November 2020||Chennai,||Shah speaks to T.N., Puducherry CMs||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured them of all possible support from the Centre, in the wake of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall last night.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Five killed as truck hits 2 cars, ploughs into tea stall||Five people were killed and six others were injured after a container truck collided with a car and then ploughed into other vehicles and a roadside tea stall at Chadulapura Cross on National Highway 7 on the outskirts of Chickballapur on Thursday.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Metro services to Anjanapura in mid-Dec.||Commercial operations from Yelachenhalli to Anjanapura on the extended Green Line are likely to start next month. Ajay Seth, Managing Director of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), told The Hindu that the line will be opened to the public in mid-December.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||20 trade unions join nationwide protest||In response to the nationwide strike, 20 trade unions and organisations in the city carried out a rally from Majestic to Freedom Park where they staged a protest on Thursday. Protests were held in industrial areas such as Peenya, Bommasandra, and Jigani in Benglauru.
27 November 2020||TIRUCHI,||Labour unions protest against Centre’s policies||Hundreds of members of labour unions affiliated to major political parties staged a demonstration here on Thursday to condemn the Central government over its ‘anti-poor’ policies pertaining to farmers and the working class.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,||Medical aspirant takes up catering job||A medical aspirant from Pollachi, who was wait-listed for MBBS admissions under the 7.5% horizontal quota, during the counselling for medical and dental courses, has taken up a job in a private catering service to support his family. M. Yuvanraj (18), who is from a Scheduled Caste community, scored 155 out of 720 in NEET this year.
27 November 2020||Pune,||PM Modi to visit Serum Institute tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday, senior Pune administration authorities confirmed on Thursday. The SII has partnered with pharma major AstraZeneca and Oxford University for its COVID-19 vaccine.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,||CMC plans to make Udupi city smart via PPP mode||The City Municipal Council of Udupi is contemplating opting for a public-private partnership initiative to make the city smart at an estimated cost of Rs. 130 crore. City planning officials informed CMC at the first meeting of the council that the city is likely to get 3,000 smart poles that accommodate closed circuit television cameras, 5G-enabled WiFi system and drone chargers.
27 November 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan shifts focus to testing in rural areas||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases, the Rajasthan government on Thursday decided to shift attention to testing in rural areas and intensify awareness drive in villages. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot gave these instructions at a meeting to review the pandemic situation here.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘File inquiry report on JMI student’s disclosure’||The High Court on Thursday told Delhi Police to submit a report on vigilance inquiry conducted on the alleged leak of information to the media about the disclosure statement of a Jamia Millia Islamia student, who was arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru also asked the police to indicate further steps which it proposes to take.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||Over 50 accused get bail in Palghar lynching case||A special court in Thane on Thursday granted bail to over 50 people arrested in the Palghar lynching case. District judge P.P. Jadhav granted bail to the accused on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 15,000 each.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||CM praises city police on 26/11 attack anniversary||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray paid tributes to the martyrs of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack on its 12th anniversary on Thursday. He praised the Mumbai Police and said the force needs to be so strong that terrorists do not dare to attack the State or its capital.
27 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Mixed response to Ballari bandh call||The Ballari bandh call by Akhanda Ballari Horata Samiti to oppose the government decision to carve out a new Vijayanagara district from Ballari district received a mixed response from people on Thursday.
27 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||CM lays foundation stones||In yet another major gift to the proposed new Vijayanagara district after the Cabinet decision to carve out the new district from Ballari, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa remotely laid foundation stones for drinking water and irrigation projects that together are estimated at Rs. 242.35 crore on Thursday.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,||CM promises to upgrade M.M. Hills PHC to hospital||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said steps will be taken to upgrade the primary health centre (PHC) at Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Chamarajanagar district into a 30-bed hospital.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,||Post-renovation, rail museum is a major draw||The rail museum in Mysuru, which was renovated at a cost of nearly Rs. 9 crore days before the lockdown, is witnessing a surge in daily footfall since the last few weeks. This has been attributed to the major renovation and the aesthetic display of exhibits.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,||University of Mysore adopts 10 govt. schools||Ten government schools in four districts of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajnagar and Hassan will soon be getting infrastructure push with the University of Mysore adopting them besides planning to develop them academically too.
27 November 2020||TIRUCHI,||Labour unions protest against Centre’s policies||Hundreds of members of labour unions affiliated to major political parties staged a demonstration here on Thursday to condemn the Central government over its ‘anti-poor’ policies pertaining to farmers and the working class.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Transport services resume in districts||Transport services in districts affected by the cyclone resumed on Thursday. While flights resumed at 9 a.m., the Chennai Metro Rail services started at noon. The South- ern Railway will resume the workmen special suburban train services from Friday.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 1,464 fresh COVID-19 cases, 18 deaths||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the State touched 11,173 on Thursday, with 1,464 persons testing positive. The overall tally touched 7,76,174. The toll stood at 11,669, with 14 new fatalities. In Chennai district, 396 new cases were reported on Thursday.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Registration of sale pact no bar to sell property’||Registration of a sale agreement, expressing willingness to sell a property to a particular person on receiving full payment in future, will not be a bar for the property owner to go ahead and sell or transfer the property to a third party without getting the sale agreement annulled through a civil court decree, the Madras High Court has ruled.
27 November 2020||Srinagar,||Two soldiers killed in Srinagar||Two soldiers were killed in an attack carried out by car-borne militants on the Srinagar-Baramulla National Highway on the outskirts of Srinagar on Thursday. The attack coincided with the 12th anniversary of the Mumbai attack. Crowded area “Terrorists fired indiscriminately at a quick reaction team of the Army at Aban Shah Chowk, HMT, near Srinagar. Since it was a crowded area, troops exercised restraint to avoid any civilian casualties. However, two soldiers sustained injuries and later succumbed at a nearby hospital,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. The deceased were identified as Sepoy Ratan of the 163 Battalion Territorial Army and Sepoy Deshmukh of the 101 Battalion Territorial Army. Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were involved in the attack. “Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists were travelling in a Maruti car and took undue advantage of the crowded place, while opening indiscriminate fire,” Mr. Kumar said. Police sources said the vehicle was chased by the security forces but could not be traced immediately. “An investigation is in progress and the officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime,” Mr. Kumar said. A chopper was pressed into service to locate the militants and the vehicle. The police suspect the hand of non-local militants in the attack.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions join farmers’ protests||The strike called by a joint platform of 10 Central trade unions on Thursday in support of the farmers’ agitation and workers’ demands partially affected life in some parts of the country. The trade union leaders and workers assembled at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, where farmers had also gathered to protest against the recent agriculture laws passed by Parliament. Shutdown in States “Kerala, Puducherry, Odisha, Assam and Telangana have reported complete shutdown. Tamil Nadu reported complete shutdown in 13 districts, while the industrial strike continues in the rest of the districts, Punjab and Haryana have reported that the State road transport buses have not left their depots in the morning,” a statement issued by the joint platform said. Coal, defence, telecom and banking sectors also saw a partial strike, the unions said. They said the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an apex organisation of farmers’ groups, had come out in support of the workers’ demands. They said 25 crore workers had participated in the strike. “This situation has arisen because the incumbent BJP government is following in the footsteps of the Britishers, using unconstitutional means to sacrifice the interests of the workers and farmers in favour of the corporates,” the statement said. The workers demanded monthly cash transfers of Rs. 7,500 for all families that did not fall in the income tax bracket, 10 kg of free monthly rations to every person in need, expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, withdrawal of the new farm laws and labour codes, a stop to privatisation of the public sector, withdrawal of the decision on “forced premature retirement” of government employees and payment of pension to all. The unions said they would continue to support the farmers’ agitation as they attempt to reach Parliament on Friday. The unions that called the strike were the All India Trade Union Congress, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh did not support the strike, saying in a statement that it was “politically motivated”.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shringla in Nepal to mend ties||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla reached Kathmandu on Thursday in a major outreach to Nepal after a bitter boundary dispute over the Kalapani region for more than a year. In comments to the media at the Tribhuvan International Airport, he said his visit was aimed at “rather strengthening” the bilateral ties. “Our relationship is very strong. Our efforts are aimed at how we can move our relationship forward,” he spoke in Nepali. Mr. Shringla said his first meeting would be with his Nepalese counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal, after which he is scheduled to meet Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. He also mentioned about scheduled meetings with “high dignitaries”. Mr. Shringla is expected to visit sites of developmental work being carried out by India in the backdrop of the 2015 earthquake. On Friday morning, he is expected to deliver a lecture at the Asian Institute of Diplomacy and International Affairs (AIDIA) in Kathmandu. In a statement, the AIDIA said the lecture was aimed at “addressing issues related to Nepal-India bilateral cooperation”. ‘Not a climbdown’  The Hindu had reported that officials are not viewing the visit as a climbdown after months-long confrontation with Kathmandu after Nepal asserted its claim over the Kalapani region of Pithoragarh district and published a new official map and a new national insignia. Foreign Minister Gyawali on Thursday briefed a parliamentary committee in Kathmandu. He said Nepal would convey to India and China that it wanted to move together with both. “Nepal will send a message that it has no interest other than going together [with both],” newspaper Kantipur reported Mr. Gyawali as saying while referring to the visits of Mr. Shringla and Chinese defence minister Wei Fenghe on Sunday. Nepal has been demanding Foreign Secretary-level talks since the problem over Kalapani intensified. India described Nepal’s new map which shows Kalapani-Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese sovereign territory as “cartographic aggression”. However, Mr. Shringla blamed COVID-19 for the delay in the visit. Sources said India hadn’t changed its position on Kalapani. “Our position on the boundary is very clear and we are not changing it,” The Hindu had reported, citing a senior official here. His visit comes weeks after the chief of Research and Ananlysis Wing Samant Goel visited Kathmandu and met Prime Minister K . P. Sharma Oli. It was followed by the trip of Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Free COVID vaccine, testing find place in BJP manifesto||Free COVID vaccine through municipal health centres, modernising storm water drains with Rs. 10,000 crore, special development package for Old City, free travel for women in Metro rail and city buses, scrapping of Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS), no property tax for slums and SC colonies, one lakh free houses for the poor, wi-fi and free tabs for children of government schools, were among the promises made in the TS Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) manifesto for GHMC polls. “We have taken up issues close to people and reflecting their aspirations. It will be implemented with the help of funds from the Centre. We want to give the city back to the people from the clutches of TRS and MIM, which have divided the city among themselves, as if is their personal property, for their personal gain,” said former Maharastra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis after launching the manifesto in the presence of Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, National OBC president K. Laxman, TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and others on Thursday. “There will be no need to go to private hospitals for the vaccine, when it is launched, as we have decided to give it free in the municipal health centres along with testing for coronavirus. Such health centres will be increased further considering the difficulties people had faced in getting treatment for COVID-19 with inadequate public healthcare facilities and corporate hospitals charging exorbitant fees,” he said. “The LRS is a Rs. 15,000 crore scam, so it will be removed and those building houses with 125 sq. yards will be exempt from paying any fees,” he added. Flood concern Mr. Fadnavis stated that 25% of the city was under water during the recent floods mainly because of the encroachments obstructing the water flow in storm water drains and water bodies, hence these will be removed and affected people will be relocated and Rs. 25,000 each for the affected families will be directly deposited into the bank accounts concerned. One lakh houses will be built for the poor under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY), free water connections and supply to the households and Musi rejuvenation work, including development of river front, will be taken up with a Rs. 10,000 crore fund. Mr. Sanjay Kumar and Mr. Laxman said that private school fees will be regulated and under the proposed ‘Sumedha Act’, in the memory of the 12-year-old girl who got washed away in an open drain in Malkagiri earlier this year, encroachments will be removed on water bodies. “Unlike TRS, which has repeated its manifesto, we will implement every single scheme. So, give our party a chance,” they appealed. Manifesto committee chairman G. Vivek Venkatswamy claimed close to 10 lakh citizens gave their feedback through the mobile app and the draft manifesto was vetted by experts from various fields and senior leaders.  We have taken up issues close to people and reflecting their aspirations. It will be implemented with the help of funds from the Centre. We want to give the city back to the people from the clutches of TRS and MIM, which have divided the city among themselves, as if is their personal property, for their personal gain.  Devendra Fadnavis  Former Maharashtra CM
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, Haryana unleashed cruelty on farmers: Cong.||“On a day when the nation is celebrating Constitution Day, don’t farmers have the right to enter Delhi and protest peacefully,” the Congress asked on Thursday and accused the BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana of unleashing ‘cruelty’ on farmers. Posting a video of the Haryana police at the Shambhu inter-State border using water cannon on a group of farmers who had broken several tiers of barricades and “throwing” some of them into a river while attempting to march to Delhi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The country’s farmers are standing resolutely in the face of Modi government’s cruelty against them.” He shared a Hindi verse praising the courage of the farmers who are protesting against the new farm laws. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a Hindi tweet, said, “Instead of listening to the voice of farmers protesting against the laws that snatch the minimum support price from them, the BJP government attacks them with water in this cold. Everything is being taken away from farmers while capitalists are being offered banks, loan waivers, airports and railway stations.” At a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said, “On a day when we are celebrating Constitution Day, are farmers not allowed to enter Delhi and peacefully protest? Does the Constitution not give them this right?” D
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||$20-bn potential in renewable sector: PM||India’s renewable energy deployment plans for the coming decade are likely to generate business opportunities worth $20 billion a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Inviting global investors to join what he termed India’s unparalleled journey towards expanding power generation capacity so that each citizen got access to electricity, he said the country’s renewable energy capacity was now the fourth largest in the world.  Surging capacity “In the last six years, we increased our installed renewable energy capacity by two- and-a-half times… it is growing at the fastest speed among all major countries. Even when it was not affordable, we invested in renewable energy [and] now our investment and scale is bringing costs down,” Mr. Modi said at the inaugural session of the Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo. “We are showing to the world that sound environmental policies can also be sound economics,” he said, urging global investors to consider tapping the recently approved production-linked incentive scheme for manufacturing high-efficiency solar power modules in the country. “There are huge renewable energy deployment plans for the next decade. These are likely to generate business prospects of the order of around 20 billion dollars per year. I invite investors, developers and businesses to join India’s renewable energy journey,” he concluded.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Re-examine decision asking employees to report for duty, Karnataka HC tells govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to reconsider its May 18, 2020 decision of asking all the employees of the government and its autonomous agencies to report to the respective offices for duty, keeping in mind the difficulties being faced by such employees, particularly the blind, to adhere to COVID-19 norms.  Noticing that the Union government had granted exemption from reporting to duty for pregnant women and employees with disabilities, the court said the State government was required to reconsider its decision in the light of the rights guaranteed to persons with disabilities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by the Karnataka Federation of the Blind, Bengaluru. The Bench took note of the issue that persons with disabilities, particularly the blind, will face difficulties to follow the COVID-19 norms, particularly maintaining social distancing, as they need to come into physical contact with others for taking assistance to discharge their duties. The visually challenged employees would come into physical contact with others more often and such contacts cannot be avoided, the Bench observed. It was pointed out on behalf of the petitioner-federation that government of India issued two official memoranda in June and October giving exemption and such an exemption was essential in the State as blind employees were prone to the danger of contracting COVID-19 as they cannot maintain social distancing on their own.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Winds, overcast sky in Bengaluru||People of Bengaluru woke up to a cloudy morning on Thursday, thanks to the impact of Cyclone Nivar. A steady and light drizzle, accompanied by winds, brought down the temperature. 3 degrees Celsius drop According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature on Wednesday was 23.8 degrees Celsius, which is a three degree drop from normal temperature. The minimum temperature of 19.6 degrees Celsius, however, registered a three degree increase from normal temperature. C.S. Patil, Director (Weather Forecast), IMD, Bengaluru, attributed the drop in temperature to overcast skies and winds. Over the last 24 hours (between 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday to 8.30 a.m. Thursday), the city received just 1.8 mm rains. By evening, some parts of the city received moderate rainfall. By 5.30 p.m., city had received 6.5 mm rains, while HAL (Old Airport) had received 13.8 mm and KIA had received 14.4 mm. Mr. Patil said that south-interior districts, including Bengaluru Urban and Rural, Kolar, Tumakuru, Chickballapur, Mandya and Ramanagaram, received isolated heavy rainfall on Thursday. The wet weather conditions are likely to continue till Sunday. According to data from the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Kolar and Chickballapur received more rains. While Kolar recorded 44.38 mm, Chickballapur recorded 27.32 mm rainfall. He added that cyclonic storm Nivar would continue to move north-westwards and weaken into a deep depression over the next six hours. “Under the influence of this system, south-interior Karnataka is very likely to experience light to moderate scattered rainfall on Friday, and isolated rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. No complaints were received by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s various control rooms. Control room personnel told The Hindu that all staff were on alert to attend to untoward incident, if any.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI/MADURAI,||NCB probes terror angle in huge heroin haul at sea||It was a week-long operation of Indian Coast Guard vessels at sea with aerial support and the backing of Central intelligence agencies that led to the zeroing-in on a Sri Lankan mechanised boat transporting a huge consignment of heroin off the coast of Thoothukudi on Tuesday night. The well-coordinated operation involving defence, intelligence and other drug-law enforcement agencies was launched on November 17 on the basis of a specific input that Pakistan-based smugglers would be transferring a huge consignment of drugs at sea on to a Sri Lankan boat. The security agencies were already working on information that a group of international drug peddlers were operating along the Pakistan-Sri Lankan water route transporting drugs to many countries, police sources said. After seven days of surveillance at sea, Coast Guard personnel on board five vessels and two aircraft narrowed down on the suspicious Sri Lankan boat “Shenaya Duwa” located south of the Thoothukudi coast and 20 nautical miles off Kanniyakumari. Armed guards searched the boat and found the drugs concealed in an “unapproachable” location. The crew of six Sri Lankan nationals was in possession of 99 packets of heroin, 20 boxes of synthetic drugs, five pistols and a satellite phone set, the sources said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the 100 kg heroin and other contraband substances were transferred from a Pakistani dhow from Karachi in the high seas. The drugs were meant to be sent to western countries and Australia, investigators said. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) which took over investigation of the drug seizure case would look into the possibility of terrorist organisations being involved in the smuggling of drugs since the suspects were in possession of sophisticated weapons. NCB South Zonal Director A. Bruno said the heroin appeared to be of fine quality and such drugs were usually sourced from Afghanistan. Central agencies were working on tracking the international drug network for quite some time and launched the operation after receiving actionable inputs. The six Sri Lankan nationals were brought to Madurai for interrogation on Thursday. The smugglers said they were heading to a location near Australia and claimed to have sourced the narcotics from an agent based in Karachi on November 16, an investigator told The Hindu .
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||In Karnataka, low positivity trend holds||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,505 new cases and 12 deaths. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.25% and Case Fatality Rate (CFR) at 0.79%. Bengaluru Urban reported 844 cases and seven deaths. With seven deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,108. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 18,830. The number of active cases in Tamil Nadu on Thursday was 11,173, with 1,464 new cases being identified. The total number of positive cases is 7,76,174. In the last 24 hours, 1,797 persons were discharged following treatment from various healthcare facilities, bringing the tally to 7,53,332 persons. At the same time the State also recorded 14 deaths. The number of new cases in Chennai district fell further with 396 persons testing positive in a day. Kerala reported 5,378 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, and a test positivity rate of 9.6% for 55,996 samples. The active case pool stood at 64,486 cases.  With a steady increase in positive cases, Telangana reported 862 new ones as well as three deaths on Wednesday. A Health department bulletin said on Thursday that positive cases in the State rose to 2,66,904. The number of deaths increased to 1,444. With 41,101 sample tested on Wednesday, including 38,088 in government centres, the State had done 52,89,908 tests so far. Of the 2,66,904 positive cases, 70% were asymptomatic. Nearly 77% positive cases were 21 years to 60 years old. Of Wednesday’s cases, 164 were reported from Greater Hyderabad area. Also, there were 63 containment areas in GHMC, including Charminar (16), Khairatabad (20), Serilingampally (16), Kukatpally (10) and Secunderabad (1) zones. There are another 61 containment areas in the districts. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,031 new infections and eight deaths in the 24 hours ending on Thursday. In 24 hours, 67,269 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.53%. Krishna district reported two new deaths. There were no fatalities in six districts, and East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Those in high offices should be above prejudices: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said persons occupying high constitutional posts should strive to set an example by rising above partisanship and prejudices. “I have always held that the time for congratulation is not when a man is appointed to an office, but when he retires...” Mr. Kovind said, quoting Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India, in his virtual address at the Constitution Day celebrations organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association. Mr. Kovind commended the Supreme Court for delivering justice even during the COVID-19 pandemic with the help of technology. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, speaking on the occasion, said the pandemic had generated a “new kind of inequality”: the inequality between those who have access to technology and those who do not. The Chief Justice said visits to districts revealed to him that for many who had no access to technology, the courts “simply did not exist”. The top judge said the Supreme Court, which did not stop functioning even for a day during the pandemic, had been making access to virtual courts easier for lawyers and litigants through the installation of kiosks and mobile vans. Backlog of cases Chief Justice Bobde, however, said the judiciary and the government had to work in tandem to meet an explosion of filings and the ensuing increase in backlog once the pandemic fades out. The CJI mooted the idea of “pre-litigation mediation with the force of a decree” as a solution to pendency. This was after Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal recommended the judiciary, government and lawyers to “pull up their socks” and devise a way out of the existing pendency. Digital hearing Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad commended the digital hearing and disposal rate of cases by the judiciary during the past months of the health crisis. Mr. Prasad said that the Supreme Court had digitally heard and disposed of over 30,000 cases, the High Courts had dealt with 13.74 lakh cases while the District Courts had dealt with 35.93 lakh matters. Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal suggested setting up of four Benches of a Court of Appeal with 15 judges to reduce the workload of the Supreme Court.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||60% of new cases came from 6 States||India reported 44,489 new confirmed COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, with Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh contributing 60.72% of them, says a Health Ministry release on Thursday. “Kerala leads the tally with 6,491 new COVID cases followed by Maharashtra (159 new cases), while Delhi registered 5,246 new cases. 60.50% of the 524 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are concentrated in six States/Union Territories — Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Delhi with 99 deaths reported the maximum new fatalities. Maharashtra saw a fatality count of 65 followed by West Bengal with 51,” the release states. Sixty-five per cent of the active cases are in eight States/UTs that have contributed to the maximum daily new cases. “Total recovered cases in India are nearing 87 lakhs (86,79,138) and the national recovery rate stands at 93.66%. 36,367 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours,’’ it notes. Twenty States/UTs have reported recovery rate less than the national average, it adds.
27 November 2020||Srinagar,||Beneficiaries of Roshni Act move SC||As the J&K administration continues to make the names of the beneficiaries of the now-nullified Roshni Act public, a petition has been filed before the Supreme Court by the beneficiaries claiming they “were not even heard by the J&K High Court as it passed the directions.” “We were not given an opportunity of being heard. Our rights acquired under the Act enacted by a competent legislature were extinguished by the peremptory order. It’s unprecedented. Apart from our civil rights, it raises questions of distribution of power between the executive, judiciary and the legislature..,” former J&K Public Service Chairman Mohammad Shafi Pandit, whose name was also made public, told The Hindu . “The credibility of all the governments will be lost if the practice of retrospective annulment of laws, without saving the action taken, is allowed to prevail,” said Mr. Pandit. “Grant of freehold rights is nothing outlandish...,” Mr. Pandit said. Roshni Act was passed by J&K legislature in 2001 to confer ownership rights on occupants of State land to raise Rs. 25,000 crore for hydel projects, but only Rs. 76 crore was collected. In 2018, the then Lieutenant Governor Satyapal Malik repealed the Act. Later, the High Court also scrapped the Act and directed the authorities to retrieve the land from the occupants.   The credibility of governments will be lost if the practice of retrospective annulment of laws is allowed Mohammad Shafi Pandit Former J&K Public Service Chairman
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMAC to be domain awareness centre||The Navy’s Information Management and Analysis Centre (IMAC), the nodal agency for maritime data fusion set up after the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, will soon become a National Maritime Domain Awareness (NDMA) centre, with all stakeholders having their presence there, two defence officials said on Thursday. “Today we are well-equipped to ensure that a dastardly act like 26/11 doesn’t occur again. The IMAC will soon transform into a national NDMA centre, wherein it will be a multi-agency centre,” one of them said. Approved by the Defence Acquisition Council in 2012, the IMAC became operational in 2014 at a cost of Rs. 450 crore and is located in Gurugram. It is the nodal centre of the National Command Control Communication and Intelligence System (NC3I), which was established to link the operational Centres and lower echelons of the Navy and the Coast Guard spread across the country’s coastline, including the island territories. The IMAC tracks vessels on the high seas and gets data from the coastal radars, white shipping agreements, Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) transponders fitted on merchant ships, air and traffic management system and global shipping databases. After the 26/11 terror attack, all fishing vessels more than 20m long were mandated to have AIS transponders installed, while efforts were on to have such system on under 20m fishing vessels as well. At any point of time there are around 11,000-12,000 vessels present in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) as of now, which shows the magnitude of the challenge in tracking vessels. Shipping agreements As part of improving transparency on maritime traffic on the high seas, the Navy had been authorised to conclude white shipping agreements with 36 countries and three multilateral constructs. So far they have been concluded with 22 countries and one multilateral construct, of which 17 and the one multilateral agreement had been operationalised, another official said. Under Phase-I, 46 coastal radar stations were set up. Phase-II of the coastal radar chain network, under which 38 static radar stations and four mobile radar stations were being set up by the Coast Guard and they were in advanced stage of completion, the official stated.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Oxford COVID vaccine more suitable to India’||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra has called the successful mass testing of the University of Oxford (United Kingdom) and pharmaceutical firm - AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 a "historic and dream come true” as it has been able to bring it out in a “short time" "This is another good vaccine option done in a more traditional manner and less demanding in terms of transportation and the need for an extensive cold chain network. It is more likely to be suitable to the country as it can be stored at standard fridge temperatures and it might be cheaper to manufacture than the other two successful vaccines reported so far," said Dr. Mishra in an exclusive interaction. The fact that an Indian firm, Serum Institute of India (SII), is involved in the manufacture of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine means the availability is assured unlike the two RNA-based vaccines of United States firms - Moderna and Pfizer, which had cleared phase 3 trials and shown to be 90% safe. But, either of them does not have a production base here so far and, therefore, they need to be imported in large numbers. "Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine efficacy is sound and protection of 70% overall is not a big problem as it keeps changing. Although it is puzzling why the regimen of ‘half a dose first followed by one full dose, is showing more than 90% protection as against ‘one full dose each twice’ in a gap of four weeks showing just 62%. Whether by mistake or otherwise, if the data holds on when larger numbers are analysed, it could turn out to be a boon. Any vaccine offering protection of 50% or more is acceptable in current circumstances," observed the director. The heartening aspect is that all the three vaccines announced to date are "stable" and "provide good protection against coronavirus". "It is a marvellous achievement for science that safety and efficiency have been established within months but we cannot accelerate time so how long will the claimed protection lasts will be known in a few years," he said. Two doses of a vaccine is a time-tested formula to strengthen the body's immune system. And, it could take up to six months after the vaccination starts for a semblance of return to normal life. The vaccine protection is normally expected to kick in for the individual concerned 10 days after the second booster injection, said Dr. Mishra In an ideal situation, trials on a smaller scale are done in the country before their usage for vaccines made and approved outside, but emergency approvals are more likely if vaccine is performing excellent many different contexts, he added.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||3 killed, crops damaged as Nivar crosses T.N. coast||“It may gain strength subsequently and impact south Tamil Nadu. But, it is early to confirm its intensity and landfall. There is still time for the formation of another weather system around December 10 and we are monitoring these systems,” Mr. Balachandran added. The Meteorological Department has forecast that Chennai will experience thunderstorms with light to moderate rain till Saturday. Heavy rain pounded different parts of south coastal Andhra Pradesh throwing life out of gear in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts and inundating low-lying areas. Vehicular traffic was hit at several places as rivers and rivulets were in spate. Paddy seedlings in 2500 hectares were submerged in Nellore district, while standing crops in 34,000 hectares were affected in Prakasam district. Six people who were stranded in floodwaters were rescued in Chittoor district on Thursday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials to take all steps to contain the damage. Mr. Reddy said, along with measures for rehabilitation of the affected people, officials should also assess the damage caused to crops
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||PM pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’||He also said there should be a single voter list for all polls in the country. The Prime Minister asked the presiding officers attending the meet to apply their mind to simplify the language of statute books and allow for an easier process to weed out redundant laws. “‘One Nation, One Election’ isn’t just an issue of deliberation but also a need of the country. Elections are held at different places every few months and it hampers the developmental work and all of you know about it. Therefore, it’s a must to have a deep study and deliberation on ‘One Nation, One Election’,” he said. On one voter list, he observed: “Only one voter list should be used for Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha and other elections. Why are we wasting time and money?” Emphasising the need for coordination between all three wings of the state — legislature, executive and judiciary — he said that everything, from their role to their decorum, was described in the Constitution itself. “In the 1970s, we saw how there was an attempt to breach the dignity of separation of power, but the country got the answer only from the Constitution. After that period of Emergency, the system of checks and balances became stronger and stronger. The legislature, the executive and the judiciary, all three, learned a lot from that period and moved forward,” he said. Dam work Mr. Modi used strong words to describe his then government of Gujarat’s work to get the Sardar Sarovar Dam completed, an example being how “politics was allowed to overshadow national interest”. He said, “We must remember that when politics take over people and nation-first policies, the nation has to pay adversely in such situations. This [completion of Sardar Sarovar Dam] could have happened earlier if development was given precedence. Those who stalled it, have no repentance.” Talking about the Statue of Unity of Sardar Patel, Mr. Modi pointed out that it was built by his government despite Patel not being from the BJP or the Jana Sangh.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Police stop farmers’ march to Delhi||Although Delhi’s borders have not been sealed, barricades and pickets have been activated to prevent entry by the marching farmers. Five sand-laden trucks have been stationed at the Singhu border point to stop tractors, said senior Delhi police officials, adding that drones have also been deployed for security purposes. “It is expected that more than 50,000 farmers will be standing at the Delhi border by today evening. The numbers are expected to swell through the night as thousands of tractors and trolleys are carrying farmers, women and children from interior areas of Punjab,” said a statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an alliance of farmers’ groups.  The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, and various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union are leading the protest under the SKM banner. Protests and strikes were also held in eastern and southern States, with trade unions joining in the agitation. At the Punjab-Haryana border in Shambu, the Haryana police resorted to use of tear gas and water cannons to disperse agitating farmers, who toppled and dismantled barricades. “The way we are being stopped from reaching Delhi, it seems Punjab and its people are not citizens of India. Barbed wires have been put at many places at Haryana border, which gives an impression as if it’s ‘Attari-Wagah’ border,” said Nirbhay Singh, senior leader of the Kirti Kisan Union. More than 10,000 farmers from Punjab managed to cross over to Haryana at two border points in Fatehabad as well as the crossings at Kaithal and Ambala, Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava told The Hindu . Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, who was taken into preventive custody at Gurugram’s Rathiwas village along with a dozen protestors around noon, said it was unfortunate that farmers were being deprived of their basic constitutional right to go to the national capital for protest on Constitution Day. Haryana Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh was also detained along with 120 protesters on the Delhi-Hisar Expressway, but later let off.   (With inputs from Ashok Kumar in Haryana, Vikas Vasudeva in Punjab, and Saurabh Trivedi and Priscilla Jebaraj in Delhi)
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Armed forces given free hand on LAC: Rajnath||The Union government has given a free hand to the armed forces to strongly oppose any change on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and this is what the Army did at Galwan where soldiers bravely faced the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers and “forced them to retreat”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. Speaking on the 12th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, Mr. Singh said there had been “paradigm shift” in the country’s security architecture with respect to coastal security, and the government had designed the nation’s security policy in such a manner that a repeat of 26/11 was nearly impossible. “When agreed protocols are ignored then problems arise. Under any circumstances, we can’t allow PLA to do unilateral action on the LAC,” he said speaking at the HT Summit.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||CWC to pay homage to Ahmed Patel, Gogoi||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet virtually on Friday to offer homage and adopt condolence resolution for two of its tallest leaders — Ahmed Patel and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi — who passed away earlier this week, a party functionary said on Thursday. Both leaders died of complications after contracting COVID-19. While Patel, 71, a serving member of the CWC, passed away on Wednesday morning after weeks of hospitalisation, Mr. Gogoi, 85, died on Monday. One of the key strategists and a trouble shooter of the party, Patel was not only one of the closest aides of president Sonia Gandhi but is also credited with keeping the party and the Congress-led UPA government together by managing its factions.
27 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||CMs spar on Twitter||The Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana were embroiled in a war of words as farmers from Punjab, marching to Delhi, were denied entry into Haryana. “Why is M.L. Khattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against the peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional,” Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. Hitting back, Mr. Khattar accused Capt. Singh of indulging in “cheap politics”, and asked him to stop “inciting innocent farmers”. “I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable — is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, Why,” the Haryana CM tweeted.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns healthcare PIL plea by a fortnight||The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned by a fortnight the hearing of a PIL petition for a master plan on affordable healthcare, especially in times of a public health crisis like COVID-19. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, in August, had found it unfortunate that the National Health Bill of 2009, which defined “affordable” healthcare, had not seen “the light of the day”. The court had directed the Centre to use its powers under the Disaster Management Act to come up with a master plan by taking a cue from the already existing Public Health Acts of various States and the National Health Bill, 2009. The court had earlier said none should be turned away from hospitals due to higher cost of treatment.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||CMs spar as Haryana denies entry to protesters||“@Capt_amarinderji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there will be any trouble on the MSP — therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” the Haryana Chief Minister tweeted. “I've been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable — is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, Why,” he asked. In another tweet, he said, “Time for your lies, deception and propaganda is over Let the people see your real face. Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the corona pandemic. I urge you to not play with the lives of the people — at least avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic.” Expressing surprise at Mr. Manohar Lal’s remarks on the use of force by the Haryana police, Capt. Amarinder said, “It is the farmers who need to be convinced on MSP, not me. The Haryana CM should have tried talking to the farmers before the start of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ rally if he thought he could persuade them.” Rejecting his counterpart’s charge that he (Capt. Amarinder) was inciting the farmers, he asked if that were the case, why were farmers from Haryana also marching to Delhi. He also denied that he had been unreachable and said Mr. Manohar Lal had not made any attempt to get in touch with him. “Why would I not speak to him when I am speaking to the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister regularly on the farmers’ issue,” Capt. Amarinder said, adding that even on Thursday he had spoken to Amit Shah twice on the situation at the Punjab-Haryana border.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||SEC tells channels to stop spreading hate speeches||The State Election Commission (SEC) has asked the electronic media platforms, television and web channels, not to telecast inflammatory and derogatory speeches of political parties/candidates stating that “it spoils the tranquillity and peaceful atmosphere” of free and fair elections to GHMC. In an advisory issued on Thursday, Secretary of SEC M. Ashok Kumar said telecasting/transmitting such content exaggeratedly and repeatedly would also cause law and order problems by disturbing peace in the politically-charged atmosphere. The SEC official has observed that several leaders of political parties were making inflammatory and derogatory speeding during the ongoing electioneering for GHMC elections. “Such speeches will trigger chain reaction of spoiling the tranquillity and vitiating electioneering, although it has to be carried out in an atmosphere of restraint,” Mr. Ashok Kumar said in the advisory. No COVID norms The SEC has also observed that political parties, contesting candidates and other stakeholders were not following the broad guidelines in the door-to-door campaign, road shows and rallies as part of the campaigning. In an appeal, the SEC secretary said following the norms was necessary to check the spread of COVID. He suggested that the political parties and candidates shall ensure that all COVID norms and precautions be followed during the electioneering. During the door-to-door campaigning, not more than five followers including candidate but excluding security personnel, if any, are advised to participate besides wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands regularly. Besides, all participants during the road shows and rallies shall wear face masks, sanitise hands regularly and avoid huge gatherings. During public meetings, all participants have been advised to wear face masks or cover nose and mouth with cloth/towel and follow social distance.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||First ‘wave’ of vaccination to cover 30 crore Indians||“There are one crore health workers, frontline workers such as State and central police, armed forces, home guards, civil defence about 2 crore; priority groups above the age of 50 because you are including those with significant challenges as India has a large fraction of those with cardiovascular disease and diabetes — that’s about 26 crore — and finally those below 50 with significant comorbidities, about 1 crore. So that’s nearly 30 crore,” Mr. VijayRaghavan said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday had asked State governments to set up steering committees and block-wise task forces to prepare for the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines and disbursal. Vaccines will be available when they pass regulatory stages and it still wasn't clear which vaccine candidates would pass all the required criteria and by what date, Mr. Modi had said at his meeting with Chief Ministers. “It will be a large-scale enterprise looking at the size of our country and keeping in mind our experience with large immunisation campaigns, we want this to be a smooth exercise with great co-ordination with State governments, who are the best judge of how things are to be done in particular States,” he had said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said a COVID-19 vaccine was likely to be available by the first quarter of 2021 and that the Centre estimates to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses covering around 25 crore people by July next year.   (With inputs from PTI)
27 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Burglar mortgages stolen gold to secure loan||Enterprises that extend loans against gold came under the scanner after a burglar managed to mortgage stolen gold to secure a loan in Odisha’s Ganjam district. The novel plan unravelled when the Berhampur police launched an investigation into a series of burglaries reported in the city. After a month-long operation, two burglars were arrested and 540 gram of gold ornaments, worth Rs. 25 lakh, was recovered from them. The accused confessed to their involvement in no less than 15 burglaries. But that wasn’t all. “One of the burglars was found to have opened an account with a gold loan company. Over a period of time, he deposited stolen gold with the company to secure Rs. 21 lakh as loan,” Berhampur Superintendent of Police Pinak Mishra said on Thursday. “Customers pledge their gold ornaments as collateral deposit to secure loan. It is up to the companies to find out the source of gold being mortgaged. We have decided to expand the purview of our investigation to see if these companies have become a point for converting ill-gotten gold into loans,” Mr. Mishra said.
27 November 2020||Kochi,||HC directive to CBSE||The Kerala High Court has directed the CBSE to consider the plea for providing an additional column in the registration form of Classes IX and XI for writing the expansion of initials of students/ father/ mother/ guardians in the same manner as it is provided in passports or school leaving certificates. The directive was passed on a writ petition by Harish P.A. of Kochi. According to him, the CBSE in a circular had instructed schools to give expansion of the name of student/ mother/father/ guardian and not to use abbreviations with their names in the registration form. The court observed that members of some communities in the State had no surnames. A good section of citizens having surnames did not state surnames since they mostly were indicative of caste. As the abbreviations along with names were not definite indicatives of surname/father’s name/ mother’s name/ family name, the abbreviations without its expansions were used as an integral part of names. In short, the expansion of abbreviations need not be their surnames. People were forced to give the expansion of abbreviations attached to their names in the ‘surname’ column, which may cause complications in their official transactions. The grievance, therefore, merited consideration by the CBSE, the court.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Corruption in issuing star tags for hotels unearthed||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday inspected several premises in Kerala as part of a fast-unfolding nationwide investigation into suspected big-ticket corruption in grading nascent hotel projects for star classification. A four-star or above rating is mandatory for hotels in Kerala to earn a liquor permit. An estimated 50 new hotels are awaiting classification in the State. From Wednesday The anti-corruption inspections in Kerala reportedly commenced on Wednesday when a CBI team from Tamil Nadu headed off a Union Ministry of Tourism official from boarding a flight at the Cochin airport. Official’s role Sources said the Chennai-based tourism official had a prominent role in grading hotel projects based on their location, amenities and other facilities. Investigators confiscated a set of mobile phones and a computer from the tourism official. However, they were yet to charge him formally. The seizure reportedly yielded a trove of “incriminating” information and triggered raids on various premises in the State. Official sources said the surprise inspections overwhelmingly targeted some members of the Hotel and Restaurant Approval and Classification Committee (HRCA) and a set of so-called “hospitality consultants.” HRCA members The HRCA also included officials of the Kerala Tourism Department and professionals from various strata of the expansive tourism industry, including tour operators, travel agents, a nominee from the hotel industry and principal of the Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, Kovalam. Cartel in action The CBI suspected that at least a few of the HRCA members had formed a “cartel” with “corrupt” Centre and State tourism officials to accord hotel projects the required star classification for a sizeable bribe. Official sources said that some of the HRCA members, a few of them hoteliers, under the CBI scanner, controlled or indirectly owned private consultancies that offered “advice” to hotels to gain the required star classification for a large fee. They channelled a portion of the payment to other official decision-makers in the HRCA. The CBI inspections had also yielded a significant amount of unaccounted money. The CBI is also looking into the potential money laundering aspect of the racket. Star ratings are meant to provide an accurate and objective assessment of the quality of accommodation, food and service provided by hotels. However, the CBI’s exposure of the alleged attempt to fox the classification system appeared to have undermined its credibility for now.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books former J&K Minister||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Taj Mohiuddin, a former Congress Minister in Jammu and Kashmir, and others in connection with the alleged illegal conferment of land ownership under the now-annulled Roshni Act. The case was initially registered by the erstwhile Vigilance Organisation. Mr. Mohiuddin, the then Deputy Commissioner (Shopian), Mohammed Ramzan Thakur, then Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohammed Yousuf Zargar, then Assistant Commissioner (Revenue) Hafizullah Shah, and then tehsildar Hassan Rather were named as the accused.  The Revenue officials had approved illegal claims, clearing the way for vesting of ownership rights to the accused under the Roshni Act, it is alleged. The CBI has taken over investigation into nine cases.
27 November 2020||SRINAGAR,||JCO killed in Pak. firing in Poonch||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed and a civilian was injured in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in Pir Panjal valley’s Poonch district on Thursday afternoon. An official said Pakistan had resorted to firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) from 1:30 p.m. in Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch.
27 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. revises Bill on ‘forcible’ conversions||In Madhya Pradesh, marriages to enable forcible religious conversions will invite imprisonment of up to 10 years. Earlier, the proposed maximum punishment was five years. Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters on Wednesday, “In addition, priests solemnising such marriages will also face imprisonment of five years. The registration of organisations enabling such marriages will be cancelled.” The revisions to the proposed law come a day after the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh cleared an ordinance making religious conversion a non-bailable offence inviting penalties up to 10 years in prison if found to be effected for marriage or using force. The government plans to table the Bill during the Assembly session from December 28.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||President leads reading of Preamble||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday led the nation in a community reading of the Preamble to the Constitution on Constitution Day. “The President read the Preamble from the Rashtrapati Bhavan which was live telecast by Doordarshan and joined by the people across the nation,” a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said. Participants at the All India Presiding Officers’ Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat joined the reading, it added.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||No sipper to give Stan Swamy: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday told the special NIA court that they do not have a straw and sipper to give 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy. Special NIA Judge D.E. Kothalikar, presiding over the case, had directed the medical officer to reply to the requirement of a straw and sipper, along with winter clothes. The matter will now be heard on December 4. On November 6, Father Swamy had filed an application seeking permission to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail as he cannot hold a glass because he has Parkinson’s Disease. On October 22, his medical bail was rejected by the same judge who relied upon the directions of the high powered committee constituted to release undertrial prisoners during COVID-19 pandemic. The court said, “The accused (Father Swamy) is involved in commission of offence punishable under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act .” The medical plea was sought on the grounds that he has been suffering from Parkinson’s Disease and has almost lost hearing from both ears. He has fallen in jail multiple times and has been operated for hernia twice and still has pain in his lower abdomen. The court, however, recorded, “The grounds pleaded by the applicant (Father Swamy) for grant of bail does not reveal that the medical treatment provided to the applicant in prison is not sufficient. On the contrary the applicant had submitted an application for giving directions to the jail authorities to provide him the required amenities.” The court also mentioned that the Superintendent of Taloja Central had said, “Since the applicant is old aged person, he has been lodged in the separate cell in the hospital/dispensary section. It does not speak even by stretch of imagination that the applicant is suffering from any illness for which the treatment is not available in the prison.” Father Swamy is an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence of 2018 and is currently in the prison hospital.
27 November 2020||Pune,||Modi to visit Serum Institute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday, senior Pune administration authorities confirmed on Thursday. The SII has partnered with pharma major AstraZeneca and Oxford University for its COVID-19 vaccine.  The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has granted permission for the manufacture of COVID-19 vaccine to seven firms, two of which are the SII and the Gennova Biopharmaceuticals.  In view of Mr. Modi’s visit, another major event — a visit by ambassadors and High Commissioners from around 100 countries to SII and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. in Pune’s Hinjewadi area — scheduled for November 27 has now been pushed back to December 4, said the authorities.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||In Kerala, MVD check-posts to go smart||The 19 check-posts under the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) are set to go online as part of ensuring seamless movement of vehicles through interstate corridors and to avoid cash transactions for obtaining permits. For making the check-posts smart, the MVD has commenced work for creating a customised module in the Transport Mission mode project’s pan-India application VAHAN for vehicle registration. Once the module is created by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and launched after trials, permits for interstate travel and tax payment would be obtained/made online. Contract carriages ferrying tourists will be able to take permit online . Instead of entrusting the job to contract carriage operators, the group leader or tour manager can obtain the permit for interstate travel online. By going smart, the MVD will be able to end cash transactions for obtaining permits and payment of tax at the check-posts. “With VAHAN in place, vehicle documents, interstate permit and tax remitted can be shown online at the check-posts to MVD officers. This will avoid delay at the check-posts and ensure transparency,” according to Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath. Model check-post The MVD has also commenced works for making the Walayar check-post a model one for the State. Once this is ready, details of vehicles on different lanes of the check-post will be available in the monitors of MVD officials.
27 November 2020||Tirumala,||Chakra Theertha Mukkokti observed||Fervour marked the Chakra Theertha Mukkkoti on Thursday at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here.The priests reached the Chakra Theertham situated amid the thick forests about two kilometres from the town on foot along with temple paraphernalia and carried out special puja at the sacred pond.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Impractical to vaccinate all in a short span’||Although vaccination is the most attractive strategy, it is impractical to administer it to every citizen in India in a short time, said V. Ravi, senior professor and head of the Department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS. “We need to prioritise and we hope there will be herd immunity by the time the priority group is catered to,” said Dr. Ravi in an interaction with The Hindu . The doctor, often referred to as “Virus Ravi”, is set to retire this month. Dr. Ravi, who launched the State’s first virology lab in 1985, has been tasked with the responsibility by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of mentoring all the private and government laboratories across Karnataka to establish COVID-19 RT-PCR testing facility. He was key in developing 164 (58 govt. and 106 private) ICMR-approved laboratories in less than six months. Dr. Ravi, who is also a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said: “In my opinion, while vaccination is essential, strengthening public health infrastructure so that we do not have to scramble during a crisis is most important. Having said that, vaccines should be made available to everyone; whether the government provides it or people buy it is immaterial.” Pointing out that healthcare workers are the priority group all over the globe, Dr. Ravi said: “As most studies show that the elderly and those with comorbidities are the most vulnerable, they will be the next priority groups followed by pregnant women. By the time these groups are vaccinated, we may get herd immunity.” Basal health intelligence “Throughout my 35 year career as a virologist, I have seen that as a country we are capable of managing outbreaks. But, in between crises we do not have a good inter-epidemic surveillance plan. We should have a basal level of health intelligence so that the next time a pandemic hits, our response is quick,” said Dr. Ravi. “A continuous structured surveillance system should be in place and we should watch out for emerging and re-emerging pathogens. We should collect samples of seasonal ailments and test them for all known bugs. If a majority of the samples test negative, then it means a new pathogen is on the prowl and we should immediately become alert,” he explained. Way forward Asserting that allocation for healthcare has to go up both at the national and State level, Dr. Ravi said: “COVID-19 has given us a lot of lessons. Over 40% of our district hospitals did not have ICU facilities and 60% had no piped oxygen supply apart from lack of trained staff. We had one or two virology labs in February. But now, we are well-equipped and we should use the existing facilities for structured surveillance of febrile, haemorrhagic and respiratory illnesses apart from encephalitis. So far, we have only been able to handle gastroenteritis without any problem.” Better equipped now Expressing confidence that the State is capable of handling the second wave efficiently, Dr. Ravi said: “In the event of a second wave, we are better equipped now and we can quickly ramp up hospital bed allocation but our efforts should not be to wait for a second wave but to avert it. This can be done by continuing with the same level of testing and giving appropriate messages to people to behave responsibly.”  In my opinion, while vaccination is essential, strengthening public health infrastructure so that we do not have to scramble during a crisis is most important. V. Ravi, Head of the Department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,||HC refuses to give bail to Rijesh Ravindran in drug racket case||The Karnataka High Court has refused to grant bail to Rijesh Ravindran, a native of Kerala and one of the accused person in the case of drug racket, being probed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), in which former Kerala State CPI (M) Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son, Bineesh Kodiyeri, is also arraigned as an accused.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala declares two-day mourning for Maradona||The Kerala government has announced a two-day mourning in the sports sector as a mark of respect to football legend Diego Maradona who passed away on Wednesday. An official press note quoting Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan said the departure of Maradona had plunged football fans around the world into grief.
27 November 2020||Patna,||Lalu Prasad moved back to hospital||Imprisoned Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad was shifted on Thursday from Kelly Bungalow, the official residence of the Director of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, to its pay ward in Ranchi, where he is being treated for several ailments. This comes amid the row over his alleged phone call to a BJP MLA to seek his support for the Assembly Speaker election. Senior State BJP leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi had alleged that Mr. Prasad had made a call to the party MLA from Pirpainti in Bhagalpur, Lalan Paswan, and offered him a ministerial berth for his support in the Speaker’s election. Mr. Paswan, too, had later reiterated what Mr. Prasad had told him during his telephone call. An alleged audio clip of the conversation between two leaders had also gone viral on social media.
27 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ex-Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi cremated||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi was on Thursday cremated in Guwahati with full State honours. The last rites of the three-time chief minister were performed in the presence of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, his Congress counterpart Ripun Bora and AICC Assam in-charge Jitendra Singh. Many Ministers, MPs, MLAs, officials, leaders of various political parties, students’ organisations and members of Gogoi’s family attended the cremation. The pyre was lit by the former CM’s son and Kaliabor MP Gaurav Gogoi. In the morning, his mortal remains were taken to his official residence at Dispur from the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra, an expansive cultural centre on the southern edge of Guwahati. His embalmed body had been kept since Tuesday for public viewing. In keeping with his wishes, his mortal remains were taken to a landmark church, mosque, temple and namghar in Guwahati. A namghar is a community prayer hall of the spiritual order propounded by 15-16th century saint-reformer Sankaradeva.
27 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP, a party of outsiders, has no place in Bengal: Mamata||Days after her party, the Trinamool Congress, raised the pitch against “outsiders” and accused them of trying to occupy West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the BJP was a party of outsiders. “There is no place for outsiders in Bengal. I welcome those who have made Bengal their home…. But those who come to the State only during elections and try to disturb peace are not welcome.” Ms. Banerjee stated that she would never allow the State to be turned into a “riot-torn Gujarat”. She accused the BJP of indulging in ‘garbage of lies’. “Bengal is the land of Rabindranath and Nazrul Islam; it is not a land of communal riots like Gujarat,” she said. The Chief Minister targeted Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the third consecutive day, wondering why he was so busy with elections even when the situation on the country’s border was not good. “I had not seen such a Home Minister in my career”.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||Kshitij Prasad granted bail||The City Civil and Sessions Court on Thursday granted bail to Kshitij Prasad, executive producer of Dharma Productions owned by director Karan Johar. Prasad, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau, however, will not be released on Thursday as he has been implicated in another case. He has been directed to furnish a PR bond of Rs. 50,000 with one or two sureties in the like amount. The court granted him four weeks to furnish solvent surety and directed him to attend the office of the superintendent of police on first Monday of every month between 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. for six months. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, along with Anandini Fernandes, appeared for him. Mr. Prasad was arrested on September 26 and charged with several sectionsof the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Mr. Maneshinde said, “Kshitij will not walk out of the jail today as he’s been implicated in the second case, which will be heard next week on December 3.”
27 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||One Maoist killed in exchange of fire in Odisha||A member of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) was killed and another seriously injured in exchange of fire with security forces in Swabhiman Anchal of Odisha’s Malkangiri district during an anti-naxal operation on Thursday. One AK-47, two magazines, ammunition and other incriminating materials have been recovered from the spot, the police said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many families in suburbs spent a sleepless night||Hundreds of Chennai residents living in Madipakkam, Velachery, Pallikaranai and surrounding areas had a sleepless night on Wednesday, fearing floods. In several streets of Ram Nagar, Kuberan Nagar Extension, Ram Nagar Extension, Balaji Nagar, Madipakkam and Velachery, rainwater entered the houses on Wednesday morning. P. Sankar of 12th Street in Kuberan Nagar Extension said: “During the 2015 floods, rainwater entered our house and was up to our shoulders. This time, my parents and other family members were awake on Wednesday night and shifted all electrical and electronic items and utensils to a room on the terrace. We also moved to that room. On Thursday, there was knee-deep water in our house.” His neighbour Shanmugam said: “My wife and I did not sleep the whole night and were keeping vigil as the rainwater started entering our house. We were clearing water using utensils and went to sleep in the morning. In 2015, our house was submerged.” Shankari, a resident of Madipakkam said: “Snakes and other reptiles entered the house. We panicked the whole night and heaved a sigh of relief only in the morning when the rain stopped. Compared to past, the flooding has not been much this time.” On Thursday morning, several residents were moving around the water-logged streets with their children. They said no effort had been made to drain the water. They were waiting for water to recede to return to their homes. Corporation praised In areas where there was no water stagnation or inundation, residents thanked the Greater Chennai Corporation for the work carried out in preparation for the monsoons. “Ahead of the monsoons, the stormwater drains here had been desilted. Despite the heavy rains, there was no water stagnation on the roads on Thursday,” said V. Rajagopal, president, Anna Nagar Western Extension (phase II) Residents Welfare Association. Leelananda Neeli, a resident of Semmanchery, said that water level in his area stood at around 3 or 4 feet on Thursday morning. “We have sandbagged the entrances and are hoping that the water will recede. A drain was constructed last year by the Corporation last year but that does not seem to be enough. Every year during the monsoon we get water-logged and are forced to remain inside our homes,” he said. In the core city, roads like P.S. Sivaswamy Salai and streets nearby which had significant water stagnation remained clear after the rains, a motorist navigating the stretch there said. A resident from West Mambalam said that there was hardly any water stagnation in the area. Traffic disruptions Traffic flow was disrupted on the Tiruvallur-Uthukottai Road due to flow of flood waters from the Arani that washed away portions of a diversion road in Tiruvallur district. The diversion road was laid to allow traffic at a point where a high-level bridge is under construction. Similarly at Kundrathur, where construction of a bridge is on over a surplus channel from the Chembarambakkam tank, the water flowing over the diversion road cut off traffic.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 1,464 fresh cases, 14 deaths||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the State touched 11,173 on Thursday with 1,464 persons testing positive. The State’s tally touched 7,76,174. On Thursday, 1,797 patients were discharged from various healthcare facilities, taking the tally of treated patients to 7,53,332. The State recorded 14 deaths and the toll stood at 11,669. In Chennai district, 396 new cases were reported on Thursday. Also, 566 patients were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases stood at 4,020. While the district has recorded 2,13,801 cases, so far 2,05,944 persons have been discharged after treatment according to health officials. Marginal rise Coimbatore district saw a marginal rise in the number of positive cases in a day with 158 fresh cases and two deaths reported. According to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, eight districts recorded less than 10 new cases on Thursday and 12 districts had fewer than 20 fresh cases each. Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Nilgiris, Ranipet, Salem and Tiruvannamalai districts each reported one death, according to the daily report. Of the 14 people who died of COVID-19 on Thursday, 13 had pre-existing health condition. While six of them died in private hospitals, the rest had been admitted to government facilities. A 64-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive on November 24, had been admitted on November 7 with complaints of fever for three days and cough for five days with breathing difficulty died on Wednesday. The hospital recorded his death as due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  94-year-old man dies The oldest among those who died of the infection was a 94-year-old man from Coimbatore who had systemic hypertension, coronary artery disease, and a complete heart block. He was on a pacemaker and was admitted on November 17 in Coimbatore Medical College and ESI hospital. He tested positive the same day and died on November 24. The hospital recorded his death as due to COVID pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and systemic hypertension. The health department recently approved a laboratory in Tiruppur, and with this, there are 219 laboratories, including 67 in government and 152 in private sector.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Registration of sale agreement no bar to sell property to third party’||Registration of a sale agreement, expressing willingness to sell a property to a particular person on receiving full payment in future, will not be a bar for the property owner to go ahead and sell or transfer the property to a third party without getting the sale agreement annulled through a civil court decree, the Madras High Court has ruled. A Division Bench of Justices C.V. Karthikeyan and N. Sathish Kumar held that the law does not empower Registration Department officials to insist upon court orders annulling sale agreements, if there were any, before registering sale deeds, gift deeds, settlement deeds or any other property transfer document executed by the owner.  ‘Caveat emptor’ Answering a reference made to them by a single judge of the High Court, the Division Bench said: “It is for the buyer or subsequent transferee to make a reasonable enquiry. Doctrine of caveat emptor (let the buyer beware) will also apply to every transfer. It is for them to verify the title of the property by making necessary enquiry.” The judges went on to state: “At any event, subsequent transfer will always be subject to rights already created. Therefore, it cannot be said that merely because agreement for sale is registered, subsequent transfer is prohibited and cannot be registered without obtaining a decree of declaration that such agreement is void. “We hold that Registrar has no right to refuse to register the subsequent document on the basis that agreement of sale was already registered in respect of same property.” Authoring the verdict, Justice Kumar pointed out that the Registration Act of 1908 empowers the Registration department officials to refuse registration of a document only in limited number of circumstances and does not accord them any omnibus power. Section 19 of the Act states that the officials could refuse to accept a document for registration if it was in a language which they do not understand or which was not commonly used in the district unless it was accompanied by a true translation. Similarly, Section 20 empowers them to refuse to accept documents with unattested alterations, interlineations, blanks or erasures. Further, Section 21 states that a Registrar could refuse to accept a document if the description of the property was not sufficient to identify it.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police lead relief work at many places in Chennai||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal visited flood-affected areas on the city’s outskirts and gave instructions to expedite relief work for the safety of people who were marooned. He went and inspected Tambaram and Mudichur and inspected relief works of police personnel who were pumping out water from stagnated areas and removing of trees which fell on the streets. He distributed food and drinking water to people who stayed at a government shelter in West Tambaram.  The public have been advised to contact 9498181239 for immediate assistance from the police. They can call this number, send an SMS or make a WhatsApp call in case of any emergency like tree fall, water stagnation, snapping of power line or disruption of power supply. Police personnel have removed 102 fallen trees in 80 police station limits with the help of staff of Greater Chennai Corporation. Seven cars and two autorickshaws were damaged as trees fell on them. There were reports of tree fall in Vadapalani, Kodambakkam, Ashok Nagar, and Royapettah and Anna Salai. Centenarian saved Three elderly helpless men stranded at home were rescued by Pulianthope police and moved to a shelter. This effort won appreciation from Chief Minister Edappadi K .Palaniswami and Mr. Aggarwal. Police personnel from Pulianthope were doing a door-to-door survey to evacuate residents who were marooned. At 2.30 p.m, sub-inspectors A. Hariharputhran and Senthilkumar spotted an elderly man lying on a cot in front of his house in knee-deep water on Narayanasamy street. Drenched by rain, he was found shivering. The elderly man was identified as S. Embrose, aged over 100. The police took him to a relief centre set up by the government at Nallachatram and gave him food and clothes. Police team rescued two more elderly persons stranded on Pulianthope High Road. They were identified as Sayad Ansar, 70, and S. Manohar, 60, and sheltered them in a temporary relief camp.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Improved coordination, action plan helped||Improved coordination among government agencies and an action plan chalked out beforehand helped to minimise the damage when Cyclone Nivar made landfall in the early hours of Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) won appreciation for its precise forecast of the movement of the cyclone and its landfall. The timely repairs to its radars in Chennai and Karaikal also helped to track the weather system, officials said. What was learnt from the blunders made during the 2015 floods stood government agencies in good stead. The ‘first responders’, trained by the Revenue Department, came in handy for government officials. Govt. directive Soon after the IMD issued the alert, the State government instructed the Collectors of vulnerable districts to take all preparatory steps and mobilise equipment for post-landfall work. Senior IAS officers were deputed to these districts to coordinate efforts. Ticking the items on the check-list became regular, with coordination between the Chief Minister’s office and the Chief Secretary’s with that of the Collectors and senior police officers. To control floods in the Adyar due to heavy rain it was decided to discharge water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir when the level was nearing 22 feet on Wednesday. As the inflow dropped to 2,400 cubic feet per second (cusecs) on Thursday, the Water Resources Department decreased the release into the Adyar. By evening, it was kept at 500 cusecs-1,000 cusecs. Officials noted that the measured water release into the Adyar, with the amount of surplus water draining from tanks upstream taken into account, helped to control flash floods. A flood warning was issued and people from low-level areas were evacuated before heavy rain started. “We plan to build up the level to 22 feet and stop discharge according to the inflow and rain. The Adyar carried about 12,000 cusecs on Thursday,” said an official. The sluice gates of the Red Hills reservoir were not opened on Thursday. The Poondi reservoir is also being monitored for more water from the Ammapalli dam upstream in Andhra Pradesh. After the cyclone alert, the Puducherry administration and the Collectors of Villupuram and Cuddalore imposed an order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventing people from venturing out of homes for two days from November 24. Temporary shelters The Fisheries Department and the police asked people to move to 200 temporary shelters on Tuesday and ensure the safety of boats. By Wednesday evening, 1,000 fishermen were shifted to the shelters. The Cuddalore administration shifted 10,000 people to 250-odd camps before the cyclone made landfall. Law enforcement agencies, however, admit that damage could have been more, had the wind speed been more than 120 kmph during landfall. In Nagapattinam district, the experience of handling nature’s fury during Cyclone Gaja in 2018 helped to formulate a plan. It was obvious from the fact that 46,000 persons, mostly fishermen, were shifted to relief centres in less than 24 hours. Relief centres were identified from the database of the disaster management system. “We had to put in place a well-established system in a short span of time. We acted quickly to mobilise men and machines in strategic locations,” said Collector Praveen P. Nair.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizen helps firefighters reach marooned families in Mudichur||His name is R. Chinnapaiyan but the 60-year-old man played a crucial role in coordinating with the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) and other government departments to help the families who were struggling in knee-deep water at Amudham Nagar in Mudichur On Thursday morning, top TNFRS officials visited the locality where 120 families live. The TNFRS officers went around in inflatable boats on a rescue mission. “We have two teams, including one comprising expert swimmers, stationed in Tambaram. We will provide any assistance the public needs,” a TNFRS officer said. The officers praised the help of Mr. Chinnapaiyan. “He identified the houses that were badly affected and helped us shift 48 residents stuck in such houses to safety. With his help, we went around the locality and asked residents if they needed any help, including food and medicine,” said the officer. A retired bank employee, Mr. Chinnapaiyan said he along with Narayanan and Kanniappan, both in their fifties, have been a bridge between the government and residents. “I founded the residents welfare association in my locality. People approach me if they need any assistance. Now everyone wants to know when the water will recede. They want drinking water from Friday as there is no power supply,” he said. The government should arrange to drain water. “I have submitted a petition to the local administration,” he added.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inundated regions go without power||The power supply, which was turned off in several parts of the city to prevent accidents due to waterlogging and damage to infrastructure from Cyclone Nivar on Wednesday, was resumed in phases. While power supply was restored in core areas of the city, several inundated pockets in south Chennai remained without electricity. The Tangedco switched off power supply from Wednesday morning depending on the situation in a locality. A senior official said that supply was restored on Thursday morning. Except for some areas in Perumabkkam, Madipakkam, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, Varadarajapuram in Mudichur which were heavily inundated and parts of Velachery, Adambakkam, and Pallikaranai, electricity supply was restored in most areas of south Chennai. Raghavan, a resident of Ullagaram, rued that they were left without power supply for more than 12 hours. Power supply in some parts of north Chennai such as Choolai, Pulianthope, Perambur and Vyasarpadi, was yet to be restored. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, who visited the various inundated areas of Perumbakkam, Adambakkam and Madipakkam, said more than 80% power supply was restored in the city. In Chennai, which has more than 1,700 feeders, only 100 feeders remained to be charged, he said. Similarly in the three districts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, the officials had been restoring power to residential areas as early as possible, he added. Mr. Thangamani said the damage to electricity infrastructure in the 16 districts affected by Cyclone Nivar was minimal because of the preparatory work done by the officials.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss praises govt., IMD, NDRF||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday said the impact of Cyclone Nivar has been less than expected, but that State government should provide relief to the affected areas. In a statement, he hailed the proactive measures and co-ordinated effort taken by the State government, the India Meteorological Department and National Disaster Response Force and other organisations and people involved in the relief measures. However, Dr. Ramadoss said such measures could only minimise the impact, but certain factors were beyond control in a disaster. He pointed out that Cuddalore district had been severely affected by the cyclone and crops had been damaged. The impact in Villupuram and delta districts had also been notable. The damage to crops should be rectified. If not, compensation should be provided through the crop insurance scheme. For those crops not covered under insurance, the government must provide assistance, Dr. Ramadoss said. He also called for assistance to people whose huts were damaged in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts and for those who had lost their livelihoods. Even though Chennai had not seen a direct impact, there had been flooding in many areas. Expert panel The government should form an expert panel and look at the possibility of re-constructing the drainage systems in Velachery, Tambaram, Urapakkam, Mudichur and other areas which had been frequently affected by flooding. Dr. Ramadoss also strongly urged the Puducherry government to take necessary relief and recovery measures.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco can’t change tariff category arbitrarily: official||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Ombudsman, Chennai, has ruled that Tangedco cannot change tariff category arbitrarily, without getting approval from the State regulator. In its petition, Marakkanam-based CP Aquaculture (India) Pvt. Ltd. said it had been granted HT service connection and its unit was involved in production of shrimp seeds under HT I-A tariff category, which is for industrial activity. However, it said Tangedco observed that prawn culture was not a manufacturing process and demanded tariff HT III- commercial tariff.  Rs. 67.7 lakh sought CP Aquaculture said Tangedco served a letter on Aug. 7, 2019 stating that the company had been wrongly paying its current consumption charges as HT IA consumer, when in fact it was supposed to be a HT III consumer based on an audit and sought payment of about Rs. 67.7 lakh as adjustment charges along with revised tariff. The company said it paid the amount as per audit slip due to threat of disconnection of power supply. CP Aquaculture had moved the Tangedco’s Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum (CGRF), Villupuram Electricity Distribution Circle, which had ruled in favour of Tangedco. Against it, the company moved an appeal petition before the Electricity Ombudsman. The company said it had been provided with a licence by the Central government’s Coastal Aquaculture Authority and also by the Inspector of Factories. Therefore, it was a registered factory for the purposes of the applicability of HT tariff IA. CP Aquaculture said it paid the amounts under protest and no opportunity was given to it to establish that it fell within the scope of ‘Registered Factories’. It also pointed out that Tangedco had made a specific proposal before Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) to remove the phrase ‘Registered Factories’ from the scope of applicability of HT I-A tariff, which was rejected. TNERC had also given a clear direction that all other registered factories (excluding LPG plants, hotels and tourism- based businesses which are called ‘Industry’ but are actually commercial establishments) would be industries and if any category was to be specifically excluded, the State power utility had to approach it with specifics during the next tariff petition, CP Aquaculture said. S. Devarajan, Electricity Ombudsman, accepted the company’s arguments and set aside the order of CGRF. He directed to reinstate the HT I-A tariff category and adjust the excess amount paid on account of alleged tariff change and also the audit arrears amount, which was paid by the company under protest, within 30 days from his order dated November 17.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant calls for relief measures on a war footing in waterlogged areas||Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) founder Vijayakant on Thursday urged the government to take measures on a war-footing in areas affected by Cyclone Nivar. In a statement, he noted that many areas in Chennai have been flooded due to heavy rain and the State government and Greater Chennai Corporation should take measures to clear the waterlogging. Mr. Vijayakant urged the government to provide food and other relief material to the affected people. Besides clearing the waterlogging, the government should ensure that the COVID-19 pandemic does not spread. It should also repair the roads which have been damaged due to the cyclone, the statement said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation clears debris from 223 roads||The Greater Chennai Corporation cleared 223 roads where tree falls disrupted traffic due to Cyclone Nivar on Thursday. As many as 3,738 residents had been put upt at 68 relief centres of the Corporation. Residents of many neighbourhoods complained that water stagnation was severe on Thursday. Civic officials estimated that flood water entered about 40,000 houses within the Corporation limits. The Corporation has identified 58 locations where water stagnation is severe. Officials were able to pump out water from just 17 areas by Thursday morning, sources said. The civic body has opened relief centres in the vicinity of rivers. The residents at relief centres will continue to receive assistance, the officials said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Massive schemes needed, says Commissioner||Chennai requires costly schemes to prevent water stagnation in some areas, including 58 locations where residents have complained about inundation on Thursday, Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash has said. “We may need costly schemes to prevent stagnation. A high-powered pumping project, estimated at Rs. 70 crore, has been proposed. It involves accelerated pumping of stormwater with 500-hp to 1,000-hp pumps,” he said. Pointing to civic issues reported by residents at K.K. Nagar, Pulianthope, Puzhuthivakkam, Madipakkam and Velachery, Mr. Prakash said the challenges posed by water stagnation in these areas were brought on by natural phenomenon and geography. “The sea level usually rises by 1.5 metre to 2 metre during a cyclone. It is a challenge to drain stormwater during a tidal effect in a city with a flat terrain. The cyclone made landfall 100 km away from the city this time, but it had an impact on all parts of the city. For instance, the level of water in 20 streets of Pulianthope was more than 40 cm. The Greater Chennai Corporation has resolved issues in 40 locations,” said Mr. Prakash. “Chennai was not the landing point of the cyclone. So the city did not experience the full impact of the cyclone. Only 387 trees were uprooted. At least 350 trees have been removed. Traffic was restored on all major roads on Thursday,” he said. The city has received 55 cm of rainfall so far during the northeast monsoon this year. Normally, it registered 80 cm of rainfall from October to December. Of the 302 complaints received from residents, 170 were yet to be resolved. At least 23,000 employees had worked during the cyclone. The number of complaints was more than 1,000 during the 2015 floods, Mr. Prakash said. “We have taken precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at relief centres. We have tested all residents at relief centres. A centre with a capacity of 50 people will accommodate only 20 persons because of the pandemic,” Mr. Prakash said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams Shah for dynastic politics remark||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had no locus standi to criticise dynastic politics since it was rampant in the BJP. Addressing party functionaries in Tirunelveli district via video conferencing, he said when Mr. Shah talked about dynastic politics in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, he should have in mind the “desperate efforts” being made by the latter to make his son a Cabinet Minister. “Jay Shah, the son of Mr. Shah is the secretary of the BCCI. Did he get the post on merit or because of his father’s position? Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj Singh is also an MLA and Varun Gandhi, the son of Maneka Gandhi, is a third-time MP,” said Mr. Stalin, listing out senior BJP leaders whose children occupied posts in the party and government. DMK chief’s poser He asked whether Mr. Shah was not aware of the positions enjoyed by these leaders and their children. “If Mr. Shah calls me a member of dynastic politics, I am indeed a member. I am the heir-apparent of Kalaignar (late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi). I do not want any other honour,” Mr. Stalin said. He said the name Stalin did not represent any individual, but a movement. “I am not an individual. None in the Dravidian movement are individuals. We are the inheritors of the Dravidian movement that will uproot Aryanism,” he said.  I am the heir-apparent of Kalaignar (late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi). I do not want any other honour
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Bribery, cash for votes a threat to statute’||Bribery and the menace of cash for votes were the threats to the Constitution, said Justice P.N. Prakash of the Madras High Court here on Thursday. Addressing a virtual conference organised by the National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of University of Madras to mark the Constitution Day, he quoted B.R. Ambedkar who said that however good a Constitution may be, it will prove to be bad if those implementing it were not good. Highlighting that around 50% of the elected representatives in the Lok Sabha had criminal cases against them, he said those spending huge money to bribe voters to get elected could not be expected to do good for the people. Stressing the need for “eternal vigilance” to safeguard the Constitution and its values, he said he had pinned his hopes on the common man. “A day will come when awakened people will refuse to take bribe,” he said. Arguing that Constitution had survived not because of the institutions but because of the common people, Justice Prakash said that when the Constitution was subverted in 1974, people changed the government. S. Gowri, Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras, spoke on the humongous efforts that went behind the creation of the Constitution. He highlighted the need for NSS to further widen its efforts to help the underprivileged. “It need not be about giving food for a day. We should see if some interventions can be made to help them lead a happy life,” he said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on counselling amid raging pandemic||A webinar exploring the challenges of NEET counselling during the COVID-19 pandemic will be held on November 28. It is organised by SRM and The Hindu EducationPlus . The webinar, which is being held as a part of the Career Counselling Webinar Series, will discuss the challenges of NEET counselling as well as the psychological impact that NEET has on students taking the test and how to overcome it. Dr. Lt. Col. A. Ravikumar, Pro Vice-Chancellor, SRM MCH & RC, Dr. Satyajit Mohapatra, Professor, Department of Pharmacology, SRM MCH & RC and Dr. S Mohan Raj, consultant psychiatrist & director, Tharu Clinic, Chennai, will share their views. The session will be moderated by Ramya Kannan, Chief of Bureau, Tamil Nadu, The Hindu . The webinar will be from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. To register for the session, students can visithttps://bit.ly/SRMEDITor scan the QR Code given.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity to open for PG students||Anna University will start conducting in-person classes for research scholars and final year postgraduate students from December 2. In a circular to heads of departments, deans and directors of various campuses and affiliated colleges, University registrar L. Karunamoorthy said that classes will commence for research scholars and final year students of postgraduate technical and science courses as per the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission. Hostels would also be opened for the students of these programmes only. As for the rest of the students, classes would continue to be offered online, the registrar said. The registrar has urged the deans of the university’s campuses and the principals of affiliated colleges to “scrupulously adhere to the instructions and existing guidelines” given by the State government by “following the standard operating procedures in respect of COVID-19”.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin flays govt. over cyclone preparedness||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said the State government had not learnt a lesson from the floods that ravaged Chennai in December 2015 and that it failed to rectify the shortcomings highlighted by the Comptroller and Auditor General Report (CAG) on the flood situation. Mr. Stalin, who visited 11 Assembly constituencies in Chennai and distributed relief material to affected people, said the ground reality had disproved the claim of the government that water was not stagnating in the city because of its precautionary measures. ‘All low-lying areas’ “Problems of areas prone to waterlogging remain unaddressed. Not just slum clearance board areas, but all the low-lying areas are inundated,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin said if the government had de-silted stormwater drains, it could have avoided stagnation of rain water on the roads.  “Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani used the amount allotted under the smart city scheme only for personal gain. The government has not conducted elections to the Municipal Corporation and is governing them with Commissioners only to loot the exchequer,” he claimed. Mr. Stalin said the government should make a proper assessment of damages and disburse Rs. 5,000 each to the poor, farmers and fishermen who were affected by the cylcone.  Minister S.P. Velumani used the amount allotted for the smart city scheme only for personal gains M.K. Stalin DMK president
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan visits cyclone relief centre||Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan visited the cyclone relief centre at Teachers Colony in Saidapet on Thursday. Over 200 people who have been evacuated from low lying areas in the locality are sheltered in the relief centre. “This year, the city might have not been as affected as in the past, but these people here have been affected for sure. They have been alleging that successive governments have promised them proper relocation but it has not happened,” he said. Mr. Haasan said giving them temporary relief like food or clothing during an emergency was not the long-term solution to their concerns. He added that the State government should look into what the people there really need.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Follow norms at relief camps, Collectors told||The Collectors have been advised to avoid huddling of people who have been sheltered at relief camps following Cyclone Nivar. People with COVID-19 symptoms should be shifted to the nearest government hospital, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has said. “Post-Diwali and post-Nivar, fever clusters are to be contained immediately by effective containment, testing for all kinds of infection during the post-impact phase,” he has said. “Ensure that the COVID fever camps and mobile medical units and the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram health teams are suitably relocated in the post-impact areas of the affected districts. We can have both static and mobile camps to ensure effective utilisation of the medical teams,” he has said. Urging officials to remain alert to the spread of infections and air and water-borne diseases, he has included, in his note to the Collectors and the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, prevention of diseases such as COVID-19, dengue, the spread of E. Coli through faecal or sewage contamination, cholera and typhoid. Mr. Radhakrishnan has advised the officials to ensure draining of floodwaters that may have entered sumps and watertanks. People should be provided with bleaching powder to clean the submerged sumps and watertanks and instructed not to use the water. This would help to prevent water-borne diseases, he has explained. The local bodies should be co-opted to spray bleaching powder. He has also urged the officials to check chlorination levels. Food safety officials should be used to check the food.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief not reaching everyone, says Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Thursday alleged that the State government’s cyclone relief measures were not reaching everyone and claimed that the ruling party cadres were being discriminatory. Mr. Alagiri said Cyclone Nivar had caused damage in districts such as Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Chennai and other coastal districts and people were put to severe hardship. The State government’s relief measures were not reaching everyone and it was necessary for the Congress party to take care of the affected people, the TNCC president said. He asked the Congress cadre to meet the people directly.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Is the real estate sector on the road to recovery?||The fourth in The Hindu Group’s webinar series, ‘Conversations’, on the topic “Has the real estate sector entered the recovery phase?” will be held from 11 a.m. on Friday. The webinar, part of The Hindu Group’s ongoing campaign “Tamil Nadu Smiling”, is aimed at bringing together the people of the State — its traders, retail organisations and government authorities to find ways to emerge from the effects of the pandemic. Friday’s webinar will focus on how when COVID-19 reached its peak, the real estate market came to a standstill, raising questions on what will happen to the industry in the coming days. Experts from the industry — Sanjay Chugh, city head and senior vice-president, Residential of Anarock Property Consultants; Navin Ranka, director of SPR Constructions, and Padam Dugar, president of CREDAI, Chennai, and managing director of Dugar Housing — will discuss the topic with Sangeetha Kandavel, assistant editor, business, The Hindu . To register for free, scan the QR code or send a message, “Conversations”, on WhatsApp, at 8939283283.  The webinar is aimed at bringing together traders, retail organisations and government authorities
27 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Transport services resume hours after cyclone landfall||Transport services in the districts affected by Cyclone Nivar were resumed on Thursday. While the flight services were resumed at 9 a.m., the Chennai Metro Rail services started at noon after the cyclone made landfall. Officials at the Airports Authority of India said while some flights were cancelled, most others went as per schedule. “It was bit of a challenge because there were good winds that continued throughout the day; but there were no disruptions and a majority of them were departing and arriving on time,” an official said. On Friday, they did expect many flights to be cancelled and nearly 200 departure and arrival flights will be operated from Chennai airport, sources said. Metro traffic Nearly 9,000 passengers travelled on Wednesday from 7 a.m. till 8 p.m. The services started at noon on Thursday after an inspection was carried out. “We wanted to check the track, overhead cables, signalling system before the services resumed. We can’t take chances with the safety of passengers,” an official said. But sources said many had voiced concern that it could have been planned better. “Even if the services were to start late in the day, they should have communicated this to the passengers in advance. We can't keep them guessing till the last minute on when the services will start. We have to plan and announce much ahead to passengers. That will show that we are a reliable system,” a source said. Bus services in seven districts, where they were suspended in view of the cyclone, resumed from noon on Thursday. The bus transport had been suspended in Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tirivarur, Thanjavur and Pudukkottai districts from 1 pm on November 24. Suburban trains The Southern Railway will resume the 244 workmen special suburban train services from Friday morning. These were suspended due to Cyclone Nivar. On Thursday, the Southern Railway restarted suburban train services in a limited manner on three routes from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. Train services were operated on Chennai Moore Market Complex – Arakkonam, Chennai Moore Market Complex –Gummudipoondi and Chennai Beach-Chengalpattu routes every hour in both directions.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||West Tambaram, Mudichur among worst-hit areas||Many residential localities in southern suburbs such as Mudichur, Tambaram and Perungalathur were flooded with varying levels of water because of the rain brought on by Cyclone Nivar that crossed the coast on Wednesday night. However, due to the work carried out by the government and not much rain on Thursday, the flooding was not so bad as in 2015, residents said. Mudichur resident P. Damodaran said several localities, including Amudan Nagar, Nemi Nathan Nagar and S.K. Avenue at Mudichur and PTC Quarters, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Ashtalakshmi Nagar and Mullai Nagar at neighbouring Varadarajapuram were flooded with 3-4 feet of water on Wednesday. “When water was released from the Chembarambakkam reservoir, these areas got flooded. People were, no doubt, affected and Fire and Rescue Services personnel had come to our areas. The government and the local bodies had done so much work in our areas, but more needs to be done, especially the construction of a drain from Madhanapuram to the Adyar river,” he said. West Tambaram resident S. Lakshminarayan said areas such as Vasanth Nagar and Durga Nagar witnessed water-logging on the roads owing to the lack of a permanent solution. “In 2015, we could not enter the house for 45 days. This year, we had around 2 feet of water. Water from Mudichur Road has been connected to Papankalvai that carries water to the Adyar, but this led to our area being flooded. We need a permanent solution to prevent flooding during rains, he said. At Chrompet too, water-logging happened, said social activist V. Santhanam.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to chair meetings on Nov. 28||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would chair a videoconference of District Collectors on November 28 before deciding on the COVID-19 lockdown norms. Mr. Palaniswami would also chair a meeting of public health and medical experts at the Secretariat on the same day. The CM has been considering inputs from Collectors and public health experts at the end of each month before deciding on whether to relax the COVID-19 restrictions in the State.
27 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Shah speaks to Puducherry and T.N. CMs||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and assured them of all possible support from the Centre, in the wake of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall last night. “We are closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Have spoken to CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and CM Shri @VNarayanasami and assured all possible help from the Centre. NDRF teams are already on the ground to help people in need,” Mr. Shah tweeted.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||102 heads of cattle dead, crops ruined in cyclone||The initial official assessment of the damage caused due to Cyclone Nivar has revealed that at least 331 acres of groundnut crop, 245.23 hectares of paddy and 14 acres of banana plantation were among the crops that had sustained damage. Damaged houses The cattle loss stood at 102, while about 100 tiled houses and over 500 huts were damaged. Over 1,000 trees fell, though most of them were removed. Over 760 electric poles were damaged in the cyclone. More than 72,500 people benefited from 958 permanent medical camps and 243 mobile medical camps that were set up in the affected districts, an official press release said.
27 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relax crop insurance norms: AMMK||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Thursday urged the Central and State governments to relax norms on crop insurance so that even those farmers who had not insured their crops could benefit. In a series of tweets, he said agriculturists who raised paddy, banana and coconut had not taken the insurance cover due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Keeping this in mind, the governments should take steps to cover all such farmers. Besides, “special measures” should be undertaken by the State government through the Agriculture Department for helping farmers whose crops had been hit by floods, he said.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traffic signal sought at Park Gate junction roundabout||Lack of a traffic signal at the Park Gate junction roundabout is causing minor accidents, according to motorists and police personnel. They say that negligent driving is very common at the roundabout when the traffic police personnel are not around. According to them, the main threat at the place is posed by negligently driven vehicles that come down from the Gandhipuram flyover. C. Subramaniam of Ganapathy said it was not easy for him to approach the roundabout from Park Gate Road when traffic police personnel were not posted at the place. “Motorists descend the flyover very fast in the absence of police personnel,” he said. Sources with the traffic police said several minor accidents and clashes had taken place at the roundabout when the police were not present for traffic regulation. “Vehicles coming down the flyover negligently and taking a left turn to enter the Park Gate Road pose risk for motorists who travel the same direction from Dr. Nanjappa Road. Similarly, vehicles that descend the flyover negligently and take a right turn to enter Dr. Nanjappa Road also pose a threat,” said a traffic police officer. K. Kathirmathiyon, member of the District Road Safety Committee, said a signal was very much required at the roundabout. Also, motorists new to the place faced a lot of confusion, he said. “The demand for a signal at the roundabout will be raised at the next meeting of the committee. At the same time, there is no clarity on who is responsible for installing traffic signals. I had petitioned the Chief Secretary as there is no norm or Government Order on the same,” he said. R. Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore City Police, said there was a plan to install traffic signal at the roundabout.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Not a bright year for lamp makers, sellers in Coimbatore||With just a couple of days more for Karthigai Deepam festival, artisans who make earthen lamps here and sellers of terracotta and earthen lamps say it is a dull year, with slump in sales. Marudhachalam and his wife Dhanabhagiyam, who are making lamps for the last three decades, say nearly 10 families near Gandhi Park make the lamps throughout the year. During the Deepam season, they make lakhs of lamps and sell it to retailers. “This year, we could not get mud for making the lamps and the space where we used to dry the lamps was taken by the government. We made just a few thousands of lamps,” says Dhanabhagiyam. There are many who are asking for the lamps, but we do not have enough to supply, she says. “For five or six months, we did not have any work because of COVID-19. After the lockdown, we are able to sell only for Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 a month. The Deepam time is the peak season and that is also not good this year,” she adds. Saravanan at Sundakkamuthur, who sources terracotta lamps from Virudhachalam for sales here every year, says so far he did not see even 20 % of last year’s sales. “We make kolu dolls. For Deepam, we source different varieties of lamps from Virudhachalam. This year, the sales is very less,” he says. C. Ronald Selvestin, manager at the Poompuhar outlet here, adds that the store has fine quality brass lamps from Moradabad and lamps from Kolkata this year apart from the regular lamp varieties. The response is moderate as for Navarathri, he says.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on challenges of NEET counselling||The Hindu Education Plus, along with SRM Institute of Science and Technology, will hold a webinar on “The Challenges of NEET Counselling Amid the COVID-19 Pandemic” on Saturday. Lt. Col. A. Ravikumar, Pro Vice-Chancellor of SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre; Satyajit Mohapatra, Professor, Department of Pharmacology, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre and S. Mohan Raj, Consultant Psychiatrist and Director of Tharu Clinic, Chennai will be the panellists. The webinar will also discuss the psychological impact of NEET on the medical aspirants. This will be a part of the webinar series on career counselling organised by The Hindu Education Plus. The webinar will be held from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturday. Those interested can register free of cost by either using the linkhttps://bit.ly/ SRM EDITor by scanning the given QR code.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Maradonas from T.N. mourn the passing of legendary footballer||Martin Williams from Meena Estate in Coimbatore got married in 1993. When Mr. Williams and his wife were blessed with a son next year, he did not have a second thought for a name. A hardcore fan of Diego Maradona, Mr. Williams named his son after the Argentine footballer as Maradona Williams. “I became a fan of Maradona after watching him play the 1986 FIFA World Cup. He led the team to raise the World Cup, solely with his brilliant performance. I continued to watch his games since then,” recalled Mr. Williams who runs a travel agency. Maradona Willams, who is in Coimbatore on a vacation from Poland, said that the demise of the footballer saddened him. ‘Legacy will continue’ “He was a maestro of football who enjoyed global popularity. Throughout his career, he gave us some of the best sporting moments on the football field. His legacy will continue forever,” he said. J. Maradona, a civil engineer from Chromepet, also has a similar story behind his name. “My father G. Jaganathan is a big fan of Maradona. He cried when Argentina lost the World Cup final to West Germany in 1990. I was born in 1990 and my father named me after Maradona. I like the name and I am also a fan of him,” said J. Maradona. According to him, his name always stood out from that of others as it is not a common name here. “November 25 is an unforgettable day”, said J. Maradona, adding that his father was deeply saddened by the demise of the football icon.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade Union members stage protest||Trade Union members, bank employees, and workers staged a protest here and at four more places in the district on Thursday as part of the nation-wide general strike. Coimbatore Member of Parliament PR Natarajan led the protest here and was arrested and later released. He said the government should re-open the NTC mills and the Central and State governments should pay Rs. 7,500 as compensation to each worker who was affected during the lockdown. The governments should withdraw the anti-labour and anti-farmer laws, he said. Staff of some of the government organisations staged protests on their office premises. Trade Union sources said that over 500 people took part in the demonstration here. The unions organised protests at Sulur, Valparai, Mettupalayam and Pollachi too. Members of Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers Union protested outside the Regional Transport Office (Central). Association’s president P.K. Sukumaran said around 5,000 autorickshaws were off the roads within the city due to the strike on Thursday morning and their services resumed in the afternoon. The protesters met Regional Transport Officer (Central) J.K. Baskaran to complain about the mandatory installation of reflective tapes on autorickshaws for the renewal of fitness certificates. Mr. Sukumaran and around 50 other members were arrested by the Coimbatore City Police. They were detained in a private hall on Avinashi Road and were released in the afternoon, he said. In Tiruppur, MP K. Subbarayan participated in one of the demonstrations in the city. Speaking to mediapersons, he asserted that this would be the “beginning of an endless struggle” against the Central and State governments. Hundreds of protesters were detained across Tiruppur district and were later released, police sources said.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharath Munnani functionary held||The Chettipalayam police on Thursday arrested a functionary of pro-Hindu organisation Bharath Munnani for allegedly hurting and threatening a man who questioned him for his remarks about social reformer Periyar. The police said P. Manokaran (40) from Kallapalayam, district coordinator of Bharath Munnani, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by C. Prabhu (40) from the same locality. As per the complaint, Manokaran put a post in a WhatsApp group that he would damage the Periyar statue at Chettipalayam. Mr. Prabhu met Manokaran on Thursday and asked about the post. His complaint said that Manokaran pushed him down and intimidated him for questioning him about the post. The Chettipalayam police arrested Manokaran on Thursday evening. He was remanded in judicial custody.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man detained under Goondas Act||A 34-year-old man from Pullukadu near Ukkadam was detained under the provisions of Goondas Act on Wednesday. H. Noushad of the Pullukadu housing unit was detained under the Act. The Bazaar Street police had arrested him with 1.10 kg of ganja on November 8.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wait-listed SC medical aspirant takes up job in catering||A medical aspirant from Pollachi, who was wait-listed for MBBS admissions under the 7.5% horizontal quota, during the counselling for medical and dental courses, has taken up a job in a private catering service to support his family. M. Yuvanraj, 18, who is from a Scheduled Caste community and passed out of S.V. Government Higher Secondary School in Samathur, scored 155 out of 720 in NEET this year.   He told The Hindu on Thursday that he went to attend the counselling on November 19 with the hopes of getting admission in a government medical college. However, seats were available for him only in three private medical colleges in Kanniyakumari, Tiruvallur and Chennai. In wait-list “We were told that the fees would be at least Rs. 8 lakh annually,” he said. With his father having passed away earlier this year and his mother working in a garment company, the family would not be able to afford the expenses. He was, therefore, wait-listed in the counselling. Subsequently on November 21, the State government announced a revolving fund to assist NEET-qualified government school students who have been allotted seats in private medical and dental colleges. However, by then Mr. Yuvanraj had returned to his residence at Suleeswaranpatti in Pollachi. “They could have announced it at least a day before,” he said.   With his 19-year-old brother also employed in a garment company, Mr. Yuvanraj said he is now working part-time as a ‘service boy’ in a local catering service. He has not petitioned the State government or the District Administration regarding his situation yet. “I hope I will get a medical seat at least next year,” Mr. Yuvanraj said. Sources in the Department of School Education said the government had not provided any instruction so far regarding the future of wait-listed aspirants who studied in government schools.  We were told that the fees would be at least Rs. 8 lakh annually. I hope I will get a medical seat at least next year
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Barbed wire barricades draw criticism||The use of barbed wire in the barricades put up by the Coimbatore City Police to prevent protesters from entering the Collectorate drew criticism from various quarters. Advocate S. Balamurugan, national council member of People’s Union for Civil Liberties, alleged that use of barbed wire in the barricades was a violation of human rights as it could cause injury to peaceful protesters. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that only one barricade with barbed wire was kept near the Collectorate. “The city police did not fix barbed wires on barricades. Barricades were given to all districts with barbed wires attached. We removed barbed wires from all barricades except one,” he said.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Baby sold for Rs. 10,000 in Kangeyam, three arrested||Tiruppur District Police on Wednesday arrested a woman on charges of selling her three-month-old baby for Rs. 10,000. The couple who purchased the baby in Kangeyam were also arrested. The police said the 22-year-old woman sold her son to Viswanathan, 40, and his wife Vijaya, 34, on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off on Wednesday, the Kangeyam All Women Police conducted an inspection at the couple’s residence and rescued the baby, who was handed over to the mother. The police notified officials from Childline helpline 1098, who then filed a complaint at the Kangeyam All Women Police Station. The 22-year-old woman and her 31-year-old husband along with Viswanathan and Vijaya were booked under sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The All Women Police arrested the accused except the woman’s husband, who was absconding, the police said. Preliminary investigations revealed that the woman was from Madurai district. The three accused were produced in front of the Kangeyam Judicial Magistrate on Thursday. Sources with the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) said that the three were granted bail and the mother was ordered to appear in front of the Child Welfare Committee with her son on Friday. Meanwhile, the DCPU made arrangements for the mother-son duo to stay at a rehabilitation home near Anupparpalayam on Thursday, according to sources. Childline, a 24x7 nationwide helpline for children in distress, can be reached at 1098.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ten govt. schools get equipment to record online classes||Coimbatore-based Aram Foundation Charitable Trust donated equipment to 10 government schools in the district to aid them in recording online classes for students. A release said Collector K. Rajamani and Chief Educational Officer P. Usha inaugurated the project in Coimbatore on Thursday. Each of the 10 schools received a smartphone, a SIM card, tripod stand, collar microphone, white board and marker pens, which were funded by Robert Bosch. The project is particularly aimed at students of Classes X, XI and XII, who are preparing for the public examinations through online classes as schools remain closed amid the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the release. Official sources said each of these schools would set up a ‘mini studio’ in their classrooms using the equipment at the earliest. Volunteers from Aram would also help these 10 schools during the process, the sources said. The beneficiary schools were Government Higher Secondary School, Chinniyampalayam; R.C Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ondipudur; Government Higher Secondary School, Arasur; Government Higher Secondary School, Vagarayampalayam; Government Higher Secondary School, Ganapathy; Government Higher Secondary School, Vellamadai; V.C.V Government Higher Secondary School, Vellakinar; Government Higher Secondary School, Kalapatti; Government High School, Gandhimanagar and Government High School, Kembanaickenpalayam.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman relieved of five-sovereign chain||Two-wheeler-borne miscreants snatched a five-sovereign gold chain from a woman at Ganapathy recently. The police said two unidentified men snatched the chain from K. Pechiammal (63) of VOC Nagar at Ganapathy when she was standing on the road in front of her house around 8.15 p.m. on Tuesday. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, the pillion rider got down from the motorcycle and snatched her chain. He escaped with his accomplice before she could raise an alarm. The Saravanampatty police have registered a case and are investigating.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven booked for possessing weapon, ammunition||The Anamalai police have booked seven persons under Sections of the Arms Act in connection with a seizure of country-made rifle, ammunition and parts of rifle by the Forest Department from a house at Semmedu in May last year. The case has been registered against S. Balakrishnan (48) from Semmedu, M. Sundararaj (51) from Periyapodhu, V. Prakash (29) from Nedumbarai, K. Tamilarasan (38), P. Duraisamy (62), K. Kalimuthu alias Kanagaraj (55) and T. Ganesh (35) from Marappagonden Pudur. According to the police, a Forest Department team from the Pollachi range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) raided the house of Balakrishnan on May 4, 2019 and found that the accused were processing venison. While investigating further, the Department found a list of 21 items, including a country-made rifle, two rifle barrels, two rifle firing pins, live rounds, cases of used rounds and different parts of rifles in the house. “The accused were arrested and remanded in judicial custody for the wildlife offence. The seized weapon, parts and ammunition were later examined in a laboratory. “Based on the findings, the first judicial magistrate court directed Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division, to lodge a complaint with the Anamalai police, seeking to register a case under the Arms Act. They were booked on Wednesday,” said Karuppasamy Pandian, sub-inspector of Anamalai police station. As the accused were already arrested and remanded, the police will file chargesheet against them for the case registered under the Arms Act, he added.
27 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Technology platform||Lawrencedale Agro Processing India will join hands with a global technology major to launch a digital platform for farmers to connect with buyers, input suppliers, banks and farmer producer organisations. The LEAF Farmer Services teams of the company will train the farmers to transact on the platform.   Employees State Insurance (ESI) Corporation introduced on a pilot basis Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana from 2018 to June 30, 2020 to provide cash compensation to insured persons who were rendered unemployed. It has now extended the scheme till the end of June next year. ESI beneficiaries, who lost their jobs due to COVID-19, are also eligible for the scheme. The eligibility conditions of the scheme for March 24 to December 31, 2020 have been relaxed, according to a release. For details, log on towww.esic.nic.inor contact the nearest ESIC branch office.
27 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sadhguru centre established||The Department of Anaesthesia, Critical Care, and Pain Medicine of the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, an affiliate of Harvard Medical School, has established a “Sadhguru Center for a Conscious Planet” to improve the health of patients and the community through scientific research in consciousness, cognition, and compassion. The aim is to teach technologies for inner well being. “The unique centre will use a scientific approach to integrate medical and contemplative sciences, help identify methods to improve and enhance the physical and mental health of our patients, providers and community,” said Bala Subramaniam, Director of the Center, in a press release from Isha Foundation.   Collector K. Rajamani will hold the agriculture grievances redress meeting on November 27 from 10.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. through online mode. A release said farmers could visit the nearest agriculture extension centre at 9.30 a.m. and register for the meeting.   The practical examination that was to be held at private and government Industrial Training Institutes for the All India Trade Test till November 27 will be held in Tamil Nadu from December 3 to 5, according to a release from Collector K. Rajamani. For details, contact: 0422-2642041, 9787570480 or 8940837678.
27 November 2020||CUDDALORE /CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Our steps helped to minimise damage: CM||Proactive measures taken by the Tamil Nadu government and the round-the-clock monitoring of the situation soon after the India Meteorological Department issued a cyclone warning helped to minimise the damage caused by Cyclone Nivar, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Thursday. Briefing reporters after touring Cuddalore district to assess the damage, he said that besides the collaboration by State and Central government agencies, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar stayed overnight at the control room at Ezhilagam and shared with him (the Chief Minister) the inputs received from the districts that were likely to be impacted. This helped to pass appropriate instructions to the district administration to handle the situation. “We were anxious during the last two days, but fortunately there was no major damage. The government gave necessary directions to the Collectors in advance,” he said. “The India Meteorological Department had said Cuddalore district would be severely affected by Cyclone Nivar. But because of the precautionary measures taken by the State government, the impact has been minimised,” he said in response to a question. As for compensation to farmers whose crops were submerged or damaged, Mr. Palaniswami reiterated that most farmers had already availed themselves of crop insurance as advised by the Agriculture Secretary. The government would facilitate insurance compensation to them. As for those who had not taken any crop insurance cover, the State would compensate them from the State Disaster Relief Fund. The preliminary assessment made by the district administration showed that water had entered 1,618 hectares of land where various crops, including paddy and banana, were cultivated, he said. On his arrival in the district, the Chief Minister drove to Reddichavadi-Keezhkumaramangalam and interacted with farmers. He visited damaged banana plantations in the village. He then visited a relief camp at Devanampattinam and distributed essentials. The Chief Minister also visited the harbour at Cuddalore Old Town. He was accompanied by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Minister for Industries M.C. Sampath, Principal Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Collector Chandrasekhar Sakhamuri.  We were anxious during the last two days. But fortunately, there was no major damage. The government gave necessary directions to the Collectors in advance
27 November 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Three surrender in murder case||Three persons, suspected to be involved in the murder of Hindu Mahasabha State secretary Nagaraj, surrendered at Uttankarai Court here on Thursday. According to police, the surrendered were Ramesh, Arun and a minor from Anumanthapuram. The right-wing outfit leader was murdered near his residence at Anumandha Nagar by an unidentified gang on November 22. Hudco police have registered a case and are investigating.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||They live amid stench and squalor||For children of Malaichamipuram village near Othakadai, playtime means wading into a large pool of slimy sewage water stagnant near their homes. The residents complain that the sewage, which overflowed from a Public Works Department tank, has been stagnant in front of their homes for the past one month posing severe health hazard. A Vijaya, a resident of Malaichamipuram village, says that sewage from residences in, Muniyandipuram, Seethalakshmi Nagar and nearby areas are drained into Vavaalthottam tank, located at the end of Malaichamipuram village. “But, following the recent rain, sewage water overflowed from the tank to the nearby areas, causing inconvenience to the residents,” she says. Plastic waste and household garbage are also found dumped in the pool of nauseating sewage. Selvi, a resident, says that sewage water entered their homes, following overflow from the tank. “Snakes and insects too have entered the homes of some residents,” she adds. The residents have to wade through sewage water, which leads to skin allergies says V. P. Pandeeswari, another resident. “Despite repeated warnings from parents, many children play in the sewage water. As a result, many suffer from skin allergies,” she says. The stagnant sewage water has also become a breeding spot for mosquitoes, says Ms. Vijaya. “There is a high risk of spread of communicable diseases, especially among children, due to the stagnant sewage water. Most of us are daily-wage workers and can't afford to fall sick often,” she adds. The residents says that the officials must intervene to solve the issue immediately. “There is an urgent need to construct underground drainage system to address the issue in the long run,” says Ms. Pandeeswari. Additional Director of Panchayats A. Chelladurai says that the issue will be immediately addressed.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nivar brings mere drizzle||Except for a drizzle in a few pockets, southern districts widely experienced a dry spell on Thursday. Even as Nivar cyclone kept the official machinery on alert mode across many districts, especially in Ramanathapuram, since the last five days, the D-day passed off on a quiet note bringing much relief. There was no effect in the southern districts, including Rameswaram and Pamban, where the sea remained calm. Fisheries department officials said that they would wait for the forecast from the IMD and based on that alone, the fishermen would be given the nod to venture into the sea. Most of the towns in Tirunelveli, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar remained dry. Some parts of Madurai city and Melur experienced mild showers in the evening, PWD officials said. The inflow into reservoirs in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Theni districts had not increased during the last 24 hours, though some pockets experienced rains. The catchment areas also remained dry. Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts had some showers during the evening which brought in pleasant weather. Though it was a public holiday, many tourist spots including Kodaikanal remained deserted due to cyclone warning. Pamban, which draws a good number of tourists, was free of traffic. Train services too were suspended as a precaution and many mofusil buses too did not operate during the day.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Resume cane crushing at Alanganallur factory, say sugarcane farmers||Farmers affiliated to Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association staged a road roko in front of the Collectorate here on Thursday demanding resumption of cane crushing at the National Cooperative Sugar Mills at Alanganallur. State president of the association N. Palanichamy said that although tonnes of sugarcane have been harvested by farmers in the district, the sugar mill at Alanganallur has not procured sugarcane from farmers for crushing yet. “This act by the authorities of the Alanganallur sugar mill indicates that they are working in favour of private sugar mills,” alleged Mr. Palanichamy. “Farmers want to sell their sugarcane to the National Cooperative Sugar Mills as they can earn higher returns when compared to private mills. However, this move by the authorities of the sugar mill at Alanganallur will discourage farmers from cultivating sugarcane,” he said. They also sought settlement of dues worth Rs. 20.90 crore to sugarcane farmers of Madurai district. The protesters were arrested and were detained inside a marriage hall.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against gas pipeline project||A section of villagers and farmers of Cumbur near Karungalakudi staged a protest at Alangampatti on Thursday seeking the district administration to conduct a special gram sabha meeting to discuss the gas pipeline laying project in their village The villagers said they were opposed to laying underground gas pipeline in their farmlands. Stating that several accidents were reported due to the gas pipeline in which the farm lands were severely affected. They had also prevented Indian Oil Corporation officials from digging up their farm lands for laying the pipeline earlier this month. Earlier meeting At a meeting held on November 17, the farmers insisted that a special gram sabha meeting should be held in their village to discuss the issue. “However, a public hearing was held at the distant Vellaripatti. We have decided not to participate in the public hearing, but to discuss the issue only at a special gram sabha meeting,” said a youth, Selvaraj. The villagers said they would take up the issue with the district administration and elected representatives.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Number of cases on downtrend||Madurai recorded 33 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number in the district to 19,615. A total of 24 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 220. One death was recorded, increasing the district’s death toll to 438. Virudhunagar recorded 22 fresh positive cases and 25 patients got discharged. With this the total number of positive cases rose to 15,841 and the number of discharged patients, till date, increased to 15,549. The death toll remained at 226 and number of active cases stood at 66. Theni saw 13 new cases and the total tally moved to 16,557. There were seven discharges from hospitals. Thoothukudi recorded 19 cases taking the tally to 15,622. The hospitals discharged 12 patients after treatment. Kanniyakumari district saw 11 new cases and the total tally stood at 15,612. There were 21 discharges from hospitals on a single day. Tirunelveli had 17 new cases taking the tally to 14,765. There were 19 discharges from hospitals. Dindigul recorded 43 new cases and the total tally stood at 10,201. There were 13 discharges from hospitals. Tenkasi saw 11 new cases with which the tally moved to 8,033. The hospitals discharged two patients. Sivaganga reported 10 new cases and the tally stood at 6,268. Eleven patients were discharged after treatment. Ramanathapuram recorded two cases and the total tally stood at 6,188. The hospitals discharged four patients after treatment.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court directs all stakeholders to file response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday vacated an interim order and allowed the Gandhi Market in Tiruchi to be opened for now. The court has asked all stakeholders to file their response so that a final decision can be taken in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi took into account the fact that traders were refusing to sell vegetables and fruits for the past two days and this had caused inconvenience to the public. The judges also took note of the fact that there was a likelihood of law and order problems. The traders have refused to move to the newly opened Kallikudi market stating that there was lack of proper infrastructure. However, the same was denied by the Tiruchi Corporation. No consensus With no consensus on the issue, the judges directed all the stakeholders involved, that is the traders, Tiruchi Corporation and the State government to file their detailed responses in the case so that the court could arrive at a decision. The traders were asked to file their response with regard to the problems they would have to face if they had to move out of the Gandhi Market and the infrastructure issues at the Kallikudi market that they were complaining about. The State and the Tiruchi Corporation were directed to file their response on the problems they would have to face if they continue to operate the Gandhi Market in the city and the availability of the infrastructure at the Kallikudi market. Earlier, the court had observed that if the Tiruchi Collector apprehended a law and order problem, it was for the Collector to handle the issue with the aid of the police. The High Court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by K. Krishnamoorthy of Tiruchi. The petitioner apprehended that though the Gandhi Market was closed in view of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, it could be reopened. The market which was closed was now functioning in makeshift markets at different spots.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions flay Centre’s ‘anti-labour’ policies||Hundreds of members affiliated to various trade unions held a procession and staged a road blockade in front of the railway station here on Thursday, as part of the nation-wide protest condemning the ‘anti-labour’ policies of the BJP government. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who led the procession, said that the Union government had amalgamated 44 labour laws into four codes, which is against the interests of the labour force. “This move of the Union government has undermined the protection given to the workforce all these years,” he said. He also said that the passage of farm bills by the government was against the interests of the farmers. The protesters carried out a procession from the Kattabomman statue near Periyar Bus Stand to the railway station. Members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Trade Union Congress, Labour Progressive Federation and other trade unions took part in the protest. CITU District Secretary R. Deivaraj said that the amalgamation of labour codes by the government was in favour of the Corporate giants. The protesters criticised the privatisation of public sector undertakings. They also demanded the need to provide social security benefits to unorganised workers. The police arrested the protesters, who were then released in the evening. The members of All India Insurance Employees' Association staged a protest in front of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) office at Sellur. They also protested against the disinvestment of shares of the LIC. Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union also staged a demonstration against privatisation of public sector units. The protesters, led by divisional secretary J.M. Rafi, opposed the proposed amendments to labour legislations. They wanted the Centre to revoke the order freezing dearness allowance and scrapping of night duty allowance to certain section of railway officials. They also demanded that the old pension scheme must be reverted and raised their voice against allowing 151 private trains on 109 profit-making rail routes. Assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar spoke. Theni DMK district secretary Thanga Tamil Selvan has on Thursday said that the one-day strike across the nation by various major trade unions was the beginning of the end for the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a demonstration here, organised as a part of the nationwide stir condemning the Central government for its anti-labour policies, Mr. Thanga Tamil Selvan said people were in an agitated mood as all policies were against the common man. In similar agitations, trade union representatives staged demonstrations across the district. According to the police, 1,123 people were arrested in the district. Dindigul In Dindigul, former MLA Balabharathi led the agitation in which members of CITU, AITUC and other unions participated. The agitators demanded the Centre to drop the new pension scheme. As many as 1,476 men and women were arrested in the district. Sivaganga In Sivaganga district, demonstrations were staged in Karaikudi, Manamadurai, S. Pudur, Singampunari, Tirupattur and Devakottai. Former MLA Gunasekaran led the agitation near Aranmanaivasal in Sivaganga. Virudhunagar Over 3,000 cadre of various political parties and workers affiliated to different trade unions were arrested when they staged road blockades at 39 places in Virudhunagar district. They condemned the Centre for the new Farm Laws and labour laws. Among those who took part in the protest were workers affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Labour Progressive Federation, Indian National Trade Union Congress and Hindu Mazdoor Sangh. CITU district secretary P.N. Deva said that among the arrested were 1,531 women.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea of Sattankulam case accused dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed the bail petitions filed by four suspended policemen accused in the case of custodial deaths of P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan dismissed the bail petitions filed by head constable S. Murugan and constables S. Veilumuthu, M. Muthuraj and X. Thomas Francis. The accused in the case are in judicial custody and lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a chargesheet against nine policemen in the case. Recently, the accused were produced before the Madurai Chief Judicial Magistrate for committal proceedings. The CJM will commit the case to the Madurai Principal District Judge for trial.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||FIR against film producer stayed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday granted a stay on the First Information Report registered by Ramanathapuram police against film producer K. E. Gnanavel Raja in connection with a case pertaining to a chit fund scam. Justice J. Nisha Banu granted the relief to Gnanavel Raja. He said that he had nothing to do with the scam or the people involved in it and was not aware of the fact that the people who had acquired the theatrical rights of a film produced by him were involved in the scam. The petitioner said that one, Neethimani, who had acquired the rights of his film, his wife Menaka and one Anand were named accused in the chit fund scam based on a complaint lodged by Thulasimanigandan, who had invested in the chit fund. It was said that Thulasimanigandan and 58 others had invested Rs. 3 crore in the chit fund and the amount was not repaid. The petitioner sought a stay on all further proceedings on the FIR and the same be quashed.
27 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||fake||Madurai City police have arrested five persons and seized 239 fake currency notes of Rs. 500 denomination here on Wednesday. The police said that one P. Uma Chandra (43), who runs a grocery shop at Keelapanangadi, grew suspicious when one M. Kathar Basha (53) of Mehaboobpalayam handed over a Rs. 500 note. When he gave contradictory statements, he was handed over to the police. The police found that he was in possession of three more notes. During a search at his home, the police found 35 more fake notes. Upon interrogation, the police arrested four others, identified as K. Mani (48), V. Eswaran (36) of Sivaganga district, T. Vignesh Kumar (34) and D. Gurumoorthy (61) of Thoothukudi. The police also seized 200 fake notes from Gurumoorthy. Koodal Nagar police are investigating.
27 November 2020||MAMALLAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Mamallapuram emerges largely unscathed from cyclone||Residents of Mamallapuram heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday, as the ancient coastal town came out of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall further south, unscathed. For two days, the tourist town seemed tense, after predictions said the cyclone would make landfall closer to it. Thursday, however, brought respite, as several shops opened shutters. While staff of the Mamallapuram special panchayat, in coordination with Fire and Rescue Services personnel, were busy removing fallen trees, maintenance staff of Tangedco were seen repairing power lines to bring back power supply to over 12,000 consumers in the town. Except for a few fallen trees, the town did not suffer major damage. Its central part, however, is yet to see a revival in tourism and business activities. Further into the township, towards the fishing hamlets of Kokkilamedu and Venpurusham, the sea remained a little rough, but fishermen were happy that the cyclone spared their boats, which were parked on high grounds, based on advice from local panchayat officials. Shankar, a fisherman from Venpurusham village, who witnessed the destruction caused by Cyclone Vardah in 2016, said Cyclone Nivar passed off “peacefully”, though the Chengalpattu administration had warned about the storm.  Further into the township, towards the fishing hamlets of Kokkilamedu and Venpurusham, the sea remained a little rough, but fishermen were happy that the cyclone spared their boats
27 November 2020||NAGAPPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Delta districts relieved||People in the Cauvery delta districts, especially fishermen, heaved a sigh of relief at the break of dawn on Thursday as Cyclone Nivar that made landfall in the intervening night was not so intense as it was feared. There has been no loss of life so far, and the damage to the livestock and infrastructure is minimal. Many spent a sleepless night as heavy rain and strong winds lashed the region as the cyclone made the landfall. Many parts of the region received heavy rain. Sirkazhi and Kollidam recorded more than 100 mm of rainfall. Most water courses in the northern part of Nagapattinam district were full. Paddy fields were inundated in the low-level areas of Kollidam, Sirkazhi, Vaitheeswaran Koil and Poompuhar. The impact appeared to be more severe in Poompuhar, where paddy has been raised on over 200 acres. Uprooted trees could be found at Kottu Gudalure, a village on the borders of Nagapattinam and Cuddalore districts. “As power supply was turned off, we had to spend a sleepless night. It was raining all through the night with strong winds. However, we feel a bit relieved because Cyclone Nivar has not wreaked havoc, unlike Gaja in 2018,” said J. Singaravel, a resident of the village. Instances of uprooting of trees were reported at a few places along the Mayiladuthurai-Kollidam Highway. Workers brought from Coimbatore, Tiruchi and other districts, members of the State Disaster Response Force and volunteers cleared the trees. Power cables snapped at at least five places in the district. Since fishermen had moved their boats away from the coastline in Karaikal, Nagapattinam and Vedaranyam, their livelihood was not impacted. A fisherman at Poompuhar said most of the boats were safe. Nagappattinam Collector Praveen K. Nair told The Hindu that the uprooted trees were cleared immediately. As a precautionary measure, power supply had been disconnected in a few areas. Teams of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation had been sent to the affected areas. Power supply was restored at most places later in the day. The Collector said there was no report of loss of life in any part of the district, and over 45,000 people had been sheltered in relief centres.
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Thousands in coastal hamlets escape the fury of cyclone||Tens of thousands of people residing in the coastal hamlets of Cuddalore, Puducherry and Villupuram heaved a sigh of relief after Cyclone Nivar crossed the Tamil Nadu coast in the early hours of Thursday without causing much destruction to life or property. Barring one death due to rain preceding the landfall of the cyclone in Konur near Villupuram, there was no other loss of life. A 47-year-old woman, Mahalakshmi, died after a portion of the house wall collapsed on Wednesday night. Her son has been admitted to the Government General Hospital, police said. In Puducherry, a couple of people sustained minor injuries after their house wall collapsed on Thursday morning at Nettapakkam village. Both were treated as outpatients at a Primary Health Centre. A causeway in Marakkanam in Villupuram district got completely submerged, cutting access to people in three to four villages. The district also suffered crop loss in a few places. In Kandamangalam, a few acres of banana plantation sustained damage in gusty winds. In Puducherry, hundreds of trees, especially in the boulevard area, got uprooted, causing damage to electric poles in certain places. Power supply, which got disrupted before the cyclone hit the coast, was restored by Thursday noon. The region also reported waterlogging in several places, including residential colonies in Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar and Venketa Nagar. The Nellithope and Indira Gandhi signal also faced inundation due to heavy downpour. Water entered large swathes of paddy field in Bahour area and damaged banana plantation in many rural areas of the Union Territory. Though there were fears that Cuddalore district would get caught in the fury of the cyclone, it managed to escape with no major incidents. Crops, mainly banana and sugarcane plantations, sustained damage in many places like Kurunjipadi, Sethiathoppu, Ramapuram and Reddichavadi. Waterlogging was also reported in Cuddalore town and adjoining areas.
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry escapes largely unscathed||Puducherry escaped largely unscathed from loss of life or substantial damage to property from Cyclone Nivar that made a landfall in nearby Marakkanam on Wednesday night and menaced across the city with a nearly five-hour spell of heavy rain and howling winds. The city had gone on a blackout since Wednesday night as Puducherry Electricity Department shut down main lines as a damage prevention measure. By about 8 a.m., the city stirred to life with people out on the street going about their lives. Heavy waterlogging at places like Indira Gandhi Square persisted into the day causing traffic disruption and diversions. A holiday had been declared for the second successive day on Thursday. Most shops remained shut while a few resumed business by afternoon. Many hospitals, especially those located in low-lying areas, worked with skeletal staff as employees were unable to reach the workplace. In her preliminary assessment at around 10 a.m., District Collector Purva Garg reported to Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi that no loss of life has been reported in Puducherry and that the impact of the cyclone was mainly fallen trees and waterlogging of low-lying regions. That assessment would hold good through the day. “With all the line departments working in tandem, the teams of NDRF and HADR acted as force multipliers in post-cyclone relief and rehabilitation so that the response time was very good,” Ms. Garg said. In fact, the district administration rescinded its earlier directive extending prohibitory orders under Section 144 to 6 p.m. on Thursday. The subsequent order by the Collector said prohibitory orders were rescinded based on a reassessment that there was no loss of life or major damage to property following evacuation, relief and rehabilitation measures. Further, the Indian Meteorological Department had informed that the cyclone had moved about 60 km north of Puducherry, the order stated. The Collector has flagged the waterlogging in Rainbow Nagar and Indira Gandhi Square as old sticky points and suggested long-term solutions. From an engineering point of view, the issue of waterlogging has to be addressed for the future. The Electricity Department, which reported that there were no major damage to poles or other electrical structures, was working on restoring three 110 KV sub stations — at Bahour, Korkadu and Kalapet — that had a breakdown. Power was restored in urban areas latest by 4 p.m. and rural areas by 10 p.m. Data is being collated from the line departments to prepare a comprehensive damage assessment report, the Collector said.
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone-related loss in U.T. pegged at Rs. 400 crore, says CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the government would seek an interim Central assistance of Rs. 50 crore for post-cyclone reconstruction and rehabilitation. Addressing a press conference after chairing a meeting of the Puducherry Disaster Management Authority, Mr. Narayanasamy said initial estimates put the loss from cyclone-related damage at around Rs. 400 crore. "We are in the process of tabulating these losses, including loss of industrial production and damage to infrastructure, before we present a case for a comprehensive aid package to the Centre. We are seeking Rs. 50 crore as first phase of aid,” he said. According to preliminary estimates, about 820 ha of agricultural land, 200 ha of vegetable, 170 ha sugarcane, 55 ha of banana crop and seven ha of betel leaf plantation had been damaged. The Chief Minister said that the 27 cm of rainfall received in Puducherry between 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday and 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, along with the wind speeds of 110-120 kmph velocity, was unprecedented. In Karaikal, which received 10 cm of rainfall, 3,397 persons were evacuated and relocated to relief camps or higher ground. Hutments and fishermen hamlets had been badly hit in the enclave.  We are in the process of tabulating these losses, along with the loss of industrial production, before we present a case for a comprehensive aid package to the Centre
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||20 trees uprooted in Puducherry||Strong winds, accompanied by the landfall of Cyclone Nivar near Marakkanam, on Wednesday night, uprooted at least 20 trees in Puducherry. Deputy conservator of forests Vanjulavalli Karthik told The Hindu that by Thursday morning, the Department received around 20 complaints of trees being uprooted and hundreds of complaints of damages to branches. Similarly, the Fire Services Department’s town unit received 48 calls to remove broken branches. “I am sure other agencies too, attended to hundreds of calls. The damage to trees has not been to the extent of Cyclone Thane,” she said. The Department has identified 20 areas where trees can be restored. Immediately after the winds stopped, the Department restored a 30-year-old uprooted tree on Chetty Street. The tree was leaning on a building on the opposite side. “Since it is a busy stretch, we restored only one on Thursday. The others will be restored soon,” she said.
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 22 new cases||Puducherry logged 22 new COVID-19 cases from 697 tests while no deaths were reported on Thursday. Puducherry accounted for just one case while Mahe had 19 and Yanam two. No new cases were reported in Karaikal. The test positivity rate was 3.15%, case fatality rate was 1.65% and recovery rate 96.87%. After the transfer of two cases to Tamil Nadu and 21 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours, the Union Territory had 544 active cases. While 228 patients were in hospital, 316 were in home isolation. The tally in the UT is 609 deaths, 544 active cases, a total of 36,840 cases and 35,687 recovered patients.
27 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to restore normalcy, says Bedi||The district administration, which placed 2,397 persons in 206 relief centres ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Nivar, will be providing basic amenities to the evacuees for a few more days. The Department of Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs has planned for an initial supply of 5,000 food packets through its central kitchen, for supply to the affected communities, said Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who held a review of the efforts. The Department has been instructed to accumulate enough stock for the next three to four days. Ms. Bedi said except for water stagnation and the falling of trees in some areas, there had been no loss of human life or livestock reported. Further, no major damage was seen. The line departments concerned were in the process of draining out stagnant water in low-lying areas and removing trees uprooted during the cyclone, she said. Efforts are being made to restore normalcy in affected areas, she said. According to the Lt. Governor, severl measures had been taken after rounds of consultations with line departments, in the wake of the warning issued by the Indian Meteorological Department about a potentially severe cyclonic storm over southwest Bay of Bengal, which was likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts, between Karaikal and Mamallapuram, Wednesday midnight, with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph, gusting upto 145 kmph. As part of preparedness activities, low-lying areas with previous history of water-logging and stagnation were identified, and 206 public/private schools and community halls earmarked as relief centres. The availability of essential civic amenities were ensured for relocated people. Arrangements were also made for COVID-19 screening for those in the shelters, apart from distributing hand sanitisers and face masks among them. So far, test results of none of the 697 persons screened for COVID-19 has returned positive. People from the frontline coastal area were evacuated and accommodated in 55 relief camps/shelters. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea and to secure their fishing assets to prevent damage. Fishermen from Karaikal, who had ventured into the sea on 10 boats, were instructed to return. According to Ms. Bedi, assisting post-cyclone relief works of departments such as PWD, municipality and forest, were three NDRF teams (59 members) from Arakkonam, in Puducherry, and one team (20 members) in Karaikal. An army column of 110 personnel of the humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) unit were requisitioned from the Integrated Defence Staff, Chennai. Besides, the Air Force has set up a sector disaster management unit for Puducherry. Ten helicopters have been kept on standby. Balaji Srivastava, DGP; A. Anbarasu, Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner, and Pankaj Kumar Jha, special secretary and Collectors of Puducherry and Karaikal Purva Garg and Arjun Sharma participated.
27 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G, CM commend preparedness measures||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy commended the works undertaken by line departments, in coordination with NDRF and HADR teams, to prevent the loss of life and avert substantial damage in the aftermath of Cyclone Nivar. Ms. Bedi, in a message, also expressed gratitude to the people of the Union Territory for “having stayed indoors, listened to our instructions, abided by the rules and having moved to safer places upon our request due to which everything and everybody has been safe.”  The Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who surveyed affected areas in the city, lauded the efforts of staff from all departments, for their collective efforts in tiding over one of the most serious cyclones in our lifetimes, whether it was cutting and removing the fallen trees, clearing out waterlogged areas or responding to distress calls in control rooms.
27 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Light showers in Salem and neighbouring districts||Salem and neighbouring districts experienced light rain here on Thursday. The drizzle started in the early hours of Thursday and stopped by noon. Water logging nor any inundation in low-lying areas were reported in Salem and Erode. In Krishnagiri, three huts in Gurukapatti and Kottarapatti areas collapsed in the rain during late hours on Wednesday. However, no causalities were reported. A wall of Vellakuttai panchayat president Saraswathi Vijayan’s house in Irular Colony collapsed in the rain. Following the incident, the villagers were shifted to camps. In Salem, an average rainfall of 19.04 mm was recorded on Thursday. According to officials, Thammampatti recorded 27 mm of rainfall, Kadayampatti (9mm), Gengavalli (24mm), Veraganoor (37 mm), Kariyakovil (33mm), Anaimedu (17 mm), Yercaud (34mm), Vazhapadi (5.7 mm), Mettur (12.2 mm), Omalur (3 mm), Sankari (10.2 mm), Edappadi (11 mm), Attur (28.8mm),Periyanaikenapalayam (32 mm) and Salem (1.8mm). At Mettur dam, the water level was at 99.32ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 63,963 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 6,512 cusecs and the discharge through Cauvery river was 500 cusecs and East-West canal was 250 cusecs. In Namakkal, an average rainfall of 7.24 mm was recorded. Kumarapalayam recorded 7. 4mm. Mangalapuram (19.4 mm), Mohanur (5.5 mm), Namakkal (4 mm), Paramathi Velur (6 mm), Rasipuram (3.2 mm), Senthamangalam (8.4 mm), Thiruchengode (11 mm), Collectorate (4 mm) and Kolli Hills 18 mm.. In Erode, average rainfall of 3.8 mm was recorded. Erode (6 mm), Perundurai ( 6mm), Gobi (7.6 mm), Thalavadi( 3mm), Sathy (1 mm), Bhavanisagar (2.2mm),Bhavani (8.6 mm), Kodumudi (4.8 mm), Chennimalai ( 3mm), Modakuruchi ( 4 mm), Kavundapadi ( 6.2 mm), Elanthakuttai Medu (5.4 mm), Ammapettai ( 4mm), Kodiveri (1 mm) and 3.2 mm in Varattupalam. In Dharmapuri, 14.71 mm rainfall was recorded. In Dharmapuri 9 mm was recorded, Palacode (4 mm), Marandhalli ( 2mm), Pennagaram ( 10 mm), Hogenekkal (7 mm), Harur ( 44 mm) and Papiredipatti 27 mm.. In Krishnagiri, 13.58 mm average rainfall was recorded on Thursday morning, and 12.17 mm was recorded by afternoon. By Thursday afternoon, 12.2 mm was recorded in Barur, 15.4 mm in Denkanikottai, 16 mm in Hosur, 14 mm in Krishnagiri, 4 mm in Anjatti, 18 mm in Uthangarai, 10 mm in Thali, 5.2 mm Penucondapuram 16 mm in Shoolagiri, 15 mm in Negungal, 5 mm in Rayakottai, 15.2 mm in Pochampalli.
27 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem police station gets national recognition||The Sooramangalam All Women Police Station has been awarded the second best police station in the country by the Home Ministry. According to police officials, police stations across the country were assessed based on case handling, maintenance of station premises, maintenance of records and handling of complainants. Inspector of the station S.P. Valarmathi said that their achievement is a pride moment for the Salem city police and entire Tamil Nadu and they are working towards performing better. Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar and other senior officials appreciated the inspector and other officials at the station on their achievement.
27 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Trade union condemns new labour codes||Members of Estate Workers’ Union staged a protest in front of the district Collectorate here on Thursday on various demands. The protesters condemned the Centre for passing four new labour codes. They said that the new labour laws reduce various rights of employees at a firm. The protesters claimed that the Centre is acting in favour of corporates. They demanded that the Centre take necessary action on their demands.
27 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Medical teams sent to cyclone-hit districts||Seven medical teams were sent from Salem to three cyclone-affected districts on Thursday to provide necessary assistance in those districts. According to health department officials, seven five-member medical teams were sent to Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakuruchi. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said, “40 teams have been formed here to provide necessary assistance to cyclone-hit districts. 20 of them are medical teams including doctors and 20 teams have been formed to check water contamination, water chlorination and for disease containment measures.” He said the teams would assist in conducting medical camps at the affected places.
27 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Constitution Day observed||Constitution Day was observed at Salem Corporation here on Thursday. According to a release, Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran read out the preamble of the Indian Constitution. City Health Officer K. Parthibhan and other senior officials attended.
27 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||No loss of lives in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur||Barring a few claims of cattle deaths in Thanjavur district, Cycone Nivar left behind only a watered-down impact in the delta region on Thursday. There was no report of human casualties in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districtsSpecial medical camps were conducted for displaced people accomodated at shelters/rescue centres. Official sources said the Thanjavur district administration received information of deaths of one head of cattle and two goats due to incessant rain and strong winds that lashed the district on the intervening night of Wednesday-Thursday. Senior officials said human casualties were prevented in the two districts as more than 16,000 persons — 10,741 in Tiruvarur and 5,321 in Thanjavur — were moved to shelters/rescue centres from low-lying areas and vulnerable places. As for damages caused to dwelling units and other basic infrastructure facilities by the cyclone, one hut was totally damaged and 35 partially. Twenty electric posts were also damaged in Thanjavur district. Meanwhile, 30 special health teams had been formed to screen people at the cyclone shelters/rescue centres in Tiruvarur district from November 26. Elaborate arrangements had also been made to conduct health camps in all villages and urban localities in view of inclement weather. In Thanjavur district, 16 health teams had been formed and those lodged in shelters/centres were screened and samples for COVID-19 test were taken, sources said. As the cyclone threat receded, public and private bus transport were allowed to resume services from Thursday afternoon. The Flood Control Room at the District Collectorates would function till December and those in need of assistance or grievance arising out of rain or inclement weather due to monsoon could dial 1077. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur AIADMK unit supplied meals to families whose dwelling units became wet and unfit for cooking. Food Minister R. Kamaraj launched the food distribution exercise at Tiruvarur, Nannilam and Kudavasal areas. In Thanjavur, environmentalists alleged that well-grown trees were felled at a residential quarters for staff of a higher educational institution under the pretext of precautionary measure to minimise the damages anticipated due to the cyclone. The officials, instead of pruning the branches, used earth-moving vehicles to uproot around 50 well-grown trees in the quarters, they said.
27 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s policies are against common man: DMK||DMK district secretary Thanga Tamil Selvan has on Thursday said that the one-day strike across the nation by various major trade unions was the beginning of the end for the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a demonstration here, organised as a part of the nationwide stir condemning the Central government for its anti-labour policies, Mr. Thanga Tamil Selvan said people were in an agitated mood as all policies were against the common man. “The nationwide strike is a reflection of the anger of the people. This is just a beginning. The end for the BJP and the AIADMK was fast approaching. The DMK, under the leadership of M.K. Stalin, will bring in peace, prosperity and development to the State,” he said. The functionaries from various political parties, who also spoke, took out a procession and squatted on the road. The police arrested them and booked cases. In similar agitations, trade union representatives staged demonstrations across the district. According to the police, 1,123 people were arrested in the district. Dindigul In Dindigul, former MLA Balabharathi led the agitation near the bus stand in which members of CITU, AITUC and other unions participated. The agitators demanded the Centre to drop the new pension scheme. They also strongly opposed the move by the Centre to privatise profit-making public sector undertakings. Labour Progressive Federation State president M. Basheer Ahmed and AITUC’s Jeyamani staged demonstrations near Manikoondu and courted arrest. As many as 1,476 men and women were arrested in the district. Sivaganga In Sivaganga district, demonstrations were staged in Karaikudi, Manamadurai, S. Pudur, Singampunari, Tirupattur and Devakottai. Former MLA Gunasekaran led the agitation near Aranmanaivasal in Sivaganga. Virudhunagar Over 3,000 cadre of various political parties and workers affiliated to different trade unions were arrested when they staged road blockades at 39 places in Virudhunagar district. They condemned the Centre for the new Farm Laws and labour laws. Among those who took part in the protest were workers affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Labour Progressive Federation, Indian National Trade Union Congress and Hindu Mazdoor Sangh. CITU district secretary P.N. Deva said that among the arrested were 1,531 women. At Seithur, over 180 cadre of various political parties protested against the amendments in Farm Acts and the State that supported them. Communist Party of India district secretary P. Lingam led the protest. Madurai In Madurai, members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a demonstration against privatisation of public sector units. The protesters, led by divisional secretary J.M. Rafi, opposed the proposed amendments to labour legislations. They wanted the Centre to revoke the order freezing dearness allowance and scrapping of night duty allowance to certain section of railway officials. They also demanded that the old pension scheme must be reverted.
27 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi farmers demand better pest management plan||Farmers have urged the authorities to come out with a better pest management plan in the wake of fall armyworm attack on maize fields. The farmers appealed to the Collector K. Senthil Raj, who chaired an online farmer’s grievance day meeting, held here on Thursday after eight months. The last meeting was held on February 27 before the COVID-19 pandemic. While the Collector and senior officials were present at the Collectorate, farmers aired their grievances from 12 block-level agriculture offices in the district. Joint Director of Agriculture S I Mohideen said farmers who had started early and the crop which had withstood over a month had not been affected by fall armyworm attack. Using pesticides early had saved the crop. Field-level visits by officials in Oddapidaram, Kovilpatti, Pudur and Vilathikulam confirmed that the attack could be managed at this stage. He appealed to the farmers to spray pesticide and claim 50% of the cost as subsidy by producing the receipt. The Collector said that against the average annual rainfall of 662 mm, Thoothukudi district received 395 mm till Thursday, which showed 40% deficit. “Still we have north-east monsoon. We hope to receive more rains to offset the deficit,” he said and added that many of the waterbodies had filled up and reservoirs had 80% storage. The Collector urged farmers to insure their crop if they had not done it already. He also urged the officials to create an awareness among the farmers about the merits of crop insurance. Eswaramoorthy, a farmer, wanted more time for taking the crop insurance as the north-east monsoon was getting delayed. Rajendran from Nazareth raised doubts over the CM’s announcement to release surplus water from Tamirabarani to Uppar, Malataru, Kallar and Vaipaar “as it may lead to a drought-like situation.” However, Mallusami from Oddapidaram block welcomed the CM’s move to release the surplus water as it would give opportunity for more farmers to bring their lands under plough. The Collector said fertilizer stock was adequate and the dministration would explore the possibility of keeping Direct Purchase Centres open throughout the year for the benefit of farmers. Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran and PA (Agriculture) to Collector Balasubramanian were present.
27 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Strike hits work at V.O. Chidambaranar Port||Major trade unions and employees’ federations in Thoothukudi district on Thursday participated in the nationwide strike which was organised to condemn the Central government to drop its anti-labour policies, Farm Laws and new pension scheme. Protests and road blockades were held in 13 places and about 900 men and women courted arrest across the district. Employees owing allegiance to the LPF, AITUC and CITU abstained from work at V O C Port. As a result, loading and unloading activities were badly hit. Central government employees, including those working with Post and Telegraphs and BSNL, also abstained from work. Many of the post offices functioned with skeleton staff. Tirunelveli In Tirunelveli district, 650 persons were arrested after they blocked traffic at Melapalayam, Palayamkottai and other places. They demanded the Central government to drop the move to privatise public sector undertakings under the pretext of minimising loss. The Bharatiya Janata Party government had a hidden agenda to give the PSUs to their ‘friends in the corporate circuit,’ the union leaders said. The 10 trade unions taking part in the nation-wide call would not remain mute spectators and would intensify the agitation, they said. Tenkasi In Tenkasi district, 781 men and women were arrested. The union members, who assembled in front of the Head Post Office in Tenkasi, demanded the Centre to fill up vacancies. The State government had the responsibility to take it up with the Centre, they said. Similar agitations were held in Alangulam and near Tahsildar office in Shencottah. Dindigul Former MLA Balabharathi led the agitation near the bus stand. Members of CITU, AITUC and other unions participated. They demanded the Centre to drop the new pension scheme. They strongly opposed the move by the Centre to privatise profit-making public sector undertakings.
27 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delta region drenched as Cyclone Nivar makes landfall||Heavy rainfall continued for the second day on Thursday in Nagapattinam and Karaikal districts when Nivar cyclone made its landfall. In Nagapattinam district, Kollidam recorded the highest rainfall of 137 mm, followed by Sirkazhi (116.6), Vedaranyam (88.2), Manalmedu (85.2), Tranquebar (71), Thirupoondi (44), Talaignayar (36.6), and Vedaranyam (21.4). Karaikal district recorded 86 mm rainfall over a 24-hour period until 5 a.m. on Thursday. On Wednesday, it recorded 73.9 mm rainfall over a 12-hour duration, prompting authorities to evacuate people from low-lying areas and 12 fishing hamlets and move them to safer locations. For most part of the intervening night of Wednesday-Thursday, Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma visited low-lying areas and fishing hamlets to assess the impact of the cyclone. The Collector also visited cyclone relief centres established in government schools and handed over food material. Thanjavur Heavy to moderate rainfall was recorded in other parts of delta region as well. Highest precipitation of 85 mm was recorded in Lower Anicut area in Thanjavur district during the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. on November 26. The other two rain gauging stations — Manjalaru and Thiruvidaimaruthur — recorded 78.20 mm and 49.80 mm during the same period while the lowest precipitation of 12.80 mm was recorded in Peravurani taluk, official sources said. Tiruvarur In Tiruvarur district, Kudavasal recorded 79.30 mm of rain followed by Needamangalam with 68.60 mm. The coastal area of Muthupettai received the lowest precipitation of 22.70 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 7 a.m. on Thursday. Perambalur Agaram Seekoor recorded the highest rainfall of 74 mm, followed by Labbaikudikaduand Eraiyur (60 mm each), Puthu Vattakjudi (43), V. Kalathur (32), Perambalur (31), Veppanthattai (28), Krishnapuram (27), Chettikulam (24), Thaluthalai (21) and Padalur (14). Ariyalur Senthurai recorded the highest rainfall of 68 mm, followed by Ariyalur (62.2), Tirumanur (58.4) and Jayankondam (54.5). Tiruchi Marungapuri received highest rainfall of 32.2 mm, followed by Kallakudi (27.2), Thuvakudi IMTI (21) , Pullambadi (20.8), Samayapuram (20.6), Lalgudi (20), Tiruchi Airport (19), Nandhiyar Head (18.6), Tiruchi Town (18.4), Devimangalam (18), Navalur Kuttapattu (16.2), Pulivalam (15), Tiruchi Junction (14.8), Golden Rock (14.2), Vathalai Anicut (12.4), Thuraiyur (12), Ponnaniyar Dam (10.2), Musiri (8), Sirugudi (7), Thathiengarpet and Koppampatti (5 mm each) and Manapparai (2.8).
27 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special Newborn Care Unit at Tiruchi GH bags award for third consecutive time||The Special Newborn Care Unit of Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) was awarded the third prize for ‘Best Performance’ in newborn care. For the third consecutive year, the department’s feat has been acknowledged during the National Newborn Week celebration. The award was given based on the number of babies successfully treated and saving underweight and at-risk babies by the State child health nodal centre. “At least, 4,500 infants are saved every year, with a minimum of 1,500 of them being referred to MGMGH after birth. And not less than 1,000 babies were given ventilation including for half of them born with weight of below 1.5 kg. As many as 150 babies were given surfactant treatment to help process oxygen,” said hospital dean K. Vanitha. While there was an increase in the number of babies put on ventilation over the last year, the unit maintains a 97% survival rate. “It is entirely due to the hard work of staff nurses and matrons. While doctors monitor the babies, the nurses are with them all the time, ensuring their well-being,” said K. Senthil Kumar, neonatologist, MGMGH. The Special Newborn Care Unit is manned by a team of 12 doctors, 25 house surgeons and 19 staff nurses. The unit has also administered 500 pneumococcal vaccines to underweight babies. The vaccine costing Rs. 4,000 per shot in open market was administered to all babies free of cost. “A 25-week-old baby was born at 580 gm, the lowest we have seen this year. The baby is now hale and hearty,” Dr. Senthil Kumar said. The department is fully equipped to handle all emergencies and, amid the pandemic, has cared for 325 babies born to COVID-19 mothers. Ten newborns were also positive. The breast milk bank at the unit, too, continued to work through the pandemic lockdown. A total of 4,000 litres of milk was fed to 1,800 babies since the bank’s inception.
27 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||For the first time, fresh positive cases drop below 100||The central districts on Thursday reported below 100 cases for the first time over the last few months. A marked drop was noticeable with only 87 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region recorded one death, which was in Nagapattinam district, according to the health bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 55-year-old man with no pre-existing health conidition succumbed to the viral infection in Nagapattinam. All districts in the region reported less than 30 COVID cases; only two districts — Thanjavur and Tiruchi — reported above 20 cases. In Tiruchi, 27 patients tested positive, while in Thanjavur 22 fresh cases were reported. Among them were isolated cases, primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, five patients who were undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged from the hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Karur and Pudukottai both reported 12 new cases, reflecting a sharp decline over the past few days. In Karur, patients were from Gandhi Gramam and Kulithalai among other localities. Interdistrict travellers also tested positive. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur reported seven fresh cases for COVID-19 among which were patients detected at various fever camps held in the district. Ariyalur reported a further drop in cases with only three fresh cases for the viral infection detected on Thursday. One each were from Sendurai, Andimadam and Ariyalur blocks. Meanwhile, in Perambalur too, one new patient tested positive. A total of 323 throat swabs were lifted at government hospitals and PHCs in the district and sent for testing.
27 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Thursday was 128.50 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 737.62 cusecs and discharge of 1404.75 cusecs. In Manimuthar dam, the water level was 95.50 ft. (118 ft) with an inflow of 139 cusecs and discharge of 45 cusecs. There was no rain in the region during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Thursday.
27 November 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Childline rescues girl after marriage||Officials from Childline rescued a 17-year-old girl who was allegedly married to a 36-year-old man in Tiruppur City Police limits on Thursday. Childline sources said the officials received information through the helpline 1098 regarding the alleged child marriage near Nallur. They visited the residence and rescued the girl. The All Women Police (South) directed the parents of the girl to produce her age proof by Friday, till which the girl will stay at a rehabilitation home, according to the sources. Childline, a 24x7 nationwide helpline for children in distress, can be reached at 1098. Held for sexual assault The Avinashi All Women Police on Thursday arrested a 39-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting his 16-year-old daughter. The police said that the man was in an inebriated state and attempted to misbehave with his daughter on Tuesday. As she resisted, he attacked and threatened her, according to the police. Based on the complaint from the victim’s mother, the accused was booked under Section 9(n) (whoever, being a relative of the child through blood or adoption commits sexual assault on such child) read with Section 10 (Punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was later remanded in judicial custody.
27 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman electrocuted||A 65-year-old woman of Mudikondan died of electric shock at her house on Thursday. Rukmani was electrocuted while trying to switch on light in the morning, police sources said. Vignesh, 24, a neighbour, who sustained injuries while attempting to rescue her, was admitted at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. Nannilam police have registered a case.
27 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Medicinal herb garden set up in Gudalur||The Forest Department has started a medicinal herb garden and nursery at Gene Pool in the Gudalur forest division. More than 20 varieties of medicinal herbs are being grown at the Gene Pool which is managed by the department and an Eco-Development Committee (EDC). Forest officials said they were hoping to begin selling the plants to the public once the government permitted the EDCs to open. EDCs across the State had been closed since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Alpinia galangal (Greater galangal), Acorus calamus (sweet flag), Andrographis paniculata (green chiretta), Vitex negundo (Chinese chaste-tree), Piper longum (long pepper), Syzigium jambos (rose-apple), Ruta graveolens (rue), Achyranthes aspera (devil’s horsewhip) and Eclipta prostrate (false daisy) are among the herbs being sold at the nursery. “The herbs being grown in Gene Pool are all used in traditional medicine across Asia. Many of these plants are said to be used to fight ailments ranging from common cold and cough to more serious illnesses,” said a forest official from the Gudalur forest division. Currently, more than 2,000 plants are being grown at the nursery in Gene Pool, with funds sanctioned by the Special Area Development Programme. The EDC also hosts a few green houses as well as an orchidarium and a fern house, where rare species of native plants are being grown and maintained. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Sumesh Soman, said it was planned to sell the medicinal herbs to visitors of EDC once it was opened. “There are a lot of tourists from Kerala who visit the Nilgiris and travel via Gudalur. Based on demand, the herbs can also be sold to local communities,” said Mr. Soman. There were plans to set up a sales counter at Gene Pool shortly, he added.  There are a lot of tourists from Kerala who visit the Nilgiris and travel via Gudalur  Sumesh Soman District Forest Officer (Gudalur division)
27 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 10 years||A 24-year-old man was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for raping a minor girl in 2018. In December 2018, M. Easwaran of Vazhaithottam near Masinagudi was alleged to have eloped with a 15-year-old girl from the same village. He was also said to have married her. Based on a complaint from the girl’s parents, a case was registered against Easwaran. The fast-track mahila court here on Thursday sentenced Easwaran to three years imprisonment for kidnap and ten years for rape. The sentences are to run concurrently.
27 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Several trees, poles felled in Vellore||Heavy rain and gusty wind due tocyclone Nivarcaused damage to property in Vellore, Tirupathur and Ranipet districts. These districts have been receiving heavy rain as the system crossed Vellore on Thursday morning. In Vellore, five huts were damaged, 15 trees and four electricity poles fell due to the wind, approximately 14 acres of banana plantation were damaged. A total of 474 persons have been accommodated in 16 relief centres. In Tirupathur district, one hut was damaged, three trees and two electricity poles fell and one acre of banana plantation was destroyed. A total of 480 persons have been shifted to 14 relief centres. In Ranipet district, 315 ducks and four heads of cattle died, 45 huts and eight houses were damaged, three houses were partially damaged and 61 trees fell due to the wind. “It started raining heavily in Vellore and neighbouring districts. All the water bodies are being monitored,” said an official from Vellore. People living in low-lying areas have been shifted to shelters. “The entire government machinery is prepared,” the official added. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel in 16 fire stations in the three districts are also on alert. In Tiruvannamalai, 86 huts and 27 houses were damaged, 18 heads of cattle died, 66 trees were uprooted and 237 electricity poles had fallen. Crops on 2,272.58 hectares of land were damaged. Officials said 7,846 persons were accommodated in 267 relief centres.
27 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Farmers advised to protect their crop from rain, gale||Anticipating heavy rain during the north-east monsoon, Virudhunagar district administration has advised farmers to pluck fruits ready for harvest to reduce weight of trees that could be uprooted in heavy wind. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said the farmers must keep ready a proper system in place to drain excess water to prevent stagnation on their fields. After excess water is drained, sowing and plantation can be taken up. The bottom portion of shade net of greenhouses should be firmly secured with the ground using steel wire. Doors and windows of the shade net should be closed to prevent wind from entering the greenhouse. Bio-fencing can be done around the greenhouse. If there are any dead trees around the greenhouse, they should be removed. Branches of mango, guava, pomegranate trees should be pruned so that they will not be uprooted. The bottom leaves of plantain trees should be removed. The plantain trunk should be given support with casuarina or eucalyptus poles to prevent them falling during strong wind. Additional soil could be put at the bottom of the trunk as a precautionary measure. Banana bunches, even if 75%ripe, can be cut. To prevent fungal infection in spice plants such as cardamom, cloves and nutmeg grown in Rajapalayam region, bio-fungicides such as pseudomonas and trichoderma viride should be sprayed. Dry leaves in vegetable plants should be removed and bio-fungicides sprayed on the leaves.   Checklist Pluck fruits ready for harvest to reduce weight of trees that could be uprooted  Keep ready a proper system in place to drain excess water to prevent stagnation  Secure bottom portion of shade net of greenhouse firmly on the ground using steel wire
27 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Forms to delete names of dead voters not accepted: DMK||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has complained that booth-level officers in the district were not accepting Form 7 meant for deletion of names from the electoral roll of those voters who have died. Virudhunagar party district secretaries K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (South) and Thangam Thennarasu (North) along with party MLAs, A.R.R. Srinivasan (Virudhunagar) and S. Thangapandi (Rajapalayam) handed over a memorandum to Collector R. Kannan on Thursday. They complained that block-level officers (BLO) in some of the booths had not turned up for the special camps for special summary revision held on November 21 and 22. Stating that Form 7 was not distributed at special camps, in the memorandum they said acknowledgement for receipt of Form 6 meant for inclusion of names in the voter list was not given to the applicants. “When our agents submitted filled-in Form 7 seeking deletion of names of deceased voters, the BLOs refused to accept them. They wanted death certificates to be attached to the forms,” Mr. Thennarasu said. The Collector said the officials would delete names of the voters who have died based on the death registration available in all the local bodies. “Our contention is that let this exercise by the officials go on as a parallel measure. But it is the duty of the BLOs to accept Form 7 and process it after due verification,” he added. Besides following the Election Commission guidelines on deletion of names of dead voters and those who have migrated, the Form 7 submitted by agents of the political parties should be accepted for processing, the petition said.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman from Odisha re-united with her family after two years||A mentally ill woman, who went missing from her home in Odisha two years ago, was reunited with her family on Sunday following coordinated efforts from officials of various departments. The issue came to light when the woman, Padmini Naik, 31, who was put up in a home for persons with mental illnesses near here, went missing recently. After a complaint, the Malli police traced her and produced her before the Judicial Magistrate II V. Paramveer. During the hearing, the JM found that the woman was from Odisha. When the matter was taken up with the Principal District and Sessions Judge A. Muthusaratha, she ordered the District Legal Services Authority secretary K. Mariappan to trace her family members. Though it was not clear how Ms. Padmini came to Tamil Nadu from Odisha, officials found that she had been to various places in the State. But she came to the notice of the government authorities only after she tested positive for COVID-19 a few days back. After treatment she was admitted to a home from where she went missing. “The woman was able to tell us her name and the names of her family members and her school in Odisha, but was not able to tell her address,” Mr. Mariappan said. The PDJ said that considering her age, Ms. Padmini should be re-united only with her family members, instead of putting her back in a home. A team of officials led by Additional Superintendent of Police S. Marirajan, Additional Superintendents of Police (State Crime Records Bureau) Sridevi and Lavanya and Virudhunagar District Anti-Human Trafficking Unit Sub-Inspector of Police Rajeswari was formed to track her parents. The officials were able to track her family members last week and her brother Vinay Naik ansd relatives came to Srivilliputtur. After verification of the identity, Ms. Padmini was reunited with them. The PDJ provided money and food for them to return to Odisha. The family members thanked the authorities for their efforts in tracing Ms. Padmini.  She could tell her name and names of her family members and her school in Odisha, but not her address K. Mariappan Secretary, District Legal Services Authority
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||After several days, cases in Coimbatore rise above 150 mark||Coimbatore district registered a slight increase in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with 158 persons testing positive for the disease. The increase comes after the district’s caseload remained below the 150 mark for several days. The Health Department said 679 patients were under institutional care in the district as of Thursday. The district also reported the death of two patients, aged 94 and 76, taking the toll so far to 605. As many as 156 persons returned home on Thursday, upon recovering from the infection. Tiruppur district saw 71 new cases on Thursday, taking its overall tally to 15,115 cases. No deaths were reported, and the toll so far is 207. Of the 15,115 cases so far, 615 are active cases. Seventy-five patients were discharged from various hospitals on Thursday. Salem district reported 95 cases. Two of those who tested positive had returned from Namakkal and Krishnagiri. A 62-year-old woman died of the infection at a private hospital. Namakkal reported 33 fresh cases, Erode 84, Krishnagiri 22 and Dharmapuri 12. Thirty-four persons tested positive in the Nilgiris, taking the tally in the district so far to 7,339. With one more death, the toll rose to 41 on Thursday. The district administration said 159 people are undergoing treatment.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Labour unions flay Central government’s ‘anti-poor’ policies||Hundreds of members of labour unions affiliated to major political parties staged a demonstration here on Thursday to condemn the Central government over its ‘anti-poor’ policies pertaining to farmers and the working class. They raised slogans demanding COVID-19 relief of Rs. 7,500 for every affected person, besides supply of adequate quantities of rice and atta . Other demands ofi the protesters ncluded withdrawal of farm Acts and labour laws, which, the speakers charged, were of a pro-rich nature. Members of Labour Progressive Federation, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, All India Central Council of Trade Unions, Marumalarchi Labour Front and Labour Liberation Front took part in the demonstration held in the city.
27 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two more arrested||Vijayapura Police on Thursday arrested two more persons in connection with the recent ambush and shoot-out in which Mahadev Sahukar Bhairagonda, rowdy-sheeter, was grievously injured and two of his associates were killed. Sachin Chouhan and Mallikarjun Patil, both 26, were the arrested persons. This takes the total number of arrested persons to 26. Investigation is on.
27 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Villagers beat up man for sexual harassment||Residents of a village in Belagavi taluk beat up a person accused of sexually harassing a minor girl on Wednesday. The police took the accused, Parashuram Madiwalar, a former gram panchayat member from Mundgod, into custody after one of the villagers informed them that he had been apprehended. Villagers told the police that the offence was committed a few days ago. The accused came to Belagavi looking for work as a construction labour. He raped the minor and escaped to Mundgod. “We were alerted after he was caught by the people,” a police officer said.
27 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cadets donate blood||Cadets of NCC groups in Belagavi celebrated the 72nd NCC Day by donating blood. Nearly 40 cadets and officers of 8 Karnataka Air Squadron NCC, 25 Karnataka Battalion and 26 Karnataka Battalion NCC under the aegis of NCC Group Belagavi conducted the blood donation camp at Jadhav Nagar and RLS College Belagavi. Officers, including Group Commander, NCC Group Belagavi, Colonel K. Srinivas and Commanding Officer of 25 Karnataka Battalion NCC Colonel Abhay Awasthi donated blood. Doctor S. Sridevi and medical staff of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences Blood Bank conducted the camp.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20 trade unions join nationwide protest||In response to the nationwide strike, as many as 20 trade unions and organisations in the city carried out a rally from Majestic to Freedom Park where they staged a protest on Thursday. Protests were held in industrial areas such as Peenya, Bommasandra, and Jigani in Benglauru. There were also protests in other parts of the State. S. Varalakshmi, State president of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions said, “Our protest is against the Union government’s amendments to labour laws which have snatched the rights of the working class. The Centre has deprived the labour class of their rights in an attempt to appease industrialists.” The unions have been demanding that the government give at least Rs. 7,500 per month for six months to families below the threshold of income tax limit. “This move will also help in reviving our economy as people will get purchasing power,” she added. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers also took part in the protest with their own set of demands, but many stayed away owing to the rain. The drivers’ union had called for a daylong strike, but it did not have a major impact in city. “Auto and taxi drivers have gone through a lot of financial distress owing COVID-19 and the State government has failed to address their grievances,” T. Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said. Drivers claim they are under pressure to pay back loans they had taken for their vehicles.
27 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Some Ministers choose Delhi visit over Cabinet meeting||The decision of a few prominent Ministers to fly to Delhi, rather than attend the meeting of the State Cabinet convened by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday, has sparked off another round of speculation ahead of the proposed ministerial expansion. Though these Ministers are citing the organisational office inauguration of party national general secretary C.T. Ravi in New Delhi as the reason for the visit, the speculation is that they may be trying to use the opportunity to consult central leaders on Cabinet expansion. After realising that the party high command is in no mood to bow to pressure from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take up ministerial expansion immediately, these Ministers may be trying to safeguard their own political interests besides lobbying for their supporters, sources in the party said. While Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is already in New Delhi, apparently to lobby for ministerial berths for all the legislators who came with him to the BJP from rival political parties to help form the party government in Karnataka, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Muzrai Minister K. Srinivas Poojary too have gone to Delhi. There is also a likelihood of one or two more Ministers joining them on Friday. Meanwhile, senior leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa too would not be attending the Cabinet meeting as he would be visiting Hyderabad owing to poll-related work. Though all the Ministers who are skipping the Cabinet meeting have made it clear that they have taken Mr. Yediyurappa’s permission, the timing of their visit — that follows dissatisfaction over the manner in which appointments to various boards and corporations have been made — has raised eyebrows.   Ignored names? The Chief Minister, who made numerous appointments in the last three days, has reportedly not considered most of therecommendations made by the party organisation. A senior member of the party State unit said the party organisation had recommended the names of about 30 workers for various appointments, but most of them were ignored. He observed that mostly those who are loyal to Mr. Yediyurappa had got posts. While the party State unit is already witnessing a divide between the party old-timers and those who came from outside, the recent political appointments have further divided the party, observed a senior leader. Mr. Yediyurappa’s decision on appointments is being interpreted by some leaders in the BJP as an indication of his stern response to the lukewarm behaviour of the central leadership, particularly on ministerial expansion. It is being speculated if it is an indication that Mr. Yediyurappa would not bow down easily if the high command effects a change of guard without taking him into confidence.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wakf properties: Notice to State on plea for probe||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government and others on a PIL petition seeking probe into alleged illegalities and misappropriation of wakf properties by certain individuals of the Karnataka State Board of Auqaf. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the order on the petition filed by Syed Sarwar Basha Makandar, mutawalli of Darga Hazrat Peer Syed R.A., Hanagal in Haveri district. Though the petitioner has sought for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Bench said that such a prayer cannot be granted in the absence of registration of a First Information Report (FIR) while stating that the petitioner is at liberty to set criminal law into motion during the pendency of the petition. The petitioner sought a direction for a court-monitored probe into misappropriation of a large number of wakf properties in the State and assistance of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority to offer free legal assistance to the poor mutawallis of wakf institutions to recover the properties.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shocking state of affairs, says HC on leasing govt. land to Mysore Race Club||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday termed as “shocking state of affairs” the decision of the State government to renew release of a whopping 139.39 acres to Mysore Race Club Ltd. (MRCL) for a period of 30 years on a rent of merely 2% gross annual income of MRCL. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty made the oral observation while hearing a PIL petition, filed by city-based advocate Umapathi S., who had challenged the January 17, 2020, order of the government renewing lease of land to MRCL. The Bench also directed the petitioner to implead Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar Golf Club (JWGC), Mysuru, as the government permitted the MRCL to enter into a separate agreement with JWGC for use of this land. The court ordered issue of notice to the government, and both the clubs. Questioning the legality of renewal of land in favour of the MRCL, the petitioner has claimed that lease was contrary to the provision of the Karnataka Land Revenue Rules and resulting in huge loss to the State exchequer. The petitioner also alleged that MRCL was using the land illegally between 2016 and 2020 despite expiry of lease period and the government had not collected rent from it for this period.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Data stolen from e-com firm||The cyber crime police and the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) are on the hunt for a hacker who accessed confidential data of an e-commerce company and advertised the sale of the information on the dark net. The hacker allegedly demanded money from the owner of the company to take down the list. The incident came to light when the owner of the company, Praveen B.S., realised that his client list had been stolen. The data included details of all the customers who bought groceries and other products, said a police officer. Someone had accessed his system without authorisation and stolen the data on October 13. The hacker identified himself as Beenu Arora via email. “He claimed to be the CEO of an IT company and demanded $70,000 to withdraw the sale advertisement on the dark net, and another $100,000 in the form of Bitcoins to secure the stolen data,” the police officer added. The police are trying to track down the hacker via the IP address of the email.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Indian Administrative Fellowship launched||With an aim to augment the capacity of senior civil servants amid COVID-19, The/Nudge Foundation has announced the Indian Administrative Fellowship. According to a release by the foundation, the selected fellows will be paired with senior civil servants, of secretary and above rank, for 18 months to design and implement programmes in health, skill development and entrepreneurship, rural development, education, regional development boards, among others. For details, visithttps: //iaf.thenudge.org/
27 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||S.R. Vishwanath quits as CM’s political secretary||Newly appointed BDA chairman S.R. Vishwanath has tendered resignation to the post of Chief Minister’s political secretary. He submitted the resignation on the day of assuming charge as BDA chairman on Thursday. In his resignation letter addressed to the Chief Minister, Mr. Vishwanath thanked him for the opportunity provided to serve in the post of political secretary. He made it clear that he was relinquishing the post in the wake of the new responsibility provided to him.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Roshan Baig referred to Jayadeva||The former Congress Minister Roshan Baig, who was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation in connection with the IMA scam case, has been referred to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences from the prison hospital after he complained of chest discomfort on Wednesday. Institute director C.N. Manjunath said Mr. Baig would undergo an angiogram on Friday for a cardiac evaluation. “He was diagnosed with a three-vessel blockage in 2016 when he had undergone an angiogram in a private hospital. Although stenting was attempted, it could not be done as he had a 100% blockage in the right artery and intermediate blockages in the other vessels. He has been on medical management since then,” the doctor said. The doctor said in view of his past cardiac history he needs to be evaluated now as he has discomfort. Mr. Baig also has diabetes and hypertension.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at rowdy||The Bagaluru police on Thursday opened fire on a 24-year-old habitual offender after he allegedly attacked them in an attempt to escape near Thanisandra main road. Dinesh, a resident of Kattigenahalli, is named in many cases. On Thursday, the police got a tip-off that Dinesh was seen on Thanisandra road. He was looking for potential victims to rob. A team caught Dinesh, but in an attempt to escape, he allegedly attacked the police with a knife. Inspector Prashanth warned Dinesh and later fired at his leg.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Indira Canteen contractors not paid for months||Contractors of Indira Canteens are finding it difficult to operate them owing to the failure of the government to pay their bills for months on end. The 198 Indira Canteens, including mobile canteens, which enjoy the patronage of thousands of citizens, are operated by Chef Talk Food and Hospitality Services Pvt. Ltd., Rewards and Adamya Chetana. Udaykumar of Rewards told The Hindu that the BBMP has not cleared their bills for more than seven months. He used to operate 88 canteens, but is now managing 50, as per the new tenders, which, sources in the civic body said, came into effect on August 1.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. circular on interaction with staff of tobacco firms||The Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) has issued a circular directing all government employees to restrain from meeting representatives from the tobacco industry. The circular, issued last week, restricts government officials from receiving scholarships, gifts or any favours from the tobacco companies. In case, the meeting with tobacco companies is inevitable, then the minutes of the meeting have to be recorded, stated the circular. In May last year, the State Health department had adopted a code of conduct restricting government officials and staff from collaborating with the tobacco industry.
27 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bangladeshi with Indian passport held||Immigration officials on Tuesday arrested a 23-year-old youth from Bangladesh who was attempting to fly to Dubai with an Indian passport. The accused, Alam Mohammed Yahia, was caught while submitting his papers at the immigration counter. Acting on a hunch, officials detained Yahia for questioning where he allegedly confessed to crossing the border in 2016 and settling down in Meghalaya for a few years before relocating to Assam. He was planning to go to Dubai to look for a job.
27 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protests held as part of strike called by JCTU||Protest marches were taken out by members of various trade union bodies and memoranda were submitted to district and taluk authorities at the district headquarters and cities and towns on Thursday, in response to the call for nationwide strike given by Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU). In Hubballi, hundreds of people from different sectors congregated near Sangolli Rayanna Circle and held a protest meeting seeking fulfilment of various demands. Members of various trade union bodies of sectors including banking, insurance, telecommunication, midday meal programme, ASHAs, construction industry, gram panchayat employees, autorickshaw drivers, street vendors, and others took part in the agitation. Trade union leaders Mahesh Pattar, Devanand Jagapur, Gangadhar Badiger, Ashok Barki, Stephen Jayachandra, G.M. Vaidya, Harish Doddamani, B.S. Soppin, Vijay Guntral, Amrut Ijari, R.F. Kavalikai and others addressed the protesters and condemned the anti-labour, anti-farmer policies of the successive governments in general and present Union government in particular. In Dharwad, members of various trade union bodies took out a protest march from Mallikarjun Mansur Kala Bhavan to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad covering the thoroughfares of the city. Severa trade union leaders, including B.N. Pujari, Bhuvana Ballari, V.M. Inamdar, Manoj Toranagatti, B.I. Iliger Ramesh Hosamani, J.I. Karennavar, Laxman Jadagannavar, Sharanu Gonawar, Nagappa Undi, and several others addressed the protesters and condemned in strong words what they termed as pro-corporate, pro-rich policies of the Union government. In Hubballi and Dharwad, a joint memorandum from JCTU addressed to the CM and PM was submitted to authorities. In the memorandum , they demanded immediate withdrawal of anti-labour and anti-farmer ordinances and all moves to privatise education, health, drinking water, railway, road, power, telecommunication, insurance and banking sector. They also demanded an assistance of Rs. 7,500 per month to all families that do not come under the Income tax purview, for six months and pension to all workers after abolition of New Pension Scheme and reinstatement of old pension system. Minimum wages of Rs. 21,000 per month, regularisation of contract workers, ASHAs, midday meal and anganawadi workers, social security scheme for workers of unorganised sector were some of the other demands raised.
27 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Mixed response to Ballari bandh call||The Ballari bandh call given by Akhanda Ballari Horata Samithi, a conglomerate of different Dalit and pro-Kannada organisations, to oppose the government’s decision to bifurcate Ballari district to form the Vijayanagara district received a mixed response from people on Thursday. Though life went on as usual in a majority of areas in the city, a few localities, including Moti Circle, Gadagi Chennappa Circle and Bengaluru Road, saw good response as commercial establishments closed down for a few hours. Public transport system, including the city buses and autorickshaws, remained largely unaffected. As the day began, activists belonging to different organisations gathered at the Gadagi Chennappa Circle holding banners and placards. They raised slogans against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh who is seen as the main force behind the bifurcation of the district. They also burnt Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Anand Singh in effigies to give vent to their anger. A few activists associated with Karnataka Jana Sena offered special puja to Kanaka Durgamma, the presiding deity of Ballari, and prayed to her to keep the district undivided. As the crowd swelled by 10 a.m., the agitating activists formed a human chain at Gadagi Chennappa Circle blocking all roads connecting the traffic circle with the rest of the city. They cooked food at the traffic circle and ate it. The agitation disrupted traffic movement for some time. Addressing the gathering at the agitation site, a few leaders recalled the formation of the district during the British rule and its inclusion in Karnataka during the unification movement. They condemned the State government and Mr. Anand Singh for what they said “playing with people’s sentiments”. They asserted that they will continue the struggle till the government dropped its decision to carve out Vijayanagara district from Ballari. The agitating people then marched through the major roads in the city raising slogans in opposition to the division of the district. A few leaders participated in the agitation riding on horses. And, other leaders were found convincing traders of the need to shut down their shops and suspend their business activity for a day to support the bandh call for a cause. The shopkeepers in the areas where the protest procession passed through were found closing down their establishments for some time and later, continuing with their business. The police had made elaborate arrangements across the city to ensure that the agitation went off peacefully.
27 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||CM lays foundation stones for water, irrigation projects||In yet another major gift to the proposed new Vijayanagara district after the Cabinet decision to carve out the new district from Ballari, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa remotely laid foundation stones for drinking water and irrigation projects that together are estimated at Rs. 242.35 crore on Thursday. As per information provided by the administration, the projects — for lifting drinking water from the Tungabhadra river and supplying it to Papinayakanahalli and other villages and filling 22 tanks — would benefit many villages affected by mining in Vijayanagara constituency, represented by Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh. “I had, when I came to Vijayanagara constituency for an election campaign, promised to implement these water projects shortly. Now, I have kept my words. The project covers filling 22 existing tanks and an additional two impounding tanks that are to be built,” Mr. Yediyurappa said, after remotely laying the foundation stones for the projects from Bengaluru.
27 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bandh evokes poor response in Kalaburagi district||A nationwide strike called by the Joint Committee of Trade Union (JCTU) to protest the anti-labor policies, new farm Bills, and New Education Policy 2020 of the Union government evoked poor response in Kalaburagi district on Thursday. Commercial establishments across the city functioned as usual, and autorickshaws and buses continued to operate bringing relief to the public. Though the situation was peaceful in the city, the police made elaborate security arrangements to prevent any untoward incidents. Members of All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All-India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), India National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), National Centre for Labour (NCL), and Students’ Federation of India (SFI), All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) and Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha (KVS) took part in the protest and formed a human chain at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Chowk staged and marched towards the Deputy Commissioner’s office. They staged a demonstration and submitted a memorandum with a charter of demands to the government through Deputy the Commissioner. The students’ organisation raised slogans against the New Education Policy and demanded that it be revoked forthwith. The policy would not only throw the present education system into disarray, but it would also open doors to private players in the education sector, and poor students who solely depend on State-run educational institutes would be deprived of education, they said. The agitators urged the State government to oppose the three language policy proposed in NEP-2020, and continue with two language policy, the States should be allowed to decide. The unions also demanded expansion of (MNREGA) scheme to provide 200 days of work and also extend the scheme to labourers in urban areas. The demand also included a cash transfer of Rs. 7,700 per month for all non-income taxpaying families and 10 kg free ration per month through Public Distribution System to the needy, withdrawal of the draconian circular on forced premature retirement of government and public sector undertaking employees and pension to all by scrapping National Pension System, and restoration old pension scheme.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CMC plans to make Udupi city smart via public-private partnership mode||The City Municipal Council of Udupi is contemplating opting for a public-private partnership initiative to make the city smart at an estimated cost of Rs. 130 crore. City planning officials informed CMC members at the first meeting of the council that the city is likely to get 3,000 smart poles that accommodate closed circuit television cameras, 5G-enabled WiFi system and drone chargers. Similarly, bus bays, autorickshaw bays, motorcycle bays and toilets would be provided at various locations under the project, they said. Speaking about the proposal, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat said that a detailed project report is under way by a private entity. Tenders would be invited by the CMC and the private participant would invest on creation of infrastructure and get the money back through user fee. The CMC has to approve of the project first after which the proposal would be sent to the government, Mr. Bhat said. Responding to councillor Prabhakar Poojary’s demand to blacklist the contractor maintaining street lights, the council passed a resolution to that effect. Mr. Bhat said that no new lights were installed in the city since 2013. He added that the situation would change shortly. CMC president Sumithra Nayak told the meeting that the council has invited tenders for installing 1,000 LED street lights. Responding to problems in drinking water supply in some wards, Ms. Nayak said that tenders would be invited to arrange for water supply in such wards. The problem could get solved once the city starts getting water from the Varahi project, she said.  Responding to the issue of validity of the present meeting following a single judge order of the High Court of Karnataka on reservation roster raised by councillor Ramesh Kanchan, Municipal Commissioner Anand C. Kallolikar said that the meeting was convened after seeking legal opinion. Since the Division Bench has stayed the single judge order, the meeting was in order and its resolutions were valid, he said.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New government PU college sanctioned for Nalyapadavu||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath on Thursday said that the government has sanctioned a pre-university college at Shaktinagar thereby fulfilling the long-pending demand of people of the region. A government release from the MLA’s office here said that a government PU college at Gerasanahalli, KG Koppalu, Mysuru district, that had zero admissions, was being shifted to Nalyapadavu at Padavu village, Shaktinagar, Mangaluru, along with the sanctioned staff. The order was issued on Wednesday. Mr. Kamath in a statement here said that he had submitted a memorandum to the government seeking a government PU college at Nalyapadavu following public demand soon after getting elected as legislator. Thereafter, he followed up the matter with Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar and impressed upon him the need for a PU college at Nalyapadavu as students had to travel long distance for PU education. The MLA said that with the government order, the demand of Shaktinagar residents has been fulfilled and students need not travel all the way to the city centre for PU education. Mr. Kamath said that he was happy that the requirement of his electorate was fulfilled. As of now, the PU College would start functioning from the building of Government High School at Nalyapadavu. A new building for the college would be in place in the coming days, the MLA said.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Give the name of Sankara and Madhwa to Mangaluru airport’||Udupi Puttige Mutt seer Sri Sugunendra Tirtha on Thursday demanded re-naming the international airport here after philosophers Sankaracharya and Madhwacharya, as MadhwaSankara International Airport. In a statement here, Sri Sugunendra Tirtha said that at a time when everyone was intending to make India a “Vishwa Guru”, giving the name of the two philosophers to the airport could be apt. While Sankaracharya’s philosophical abode is located at Sringeri, about 120 km from Mangaluru, Madhwacharya’s seat is located in nearby Udupi. Sri Sugunendra Tirtha pointed out that the airport in Ayodhya is being named after Sri Rama, the presiding deity of the town. Naming Mangaluru airport after MadhwaSankara would not only be a reverence to these personalities of Indian spiritual field, it would also give impetus to spreading the Indian spiritual philosophy worldwide as well as creating a bonhomie among different sections of society. Spirituality has been India’s basis and strength, the swamiji said and added that airports in different parts of the country should be named after spiritual personalities of those regions, including Basaveshwara and Ramanujacharya. At a time when COVID-19 was threatening mankind, a strong spiritual movement is the need of the hour. Naming the airport after such personalities would be timely, Sri Sugunendra Tirtha said.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Re-name airport after Rani Abbakka’||Members of the Ullal Veerarani Abbakka Utsava Samiti on Wednesday demanded that the international airport here be re-named after Rani Abbakka, who fought the Portuguese 450 years ago. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, Dinakar Ullal, councillor of Ullal City Municipal Council and member of the samiti which conducted the Abbakka Utsav before State government took it over, said that since the first utsav in 2015 resolutions have been passed in every utsav asking the government to re-name the airport after Rani Abbakka. Mr. Ullal said that representations have been given to Chief Ministers and Prime Ministers, including Narendra Modi, in the matter. Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader too has supported the demand, he added. “This name [Rani Abbakka] was proposed first even before other names, including that of the revered twins of Tulu folklore Koti Chennayya and the former MP U. Srinivas Mallya, cropped up. The State government should fulfil this long-pending demand,” he said. The former MLA K. Jayaram Shetty and a few other members of the utsava samiti were present. The Congress has demanded that the airport be re-named after Koti Chennayya. Meanwhile, a group of citizens has demanded that the airport re-named as Tulunadu airport.
27 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO’s arecanut, pepper to be available on Amazon||Having seen good response for its chocolate products on Amazon, the Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Ltd. (CAMPCO) will shortly make available packets of arecanut and pepper on the e-commerce website. CAMPCO Managing Director (in-charge) H.M. Krishna Kumar said they will have one kg packets of arecanut and 200 gm packets of pepper. “We see good demand on Amazon for arecanut and pepper. The demand is more from people in North India. We are trying to explore this market as we have quality arecanut and pepper,” he said. Mr. Kumar said work on art work for these consumer packets is underway. CAMPCO is applying for FSSAI registration. “We hope to make these packets available by the end of December,” he said. After studying the response, CAMPCO will explore selling these packets on other e-commerce websites. Popular product Chocolates and other cocoa-based products of CAMPCO has been featured on Amazon since October 23. The popular among the products sold is the ‘Winner’ drinking chocolate powder. “We started with sale of products worth Rs. 2,500 per day. Now, it has doubled and we are selling products worth Rs. 4,500,” he said.  As part of the “Vocal for Local” campaign, CAMPCO is supporting making of swadeshi chocolates in a big way. “There is good market for homemade chocolates. We will provide skill of making such chocolates and provide entrepreneurs the raw material they need.” Mr. Kumar said they are providing farmers the know-how of fermenting cocoa beans, which will fetch good price. The total production of CAMPCO chocolate factory in Puttur has touched 15,956.06 tonnes of which 11,652.91 tonnes is produced for CAMPCO brand. Chocolates worth Rs. 224 crore has been sold, which includes export of 1,507 tonnes worth Rs. 22.81 crore.  One kg packets of arecanut and 200 gm packets of pepper will be available.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bodies of drowning victims recovered from Shambhavi river||The bodies of Nikhil, 18, and Raviraj, 29, who were missing after they went swimming in Shambhavi river near Kadandale of Moodbidri Taluk on Tuesday, were found on Wednesday. Nikhil and Raviraj were among the four who went swimming after attending a marriage in Kadandale.  Two among gang The bodies of Subash, 19, and Harshita, 20, were found on Tuesday evening. Teams of expert swimmersfrom Tannirbhavi and Goodinabali of Bantwal joined local swimmers and firemen and helped trace the bodies of Nikhil and Raviraj, the police said.  Four arrested for theft The Moodbidri police arrested four persons allegedly involved in theft of gold ornaments and other valuables from the house of Saramma in Handelu village, near Moodbidri, on November 11. The police gave the names of the accused as Ibrahim Khalandar, 38, Mohammed Mudassar, 20, Shaheem Siddiq, 26, and Mohammed Haneef, 48. The police recovered 22.860 grams of gold ornaments and Rs. 11,000 cash.  Shop raided The Malpe police raided a coconut selling centre in Badanidiyoor village of Udupi Taluk on Tuesday and seized bags of containing rice, wheat and groundnuts that were meant to be distributed in ration shops. The police said on a tip-off the team that included food inspector Mouna K. and tahsildar raided Mahlasa Traders owned by one Ajit Pai around 6 p.m. They seized 25 bags each of “Kuchhala” rice and “Beltige” rice, 81 kg of wheat, and 23 kg of groundnut. Case registered A case was registered under Sections 3,6,7 of the Essential Commodities Act, the police said.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisherman hacked to death in Bokkapatna||Following a heated exchange of words at a party, a 29-year-old fisherman was hacked to death in Karnal Garden of Bokkapatna on Wednesday night. The incident came to light after the body was discovered on Thursday morning. The police gave the name of the deceased as Indrajit, a resident of Bokkapatna. He was in the list of rowdies maintained by the Mangaluru South Police in 2015. The police said that Indrajit was among the 15 members who were partying during a Mehndi event in the Karnal Garden area. There were some heated exchanges among the 15 and Indrajit was assaulted. A search is on to find those involved in the crime, the police said.
27 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deputy Tahsildar arrested||The Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths on Thursday arrested Deputy Tahsildar, Vitla, Ravishankar on the charge of accepting Rs. 1,000 bribe. According to a press note, Ravishankar had demanded Rs. 1,500 for making correction in the Record of Rights, Tenancy and Crops of a land. The Tahsildar had passed the order approving of the correction in 2019. The sleuths caught Ravishankar while he was in the act of accepting Rs. 1,000. The ACB team that made the arrest comprised Police Inspectors Shyam Sunder and Gururaj and personnel Hariprasad, Radhakrishna, Umesh, Prashant M., Vaishali, Rajesh P., Rakesh V., Satish and Bharath.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM promises to upgrade M.M. Hills PHC to hospital||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said steps will be taken to upgrade the primary health centre (PHC) at Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Chamarajanagar district into a 30-bed hospital. He made the announcement following representations in this regard from the locals. Speaking after laying foundation stones for various development works taken up by Sri Kshetra Male Mahadeshwara Temple Development Authority, he said M.M. Hills attracts a large number of devotees and has emerged as a major tourist destination. The government as well as the temple authority want to develop the place into a major religious tourism destination. In this connection, development works worth Rs. 14 crore were inaugurated and foundation stones for works worth Rs. 110 crore were laid, he added. The Chief Minster told the officials to complete the works within the scheduled time and make them available for public use. On the occasion, he gave a call for freeing M.M. Hills from plastic waste and keeping the beautiful surroundings clean and hygienic. Cleanliness should get priority in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and all precautions should be taken as recommended by the government at the temple site, he advised. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Public Works Govind Karjol, in his speech, said the Yediyurappa government had taken the State on the path of progress despite economic crisis with drop in revenue over COVID-19 crisis. In the last two years, the State suffered loss of Rs. 60,000 crore due to floods. Chamarajanagar district got Rs. 338 crore from the Public Works Department in the last 15 months, he said. Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt, Pattada Guruswamy of Salur Mutt and Shanthamallikarjuna Swami were present. Minister for Muzrai, Ports and Fisheries Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in-charge of Chamarajnagar district S. Suresh Kumar, Hanur MLA R. Narendra, MLA N. Mahesh, and others attended the event. Earlier, before the inauguration of development works, the Chief Minister visited the Male Mahadeshwara temple and offered puja. Mr Yediyurappa, who was scheduled to travel by a helicopter to Bengaluru after the programme, took the road journey to Bengaluru in view of bad weather. Road widening  Mr. Narendra, who presided, urged the Chief Minister to take steps to widen Hanur-M.M. Hills road and implement the second stage of multi-village drinking water scheme. The MLA sought widening of the 52-km long road into a seven-metre road. In the first stage, drinking water scheme had been implemented in 100 villages at a cost of Rs. 190 crore and sought funds for the second stage that covers 197 villages. Mr Narendra sought a special funding to Hanur, which has been recently developed into a taluk, and grant for the construction of mini Vidhana Soudha. The Hanur PHC should be converted into a 100-bed hospital since it is a taluk now, he added.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Post-renovation, Mysuru’s rail museum is a major draw||The rail museum in Mysuru, which was renovated at a cost of nearly Rs. 9 crore days before the lockdown, is witnessing a surge in daily footfall since the last few weeks. This has been attributed to the major renovation and overhaul besides the aesthetic display of rail artefacts and exhibits. This apart, people’s pent-up desire for an ‘outing’ after the graded lifting of the lockdown has also helped. According to the railway authorities the daily footfall and the weekend count has surpassed the numbers before the overhaul The museum, set up in 1978, was closed for nearly a year from 2019 to March 2020, during which the gallery was redone, and lighting arrangements and displays underwent a change. Prior to the renovation, the average number of tourists was between 60 to 100 daily and it was about 150 during weekends and holidays. Now, the daily average is around 250 and around 600 during weekends and holidays. During October, there were 9,120 visitors while the daily average for November (till 22) was 212. As part of its expansion programme the authorities now plan to display LHB and ICF passenger coaches (under frame) in the museum. A miniature steam locomotive will also be installed on a pedestal so that the visitors can understand the principles of working of a steam locomotive. The railway authorities said the surge in footfall is encouraging as tourism is yet to gain full traction. Besides, there will be 50% discount for group tourists and senior citizens visiting the museum while a similar discount will be extended to schools once they reope. The souvenir shop at the museum is also doing brisk business with Channapatana wooden toys in great demand and the turnover exceeding Rs. 10,000 during weekends and holidays. The focus of the museum post-renovation is on providing an immersive experience to the visitors rather than being a mere display. A metre gauge coach has been converted into a cafeteria while there is a library with railway-related literature for browsing. The major exhibits include the steam locomotives, rail road coaches, turn tables and old mechanical contraptions used by the railways which have long been supplanted by modern technology. The maharani’s saloon has been aesthetically renovated while there is also a gallery on the evolution of rail signals. A touch-screen kiosk provides information pertaining to the exhibits and a documentary on the evolution of railways in Mysuru State can also be viewed.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM adopts 10 govt. schools||Ten government schools in four districts of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajnagar and Hassan will soon be getting infrastructure push with the University of Mysore adopting them besides planning to develop them academically too. On the suggestion from the government, the university agreed to adopt them under the “adopt the government schools” initiative and look into their needs for their overall development, providing them the needs that would eventually help them grow academically. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar, who received a certificate in this regard from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday, said the university will try to address the needs of the adopted schools. It could be either setting up of computer labs, or other infrastructure needs. “The schools will be inspected and discussions will be done with the school authorities. After this, the university will carry out its works and activities so that they grow in terms of infrastructure and academics,” he said. The adopted schools include government higher primary schools at Kunagalli in Kollegal taluk; Komaranarapura in Yelandur; Bailooru in Hanur taluk; Lakshmisagar in Pandavapura taluk; Yelechikkanahalli in Mandya taluk; Yellashapura in Holenarsipur taluk; Marballi in Mysuru taluk; and Kyathanahalli in H.D. Kote taluk; and K.R. Mill government higher primary school in Mysuru. One high school at Gungralchatra in Mysuru taluk has also been adopted.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Prasad miffed with CM over appointments to boards||Veteran politician and BJP MP representing Chamarajanagar V. Srinivas Prasad on Thursday expressed his disappointment over the recent choices made by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for nominations to the posts of chairperson of boards and corporations. “I am not at all happy with the nominations made to the boards and corporations. He should have applied his mind and taken decisions after wider consultations,” Mr. Prasad said while speaking to reporters in Mysuru after participating in a Constitution Day programme. Taking exception to the “hurried” manner in which the appointments had been made, Mr. Prasad said he had shared his reservations on the matter with the Chief Minister in Mysuru on Wednesday. However, the Chief Minister, who had to leave for another programme in Talakad, assured him of addressing the concerns soon.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Banking services hit over employees’ strike||Banking services across Mysuru came to a halt on Thursday in the wake of the strike by employees in response to a call from the national bank employees’ unions and associations in support of their demands. The staff associated with the Mysuru District Bank Employees Association, acting on the call from All India Bank Employees’ Association, All India Bank Officers’ Organisation and Bank Employees’ Federation of India, supported the national general strike called by various trade unions, in protest against the privatisation of banks and demanding strengthening of public sector banks. The other demands include putting an end to outsourcing of regular banking jobs; recovery of huge corporate NPAs; action against loan defaulters; increasing the interest rate on bank deposits; DA for all bank employees and cooperative banks’ employees; revitalising the cooperative banks and RRBs; and scrapping of the new pension scheme for bank employees and officers. H. Balakrishna, Secretary, MDBEA, Mysuru, said in a statement that it had become necessary for the employees to protest against the policies of the government since the wealth creators – workers and farmers – are being given a raw deal and those depriving them their rights are getting all the attention. “This is the reason why the national convention of workers gave the call for the general strike on November 26 which was supported by the bank employees,” he said. “Barring the SBI and IOB, services in all banks were affected following the strike,” Mr. Balakrishna said.  .  The other demands include putting an end to outsourcing of regular banking jobs, recovery of huge corporate NPAs, and action against loan defaulters. Barring the SBI and IOB, services in all banks were affected following the strike
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘New entrants too responsible for BJP coming to power’||The debate over the significance of 105 BJP MLAs elected earlier against the 17 new entrants to the party from the Congress and the JD(S) continued on Thursday, with former Minister A.H. Vishwanath joining issue with BJP MLA for Honnali M.P. Renukacharya. Mr. Vishwanath, who is now a BJP MLC and an aspirant for a ministerial berth in the impending Cabinet expansion, told reporters in Madikeri that the 17 new entrants as well as the 105 MLAs of the party were together responsible for the BJP government coming to power in the State. He said there was no need to create confusion in the minds of people that the B.S. Yediyurappa government came to power only because of a few. He hoped that no “injustice” was caused to anybody during the Cabinet expansion and added that he was confident of securing ministerial berth.
27 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Saptapadhi’ to resume soon||Minister for Muzrai, Fisheries and Ports Kota Srinivasa Poojary on Thursday said Saptapadhi, a programme of organising mass marriages that was discontinued over the COVID-19 pandemic, will soon be resumed. Also, priests of nearly 34,000 temples across the State will get health insurance cover. Speaking at the function to lay foundation stones for development works at Male Mahadeshwara Temple in M.M. Hills, he said the thought of developing the temple through the formation of Sri Kshetra Male Mahadeshwara Temple Development Authority came to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Works had been initiated with the Chief Minister allocating the funds.
27 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Distribute compensation to victims in atrocity cases: Yadgir DC||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed Deputy Director of Social Welfare Department Channabasava to release compensation to victims in cases registered for atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Addressing a meeting in Yadgir on Wednesday, Dr. Ragapriya said that compensation should be given to such victims as per government norms without any delay. “The Department of Social Welfare should ensure that victims in cases registered under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act compulsorily get compensation without any delay whatsoever,” Dr. Ragapriya told Mr. Channabasava. Providing data with details of cases registered, Mr. Channabasava said that there was delay in distributing compensation to victims in 44 cases registered under the Act. “The compensation will be distributed shortly,” he said. She also directed officers concerned to consider those belonging to SCs and STs and working as pump operators on roster basis in gram panchayats while effecting recruitment to vacant posts. On the availability of burial grounds for people from SCs and STs, Mr. Channabasava said that a proposal has been sent to the department after conducting a survey on non-availability of burial grounds in 74 villages. Dr. Ragapriya also said that a committee should be formed in a week comprising the Commissioner of Yadgir City Municipal Council, the Tahsildar of Yadgir and three members from Scheduled Tribes community to decide and fix rate for any programmes to be held at the Maharshi Valmiki Bhavan in Yadgir city. This rate can be charged as rent.
27 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Murdered||A man was murdered with a lethal weapon near Sagarakatte Nala in Malagatti village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Wednesday, the police said. The victims was identified as Rangaiah Sabaiah Guttedar. The police arrested Sharanagowda Dyavaiah Guttedar, accused in the crime. A case was registered in Kembhavi Police Station.
27 November 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Police action against farmers condemned||State president of Swaraj India Chamras Malipatil has condemned the police action against protesting farmers and for also arresting top farmers leaders, including Yogendra Yadav, national president of Swaraj India, and Medha Patkar, activist, and demanded that Union government release the arrested leaders immediately. Talking to The Hindu in Raichur on Thursday, Mr. Malipatil expressed anger against the Union government for stopping farmers from Punjab in reaching the national capital Delhi to hold a peaceful protest against the new farm laws. The farmers were prevented by the police at the borders of all highways leading to Delhi, he said. He said that protesting in a peaceful manner by citizens is a right enshrined in the Constitution. “The country is celebrating the Constitution Day today [November 26]. But, at the same time, the Union government is trying to snatch the right of farmers to raise their voice against anti-farmer laws by using the police force,” Mr. Malipatil said. He also urged the Union government to call a meeting of farmers to discuss the new farm laws and solve the problems of the agrarian sector.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro services to Anjanapura to start in mid-December||The much-awaited commercial operations from Yelachenhalli to Anjanapura on the extended Green Line of Namma Metro are likely to start next month. Ajay Seth, Managing Director of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), told The Hindu that the line will be opened to the public in mid-December. A few days ago, the Commissioner of Railway Safety (southern circle) Abhai Kumar Rai had issued a sanction letter for introduction of commercial operations with riders. The BMRCL is complying with the directions of the Commissioner on passenger safety, electrical and signalling. “The CRS has given some tasks and BMRCL will finish them in 15 days,” said Mr. Seth. The 6-km line with five stations will help residents living on either side of Kanakapura Road and NICE road. Residents have demanded that BMRCL and BBMP ensure easy access to metro stations and robust last-mile connectivity prior to commissioning the line. The corporation had set several deadlines for opening the line, but missed them due to various hurdles, including COVID-19 and labourers returning to their hometowns during the lockdown. Last year, the BMRCL had announced that the line would be opened by August, but then extended the deadline. Under Phase II of the Namma Metro project, the extended Green Line on Kanakapura Road is the first reach to be opened for commercial operations. When asked about whether the BMRCL has any proposal to revise fares while opening the new line, Mr Seth said, “ Not at this stage.”
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Five killed as truck hits two cars, ploughs into tea stall||Five people were killed and six others were injured after a container truck collided with a car and then ploughed into other vehicles and a roadside tea stall at Chadulapura Cross on National Highway 7 on the outskirts of Chickballapur on Thursday. Most of the victims had stopped for a tea break. According to the police, the Haryana-registered container truck was heading towards Hyderabad from Bengaluru. “The driver Shahul, 24, failed to see a speed breaker and lost control of the vehicle. The truck collided with two cars before going straight through the tea shop,” said a police officer. Two people died on the spot while three others succumbed in a hospital later in the day. “We have arrested Shahul. He was driving in a rash and negligent manner, which led to the death of so many people,” said a senior police officer. The deceased have been identified as Yamunachar, 44, an advocate; H.V. Venkatesh, 44, a clerk in the Taluk Agricultural Produce Co-operative Marketing Society Ltd. in Chickballapur; Kalanjiam, 47, a resident of Banaswadi; Nitesh Gowda, 25, from Doddaballapur; and Rangapp, 55, from Srinivasapura. The six injured persons were admitted to various hospitals.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Another survey of manual scavengers||The BBMP will be taking up a re-survey of manual scavengers in five zones of the city. As per a survey conducted in May 2013, following directions from the Centre and the State government, 201 manual scavengers were identified. Compensation of Rs. 40,000 from the Centre had been given to 71 people. Documents had been collected from the remaining 130 manual scavengers and submitted to the Centre for compensation. Another survey was taken up in Rajarajeshwarinagar, Mahadevapura, South, West and East zones where 1,139 manual scavengers were identified. Chairing a meeting on Thursday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad directed the zonal joint commissioners to conduct another survey with a focus on outer zones where work on the underground drainage is yet to be completed. According to a communique, though manual scavenging has been prohibited, it exists in parts of the city. As per the laws of the land, employment of any person for manual scavenging is prohibited and a punishable offence. There are many machines that could be used to clean the underground drainage and pits. Manual scavengers should be identified and rehabilitated to take up alternate jobs, officials were instructed.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||City picked for global programme||Bengaluru is among four cities in the country selected by the World Economic Forum, a Geneva-based not-for-profit organisation, to pioneer a new global policy roadmap for smart cities developed by the G20 GlobalSmart Cities Alliance. The other Indian cities selected for the programme are Faridabad, Hyderabad and Indore. Confirming the development, Bruhat BengaluruMahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said, “Through the programme, we will be able to share best practices on a wide range of issues the world is facing, such as data privacy and data protection.”
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Young parliamentarians||
27 November 2020||Abdul Latheef NahaMALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram fans bid adieu to the legend||The death of Argentine football legend Diego Maradona brought a pall of gloom to the football lovers of Malappuram district. Never before were they so saddened by the passing of any other sports personality. Not even boxing legend Mohammed Ali, who was widely rated as the most popular sports person to walk on earth. For the football lovers of Malabar, particularly Malappuram, Maradona’s 1986 Mexico World Cup was a game changer. “The football craze as we witness today in Malappuram began from the Mexico World Cup in which Maradona was the star. We owe it to Maradona. He was primarily responsible for injecting the spirit of football into the veins of Malappuram,” said Shoukath Uppoodan, convener of the Malappuram Football Lovers Forum. Under the banner of the forum, Mr. Uppoodan and friends gathered at Kunnummal Junction and commemorated their super star by lighting candles on Thursday evening. Maintaining COVID-19 protocol, they reminisced how Maradona sowed the seeds of football as an art in their minds. Posters Several football clubs and football fans groups across Malappuram grieved the passing of Maradona. Youngsters abandoned their day’s play in football turf here in honour of Maradona. Many fixed posters in goal posts bidding adieu to the football legend. Banners sporting Maradona stood out amid electioneering posters at many places. Maradona was a passion for the football lovers irrespective of their affiliation to different countries. “Malappuram has fans of all footballing nations. But cutting across those differences, they are mourning the death of the legend,” said Super Ashraf aka Bava, State general secretary of the Sevens Football Association (SFA). “Had it not been for COVID-19, we would have had a huge gathering of football lovers mourning the passing of the legend,” he added.
27 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Four more fatalities in Alappuzha||The district logged 347 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. It also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, as many as 326 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 19 persons remains unknown. Two who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Areas The 347 cases include 52 cases from Alappuzha, 28 from Ezhupunna, 25 from Arattuppuzha, 22 from Veliyanad and 20 from Neelamperoor. Meanwhile, 852 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,596.
27 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Aroma of lemongrass oil fills Anchunadu forests||Verdant fields of lemongrass cover the forest areas of Anchunadu where traditional distilleries fill the air with the refreshing aroma of lemongrass oil. Lemongrass ( Cymbopogon citratus ) oil extraction is a major livelihood in the forest settlement areas of Marayur and Kanthallur with a large number of tribespeople cultivating lemongrass and extracting the oil following traditional methods. The quality of lemongrass oil extracted at Anchunadu is considered high as it contains high levels of citral, with the average ranging from 70% to 85%. During the winter season, it goes up to 90%. Many uses Lemongrass oil is used in aromatherapy to reduce stress, anxiety and depression. It is a main ingredient in soaps, deodorants and cosmetics. It is also a bio-pesticide. There are nearly 20 settlements in the Marayur Sandalwood Division and Chinnar where lemongrass extraction is the main livelihood activity. A major problem faced by the tribespeople is lack of value-added products and facilities to market the produce. The farmers sold the oil directly to middlemen, says Thankarajeswar of Nellipettykudy in Marayur. He says that they get a price ranging from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 1,750 per kg of lemongrass oil. Traditional method Lemongrass collected from the field is put inside an urn and around 100 kg of firewood is required to distil a full urn and the yield comes to 600 grams to 1 kg of oil. An earlier survey by the Forest Department found that nearly 60% of the tribespeople in Marayur and Chinnar were engaged in lemongrass extraction. According to a forest official at Marayur, the lemongrass cultivation reduced the tribespeople’s over-dependence on forest. The lemongrass cultivation has prevented soil erosion on hilly slopes. “There is a connection between their lifestyle and oil extraction. If mechanisation is done, there is a chance of the tribespeople leaving the sector,” says Saby Varghese, Assistant Conservator of Forest and former Divisional Forest Officer, Marayur. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has identified lemongrass cultivation as a main income generating activity of tribespeople and under the livelihood and conservation project a high-yielding variety of lemongrass, Krishna, was supplied to the tribespeople.
27 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Congress suspends rebel candidates||The District Congress Committee has taken disciplinary action against the candidates contesting in the Kannur Corporation as rebels. DCC president Satheesan Pacheni said the party had decided to suspend Chirakkal block Congress committee treasurer C.P. Manoj Kumar, who is contesting against the official candidate of the UDF in Chalat 54th ward, Pallikunnu constituency Congress committee vice president K. Prakashan and Prem Prakash, who is the general secretary, Chirakkal, and contesting in the Pallikunnu fourth ward. Similarly, Thayatheru ward rebel candidate A.P. Noufal had also been suspended from the party’s primary membership as part of disciplinary action, he said.
27 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK transfers former Pro VC||The order issued by the Central University of Kerala transferring former Pro-Vice Chancellor K. Jayaprasad to Thiruvananthapuram has stirred a controversy. The Association of Central University of Kerala Teachers (ACUKT) has demanded revocation of the order, alleging suspicious intentions behind the move. Mr. Jayaprasad is the head of Department of the International Relations and Politics, and Dean of the School of Global Studies, and former Pro-Vice Chancellor.  The Hindu has a copy of the order issued by the Registrar and the objection raised by the association in this regard. The university issued the orders stating that the transfer “is in order to make use of the administrative and academic experiences of a senior professor and strengthen the capital centre in Thiruvananthapuram to develop some more innovative courses as per the National Education Policy 2020”. However, the Association of Central University of Kerala Teachers, objecting to the transfer, wrote a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, expressing their displeasure. P. Pratheesh, secretary of ACUKT, said the association had demanded recall of the order. He said Mr. Jayaprasad was transferred to a non-existing post in the capital centre. Senior faculty members, on condition of anonymity, said that the university had taken the step in violation of the model code of conduct for the elections. When contacted, Mr. Jayaprasad admitted receiving the transfer order. He said the UGC had stipulated that an Associate Professor should head the capital centre. Hence, it was illegal to post such a senior academic like him to that position. He refused to comment any further. When contacted, Vice Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu said that it was not a transfer. He said that the professor was being sent as part of a work arrangement for a few years to develop the capital centre. This had been mentioned in the order. Besides, it was an internal arrangement, and the model code of conduct did not apply here, he said.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||The air is thick with his memories||In his peak, Diego Maradona packed in cyclonic energy blowing away entire oppositions off a football pitch single-handedly. It was only fitting that the Argentine football genius simply overshadowed the landfall of a potentially destructive cyclone, which every medium was glued to till then, as news of his death broke on Wednesday late night. His influence and unifying force were further on show a day after when the diminutive magician’s image dominated the profiles of thousands of social media users who till the other day were squabbling over political and ideological differences. And then everyone just turned nostalgic and waxed eloquent of their Maradona memories. ‘Dronacharya’ “For our generation, football coaching was not so common, and he was the de facto Dronacharya and his games, our football manual. Many more football binaries like the Messi-Ronaldo may yet grace the sport, but none would have done more to popularise the game as Pele and Maradona did,” said Ebin Rose, former Kerala footballer who now coaches a budding football club Kovalam FC. For Simon Sunderraj, the last Indian footballer to have scored for India in an Olympic game, back in 1960, the defining memory of Maradona is what many regard as the goal of the century he scored against England dribbling past multiple players in the Mexico World Cup. “Football lovers then could watch him only in the World Cup since the Italian league in which he played was not telecast here. For Brazilian fans Pele will be the greatest, for Hungarians, it will be Puskás, for English Stanley Matthews, and for Argentine fans, it will be Maradona. That debate will go on,” said the former Indian winger.
27 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF promises a clean city||Focusing on programmes to turn Kochi into a clean city, the United Democratic Front (UDF) released its election manifesto for the Kochi Corporation on Thursday. The front promised to introduce centralised and decentralised waste treatment facilities for the city in a time-bound manner. A modern waste treatment plant, which employs the most modern technology, will be set up in the city, says the manifesto. The front has also set June 2021 as the deadline for setting up the plant. A High-Power Committee will also be constituted for taking the project forward, according to the manifesto. A zero-sewage city, effective clearance of garbage, policies and facilities for medical waste management and modern abattoirs are also among the UDF’s promises to the city.  Road development The front proposes to prepare a master plan for the development of roads in all the 74 divisions of the civic body. Efficient signalling system, signage, and service ducts in all roads have also been offered. The area between Rajendra Maidan and the Kerala High Court will be converted into an urban green zone, it says. Long-pending urban transport projects such as Atlantis, Vathuruthy and Vaduthala rail overbridges have found mention in the poll promises. The front has offered to complete the groundwork for the projects in two years.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drug pushers tack off due to travel curbs?||The COVID-19-induced international travel restrictions seem to have compelled a shift in the potential destinations of drugs smuggled out by way of courier, the Excise Department suspects. Previously Malaysia used to be the preferred destination of such consignments smuggled out by way of parcels in the garb of diverse products ranging from saris to flour. But the seizure of 2.50 kg of ganja hidden in a consignment of rice powder, turmeric, and coriander powder from a courier firm in the city has reinforced the suspicion of the excise officials of a potential shift in tactics by the traffickers. "It was meant for Dubai, whereas in the past all such consignments used to be sent to Malaysia, thanks to the slack enforcement there. Even different ingredients for making drugs used to be smuggled out separately before being combined in fly-by-night drug-making hubs. But now with the travel restrictions in place, drugs seem to be directly sent to the final destination," said a senior excise official. The nearly Rs. 200-crore worth MDMA, a premium drug, which eventually turned out to be Ephedrine, one of the 12-odd drugs used in the preparation of MDMA, seized by excise officials in September 2018 from a courier firm had reached there from Chennai and was supposed to be smuggled out to Malaysia hidden in a consignment of saris. Lucrative gains The change in ploy in terms of destination, however, seems to be no less lucrative for the parties concerned. The more stringent the anti-drug laws in the destinations the more will be the margin of profits. "For instance, had the 2.50 kg of ganja managed to make its way to Dubai, where strict laws are in place against drugs, the parties concerned would have earned anywhere in the region of Rs. 50 lakh by distributing it in smaller lots," the official said. The source of drugs being pushed in this manner seems to have different originating points. While in the instant case it seems to have come from Andhra Pradesh, there seem to be diverse sources. Bringing it from across the border in Bangladesh to West Bengal and then smuggling it by train to other Indian cities is a common ploy. Iran-Afghanistan-Delhi is another popular route, an excise enforcement official said.  The more stringent the anti-drug laws in the destinations the more will be the margin of profits.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rekindling fond memories of Sarah Cohen||A stopover at Sarah Cohen’s embroidery shop at Jew Town in Mattancherry was mandatory for most visitors to the heritage town after their visit to the famed synagogue that dates back to approximately 450 years. Lucky among them got to chat with Sarah, who sat facing the street, almost always engaged in embroidery work. Over a year since she died at the age of 96, leaving the Jewish community there with just two members, her aide Thaha Ibrahim — a middle school dropout from nearby Fort Kochi — is readying a gallery to showcase her memorabilia for visitors. The collection includes a photograph of Sarah taken in 1937 when she was studying at the St. Teresa’s school here. A framed painting of her mother, Kitty Cohen, adorns the wall nearby. Then there is a collection of photographs of Sarah and her husband Jacob Eliyahu Cohen, who worked in the Income Tax Department and died in 1999. Mr. Ibrahim then showed another of Sarah’s treasured possessions on display — a sewing machine from Singer Hemstitcher she got as the first wedding anniversary gift from her husband in 1943. “Sarah aunty also preserved its instruction manual, which though worn out, is still readable. She had a knack to preserve everything,” he said. Meticulous work Mr. Ibrahim has panelled the walls of the shop using treated oak wood, to check moisture from the walls spoiling the photographs and other items that once adorned her house located next door. “Though the couple did not have children, Sarah aunty was very fond of her nieces and nephews, especially children of her sister Honey Rosemberg,” he said, pointing to a black-and-white photograph of the family. The other black-and-white pictures include that of a bride being led to the synagogue in a Jewish wedding procession, Sarah playing cards with women beside the street, and that of Jews from Israel calling on her. The most recent among the memorabilia is that of Prince Charles calling on her during his Kochi visit in November 2013 with his wife Camilla Parker Bowles. Sarah’s embroidery store once sold traditional head-scarves and shawls while she also embroidered decorative pieces of cloths for the synagogue and for Jewish brides. She will be remembered as among the few who chose to stay back at Mattancherry even as most others left for Israel.
27 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||SIT formed to probe drug seizures||A 15-member special investigation team led by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik has been formed to probe the recent spate of drug seizures within the rural limits. The team has been constituted by drawing in select officers from various police stations in Ernakulam Rural. The spate of drug seizures started with the nabbing of three youngsters, including students, with 45 LSD stamps, a premium drug, from Perumbavoor. The SIT will start its operation with that case. This was followed by the arrest of three with 105 kg of ganja in two cars from Angamaly and another 35 kg of ganja from a rented house at Avoli on Wednesday. This turned out to be the biggest ganja seizure ever in Ernakulam Rural police limits. The police suspect that the accused were wholesale dealers who had smuggled drugs in the past. The rented house was suspected to have served as their storeroom.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for attempt to pawn fake gold||The Aluva East police arrested two persons on the charge of attempting to pawn spurious gold jewellery in a private financial institution near the Aluva Government Hospital on Thursday. The arrested were identified as Udayakumar, 52, of Marampilly, and Lawrence, 39, of Idukki, who was staying in a rented house at Perumbavoor. The police said that Udayakumar approached the firm to pawn a bangle, saying that he needed Rs. 20,000 to get his wife discharged from hospital after an eye surgery. However, the staff at the firm turned suspicious and found the ornament to be spurious on examination. Though the accused tried to flee, the staff and police chased them down. A team led by sub inspector Abdul Rahman, assistant sub inspectors Rajesh Kumar, Dileep Kumar A.G, and civil police officer Raju T.P. made the arrest.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: handling electronic goods isn’t headload workers’ right||The Kerala High Court has held that headload workers cannot insist that they have a right for loading and unloading electronic goods such as televisions and fridges on the business establishment premises. The Bench made the ruling on Thursday while allowing a writ petition filed by A. Balakrishnan, a businessman from Alappuzha, seeking police protection for employing his skilled workers for loading and unloading of electronic goods on his business premises. According to him these expensive electronic home appliances were mishandled by headload workers who had no training in handling such appliances and the petitioner was likely to sustain insurmountable losses. The court observed that refrigerators, smart televisions, food processors, microwave ovens, and water purifiers were complex electronic equipment with circuitry and breakable parts. There could not be any doubts that these items were expensive and mishandling of them could result in serious losses to the petitioner. Therefore, headload workers’ unions could not insist that they had a rightful claim to the loading and unloading of these electronic appliances.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in multiple cases arrested||The Ernakulam rural police arrested a person under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) on Thursday. The arrested man, identified as Leo, 25, of Vengoor, has 10 cases against him registered by the police in Angamaly, Perumbavoor, Kuruppampady, and Kothamangalam. Among the charges levelled against him were attempt to murder, assault, theft, and illegal possession of firearms. He was arrested on a report by K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), as part of the Operation Dark Hunt against anti-social elements. He was already in remand after being arrested as the sixth accused in a recent case registered by the Perumbavoor police after a gang hacked and shot at a youngster earlier this month. He was also accused of attempting to murder one Amal by hacking him after creating a melee by hurling a bomb.
27 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||472 new cases, 807 recoveries||Ernakulam district recorded 472 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with the source of infection of 119 remaining unknown. There were nine health workers among the infected. Palluruthy recorded 21 new cases and Edathala had 20 new patients. A total of 807 patients tested negative, recovering from the illness. As many as 1,741 people were added to the list of those under observation, taking the total number to 25,518. New hospital/FLTCs admissions stood at 118.
27 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC sets aside stay on water supply rule||A Division Bench of the High Court on Thursday set aside a single judge’s order staying the rule made by the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation to streamline the supply of drinking water in the city and to regulate the prices of drinking water being supplied by tanker lorry operators. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar passed its verdict on an appeal filed by the Corporation against the stay order. The stay order came on a petition filed by owners of tanker lorries challenging the newly framed by-law. They termed the by-law illegal, since it did not satisfy the requirement of securing approval from the State government. The Corporation said the by-laws had been framed to protect the health of the public and prevent the use of drinking water for other commercial purposes. The Bench observed that when the bylaw was framed, it was presumed to be in accordance with the law and that it had secured approval from the State government. There was every likelihood of interruption in the supply of drinking water due to the stay order. Therefore, the interim stay would cause serious prejudice to all concerned.
27 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. seeks more time for probe||The State government on Thursday sought more time from the Kerala High Court to complete the police investigation into the death of Sandhya, cousin of filmmaker Sanal Kumar Sasidharan. The government sought more time when a petition filed by Mr.Sasidharan seeking a CBI probe into the cause of the death came up for hearing. He had alleged foul play in the death of Sandhya. According to him, she was lured by the organ trade mafia operating at a private hospital in Kochi to donate her organs.
27 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC calls for govt. response||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State government to respond to a plea of Anil Akkara, MLA, for a directive to complete the construction of the LIFE Mission housing project at Wadakkancherry. According to the MLA’s petition, the construction of the apartment complex had come to a standstill after the CBI started a probe into the alleged violations of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act in connection with the project.
27 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Strike hits normal life in Kollam||With a majority of markets, factories and other business outlets remaining closed and buses, taxis and autorickshaws keeping off the road, the nationwide general strike called by various trade unions disrupted normal life in the district. The busy roads in Kollam city and other centres bore a deserted look. Though vehicular movement was relatively low, ambulances, milk and newspaper vehicles, those on COVID-19 duty and those carrying Sabarimala pilgrims were not blocked. Nearly all shops and restaurants remained closed. Most of the offices too remained shut. Around 95% of staff did not attend work in the postal department and three head post offices in the district did not function. The RMS (Railway Mail Service) was also hit as very few employees turned up for work. According to trade unions, around 12 lakh workers from various sectors, including banking and insurance, participated in the strike along with labourers from the unorganised sector. In various sectors While work was affected in cashew, fisheries and plantation sectors, employees of the Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited (KMML), United Electrical Industries Limited (UNILEC), Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, and Kerala State Electricity Board also joined the strike. The joint forum of trade unions took out a march and held a protest meeting in front of the Kollam head post office. CITU district secretary S. Jayamohan inaugurated the meeting while AITUC district secretary G. Babu presided. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), United Trade Union Congress (UTUC), Trade Union Coordination Centre (TUCC), Swathanthra Trade Union (STU) and All India Centre Of Trade Unions (AICTU) are among the trade unions that went on strike. Marches were held at Chavara, Karunagapally, Sooranadu, Kunnathur, Kundara, Anchalumoodu, Ezhukone, Kottarakara, Punalur, Kunnikode, Pathanapuram, Anchal, Kadakkal, Chadayamangalam, Chathannur, Kottiyam and Ayathil.
27 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||397 cases in Kollam||The district reported 397 new COVID-19 cases, one death and 481 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 390 contact cases, four NRISs, four persons who had travelled from other States and one health worker. The Health Department confirmed that the death of a 65-year-old Parippally resident is due to COVID-19. A 43-year-old Kilikolloor resident is the health worker who contracted the infection. The district currently has 19,980 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,48,132. While 1,806 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 1,12,746 primary and 9,532 secondary contacts of the patients. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 4,353.
27 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KDYF meet||The State leadership meet of the Kerala Dalit Yuvajana Federation (KDYF) will be held in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. Kerala Dalit Federation (KDF) State president P. Ramabhadran will inaugurate the meet and KDYF State president Sudheesh Payyanad will preside.
27 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||It’s a battle of high stakes in Pala municipality||The municipality of Pala, traditionally a United Democratic Front (UDF) bastion, has become electorally significant over decades not just because of itself, but as a showcase of the Kerala Congress’s power as well. During the previous local body elections (2015), the Kerala Congress (M) contested in as many as 20 out of the 26 seats here and won 17. But as the civic body is set to elect a new council next month, the schism in the regional party and the consequent emergence of an alternative political force in the rubber heartland has put it at the centre of a high-stakes battle. With the Jose K. Mani group fielding candidates in 16 wards and the P.J. Joseph group in 13, the municipality has become the stage for a direct clash between the splinter groups that are fighting hard to claim the legacy of K.M. Mani — the KC(M) patriarch. Among these, they have squared up to each other in seven wards, including Munnani where two potential chairman candidates — Kuriakose Padavan of the UDF and Anto Padinjarekkara of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) — are fighting each other. Consolidating position A victory will help the respective KC(M) side stabilise its position within the coalition while also showing the other as weak and inconsequential. As the contest with respect to the legacy of the KC(M) settled in its favour for the time being, the Mani group that contests under the party symbol ‘two leaves’ has the initial edge. But the UDF too has put up a united front, keen not to lose its position as the traditional favourite. The Congress, meanwhile, is the biggest gainer as it contests from 13 seats this time as against six in 2015. The CPI(M), on the other hand, has given up as many as eight seats to accommodate the Mani group.  Pro-UDF voters “The voters of Pala, who are predominantly pro-UDF, have a clear understanding on the circumstances that led to the loss of the ‘two leaves’ symbol,” explained Mr. Padavan, a Joseph group strongman. He also exuded confidence over the coalition romping home once again on the back of a slew of welfare and development projects implemented by the previous council. The Mani group, on the other hand, regards itself to be in an advantageous situation with the support of the Left coalition, which currently holds the Assembly constituency, including the Pala municipality. “The realignment move will only help raise our vote share while the High Court order allotting the party symbol has given us the initial push,” said Sunny Thekkedam, district president of the Mani faction. Meanwhile, both coalitions cannot afford to ignore the presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is out to prove a point in at least a couple of wards. Though the party had won a seat in the previous council, the councillor later switched sides to the Left Democratic Front.
27 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam posts 425 cases||As many as 425 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases included 48 children and 55 persons aged above 60. With 80 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thalayolaparambu with 25 cases.   With 204 recoveries, the district currently has 3,985 active cases.
27 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ashtami fete at Vaikom from today||The Ashtami festival at the Sree Mahadevar temple in Vaikom will begin on Friday amid COVID-19-induced restrictions. The celebrations will get under way with the hoisting of the festival flag between 6.30 a.m. and 7.40 a.m. in the auspices of tantri Bhadrakali Mattappalli Narayanan Namboothiri and tantri Kizhakkinezhath Mekkadillath Cheriya Madhavan Namboothiri. The sacred ‘ashtami darshan’ will be held at 4.30 a.m. on December 8. Virtual queue In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the darshan will be allowed strictly on the basis of a virtual queue booking. Those who wish to have darsan shall download ‘apna queue’ mobile app and select Vaikom temple for online booking. For the usual darsan between the first day and 11th day, faithful should join the ‘darshanam’ queue, while there will be separate queues for ‘ashtami’ and ‘valiya kanikka.’ The entry of devotees will be limited to a maximum of 3,600 persons per day. Children below the age of 10 and persons aged above 65 years will not be permitted entry. As part of the COVID-19 protocol, no food will be served at the Oottupuramalika while only one elephant will be allowed for the rituals like ‘ezhunnallippu.’ No elephant will be used during the ‘rishabha vahana ezhunnellippu’. The authorities have also decided to avoid ‘thalappoli.’The festival will come to a close on December 9 with ‘arat’.
27 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Candidate positive, UDF campaign called off||As one of its candidates tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Thursday called off its electioneering works in the Pala municipality till November 30. According to UDF sources, the patient, who contests in ward 20 of the civic body, attended the the UDF meeting on November 19 and also had public interactions while submitting his nomination and during allocation of the symbol. The person also attended a joint meeting of all the candidates and various political parties in the municipality convened by the returning officer in the Pala municipality. In this context, the UDF has directed all its candidates to remain under surveillance till Sunday and begin direct campaigning only after obtaining a certificate testing negative for COVID-19.
27 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kerala has been in love with Diego Maradona||Kerala is mourning the death of Diego Maradona. Officially. The State government on Thursday announced a two-day mourning in the sports sector. Not many governments outside Argentina would have done something like that. Kerala was in love with Maradona. There were great footballers before him. There have been great footballers after him. But, none was loved as much. None was revered as much. T. Asif Saheer Remember the frenzy he created when he visited the State in 2012? The city of Kannur had welcomed him with so much warmth and excitement as the legend took part in a private function at the Municipal Stadium. Never had the historic North Malabar city witnessed such a massive crowd. Among those who went to Kannur was T. Asif Saheer, who was known as Mambad Maradona. One of the finest Indian footballers of his generation, Asif was a great favourite with crowds, for his exceptional dribbling skills and scoring ability. There was another thing he shared with Maradona – the height, or the lack of it. “Though I was nowhere near Maradona in talent, I considered it a great honour when I was compared to him,” Asif says. “He was my academy of football. I just tried to imitate him.” Asif was nine when Maradona scored what later came to be known as the goal of the century. The solo effort in the quarterfinal of the 1986 World Cup is still in his memory. The Argentine captain had beaten five defenders and the England goalkeeper Peter Shilton to score a stunning goal. “I remember watching it live on television in my home town of Mambad.,” says Asif. “Only one house in our area had a television and hundreds had assembled there to watch that match.” P.T. Usha P.T. Usha, India's greatest track-and-field athlete of all time and football fan, also remembers that goal. “I admired Maradona,” she says. “I loved the way he broke through the defence, much like a snake sneaking through grass. I don't think any other footballer had as much admirers in Kerala.” Little wonder, there were functions held in his memory in different parts of the State, including one at Hotel Blue Nile in Kannur, where Maradona had stayed during his visit eight years ago. That room has since been turned into a Maradona museum. Just about everything Maradona used has been retained.
27 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||General strike remains total||Normal life was hit in Kozhikode district following the 24-hour all India general strike called by 10 central trade unions and supported by the Congress and Left parties, on Thursday. Attendance at government offices and private establishments was thin. Banking services were also severely hit. Shops and commercial establishments remained closed. The otherwise busy commercial streets at Palayam and Valiyangadi (Big Bazaar) in the city were almost deserted. Shops on SM Street and Moideen Palli Road and Oasis Compound also were shut. However, provisions stores and supermarkets opened by afternoon. Some hotels were also opened. Except for private vehicles and motorbikes, public transport was also affected. KSRTC and private stage carriers kept off the road. Educational institutions were given a holiday. Calicut University postponed all examinations scheduled for the day. Kannur, Kasaragod The strike was complete in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. Shops and business establishments remained closed and transport services remained off the road. Since most hotels and restaurants remained closed, food supplied by the Central Jail gave relief to migrant workers. Except for those on election duty attendance at government offices remained thin. The police kept a close vigil by patrolling in sensitive areas. No untoward incidents were reported. Wayanad The strike led to a hartal-like situation in the district, with shops, educational institutions, and business establishments remaining closed. Attendance was low in government offices. Only 58 out of 153 employees turned up for duty at the collectorate, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. While private and KSRTC buses, autorickshaws, and taxi vehicles stayed off the road, two-wheelers and other private vehicles plied. No services were operated from the Sulthan Bathery, Kalpetta, and Mananthavady KSRTC depots. No untoward incidents were reported from anywhere in the district, the police said.
27 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 686 fresh cases||As many as 686 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the test positivity rate was 11.73% when 5,848 samples were tested. A total of 642 people got infected through local transmission, and the source of infection was unknown in 24 cases. There were 709 recoveries. Kozhikode Corporation (151), Nochad (30), Koyilandy, Keezhariyur, and Narikkuni (20 each) had the highest number of cases through local transmission. The number of active cases from the district is 7,197. Meanwhile, a tele-intensive care unit (ICU) facility will be launched at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, for COVID treatment on Friday. The Covid Jagrata portal has been equipped with an ICU grid that connects such facilities in other hospitals. The ICUs at the District Government Hospital, Mananthavady, Wayanad; District Government Hospital, Kanhangad; Government Medical College Hospital, Kasaragod, and those at the MCH had been connected to a command room set up at the MCH. The services of expert doctors at the MCH will be made available to all those hospitals. As many as 75 ICUs could be included in the Jagrata portal at a time to ensure critical care services to as many patients as possible. The Kozhikode district administration, MCH, National Health Mission, and Aster MIMS have joined hands for the purpose. In Wayanad Wayanad district reported 151 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, while 129 persons recovered from the disease. All the patients, including three health workers, contracted infection through local contact.
27 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online convocation at NIT-C tomorrow||The 16th convocation of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NITC) will be held online at 3 p.m. on Saturday. A total of 1,491 graduands will receive degrees at the convocation, and they include 866 B.Tech., 46 B.Arch., 353 M.Tech., 10 M. Plan., 42 MCA, 35 MBA, 50 M.Sc. and 89 Ph.D degrees. Metro Man E. Sreedharan will deliver the convocation address. Gajjala Yoganand, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NITC, will declare the convocation open. Dr. P.S. Sathidevi, Director-in-charge, NITC, will present the annual report. Saly George, Dean (Academic), said the academic year 2019-20 was very special for NITC for a variety of reasons. Despite the fag end of the academic year getting affected by the pandemic, the institute completed its academic activities without losing its characteristic vigour and rigour. At the national-level NIRF ranking by the Ministry of Education, NITC advanced its position to 23 from the previous year’s 28. The institution was also ranked eighth at the national level and the first among NITs in the ‘Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA)’ this year. In the current year, NITC recorded the best placement figures too. In the concluding phase of the 2019-20 placement drive, NITC students received a record number of 647 placements with an average salary of Rs. 11.58 lakh. Last year, the number of offers were 643 with an average salary of Rs. 9.56 lakh. The highest offer this year was Rs. 50 lakh per annum. The institute is constrained to conduct the convocation in the online mode on account of the COVID-19 restrictions.
27 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity yet to get UGC nod for distance education courses||The resumption of postgraduate and undergraduate courses under the distance education programme of Calicut University is getting delayed, as the University Grants Commission (UGC) is yet to give its permission. Sources in the varsity said that the university’s application could be considered at the commission’s meeting expected to be held in December first week. There are 14 UG courses and 12 PG courses in the distance education mode. The university sent an application for permission after the newly launched Sree Narayana Guru Open University failed to get recognition. It was reported that the State government had given an unofficial direction to the authorities to send the application. Though October 15 was the earlier deadline, it was extended to October 31. Meanwhile, the Syndicate on Wednesday decided to resume private registration in view of the delay. Students will be shifted to the distance education programme as soon as the UGC gives its permission to resume the courses.  HC intervention The government was earlier going ahead with its plans to stop all distance education programmes under the University of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi University, Calicut University, and Kannur University, and bring them all under the open university. However, the Kerala High Court intervened in the issue on a petition filed by parallel colleges and students. It was pointed out that the new university was yet to get recognition from the UGC, and that the future of around a lakh students was at stake. Subsequently, the court asked the government to produce the approval under UGC regulations. Parallel college owners and students had also pointed out that the government barred other universities from running distance education programmes, because it was not sure about students joining the open university. It was pointed out that though the project report on the university had mentioned that its functioning would be subject to UGC approval, it had been ignored.  There are 14 UG courses and 12 PG courses in the distance education mode
27 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||DGCA team inspects Calicut airport||A special team attached to the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has carried out an examination to restore the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut International Airport. Official sources said that S. Durairaj, Deputy Director of Operations (Aerodrome Standards), Southern Region, conducted an assessment of the facilities at the airport. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was abruptly halted after an Air India Express flight accident at the airport on August 7. The aircraft classified under Code C (medium or short range) involved in the accident killed 21 people, including both pilots and injured more than 100 passengers. The flight was part of the Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indian nationals stranded due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources said that the DGCA team reached Calicut airport following demands from airline companies, Airport Advisory Committee of the Calicut International Airport and and various organisations including the Malabar Development Council and Malabar Development Forum to resume the operation of wide-bodied aircraft. Calicut Airport has been excluded from the list of Haj embarkation points in the country. It was in July this year that Saudia (Saudi Arabian airlines) resumed the operation of Haj flights. Sources said the suspension of the operation of wide-bodied aircraft would continue at the airport till a five-member team of Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau, probing the Air India Express crash, submits its report.
27 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Milma to open milk powder plant||A milk-powder plant will soon be set up in Malappuram to process the extra milk being produced in the State, K. Raju, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development, has said. He added that Kerala had already attained self-sufficiency in milk production. Work on the plant would start in this financial year. It will be run by Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (MRCMPU) with technical assistance from the National Dairy Development Board. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development will extend financial support, the Minister said after inaugurating the State-level birth centenary celebrations of Varghese Kurien, known as the ‘Milkman of India’, on Thursday. Milma chairman P.A. Balan presided over the ceremony at the headquarters of MRCMPU in Kozhikode. Milma brought out a special milk cover that carries the centenary logo of Kurien and a special postal cove. His daughter, Nirmala Kurien, unveiled a statue of her father and delivered a commemorative lecture. Milma is launching a nation-wide campaign seeking Bharat Ratna for Kurien.
27 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||376 new cases in Palakkad district||As many as 376 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. However, there were 461 recoveries in the district. District officials said that 229 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, there were 140 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases were six persons who came from across the border and one health worker. Health officials said that 4,775 people were under treatment for COVID-19 across the district. Most of them were under observation at their respective homes. Apart from them, 186 people from Palakkad were being treated in other parts of the State. When 82 were in Malappuram, 45 were in Ernakulam, 33 in Thrissur, 10 in Kozhikode, seven in Kannur, four in Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Wayanad.
27 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||207 cases added to Pathanamthitta’s tally||As many as 207 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 198 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Of the new cases, the contact source of 35 persons has not yet been ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 25 cases while Ezhamkulam reported 17 cases. 127 recoveries With 127 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2011 active cases.
27 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||33 cases so far at Sabarimala||With two more employees at the police mess testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to be reported from Sabarimala during this year’s Mandalam-Makaravilakku season has risen to 33. As per estimates, 5,600 samples, including those of 4,703 pilgrims, have been collected at the kiosks in Nilackal over the past 11 days. Of the cases tested positive, 11 were employees of various departments.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In-house tussle worries UDF in Varkala||A bitter stand-off between the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the coastal wards of the Varkala municipality is proving to be a major headache for the United Democratic Front (UDF), which hopes to put up a strong fight to wrest the local body in the upcoming elections. Blaming the Congress for ignoring its demands for more seats, the IUML has put up its own candidates in seven crucial coastal wards. With the Congress too fielding its candidates here, the ground is set for an ‘in-house tussle’ between the UDF partners, amid the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) efforts to retain its hold over the 33-seat municipal council. ‘Ladder’ for League The IUML candidates are contesting on the party symbol, ladder, in Idapparambu, Nadayara, Raghunathapuram, Panayil, Vallakadavu, Kottumoola, and Maithanam. Of this, four seats had been won by Congress candidates in 2015. Talks within the UDF to diffuse the crisis did not succeed, leaving the front with a situation which could prove critical when the votes are counted on December 16. According to local IUML leader and former Congress man A. Davood Varkala, the Congress was adamant in its refusal to grant seats to his party, which prompted it to field its own candidates. “We requested six seats, but the Congress was not willing. We are optimistic that we can win in the seven coastal wards on our own,” Mr. Davood said. Cong. confident While the IUML could influence “some voters,” the Congress was confident of clinching a majority in the municipality, former MLA Varkala Kahar, who is helming the Congress campaign, said. The other UDF constituent, Revolutionary Socialist Party, is contesting in one seat, Teacher’s Colony. ‘Outrageous demands’ “We were ready to offer two seats, but they made outrageous demands. We also gave them time for a rethink,” Mr. Kahar said. According to him, the situation in the coastal wards would not spoil the UDF’s overall chances in the municipality which was under LDF rule in the past five years. In 2015, the LDF had captured Varkala from the UDF by winning 18 of the 33 seats in the municipal council. The UDF had won 12 and the BJP, three.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Finally, State goes for Option I to get GST dues||Shedding its resistance, Kerala has joined 24 other States and three Union Territories in accepting ‘Option I’ put forward by the Centre for meeting the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation cess shortfall. Kerala, which was in the forefront of the fight for realising the mounting GST compensation cess, has communicated the acceptance of Option I of the GST borrowing proposal. Along with Kerala, Bengal has also accepted Option I taking the number of States choosing the option to 25. The amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation, which has been pegged at Rs. 1.1 lakh crore, will come through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. Since October 23, the Centre has borrowed Rs. 24,000 crore on behalf of the States in four instalments and passed it on to 23 States and three Union Territories that chose Option I. The instalments were given on October 23, November 2, 9, and 23. By accepting Option I, Kerala will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowings. Besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall, the States are also entitled to unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.5% of Gross State Domestic Product out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on May 17. This is over and above the special window of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. The Centre has granted additional borrowing permission of Rs. 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5 % of State’s GSDP), according to the Finance Ministry. With this, the State will have nil GST revenue shortfall. Rs. 9,006 cr. compensation Kerala had anticipated Rs. 9,006 crore as GST compensation till January 2021 as per the Centre’s decision to borrow through a special window and provide back-to-back loans to the States. Of the anticipated amount, Rs. 5,767 crore is from the Centre’s offer to borrow and the remaining Rs. 3,239 crore from the GST cess this year as per the projections made by the Finance Department for April 2020-January 2021.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Family rules in Palace ward||The local body elections are a family affair in the Palace ward of the Attingal municipality. Sunitha Sivakumar, the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in the ward, is pitted against her close relatives here. One is her sister-in-law and the other her maternal aunt, both of whom incidentally share the same first name. While Sunitha’s husband’s sister S. Girija is the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate, her mother’s younger sister Girija G. is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate. Interestingly, all three are contesting elections for the first time in the ward, which has sided with the UDF in the past couple of polls. While going up against family members can be a tricky affair, all three women are clear that their personal and political lives are separate. Says Sunitha, “Yes, we are in three parties and have different ideologies, but we don’t have any problems between us. Within the family, there is no politics.” S. Girija too says they do not talk politics when they meet up. Girija G. says she shares a warm relationship with her niece, and when they meet the talk does briefly drift to how the other is faring on the campaign front. All three are hopeful of a win in the ward that is reserved for Scheduled Caste women. While Sunitha does not have much political involvement to speak of, she is a Kudumbashree member. Her aunt Girija was not too long ago a Left follower who after a couple of disappointments with the party decisions joined the BJP. S. Girija’s loyalties have been with the CPI(M) and she is glad to have got the opportunity to contest the polls this time. On women’s presence The three feel encouraged by the increasing presence of women in the political arena. There is nothing that women cannot do, says Sunitha, highlighting the number of women candidates put up by her party. Her sister-in-law Girija feels that women should come forward and interact with the wider society through the platform of politics. Girija G. says that win or lose, development of the ward is her goal.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity stays steady at 9.6%||Kerala reported 5,378 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 55,996 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 5,83,741 cases. Test positivity rate remained steady at 9.6%. For 15 consecutive days, the State had reported more recoveries than new cases daily, which had helped bring down the active caseload of the State substantially. Though the number of recoveries seemed to dip for three days afterwards, on Thursday, 5,970 persons were reported to have recovered from their disease. The active case pool in the State now stands at 64,486 cases. So far, 5,16,978 persons have recovered from COVID-19 in the State. The Health Department has added 27 more deaths to the official list of fatalities. The COVID-19 toll of the State till date, according to official figures, is 2,148.  Of the new 5,378 cases, 5,302 cases are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraced in 582 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted COVID-19 is 50. In districts, Malappuram reported 719 cases, Kozhikode 686, Thrissur 573, Ernakulam 472, Thiruvananthapuram 457, Kottayam 425, Kollam 397, Palakkad 376, Alappuzha 347, Idukki 256, Kannur 226, Pathanamthitta 207, Wayanad 151 and Kasaragod 86 cases.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||General strike leaves a hartal-like impact on city||The day-long nationwide general strike was near total in the capital district on Thursday. While its observance resembled a hartal, no untoward incident was reported. The strike organised by a joint committee of 10 Central trade unions against the Centre’s policies, including the new labour and farm laws, received immense support with almost all commercial activities being suspended for most of the day. Barring a few in certain pockets, almost all shops, especially those in Chala, remained closed. No incident of shops being forcibly closed were reported in the district. The major roads were largely deserted and witnessed a sporadic presence of private vehicles, none of which were blocked by protesters. Public transport vehicles, including KSRTC and private buses, kept off the roads. Medical treatment While railway employees held a brief demonstration, they later reported for work as railway services operated on schedule. The City police arranged transportation for those who arrived in trains for treatment in the Regional Cancer Centre and Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology. While most government offices were closed, the Secretariat recorded dismal employee attendance. Banking services were also hit with employees of public sector, private, foreign, cooperative and regional rural banks participating in the strike. The University of Kerala had postponed all examinations scheduled on the day. Many schools managed to conduct classes through web-conferencing platforms for their students. Ballot paper distribution The strike did not disrupt the ongoing process for the upcoming local body polls. The distribution of ballot papers from government presses to local self-government institutions was held smoothly. The endeavours of Poojappura Central Prison brought much relief to many. While the Freedom cafeteria in Poojappura witnessed considerable rush, the Freedom food counter at the KSRTC bus station in Thampanoor and the mobile counter in the Government Medical College premises also registered brisk sales. The Freedom petrol pump in Poojappura also operated full swing. Rally to PMG Gatherings of agitators could be seen in many places, protesting against the Centre’s policies. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State president Anathalavattom Anandan inaugurated the State-level protest meet in East Fort. The valedictory meeting was organised at PMG following a rally taken out from the venue of the inaugural session. At the valedictory, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the Central government of silencing the Parliament and violating democratic principles to push six ‘black laws’ through. “The passing of the anti-labour and anti-farm laws will mark the beginning of the end for the BJP-led government,” he said.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Punctuality of trains operating in State touches 100%||Railways have utilised the cancellation of regular passenger and express train services during the COVID-19-induced lockdown as an opportunity to complete the maintenance of coaches and improve the punctuality of trains running in Kerala to 100%. Though train services have commenced only partially following the COVID-19 unlock process, the Thiruvananthapuram railway division has been consistently maintaining 100% punctuality and the adjoining Palakkad railway division 99.9%. “The Thiruvananthapuram division has been maintaining 100% punctuality for three months. It has gone down only during the breaches and flooding of tracks during heavy rain. Failures are fewer. It is as a result of the team work involving all departments during the lockdown,” railway officials told The Hindu . As the Thiruvananthapuram division’s jurisdiction extends to adjoining Tamil Nadu and the Palakkad division’s up to Mangaluru, the spin-off effect is felt outside the State too. Compared to the 120 trains handled daily by the Thiruvananthapuram division during the pre-COVID-19 period, only 16 pairs are being handled now. In the Palakkad division, the number has come down to 30 from 100. More trains soon The Railway Board’s nod for more weekly long-distance fully reserved special trains will be a challenge. Officials are confident that they will be able to maintain the punctuality at 100% even if more trains are operated. In addition to the additional maintenance of the coaches, the works undertaken during the lockdown period by the engineering, signal, telecommunications, and electrical wings have resulted in the improvement of the punctuality in the two divisions. Works completed “Works pending for five to six years had been cleared during the lockdown,” sources said. The replacement of tracks and ballast has also helped Railways achieve the feat in the State. Good condition of rails and ballast are the key factors for maintaining punctuality. The improvement in track condition is reflected in the punctuality of mail, express, and passenger trains, it has been pointed out. For Railways, especially the Operations wing of the two divisions, the 100% punctuality is a relief as they had earned the wrath of commuters and the State government alike for the late running of trains.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Voting guidelines for COVID patients||Voters who test positive for COVID-19 and those in quarantine till 3 p.m. on the day prior to the local body elections will be able to exercise their franchise in the polls using ‘special postal ballot papers’, according to the State Election Commission (SEC). State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran on Thursday issued detailed guidelines in this regard. Electors who test positive or go into quarantine after 3 p.m. on the eve of the election till the conclusion of voting can cast their votes directly at the polling booths “'after all other ordinary voters waiting in queue and those issued tokens have finished voting”, the SEC said. List of special voters A ‘certified list of special voters’ will be prepared by designated health officers. They will prepare a list of special voters in each district (who is either an active COVID-19 patient or is in mandatory quarantine within ten days before election day till 3 p.m. on the eve of the election). The second category of certified list will consist of voters who test positive or go into quarantine after 3 p.m. on the date prior to the election. They will not be issued special postal ballots, but will be permitted to cast their votes directly at the polling stations. The special ballot papers will be distributed to special voters by the special polling officer and polling assistant. The voter has to affix his/her signature on a declaration before the officer. Once the ballot is handed over, the vote should be cast in secret. The vote can either be handed over to the special polling officer or despatched to the returning officer via another person or by mail. The commission has also listed out detailed procedures for allowing the second category of special voters who need to visit the polling booths. Those in govt. hospitals Special voters under treatment in government hospitals will be assisted by the Health Department to reach the designated polling station. Special voters staying at any place other than government hospitals should travel to the polling stations by themselves. “They should not stop in between the travel from home to the polling station. The driver should also wear PPE kit while taking the patient. There should not be any bystander accompanying the patient in the same vehicle,” the guidelines say. These voters will not be allowed to touch EVMs without hand gloves. Separate pens should be used by each voter to sign in the voter register.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Illegal sale of IMFL: two arrested||The Vizhinjam police arrested Binu, 39, and Ravi, 49, from Kottukal, Vizhinjam, on the charge of illegally selling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). They have been accused of unauthorised retail sale of IMFL they purchased from the outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. The duo sold it to customers in a wooded area behind Binu’s house.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 457 cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram went up by 457 on Thursday when 5,203 people were tested during the last 24 hours, thereby registering a test positivity rate of 8.78%. While 488 COVID-19 patients recovered from their illnesses, the number of active cases stood at 4,496. Barring a lone imported case, all others have been attributed to local transmission of SARS-CoV-2. The sources of infection in 140 cases were unknown. Six health care workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll rose to 538 with two more recent deaths – those of a 56-year-old man who hailed from Kochuthope and an 81-year-old man who hailed from Vattiyurkavu – being attributed to the disease. In quarantine The district administration placed 1,635 people under quarantine as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. With this, the numbers of people being monitored have gone up to 26,867 in houses and 121 in various institutions.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Racket involving fake police profiles busted||Cybercrime investigators have cracked down on an inter-State racket that created fake profiles of police officials on social media platforms to solicit contributions for charity activities. The involvement of a 17-year-old Rajasthani boy was unearthed as the Cybercrime Police, a specialised wing of the City Police, looked into an information that Facebook profiles were being created by fraudsters using photographs of officials in police uniform. They would send ‘friend request’ to people, and once accepted would request donations citing charity work being undertaken by the police. A probe into a fake profile made in the name of Inspector General (Headquarters) P. Vijayan, led a team headed by Cybercrime Police Dy.SP and station house officer P. Shyamlal to Bharatpur in Rajasthan. The officers found the mobile phone and internet connection that were allegedly used to operate the accounts. They belonged to the teenage school-going boy who were provided the same by his parents to attend online classes. Not detained The police decided not to take the juvenile into custody. However, they believe that the racket involves more people and will continue efforts to nab them.  Donations for charity work solicited on social media.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||21,075 traders opt for Amnesty scheme||As many as 21,075 traders have so far submitted the option for the Amnesty Scheme, 2020 to settle outstanding tax dues pertaining to the period before introduction of the Goods and Service Tax (GST). Of the 21,075 options received, the Goods and Service Tax Department has already settled 19,221 options submitted. The last date for submitting the options will end on November 30. The amnesty scheme, the biggest to settle tax dues by the Taxes Department, will apply to traders who have outstanding dues under the Kerala Value Added Tax Act, Central Sales Tax Act, Tax on Luxuries Act, Kerala Surcharges Act, Kerala Agriculture Income Tax Act and Kerala General Sales Tax Act, an official release on Wednesday said.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. covering up Sprinklr deal flaws: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday said the State government had attempted to cover up the irregularities in the deal it struck with the U.S.-based firm Sprinklr Inc to trade the personal health information of citizens in exchange for real-time forecasts of COVID-19 spread. An expert committee had examined the agreement with Sprinklr. The government was yet to release the report in the public domain.
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC slams Raveendran’s hospitalisation||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran on Thursday said that C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to the Chief Minister, had got himself hospitalised to avoid questioning by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The ED had issued a second summons to Mr. Raveendran to appear at the agency’s office for questioning on Friday. Earlier, Mr. Raveendran had pleaded inability to present himself at the office on the ground that he had contracted COVID-19.
27 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Southern Railway resumes services||The Southern Railway has resumed services with the landfall of Cyclone Nivar causing no major damage to the rail infrastructure. The services were restored after an extensive inspection of the rail infrastructure .
27 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Chandy: complaints to be solved through talks||Complaints about selection of candidates will be solved through discussion, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said. “There are problems in every party. Now the focus is on campaigning for victory of the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates,” he said while participating in an election debate programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Thursday. Amendment to the Kerala Police Act to control social media brought by the State government was a blot to Kerala’s vibrant tradition, Mr. Chandy said. Even thinking about such an amendment in a State like Kerala was wrong, he said. “The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has taken many wrong decisions. They are suffering setbacks for such decisions. Anyway, it was welcome that they were ready to withdraw the draconian law.” Bar bribery and solar controversy were not new things. Those who did not initiate action in the last four-and-a-half years were coming up with new stories as the election arrived. People of Kerala would not believe such stories, he said.  “The UDF is expecting good results in the local body elections. K. Muraleedharan is an inevitable part of the party. If he has any complaint with the party, it will be solved by discussions,” he said.
27 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||573 test positive in Thrissur||As many as 573 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday while 589 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,602 active cases in the district and 93 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. So far, 57,135 cases and 50,113 recoveries have been reported in the district. As many as 557 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact in the district on Thursday. In all, 4,290 patients are under home care and 208 patients got admitted to hospitals. As many as 6,019 samples were collected for tests on Thursday.
27 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Candidate dead||M.K. Mukundan, 53, former Opposition leader at Thrissur Corporation and Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent candidate for the local body election from Pullazhi division, died here on Thursday. He was suffering from renal issues. Mukundan, a former district leader of the Youth Congress, quit the party during the last leg of the previous council following some difference of opinion. He declared support to the Communist Party of India (Marxist). His candidature with CPI(M) support had sparked a controversy as he was allegedly involved in the murder of Students’ Federation of India leader Kochaniyan.
27 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Ganja haul at Koratty||The police seized 15 kg of ganja, which was being smuggled in a lorry laden with rice sacks, at Koratty on Thursday. They arrested Aneesh, 36, of Haripad, and Sajeevan, 39, of Erur, drivers of the lorry, in this connection.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leaving none out||
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Drawing the line||
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Complete standstill||
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All the world is a wall||
27 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colonies in Kadiri inundated as heavy rain lashes Anantapur||Many colonies in Kadiri town were inundated as heavy rain caused by the cyclonic storm Nivar lashed Anantpaur district on Thursday. The cyclonic storm which crossed the Tamil Nadu coast at 2.30 a.m. on Thursday, caused heavy rains in the south and south-eastern parts of Anantapur district, leading to the inundation of colonies in the low-lying areas in Kadiri. Seven mandals in the district recorded rainfall between 13 mm and 26 mm in 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The intensity of the rain increased from Thursday morning and 18 mandals received more than 10 mm of rain from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. and eight more mandals between 5 mm and 10 mm. Nambulapulakunta mandal received 210 mm from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Command control centres Water entered houses in the Sharaf Narayana Rao street in Kadiri town following heavy rain from the early hours. Kadiri mandal recorded 17.4 mm of rain in 24 hours ending on Thursday morning. Kadiri Municipal Commissioner K. Pramila, along with the police personnel and tehsildar, visited the colonies and got the clogged rains cleared to ensure free flow of water. “We have deployed sanitation staff all over the town to clear the drains to prevent inundation,” said Ms. Pramila said. Meanwhile, command control centres have been set up in all madnal headquarters to help the people in case of any emergency. “The district administration is prepared to tackle any eventuality,” said Collector Gandham Chandrudu. He cancelled all his programmes and monitored the situation from the Command Control Room from 1 p.m. Nambulapulakunta mandal recorded a rainfall of 26.6 mm, followed by Gandlapenta (22 mm), Tanakal (17.2 mm), Nallacheruvu (15.2 mm), Talupula (14.2 mm), and Amadugur (12.8 mm). As many as 33 of the 63 mandals in the district received good rain. The district, on an average, has recorded 3.3 mm of rain, with a total of 205.2 mm, according to Chief Planning Officer Challa Premachandra. The district has received 18.2 mm of rain when compared to the normal of 33 mm in November till date, officials said.
27 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reciting Preamble made mandatory in schools||In an attempt to create awareness among the people on the Constitution, the district administration has embarked on an ambitious nine-week programme. Launching the programme on Thursday, marking the Constitution Day, Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy and Collector Gandham Chandrudu unveiled a painting depicting the adoption of the Constitution on November 26, 1949, on the walls of a flyover on NH-44 in the city. “It has been decided to make the recitation of the Preamble of the Constitution compulsory in all school assemblies after prayer. The move is aimed at creating awareness about the salient features of the Constitution among the students,” said Mr. Chandrudu, adding that the nine-week drive would culminate on January 26 next, marking the Republic Day. Laboriously painted on a fast-track mode by Vijayawada-based Mohammed Ali and Gopinath of Tirupati, a set of three paintings depict Dr. B.R. Ambedkar presenting a copy of the Constitution to the then President Rajendra Prasad in the presence of Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and C. Rajagopalachari on the day of adoption of the Constitution. Two other half-finished paintings show different leaders of those times signing on papers and speaking at a meeting. Flyover to be named after Ambedkar The Anantapur MLA made a written request to the Anantapur Municipal Corporation seeking naming the new Ramnagar Flyover in the city after Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and it was accepted by Special Officer Gandham Chandrudu. “The makers of the Constitution had a great vision on how the people of this country should be living . The Constitution was designed to protect the rights of the citizens and to ensure the equality before the law,” said the MLA. The Collector further said that following the basic principles of the Constitution was a bounden duty of every citizen, adding that copies of the Constitution would be distributed among students in a phased manner. The drive began with the tenth class students on Thursday. The Anantapur MP said that every citizen must read the Constitution and make sincere efforts to understand their fundamental rights and duties.
27 November 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundwater levels rise in A.P., Telangana||Good rainfall during the south-west monsoon season this year has resulted in a substantial increase in the groundwater levels in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, experts have said. The south-west monsoon season (June to September), which extended till the October-end this year, brought in copious rains. Both the Telugu-speaking States can now be rest assured of adequate groundwater for the rabi season and the forthcoming summer. Statistics suggest that the Rayalaseema region recorded an excess rainfall of 57% with average actual rainfall of 90 cm when compared to the normal of 54 cm between June 1 and November 11. Telangana also received good rains with an excess rainfall of 47 % with an actual average rainfall of 127 cm as against the normal of 85 cm. “Coastal Andhra Pradesh, however, received marginally excess rainfall of 14% with actual average rainfall of 94 cm as against the normal rainfall of 78 cm,” says P.V. Rama Rao, retired Director of the IMD, who have conducted a study on the rainfall distribution and groundwater level. The weather systems largely benefited Rayalaseema and Telangana, and to a lesser extent coastal Andhra Pradesh. The average ground level in Telangana rose steeply by 23.15 feet due to copious rains between May and October 2020, he explains.  Depression over Bay In Rayalaseema, there was a significant rise of 11.4 feet in the groundwater levels till September. But, there was a fall in groundwater level by 1.1 feet in coastal Andhra Pradesh till September. However, the rain caused by the deep depression over the Bay of Bengal during October led to an average marginal rise in the groundwater level in coastal Andhra Pradesh by 2 feet, says Mr. Rama Rao. Groundwater was available at an average depth of 13.84 feet in Telangana, and at 33.36 feet in coastal Andhra Pradesh by the end of October. The average depth of groundwater in Rayalaseema was 54.97 feet by the end of September. Signifacant improvement  “Groundwater levels in various areas of Visakhapatnam city and district registered a significant rise in October. The average depth at which groundwater was available in the district improved from 6.17 metres in September to 3.95 metres in October,” says M. Nagamalleswara Rao, Deputy Director, Groundwater Department, Visakhapatnam.
27 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||An initiative to make students love reading||“Reading maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man,” says Sir Francis Bacon. The benefits of reading are known to many and now, the Government of Andhra Pradesh has launched a programme ‘We love reading’ to inculcate a love for reading in students at school. Launching the campaign in Guntur during a programme held to mark Constitution Day on Thursday, Minister for Human Resources Development Adimulapu Suresh said the concept of ‘We love reading’ is a barinchild of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy. It intends to inculcate the habit of reading among students at an early age. ‘We love reading’, the one year reading fluency campaign takes place in four phases -- preparatory, foundation, advanced and valedictory to improve the reading skills of children from classes 3 to 9, he said. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha urged students to make reading of books, newspapers on a day to day basis a habit to gain knowledge and build their own personality. She said the government prioritised the education sector and implemented various schemes like Amma Vodi, Vidya Kanuka, Vasati Deevena, and Vidya Deevena which have greatly increased enrolment in government schools. Principal Secretary (school education) B. Rajasekhar, District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, Joint Collectors A.S Dinesh Kumar and P. Prasanthi and other officials were present. The campaign aims at transforming non-readers into readers by cultivating the habit of reading and focuses on developing foundational literacy skills both conceptual and skill-based knowledge among the students of Class 3 to 9 and intends to build advanced skills after the foundation. The advanced skills include phonemic awareness, alphabetic principle, reading fluency, vocabulary among others. Awareness will be created on using e-books and digital libraries wherever infrastructure is available. Main activities The main activities to be taken up in this campaign are classroom reading, school book bank, community reading centre, reading fests and most importantly providing two library periods, one is for Telugu reading and the other is for English. As part of classroom reading, a reading corner with all the available library books and reading cards will be made available in each classroom. Similarly with school book banks, where books of all kinds will be collected from teachers, students and even donors, for reading. The programme also has a community reading volunteer where the headmaster and teachers with the help of ward volunteers and village secretariat staff have to identify volunteers who can contribute their time for school students reading campaign during after school hours and holidays to run the community reading centre. In addition to these, monthly reading fests will be conducted at the village or school level to perform reading skills by the students and to assess the achievement of learning outcome of students. So far, about 45,359 schools registered under the Readers Clubs and 72% of these schools have libraries. The existing school libraries and available village libraries will be strengthened and utilised for this initiative.
27 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rallying for the key pollinators||Environmentalists have urged the State government to announce a State butterfly on the lines of neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. Maharashtra has declared Blue Mormon species as the State butterfly, followed by Uttarakhand (Common peacock), Karnataka (Southern birdwings), Kerala (Malabar banded peacock) and Tamil Nadu (Tamil Yeoman), they pointed out. “With their unique colour patterns, the butterflies play a key role of pollinators in the ecosystem. Without butterflies, all the fruits, flowers and vegetables cannot undergo pollination, leading to a food crisis. Butterflies are the most important indicators of the health of an ecosystem. It is time butterflies were spotted and their behaviour studied so that the ecological health could be maintained,” says N.S.V. Sarath Chandra, an environmentalist. The presence of butterflies improves the biodiversity and maintains the ecological balance of a region as they attract birds, spiders and other reptiles. In the absence of butterflies, the ecological cycle gets upset, he explains. Andhra Pradesh has somewhat less richer biodiversity when compared to that of the north-eastern and Himalayan States or the Eastern Ghats. Certain weather conditions such as high temperature during the summer and drought-like conditions make it difficult for the survival of these key pollinators. Under threat A report by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) on pollinators has warned that about 75% of pollinators, most of them being butterflies and moths under threat. Hence, the nature conservationists argue that the State government must initiate measures to protect butterflies and declare a species as the State butterfly. Exploration activities Recently, Mr. Sarath Chandra says a heart warming news has come that 129 butterfly species have been recorded in the Papikondalu National Park. “Similar exercises and studies should be conducted in the biodiversity zones in the State. More exploration activities to trace new species must be carried out by the Forest Department,” he says. The government can consider species such as Crimson tip, Blackvein sergeant, Yellow Jack sailer, Red helen, Red breasted Jezebal, Blue tiger and others before announcing the State butterfly, he says.
27 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays tributes to Ambedkar||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid glowing tributes to the architect of the Constitution, Dr. B.R Ambedkar, at his camp office here on Thursday on the occasion of the National Constitution Day. Minister for Industries M. Goutham Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh, MLA Meruga Nagarjuna and other officials were present. At the party’s central office, TTD chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said India had become a great democratic country due to the efforts of B.R. Ambedkar in bringing a Constitution that guaranteed fundamental rights. Welfare schemes “Drawing inspiration from the Constitution, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been working for ensuring social justice by implementing various welfare schemes in a most transparent manner,” he said. Referring to the TDP leaders, he said a few of them were going against the Constitution by “influencing the constitutional bodies and managing the systems.” Home Minister M. Sucharitha said that B.R. Ambedkar had worked to eradicate untouchability and brought the Constitution to safeguard the interests of the weaker sections and support the people of the Backward Classes. She said that the Chief Minister had given a place in the Cabinet to all sections, besides implementing 50% reservation for women. “The government is moving ahead with a number of welfare schemes to ensure that all sections are benefited in accordance with the Constitution and standing as a role model for other States,” he added.
27 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miraculous escape for four as car gets stuck in floodwater||Four persons, including three women, had a miraculous escape on Thursday when the car in which they were travelling almost got washed away in the gushing waters of Pathuruvanka, in the wake of flash floods caused by cyclone Nivar. Water swelled in the rivulet due to the incessant rains, which flowed over the causeway at Ravulapalli village under Khajipet police limits. The engine stopped when the car reached the middle of the causeway, and the vehicle was struggling to stay steady against the current. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Mydukur) T. Vijay Kumar, who was passing by that route, found the car struggling to stay on the road in the face of pressure from the flowing water. With the local sub-inspector Arun Reddy joining him, the duo pushed the vehicle to safety. On coming to know of the incident, the district administration appreciated the Mydukur police sub-divisional team for its deft handling of the incident. Traffic disrupted Traffic was disrupted at Utukuru village in Rajampet mandal on the Tirupati highway, as water overflowed from the Policheruvu tank. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan rushed to the spot and arranged to divert Tirupati-bound traffic via Rayachoti. Vehicles towards Railway Kodur were sent through rural roads. Similarly, the road to Nellore was closed and the vehicles were diverted via Kadapa. Meanwhile in Kadapa city, 7,000 cusecs of surface water was discharged from Buggavanka project. As the outflow increased, people living in the low-lying areas were advised to move away to safer places.
27 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||People spend sleepless night in Nellore||People living on the banks of river Penna in Nellore and other parts of the district spent sleepless night as there was no let up in the downpour since Wednesday. The storage in Kandaleru reservoir went up to a comfortable 60.32 mcft , leaving a flood cushion of just about seven tmcft. “Thanks to precautionary measures taken in advance from November 22, loss of life had been averted and loss to property minimised,” SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said, while overseeing relief and rescue operations taken up by National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force personnel, along with 5,000 government staff in the affected areas. More than two tmcft of water was let out into sea from Somasila reservoir, which had attended full capacity, after alerting people living in the mandals downstream. Sea-faring fishermen were alerted in time and brought back safely along with over 3,650 boats. Over 3,300 persons were shifted to 115 relief camps organised across the district. Paddy seedlings raised in 2500 hectares were submerged as also black gram crop in over 3,500 hectares. Roads suffered breaches in 89 places, while water tanks breached at two places. Water entered Lingalapadu as the village tank overflowed. Impact in Prakasam The impact of Nivar was also felt in Prakasam district after the storm crossed the coast near Puducherry, said district Collector Pola Bhaskar while leading a team of officials in providing succour to a few of the over 4,000 people shifted to 98 camps as there was no let up in rain. Standing crops in 34,000 hectares, including cotton in 21,000 hectares, black gram in 4,500 hectares, paddy in 8,500 hectares were affected, official sources said. Those in need of assistance could call toll free 1077. Meanwhile, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal visited the coastal villages of Kottapatnam, Etamukkala, Sankuvanikunta and Surareddipalem to oversee relief operations organised there in coordination with other departments including Revenue, Fire, Irrigation, Fisheries and Panchayat Raj. Water flow was being monitored in the swollen Sagileru, Elamineru, Jampaleru, Pileru, Kunderu, Romperu, Musi and Gundlakamma. People in distress could call ‘100’ or District Police Control Room number 9121102269, the SP said.
27 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam, Nellore report zero deaths in 24 hours||Health professionals have reasons to cheer as the COVID-19 deaths abated and fresh cases dropped further in the last 24 hours in the south coastal districts of Prakasam and Nellore. The death toll remained unchanged at 1072 as Nellore and Prakasam districts reported zero deaths during the period, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. The virus has claimed 577 lives in Prakasam district and 495 in Nellore district till date. Infection count The overall infection count rose to 1,24,266 in the region as 84 patients contracted the infection in the last 24 hours. However, the caseload dipped further to 1,284 as 113 patients recovered during the period. The recovery rate improved a bit to 98.50% as 1,22,405 patients have been cured of the disease in the region so far. The cumulative confirmed cases rose slightly to 62,879 following registration of 41 fresh cases in Nellore district. However the active cases dipped further to 830 as 62 patients returned home on recovery. As many as 62,049 patients have recovered from the infection so far in the district. With 43 new cases, the total number of positive cases increased to 61,387. The number of patients requiring hospitalisation came down to 182 and 51 of them were provided with oxygen/ventilator support. Caseload comes down The caseload came down further to 454 as 51 patients were cured of the viral disease during the period. So far, 7.41 lakh patients have undergone testing in the district.
27 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress urges SEC to conduct local body elections afresh||APCC president S. Sailajanath has urged the State Election Commission to issue a fresh notification for the local body elections as the process initiated earlier is “fraught with malpractices and forcible unanimous elections” in several districts. “A fresh notification will ensure free and fair elections, and possibly put a check on the domination of the ruling YSRCP,” Dr. Sailajanath, who toured Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam to review the party’s activities ahead of the elections, told The Hindu here on Thursday. Referring to the emergence of young blood in the party, Dr. Sailajanath said, “Despite several senior leaders leaving the party post bifurcation, many youngsters have come forward to file their nominations for the local body elections in March this year. It is a good sign for the party. Certainly, we will improve our performance and win seats if the process is taken up afresh.” Exuding confidence that the Congress party would regain its lost glory in the near future, the APCC president said, “People are now recalling the good governance offered by the party at both the Centre and in the State. They are fed up with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. The saffron party will be relegated to the fourth position in the future as people have not faith in it.” Asserting that the Congress party had weathered many a storm and emerged stronger after every crisis, Dr. Sailajanath accused the YSRCP government of failing on all the fronts. Dig at YSRCP The ruling party in the State reeked of corruption, the APCC president alleged, and said it would not win people’s support with mere disbursement of money and welfare schemes. Dr. Sailajanath said people wanted overall development and industrial growth, which would pave way for rapid economic activity.
27 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDA’s policies detrimental to workers: CITU||CITU State vice-president D.Govinda Rao on Thursday alleged that the NDA government’s policies were detrimental to the interests of workers, employees and the common people of the country. Flagging off a bike rally in the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone of Srikakulam district as part of the nationwide strike and protest called by the trade unions, Mr. Govinda Rao alleged that the workers had lost job security with the introduction of four Labour Codes, replacing 44 Labour Laws. CITU leaders P.Tejeswara Rao, Ch.Ammannaidu and others alleged that the government's policies were helping only corporate sector. In another rally that was taken out in Srikakulam, CITU leader T. Tirupati Rao demanded that the State government take immediate steps to introduce the MGNREGS in the urban areas to ensure livelihood for the economically weaker sections of the society. In Vizianagaram, CITU secretary T.V. Ramana led a protest rally from the Fort Junction to State Bank of India’s main branch. AITUC, IFTU, INTUC and other labour organisations took part in the rally. Impact on production Meanwhile, the strike had an impact on the production of many industries including pharmaceutical factories as many workers did not attend their duties. The trade unions will hold protest rallies on Friday to create awareness among the public about the Central government’s policies.
27 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arasavalli Teppotsavam cancelled owing to rain||Continuous rain under the influence of cyclonic storm Nivar dampened the spirits of devotees as the authorities cancelled the Teppotsavam of Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple at Arasavalli in Srikakulam district, which was scheduled to be organised on Thursday evening. The float festival is organised as part of the Hamsa Vahan Seva at the Indra Pushkarini of the temple on the auspicious occasion of Chilukala Dwadasi every year. Normal life was thrown out of gear in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam as both the districts witnessed rain through out the day on Thursday. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and his Vizianagaram counterpart M. Hari Jawaharlal asked the officials of the revenue and fisheries departments to initiate the necessary measures as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rains on Friday and Saturday.
27 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vastrams presented to Srirangam temple||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Thursday presented silk vastrams to the Lord Ranganathaswamy temple at Srirangam in Tamil Nadu. The vastram was presented on behalf of the temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, in connection with the auspicious Kaisika Dwadasi. Joint Commissioner Jayaraman and Srirangam temple chief priest Sundara Bhattar and other officials accorded a traditional welcome to the TTD Executive Officer Reddy and received the vastrams.
27 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srivari Mettu footpath closed||The TTD has resolved to temporarily close the Srivari Mettu footpath leading to Tirumala from Srinivasa Mangapuram in view of uprooting of trees along the route. It would be reopened once normalcy was restored, the TTD said, and urged people to cooperate.
27 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar impact: water in Chittoor reservoirs at danger levels||Cyclone Nivar stopped short of leaving a trail of destruction across Chittoor district, caused by the high-velocity gales and heavy downpour for the last 48 hours. Apart from land slides, several instances of uprooted electric poles and trees were reported on Thursday. The district witnessed an average of 8.6 cm rainfall, while the mandals close to Tamil Nadu such as KVB Puram, Srikalahasti, Varadaiahpalem, Nagalapuram and Sri Rangaraja Puram registered over 12 cm. Many rivers and streams are in spate across the district. In Srikalahasti town, the roads leading to Varadaiahpalem and KVB Puram were closed down for traffic and efforts were on to identify alternative routes. A whopping 25,000 cusecs of water was released from the Mallemadugu reservoir in Renigunta mandal to ease the pressure on the structure. As a result, three farmers got stuck in the swirling waters of Rallavagu, but they could not be evacuated immediately due to the hostile conditions, in spite of the rescue team’s preparedness. Water levels precarious A command control centre has been set up at the Collectorate to closely monitor the situation. Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta has appealed to residents to stay put in their houses till Friday. He also advised them against moving closer to water bodies or bridges as water reached the danger mark. Much against expectations, the cyclone’s impact was also felt in the central and western mandals of Chittoor, Pakala, Punganur and Somala. The major irrigation sources in the district are up to the brim. The Araniar project, built over Aruna river in Pichatur mandal, has 1.643 TMC of water against its storage capacity of 1.853. Water was flowing in at the rate of 3,350 cusecs and out through the spillway at 1,750 cusecs at 6 a.m. on Thursday. Similarly, the Kalangi reservoir contained 194.90 mcft against its full capacity of 241. Water level was steadily rising in the Krishnapuram project and was found to be 166.62 mcft against its holding capacity of 199.27 mcft on Thursday morning. SP (Chittoor) S. Senthil Kumar rushed to Sri Rangaraja Puram where the road leading to Pathapalem was cut off due to the gushing waters of the local stream, affecting eight villages. He directed the personnel to take precautionary measures in areas prone to submergence. SP (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy toured sensitive areas where alerts have been sounded in the wake of incessant rains. He alerted the line departments to get the residents of the low-lying areas along the Swarnamukhi river shifted out of 77 risk-prone areas.
27 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two farmers rescued from Rallavagu||Two farmers stranded in gushing waters were rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team from Rallavagu in Renigunta mandal here on Thursday. Braving thundershowers, three farmers had reportedly gone to their field downstream of Mallemadugu reservoir to check their agricultural motors early in the day. As the outflow increased, they got into the swirling waters. However, all of them scaled a tree to safety and waited for support. Though the issue came to the notice of the NDRF team, they could not venture into the water immediately and were waiting for the right time. Meanwhile, the district administration directed the irrigation officials to reduce the outflow to facilitate the rescue operation. On coming to know of the incident, TUDA Chairman and government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy rushed to the spot. Wearing a life jacket, he ventured into the water along with NDRF members and rescued two of the farmers. The status of the third is unknown. Srikalahasti MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy announced a cash reward of Rs. 1 lakh to the NDRF team for exhibiting daredevilry in rescuing the stranded farmers.
27 November 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees unions stage demonstration||The nationwide strike call by the employees, farmers, workers and trade unions was total and peaceful in Chittoor and Kadapa district on Thursday. The trade unions and various employees’ unions staged demonstrations. They said that that the ‘anti-worker policy’ of the Centre would not be accepted at any cost. CPI national Secretary K. Narayana said people came out on to the streets braving the COVID-19 situation to oppose the ‘pro-corporate’ policy of the Centre . Members of Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union (ICEU) staged a demonstration in front of the Kadapa divisional office on Thursday. They opposed the move of the Centre to get the LIC listed in the stock market. “The corporation will meet the fate of the Air India, the BSNL and other public sector undertakings,” said Divisional Secretary A. Raghunatha Reddy. The All India LIC Employees Federation’s (AILICEF) South Central Zonal Council president P. Mahesh and general secretary V. Raghunathan flayed the government for attempting to sell away the PSU and said that the decision would affect the future of the 40 crore policy holders. Expressing solidarity, All India Postal and RMS Employees’ Union staged a demonstration at the Tirupati Head Post Office and in Srikalahasti, Puttur, Piler and Vayalpadu branches. In a statement, Tirupati divisional secretary R.M. Sarath Kumar demanded implementation of the old pension scheme. MTS Employees secretary P. Munaswamy Naik recalled the department’s services extended during the pandemic.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lists top priorities under infra projects||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy listed the construction of three seaports and eight fishing harbours, development of Kopparthy industrial cluster in Kadapa district, Bhogapuram airport and laying a beach road from there to Visakhapatnam and a drinking water pipeline to the port city from Polavaram and Vizag metro rail as his government's top priorities on the infrastructure front, at a review meeting on seaports and industrial corridors on Thursday. Officials told the Chief Minister that tenders for the port at Ramayapatnam would be finalised by December 15 and it was targeted to get the first phase works on four berths with an annual cargo handling capacity of 15 million tons, started by February 2021. Tenders for Bhavanapadu and Machilipatnam ports would be finalised by December 15 and February 15 respectively. Construction of fourth berth at Bhavanapadu with a capacity of 25 MTPA and six berths at Machilipatnam port with 26 MTPA would begin in March and April 2021. The Chief Minister ordered that the construction of these ports should be completed in two and a half years. He also wanted the possibility of building a port at Rambilli in Visakhapatnam to be explored in order to reduce pressure on the Visakhapatnam port. Cargo facilities Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said due emphasis should be laid on providing cargo facilities at Tirupati, Nellore and Kadapa airports. He suggested to the officials to work out a scheme for supplying desalinated water to industries so that water fit for consumption could be saved. He insisted that sewage treatment plants should be compulsorily set up in the upcoming industrial corridors and estates to check pollution. Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven and director of industries J.V.N. Subrahmanyam, APIIC vice-chairman R. Raveen Kumar Reddy and AP Maritime Board CEO N.P. Ramakrishna Reddy were among those present.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 88,000 students to take RGUKT test from Telugu States||Over 88,000 students will take Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies Common Entrance Test (RGUKT CET)-2020 on November 28. Examination convenor Hari Narayana said elaborate arrangements were made for the test that would be conducted from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Of the total 88,972 students appearing for the examination, 86,617 were from Andhra Pradesh and 2,355 of them were from Telangana. The students would write their examination at 638 centres, of which, 630 were in A.P., while eight were in Telangana. The examinees include 53 visually impaired candidates. The entrance test is to shortlist the candidates for admission to six years integrated B. Tech programme and 2/3 year diploma programmes. Students, who qualify the entrance test, will be taken in to fill 4,000 seats offered by four IIITs at Nuzvid, R.K. Valley at Idupulapaya, Srikakulam and Ongole and also for 6,000 seats of diploma courses offered by Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University, Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University and Dr. YSR Horticulture University. Mr. Narayana said the question papers, OMR sheets and other material had been despatched to the districts from where they were shifted to police stations located close to the exam centres. Chief Superintendents, department officers, route officers and invigilators were appointed to ensure smooth conduct of the exam. COVID guidelines The District Education Officers have been asked to ensure that the exam material reached their respective areas in time, appointment of officials on exam duty was completed, adequate arrangements for the visually impaired candidates and arrange a scribe for them besides ensuring that the seating arrangement at the exam centres was strictly in adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. The Chief Superintendents have been tasked with the responsibility of safely shifting the question papers from the police station to the exam centres and in time, to see that not more than 16 candidates sat in each exam centre and proper distribution of the sheets to the candidates. Similarly, students have been advised to reach the exam centres an hour in advance, use face mask and bring their own sanitisers besides following other rules in the exam centres.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal students to be trained for competitive exams||Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Sreevani on Thursday said coaching centres, exclusively for students belonging to the tribal communities, would be established in Visakhapatnam to impart training for national-level competitive examinations like National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and to help them gain admission in premier institutions like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Speaking at the Department of Tribal Welfare Board of Governance meeting, Ms. Sreevani said two separate coaching centres for boys and girls would be established at Marikavalasa and Pendurthi respectively. Intermediate students would be given coaching for NEET and for admissions into IITs through the centres where 70 % of seats would be allotted to students from the Agency areas while remaining 30 % seats would be for those from the plain areas. She said a residential school proposed for the purpose was estimated to cost Rs. 270 crore and the buildings would be constructed as part of the Nadu-Nedu programme. The Minister said the number of existing CC cameras in girijan schools would be increased and digital and virtual classrooms would be established to help students keep pace with the changing technologies. An IT wing would be established to monitor smooth functioning of the technology-induced system. Panel to be set up Ms. Sreevani said a committee would be constituted with experts drawn from IITs and NITs to suggest ways to improve the standards of education in the girijan gurukulams. Expressing dissatisfaction over the academic results of the School of Excellence in Visakhapatnam and College of Excellence Anantapur district, she said if the two institutions did not improve their performance in the next year results, they would be made like other general educational institutions. The Minister asked the department officials to make a list of the schools that fared well and those that performed poorly in the exams. Along with regular classes, students should be adequately trained to perform well in competitive exams and teachers had a pivotal role in grooming the students, she said. She said the government's nod would be secured to fill the vacant teacher posts in gurukulams and Ekalavya model schools. Once the schools reopened and full-fledged classes commenced, the officials would have to make surprise checks to assess the performance of teachers, she said. Girijan Welfare Department Principal Secretary Kantilal Dande, Director Ranjit Basha, Secretary Srikanth Prabhakar and other officials were present.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB to crack whip on more offences||The State government has accorded permission to the Special Enforcement Bureau to handle offences like gambling, narcotics and red sanders smuggling in the State. The SEB constituted by the police has so far been focused on liquor and sand smuggling in the State. As per the GO issued by the Director-General of Police and ex-Official Principal Secretary to Government D. Gautam Sawang on Thursday, SEB has been permitted to handle gambling and gaming of all kinds including betting, matka, online gaming and smuggling of red sanders. The SEB has been permitted to handle issues related to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, sale and manufacture of gutka and other prohibited products.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,031 new infections and eight deaths in State||The State has reported 1,031 new COVID-19 infections and eight deaths in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the tally to 8,65,705 and the toll to 6,970. The mortality rate was put at 0.81%. More 1,081 patients recovered during the period taking the recovery rate to 97.74%. A total of 8,46,120 patients recovered so far. With this, 12,615 patients were undergoing treatment at present. In the last 24 hours, 67,269 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.53%. So far, 98.5 lakh samples had been tested with a positivity rate of 8.78%. Krishna district once again reported two new deaths, the highest among the districts. While there were no fatalities in six districts, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Visakhpatnam and West Godavari reported one new death each. Five districts reported more than 100 new infections, and Guntur reported the highest single-day tally among the districts. District tallies The district-wise tally of new infections is as follows: Guntur (172), Krishna (162), West Godavari (126), East Godavari (117), Chittoor (102), Visakhpatnam (84), Anantapur (56), Kadapa (55), Prakasam (43), Nellore (41), Vizianagaram (29), Srikakulam (23) and Kurnool (21). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,087), West Godavari (92,050), Chittoor (83,444), Guntur (72,566), Anantapur (66,593), Prakasam (61,387), Nellore (61,313), Kurnool (60,165), Visakhapatnam (57,955), Kadapa (54,226), Srikakulam (45,398), Krishna (45,052) and Vizianagaram (40,574).
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for water for second crop under KC Canal mounts||The voice for release of water for the second crop under the Kurnool Cuddapah Canal (KC Canal) is, apparently, gaining ground with ‘abundant water’ available in Srisailam. Farmers lament that they nearly lost the first crop for various reasons, including heavy rains. As the water is available, the government can release the water for the second crop. According to information, the localised ayacut under KC Canal project is 2,65,628 acres and the assured water allotment by the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT) is 31.90 tmcft to the project. So far 15.00 tmcft of water has been utilised for KC Canal ayacut out of the allotted 31.90 tmcft during the current water year 2020-21. But, in kharif 2020, the ayacutdars under KC Canal raised crops to an extent of 1,46,000 acres which were damaged due to heavy rains and floods that occurred in the months of August, September and October. The crops were damaged totally due to floods and heavy rains. The ayacutdars are requesting the government for water to rabi crops under the KC Canal. In all the districts of delta area including Anantapur, farmers are getting water up to April through Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS). Now, the irrigation officials are encountering a question from the farming community: “Why the farmers of KC Canal are not getting water even though they are having allotment of water and having full storages in Srisailam?” Widening works Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi leader Bojja Dasarathrami Reddy says that the government has to clear air on canal widening works. The government has been requested to release water for the second crop if it was not taking up the works. Due to the fire accident in the Left Power House of Srisailam, the drawls have been reduced to 50% and the Srisailam Reservoir level may continue till March 31, 2021. Hence, allowing the second crop under KCC would be beneficial to farmers, Irrigation sources said.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPDCL puts rain damage at Rs. 1.21 crore||Energy Secretary and AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant on Thursday instructed the officials to restore the power infrastructure that was damaged by rains without inordinate delay. He was addressing a review meeting attended by Discoms’ CMDs S. Nagalakshmi, H. Haranatha Rao and J. Padma Janardhana Reddy and Transco Director (grid & transmission) K. Praveen Kumar and senior engineers. SPDCL officials informed Mr. Srikant that 154 km of 33 KV lines, 426 km of 11 KV lines, 75 33-KV poles, 600 11-KV poles and 400 LT poles were damaged in 57 mandals. The loss for the SPDCL was estimated to be Rs. 1.21 crore. There was no considerable damage of equipment in the EPDCL and the CPDCL.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constitution Day: Naidu pays tribute to Ambedkar||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu paid rich tributes to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and other stalwarts on the occasion of Constitution Day on Thursday. Extending his 71st Constitution Day greetings to all the Telugu people, Mr. Naidu recalled the outstanding services rendered by the founders of the Indian constitution. Dr. Ambedkar and others laid strong foundation to the vibrant Indian democracy which became an inspiration for many other countries in the world. Unfortunately, it was painful to see Andhra Pradesh becoming a stage for the non-stop violations of the Constitution and unchecked atrocities on all sections of citizens, he said. The TDP chief deplored that all the four pillars of democracy -- legislature, executive, judiciary and even the media came under threat in the present regime. It was every citizen’s responsibility to protect these institutions from the chaotic forces. Mr. Naidu said liberty, freedom and fraternity were the foundations of a democracy. It was painful that in AP, all dissenting voices were suppressed. The flagrant violation of the Constitutional rights was evident from how the atrocities cases were booked against the SCs themselves, he said.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police intimidating Dalits’||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has accused the Guntur Urban police of intimidating Dalits. “The police resorted to false arrest of TDP activist Maniratnam just for making certain posts on the social media about Ponnur MLA. Such acts reflect the cowardly nature of the government. Instead of doing justice to the aggrieved party, the police are taking action that will harm the interests of Dalits,” Mr. Lokesh said in a statement. Releasing a photograph of Mr. Maniratnam at the police station, he asked the police to make public the CCTV footage at the Pedakakani police station.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legislature session from November 30||The fifth session of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly will commence at 9 a.m. on November 30 as per a notification issued on behalf of Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. The Legislative Council will meet for its 37th session at 10 a.m. the same day.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP trampling upon rights of people’||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has asserted that the State government has no moral right to celebrate the Constitution Day considering how it has been undermining the established systems and constitutional institutions in the State for the last 18 months. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that the YSRCP government had insulted the architect of our Constitution, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, at every step and stalled the works on the prestigious Ambedkar Smriti Vanam in Amaravati. The YSRCP was on the one hand celebrating Constitution Day and trampling upon the fundamental rights of the people on the other, the TDP leader alleged. The Constitution would not permit atrocities against the weaker sections and Backward Classes, he said, and alleged that these sections were being harassed by the YSRCP dispensation. Mr. Ramakrishnudu also alleged that Dalits were being persecuted in the State. He cited the instances of Sudhakar and Anitha Rani, both doctors, and judge Ramakrishna.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Dept. gets Rs. 50 crore for COVID-19||The State government has accorded administrative sanction for Rs. 50 crore to the Department of Health for the fight with the coronavirus situation. The funds will be spent on the procurement of more COVID-19 testing kits, medicines and consumables and operation and maintenance of COVID care centres, testing centres and others, said a G.O. released here on Thursday.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar: several parts receive rain in Krishna||Several parts of Krishna district, including the city, witnessed moderate to heavy rain throughout the day on Thursday. The rain was triggered by severe cyclonic storm Nivar which made a landfall late on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu. The district received an average rainfall of 9 mm as of 8.30 am on Thursday.Later in the day, Nagayalanka and Avanigadda mandals received more than 100 mm rainfall. A similar weather condition is likely on Friday. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur in isolated places in the district, according to IMD forecast. Meanwhile, the soaked roads due to continuous rain caused troubles to motorists and pedestrians in many parts of the city.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC staff stage protest against Centre’s move||LIC employees owing allegiance to Insurance Corporation Employees' Union (ICEU) staged a demonstration at Governorpet here as part of the nationwide industrial strike on Thursday opposing the Central government’s privatisation move. They took strong objection to the proposed Initial Public Offer (IPO) in LIC and its listing on the stock exchanges and demanded immediate settlement of wage revision in LIC and GIC. Addressing the employees, ICEU divisional joint secretary Ch. Kaladhar said more than 95% of the LIC clerical staff across the country participated in the strike. ICEU leaders N.M.K. Prasad, J. Madhu, N.Srinivas, Ch.M.V. Prasad, were among those present.
27 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC releases list of candidates||The A.P. Public Service Commission (APPSC) has made available on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of candidates provisionally selected for verification of original certificates scheduled on December 7. The process will be held at 10 a.m. in the commission’s office.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains triggered by Cyclone Nivar throw life out of gear in district||Rain accompanied with cold winds disrupted normal life here on Thursday. A sudden drop in temperatures, cold breeze and incessant rain under the impact of Cyclone Nivar throughout the day kept residents indoors. Many school and college students stayed at home due to the weather. “It was feeling like a cold wave. My friends and I decided not to go to school and stay indoors. It was finally time to take out the woollens from the closet to keep ourselves warm,” said Rashmika, a Class IX student of a government school. Markets wore a dull look, including the rythu bazaars. Many small neighbourhood stores also downed their shutters for the day. Bigger retail outlets closed by early evening as there were few customers. Small-scale eateries suffered losses as patrons stayed away due to the weather. Most of the restaurants also did not serve food through online food delivery services due to the rain. Those who stayed open charged a hefty additional fee, as not many delivery boys were available. Similar was the case with online cab services too. Citizens complained about bad roads that were dotted with potholes at various places, which re-surfaced due to the rains. On a few roads, the ongoing works of the underground cabling project have created problems yet again. Citizens alleged that despite repeated requests, the civic body and APEPDCL have failed to respond. “Even the beach road from Tenneti Park to Appughar is filled with potholes. If a driver is new to the stretch, he or she might meet with an accident. During rain, it is tough to notice the potholes,” said K. Raju, a resident of MVP Colony. However, despite the rains, there were no reports of flooding or clogging of drains. No untoward incidents were reported from the city or district limits till late evening. ‘Cold wave’ in Agency Meanwhile, a similar situation prevailed in Visakha Agency for the last couple of days. Locals said cold winds forced them to stay indoors after 4 p.m. Temperatures hovered around 17°-20° C in Ananthagiri, G. Madugula, Chintapalle, Paderu, G.K. Veedhi, Paderu and a few other areas in the Agency during the day time, according to the CM’s dashboard.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT to suggest law on accountability||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe the alleged land scam in Visakhapatnam district is ready with its final report and efforts are on to hand it over to the government within a couple of days. Along with the findings of the investigation, the report will contain a document suggesting certain measures and recommendations to the Andhra Praedesh government, to avoid such scams in the future. According to sources, the SIT has suggested the creation and implementation of a law that address the issue of public accountability. Quoting a case study, an official in the SIT said, “A person purchases a piece of land from another and the documents at the time of purchase are clear. Later, when he wants to sell it, he is informed both by the revenue and stamps and registration department that he cannot sell it, as the land is earmarked under 22A. Despite the person having all the documents, the burden of proof lies with the person. “However, as it is the government which says that the land falls under 22A, it is, in fact, for the department to prove its claim and also prove why it was not included earlier or how it got included later. But this is not happening, as accountability is not fixed.” Lulu group case Similarly, in the case of Lulu group, the land was handed over to them on Beach Road, by the earlier government and later cancelled by the present government. Some land was also taken from a private person and given to Lulu, and in exchange the person was given a 1.5 times bigger site in a more prominent place. The person after receiving the land did nothing and the property of the State that belongs to people was wasted. “Why no accountability was fixed, both on the private person and the government officials? This is what we have stressed upon in the document, so that accountability is fixed,” said the official. In the case of 22A, SIT has received over 270 applications under the change in classification category and as per the SIT officials, a number of them were genuine cases and that many common people had to go through a lot of stress and harassment. The document focusses on asking the State government to fix responsibility and prescribe punishment or fine, with the aim to see that common man is not deprived of their legitimate rights.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nationwide strike call evokes strong response in district||Rallies and protests were held at various places in the city on Thursday in response to a nationwide strike call given by various trade unions to protest the ‘anti-worker’ and ‘anti-people’ policies of the Centre. Employees of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), and staff of various industries and banks as well as workers from the organised and unorganised sectors participated in the strike. Central trade unions, affiliated to AITUC, CITU, IFTU, INTUC and AICTU, participated in the rally that was organised from the DRM’s Office at Dondaparthi to Asilmetta. Leaders and activists of CPI and CPI(M) also participated in the protests. A large number of workers took part in protests held at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Gajuwaka, industrial belt, Pendurthi and other areas despite a continuous drizzle. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy alleged that the NDA government has converted the labour laws, which were achieved by workers after several struggles, into four codes to deprive workers of their rights, while benefiting corporate groups. Injustice was also being done to small and marginal farmers through the introduction of farm bills, he alleged. CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre was responsible for the suffering of eight crore migrant labourers in the country, who were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres to their homes earlier this year. He warned the Centre that it would be taught a lesson by the people if it fails to take corrective action. He alleged that the lopsided policies of the Centre were reverting the progress of the nation.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar weakens; widespread rain likely in next two days||Under the influence of Cyclone Nivar, thunderstorms along with lightning are likely to occur at isolated places in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on November 27. Thunderstorms and isolated heavy rainfall are very likely to occur in Nellore and Prakasam districts of south-coastal Andhra Pradesh on November 27 and 28 and in Kadapa district of Rayalaseema on November 27. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over central parts of south Bay of Bengal around November 29. It is likely to move westwards and become more marked. The significant amounts of rainfall (in cm) in the State, in the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday are as follows: Venkatagiri – 24, Gudur -19, Rapur – 16, Atmakur – 15, Sullurpeta – 15, Kavali 14 and Nellore (all in Nellore district) 14; Sambepalle (Kadapa) 14, Satyavedu (Chittoor) 14, Nagari (Chittoor) 13, Rajampet (Kadapa) 13, Puttur (Chittoor) 12, Thottambedu (Chittoor) 12, Palamaner (Chittoor) 11, Tada (Nellore) 11, Kalakada (Chittoor) 10 Penagaluru (Kadapa) 10, Srikalahasti (Chittoor) 10, Amalapuram (East Godavari) 9, Palasamudram (Chittoor) 9, Pakala (Chittoor) 8, Pullampeta (Kadapa) 8, Royachoti (Kadapa) 8, Udayagiri (Nellore) 8, Vinjamur (Nellore) 8, Kandukur (Prakasam) 6, Narsapuram (West Godavari) 4, Yanam (Yanam) 4, Masulipatnam (Krishna) 3, Ongole (Prakasam) 3 and Seetharamapuram (Nellore) 3.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draft Bill on Social Work discussed in detail at webinar||The Draft National Council for Social Work (Education and Practice) Bill, 2020, brings progressive changes in social work education and practice in India, Vimla Nadkarni, a retired professor of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, has said in a webinar, organised by Department of Social Work, Andhra University, on Thursday. Prof. Vimla Nadkarni and a group of social work educators and practitioners prepared a draft bill, which discusses the standards in the social work course, syllabus, code of conduct and ethics related to the social work profession in India. Prof. Ghandi Doss, a retired professor of social work from Bangalore University, highlighted the need for more professional associations at the local, regional, State-level and national-level to further strengthen the social work profession in India, participating the webinar, organised by K. Visweswara Rao, a professor in the Social Work Department of AU. Another panel speaker Nafisa Goga D’Souza, Executive Director of Laya Resource Centre, spoke on the need for integrating theory and practice by including field work. Sudhakar Dharmavaram, Senior Programme Leader, GMR Varalakshmi Foundation, suggested the ways and means to carry forward the social work education and practice Bill, 2020. Participants from 22 States and Union Territories of India actively deliberated on various issues related to professional social work in the webinar. Post-doctoral fellows and research scholars of the Department of Social Work, Andhra University, participated.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizagites to miss out on naval demo||For the first time in decades, Vizagites will miss out on the Naval Operations Demonstration also called as Ops Demo, this year. The event is held every year on December 4, as part of Navy Day celebrations at RK Beach. This year the Eastern Naval Command has decided not to hold it, keeping COVID-19 pandemic in view. A senior naval officer said that the Navy was keeping out of all events that involved large gathering of people, as it might prove harmful for both people and the naval personnel. However, ships and other naval assets will come close to the shore, near RK Beach, in formation, and they would be illuminated after the sunset, on December 4. This event is being held for many years and Vizagites eagerly wait to see the naval personnel, ships, submarines and various aircraft and helicopters give a breathtaking operational display. “I think, the ENC has taken a right decision keeping the pandemic in view. There are talks of a second wave and the best thing is to avoid large public gathering,” said Radhika, a housewife, who has been a regular for the show.  Marathon Earlier, the Navy had also taken a decision of not holding the Navy Marathon. The marathon is being held since 2014 and over the years the response has been tremendous. Last year, there was an attendance of over 18,000. However, as part of the Navy Day celebrations, naval personnel have stepped up on blood donation camps and contributing to orphanages and old age homes. “There is a scarcity of blood and the Navy has decided to contribute its mite and hence we have increased our blood donation camps,” said the officer. The ENC will also take up a mega beach cleaning drive on the occasion of Navy Day.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constitution Day observed in city||Naval personnel of Indian Naval Ships, submarines, Naval Air Stations and shore establishments and Defence Civilians of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) joined the nation in celebrating the Constitution Day by reading the Preamble and the Fundamental Duties enshrined in the Constitution on November 26 as part of the 71st Constitution Day celebrations. Rich tributes were paid to Father of the Constitution B.R. Ambedkar by the officials, students and staff of IGNOU Regional Centre at Ushodaya Junction on the occasion of Constitution Day. IGNOU Regional Centre director S. Raja Rao garlanded a portrait of Ambedkar and addressed the gathering. Assistant Director G. Dharma Rao and Assistant Registrar A.L.P. Rao participated.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||108 foreign students enrol at GITAM||As many as 108 foreign students from 27 countries have decided to enrol at GITAM Deemed to be University to pursue their higher studies during the 2020-21 academic year. The selection of students was based on an online entrance exam conducted through the ‘Study in India’ programme, according to GITAM Foreign Student Affairs Director K.P.C. Kishan. A total of 4,000 students, who opted for GITAM Deemed to be University, appeared in the online proctored test Ind-SAT to get the admission, he said. The Ind-SAT scores would serve as a criterion to shortlist meritorious students for the allocation of scholarships. He noted that even during the pandemic, GITAM was getting a good response from South Asia, Southeast Asia, Africa and Gulf countries. Most of the foreign students were evincing interest in enrolling for science and engineering programmes. The university was planning to admit another 50 foreign students before closing the admission schedule for 2020. ‘Study in India’ The Centre, having realised the importance of attracting foreign students to India and to bring diversity to Indian classrooms, launched an initiative titled ‘Study in India’. This initiative of the MHRD is supported by the Ministry of Commerce and Industries, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The initiative was launched in April 2018. Sixty higher education institutions with ratings in the top 100 of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and National Assessment and Accreditation Council have been identified as institutions, where these foreign students will be placed.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City registers a sharp dip in mercury||Gales accompanied with drizzle for the better part of the day led to a dip in temperature in the city on Thursday. Cold winds accompanied by a steady rain forced people to remain indoors. The minimum temperature recorded in Waltair on Thursday was 18.4° C, while it was 18.9° C at the airport. This is the lowest November temperature recorded in the last 11 years. The all-time record for the lowest temperature in Visakhapatnam city was 17.6° C on November 17, 1975, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam. Roads wore a deserted look and restaurants and commercial establishments downed shutters as customers stayed away. The lowest November temperatures recorded (in degree Celsius) at Waltair since 2009 are as follows: 20° (November 26, 2009), 21.6° (November 27, 2010), 20.3° (November 21, 2011) 18.6° (November 14, 2012), 18.7° (November 27, 2013), 20.4° (November 30, 2014), 19° (November 18, 2015). 18.8° (November 27, 2016), 19.8° (November 29, 2017), and 20.6 (November 26, 2018). Meanwhile, the temperatures that were recorded (in Celsius) at various places in the city and district at 9 a.m. on Thursday, according to the Chief Minister’s dashboard, are as follows: Parawada–17.2°, Gajuwaka–17.31°, Pendurthi–17.43° and Anandapuram–17.52°.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock drill conducted for simulated gas leak||Officials from Coromandel International Limited, following instructions from Collector V. Vinay Chand, conducted an off-site emergency mock drill after simulating an ammonia gas leak at Mulagada here on Thursday. As part of the drill, an ammonia gas leak was simulated on the plant premises which in turn led to an off-site emergency in nearby Mulagada. Ambulances and fire tenders reached the spot from the Coromandel plant. Ambulances and fire tenders from Andhra Petrochemicals Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and St. Ann’s Hospital also aided in the rescue operations. Mulagada villagers were evacuated by Coromandel rescue teams to the nearest assembly point. Senior AVP-Manufacturing, M. Gnana Sundaram, explained about the preventive measures being taken by the industry continuously to ensure safe operations. He also explained to the locals steps to be followed in the event of a gas leak.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic chief inspects Bheemili zone||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana asked engineering department officials to prepare estimates for constructing a new fish market and shopping complexes in Bheemili area. Ms. Srijana issued the instructions after inspecting the existing fish market and shopping complex at Pedda Bazaar area on Thursday, which are in a dilapidated condition. She later visited the Sachivalayam office and enquired about its functioning. The civic chief also visited the GVMC Pandit Nehru Municipal School and checked the progress of Nadu-Nedu works.
27 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases to fall below 1,000 soon||The district has reported fewer than 100 COVID-19 cases in a day for the 18th day in a row. In the last 24 hours, the city recorded 84 fresh cases and one death, as per the bulletin released by the officials. The caseload increased to 58,467 while the death toll rose to 505. Recoveries inched closer to 57,000, as 122 more persons recovered from the virus. Active cases, which stand at 1,046 as of Thursday, are likely to come below 1,000 in a day or two.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone blues||
27 November 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Ginners in Adilabad allege ‘discrimination’ by CCI||While the Cotton Corporation of India started procuring the cotton kapas, small and medium ginning and pressing enterprises in Adilabad town allege that they have been ‘discriminated’ and little processing orders were given to them, while the big ginning enterprises were preferred. This has put them in an unequal position and were rendered unused and their processing capacity is lying idle. Hundreds of workers are depending on small and medium ginning units and their livelihood is at stake. Of the 28 ginning units in Adilabad town, as many as 14 are small and medium. The enterprisers fear that if no adequate processing orders were placed by CCI, they have no other option than to close down their units for this season. They demand the concerned authorities to probe this discrimination and make them a level playing field to compete with large units. “Officials of CCI have come under flak for showing disproportionate favouritism to three to four units in the town and had vitiated the competitive atmosphere in the ginning industry,” a ginning unit owner lamented. By colluding with some officials of CCI, a few ginners are managing the entire supply chain, he alleged. “While our unit have been getting less amount of kapas than the processing capacity, those who are in close proximity with cotton purchase officers are getting orders beyond their capacity,” another ginner said. When contacted CCI Assistant General Manager K Maheshwara Reddy said that orders were placed on such units which have a capacity to process in-time. “Factors like installed capacity, ability to process, timeliness to give the output are taken into consideration while placing orders,” he said. He brushed aside allegations of discriminations and favouritism and said, depending on the needs of CCI, ginner units are chosen to do the work. However, the unit owners were dismayed at the brazen opinion of the CCI’s assistant manager and said a thorough inquiry by the Vigilance wing would reveal the ‘goings on’ at the CCI Adilabad. The CCI procures cotton kapas directly from the producers and sends it to the ginners to separate cotton fibre from the seed balls and dust particles. The cotton lint is further compressed into bales.Last year more than four lakh bales were processed in the Adilabad town alone of which over a lakh bales were processed in three to four units.
27 November 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Bonanza for Adilabad ginners||Ginners in Adilabad town have found a ‘gold mine’ in processing cotton for the Cotton Corporation of India as the latter was procuring the produce at a net fibre realisation of 31% per quintal. The cotton sold by farmers which was of high quality was yielding a fibre of over and above 31 kg per quintal. The excess realised cotton was allegedly unscrupulously pilfered by ginners in connivance with some Cotton Corporation of India officials. At least 1.5 kg to 2 kg of excess cotton per quintal was being pilfered. This unjust enrichment of ginners was unequally putting Cotton Corporation of India in a disadvantaged position. According to an estimate, every season Cotton Corporation of India was losing on an average Rs. 5 core to Rs. 10 crore, said an official. The corporation procured cotton from farmers for Minimum Support Price and further handed out to ginners of which 69% was segregated as cotton seed and waste. The cotton lint is further compressed into bales. CCI Assistant General Manager K Maheshwara Reddy said that some consignments yield higher fibre while others fall short of the required stranded . “On balance we are maintaining 31 kg per quintal,” he said. Mr. Reddy however said that there is a possibility of excess fibre accruing to ginners’ accounts. “We will examine the matter and set right the anomaly,” he added. Sources in the corporation said that in April a few ginners had lifted several tonnes of cotton seed without paying money. “The amount was paid a few months later causing loss to the Cotton Corporation of India,” he said.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saroornagar voters divided across the line||Coming on the heels of the devastating floods in which the region was battered blue just over a month ago, GHMC elections are of special significance this time for residents of Saroornagar division, on the eastern side of the city. There may be two sections of voters divided across the line, one who got timely help during the floods, and the other the disgruntled lot who are mighty displeased about the flood response of the government. Comprising 59,467 voters distributed across 83 polling station limits, Saroornagar is undisputedly one among the sizeable divisions in GHMC and the largest not only in the immediate Saroornagar circle, but also the LB Nagar Zone. The division, not very long ago a rural suburb, includes scores of colonies predominantly populated by middle income classes who typically frown at issues such as bad roads, drainage overflow and traffic problems. Starting with colonies such as Vijayapuri and Lakshmi Nagar on the northern side of the road, the division extends to HUDA Complex, Victoria Memorial, Bapu Nagar, Venkateshwara Colony, Cherukuthota Colony, HUDA Colony, Pochammabagh, and several others on the other flank. The demographic composition is also the cause for concern about the voter turnout, due to the probability of people preferring not to venture out for fear of contracting COVID. Of the total 11 contestants, six are Independents, and the remaining are from TRS, BJP, Congress, CPI and TDP, in the division reserved for women in General category. On behalf of TRS, incumbent corporator, Anitha Reddy Parupalli has filed nomination papers once again, while from BJP, Akula Srivani is contesting. Kalpana Kumari Yendra, Chikkula Jayamma, and Rayabandi Shoba Rani are contesting from TDP, Congress and CPI respectively. “This region is besotted with problems such as damaged roads, drainage problems, contaminated drinking water, and lack of public toilets and street-lights. The erstwhile corporator has done next to nothing to resolve these issues. People are looking for change,” Ms. Srivani said speaking to the media during her rally. Ms. Anitha Reddy, meanwhile, is banking heavily on the TRS government’s schemes. Flood relief distribution might emerge as the determinant factor in elections, and so could be the young voters. “There are several eligible sufferers who have not got the relief amount, and there are also those who got the sums without suffering any loss. Young voters are clearly inclined to vote in large numbers this time, which might end up tilting the balance,” said Parameshwar, a retail kirana merchant at Pochammabagh.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why are SEC, police helpless on provocative speeches, asks Uttam||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy questioned the helplessness of the State Election Commission and the police in not taking a serious note on the provocative statements of BJP and MIM leaders during GHMC campaign. “I am surprised as to how the State Election Commission and the State government is not interfering to stop this provocative campaign,” he said while demanding that both the communal parties be barred from participating in the GHMC elections. He also said that the SEC appears to have become defunct. The TPCC chief along with former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir, AICC secretary Madhu Yashki Goud spoke to the reporters after releasing two brochures and a pamphlet on the contribution of Congress governments in development of Hyderabad, and the failures of TRS regime. Mr. Reddy claimed both the BJP and MIM are helping each other to polarise voters and reminded the allegations made by MIM's West Bengal unit president Anwar Pasha who resigned from the party accusing party president Aasduddin Owaisi of helping the BJP win West Bengal polls in the same way as it helped the saffron party come to power in Bihar. He said the BJP leaders from outside the city are making provocative statements and so is the MIM. He slammed MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi for his remarks on the memorials of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and ex-Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao and said they are great leaders who served the country. Mr. Shabbir Ali said that the Congress party has invested Rs. 1 lakh crore in Hyderabad from 2004-2014 to build world-class infrastructure. He reminded that the international airport, Outer Ring Road, Metro Rail, PVNR Expressway, Krishna and Godavari river water for Hyderabad, flyovers, development of IT corridors all were conceived and created by the Congress governments. He said instead of asking BJP to explain why the Union Ministers did not visit flood affected areas, Minister K.T. Rama Rao should explain why the Chief Minister did not visit even one place in the city and confined himself to Pragati Bhavan.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why did Hyderabad drown?||The scary sounds of swirling waters, the wailing men and women, the words of wisdom have been brought alive in a documentary that gives a perspective on the October floods in Hyderabad. Called “Why Did Hyderabad Drown”, the 32-minute documentary brings alive the terrible times during the monsoons. “We made it so that people can see it and understand the problem in correct perspective. Unless individuals get to know the problem if they buy properties on lake beds and near water bodies, this trend will continue,” said Cheeli Janardhan, who teaches at the University of Hyderabad. The documentary is a collaborative effort of University of Hyderabad and Confederation of Voluntary Associations (COVA). “We will use the documentary to make people understand the problem of encroachment and how it impacts life of ordinary people. We want it to be an election issue and make the contesting candidates commit to the policies and actions to prevent further encroachments,” says Mazher Hussain of COVA at a news conference and screening session in the city. Election Watch Some of the civil rights groups have also teamed up to create an Election Watch GHMC to aid the Election Commission of India carry out free and fair elections. The group aims to create voter awareness as well as help the polling staff on poll day. Among the list of demands made by the civil society groups include: Constitution and functioning of Area Sabhas and Ward Committees that will also include genuine RWA and civil society representatives. Ward Development plans in consultation with Ward level RWA / Community groups. Recognition of United Federation of Residential Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) as the nodal agency for all RWA activity / community engagement. Constitution of advisory committees for women, youth, senior citizens and eminent citizens as per the new Municipal Act and efficient redressal of grievances.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Left parties restrict their participation||As part of efforts to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from gaining foothold in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, the two Left parties, the CPI and the CPI (Marxist), have restricted their participation in the forthcoming elections to certain divisions. According to senior Left leaders, the two parties, after a series of deliberations, decided to contest in 29 divisions – CPI (M) in 12 and CPI in 17 – particularly in the industrial areas and zones abutting them, where they have sizeable number of voters. Plea to voters Determined as they are to prevent the BJP from benefiting, the leaders of these parties are appealing to voters to cast their vote for any secular party – either the TRS or the Congress – rather than encouraging communal parties. The development assumes significance in the light of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s strong pitch for protection of the public sector undertakings, which had been rendering yeomen service in terms of employment generation as well as on the economic front. The GHMC area being among the major industrial hubs of the country, trade unions have an active role to play, and the Left parties claim that they succeeded in ensuring that there is no split in these votes. “We contemplated fielding nominees in more than 40 divisions where we have significant presence of working class voters. But we restricted ourselves to 29 so as to avoid scope for division of votes which can ultimately benefit the BJP,” a senior leader told The Hindu . The two parties are focused on utilising the GHMC elections to consolidate their votes for the ensuing elections to the two Graduates Constituencies of the Legislative Council. In the areas where the Left has some presence, the parties are campaigning against the BJP and its communal politics. “The latest efforts to dilute profit-making PSUs has mandated a bigger role for the Left to counter the moves of the BJP,” he said. Left leaders are of the opinion that the BJP is trying to ‘vitiate’ the atmosphere as part of its intensified efforts to expand footprint in the two Telugu States. “They are apparently looking at Dubbak to Tirupati via GHMC and hence, trying their best to stoke communal feelings,” the leader said. Kodandaram angle The CPI and CPI (M), initially sought cooperation of Prof. M. Kodandaram led Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) in countering the BJP’s efforts to expand its footprint. “But they apparently refrained after it was felt that the TJS was more specifically focused on the anti-TRS agenda than communal politics,” an analyst of Left parties’ affairs said.  We contemplated fielding nominees in more than 40 divisions where we have significant presence of working class voters. But we restricted ourselves to 29 so as to avoid scope for division of votes which can ultimately benefit the BJP. A senior Left party leader
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR has to explain info source on ‘possible violence’, says Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Thursday stated it was up to the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to disclose about the information he had received about likelihood of law and order issues due to possible communal incidents during the ongoing poll campaign for the GHMC. “Since he has held a meeting with the top police officials and talked about the possible violence, he should explain how he got the information,” he said during the press conference for the manifesto launch. He also questioned the Chief Minister’s silence on Majlis leader Akbaruddin Owaisi’s threat to demolish the memorials built for former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao because of ‘encroaching on Hussainsagar Lake’.“Why is KCR silent about it? It showed the true face of Majlis party. Both PV and NTR are much respected and loved Telugu icons. No one can touch both those memorials,” affirmed Mr. Reddy. With regard to case filed against the party MP and BJYM president Tejasvi Surya, he said there was no bar against visiting Osmania University and to stand by the students there. Therefore, he did nothing which went against the law. The Union Minister said the BJP is quite keen on local issues being debated during the GHMC poll but it was Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son K.T. Rama Rao who have been commenting on national issues and in fact, the 50 questions posed by KTR were all about national issues only. “We are promising good governance in the local body if we are elected to power and take development into the Old City including the Metro Rail Line,” he said. Rohingyas in city Responding to another question, Mr. Kishan Reddy said the Centre has ‘definite information’ about the illegal stay of Rohingyas in the city and other parts of the country and appropriate action will be taken against them in coordination and after holding discussions with the respective State governments, he said. Homage to PV & NTR Earlier in the day, Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar had visited both the memorial sites on the NTR Marg and paid his respects. He also warned that the MIM headquarters of “Darussalam will be demolished” if the any harm comes to the PV and NTR memorials as a retort to the Majlis leader Akbaruddin Owaisi’s remarks at a public meeting on Wednesday. The BJP chief also condemned the filing of police cases against the BJYM president Tejasvi Surya and called it as an avengeful act. “Our party will not be deterred or be scared by foisting of false cases,” he added.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Beware of political tourists: KTR||Terming the visiting the BJP leaders for GHMC election campaign as political tourists, TRS working president and Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao asked people to decide whether they would trust them or those who stand by through thick and thin. Focussing his attack on the BJP during his roadshows in the divisions falling under Malkajgiri, Serilingampally and Rajendra Nagar constituencies on Thursday, he said there is no problem with the BJP leaders visiting Hyderabad but it would have been better had they come during the floods as well. At the same time, he wished they came with the Rs. 1,350 crore financial package sought by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for flood victims, in letter to the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. Repeatedly asking people whether they trusted the TRS that ensures law and order and peace in the city resulting in attraction of huge investments or the BJP that had only religious divisions on their minds. He asked people to raise hands if they had received Rs. 15 lakh promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the 2014 Parliament elections. “If you have not received, you should vote for TRS,” he said. Stating the Chief Minister as a visionary and futuristic whose heart is on Telangana’s development, he said who else would have thought about building the Keshavapur reservoir to meet the drinking water needs of the city. Gandipet reservoir was built in 1920, and after 100 years, another reservoir is coming up. No leader thought about the increasing population in Hyderabad and its expansion. Assuring that the flood relief of Rs. 10,000 would resume after the GHMC elections, he said so far 6.5 lakh families were given financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 during the heavy rains in Hyderabad. He blamed the opposition leaders for writing to the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to stop the assistance. “The same people promise to give Rs. 25,000 and that is just cheating people,” he said. KTR on BJP manifesto Earlier in a tweet loaded with sarcasm, the Minister took a dig at the BJP manifesto saying they had to use the pictures of structures constructed during the TRS rule. ‘Dear BJP manifesto writers, Glad that you chose pictures of the work done by TRS Govt in your GHMC manifesto. We will take this as a compliment to our work,” he said while sarcastically reminding a saying in Hyderabad: nakhal maarne ke liye bhi akhal rehna (You even need to be smart to copy).
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Hemant Karkare would have further exposed Abhinav Bharat’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday — which corresponds to the 12th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks — said that had Anti-Terrorist Squad chief Hemant Karkare, who was killed in action been alive, he would have exposed the ‘conspiracies’ of outfits such as Abhinav Bharat. Mr Owaisi was speaking at a public meeting in Erragadda where he underscored the importance of remembering sacrifices of police officers like Mr Karkare, even as he described terrorists as Satan. “There were big people in this organisation, including those from the Army, who Hemant Karkare arrested. Had he not met an untimely demise due to the oppressive Satan from Pakistan, he would have further exposed the conspiracies by Abhinav Bharat. You have to remember that terrorism has no religion, and terrorists are Satan. Terrorism is a new religion in itself. The Majlis demands that strict action be taken against all terror outfits,” Mr Owaisi said. In an oblique reference to Bharatya Janata Party parliamentarian Sadhvi Pragya, Mr Owaisi criticised her for reportedly stating that she had given a shraap (curse) to Hemant Karkare which led to his death. He also attributed a statement to her in which she reportedly described Nathuram Godse as desh bhakt (patriot) and criticised her further.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP, MIM failed to resolve issues of public importance: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party Telangana State unit has criticised the TRS, BJP and the AIMIM for failing to resolve issues of immediate public importance and indulging in provocative speeches to gain political mileage. TTDP president L. Ramana said the three parties which lost moral right to seek votes are trying to gain electoral mileage by resorting to provocative speeches in their attempts to exploit public sentiments. “These parties which failed to redress the grievances of the people are shedding crocodile tears to gain electoral mileage,” he said. Mr. Ramana lamented that the failure of the government in creating the necessary infrastructure resulted in inundation of several localities in the GHMC limits during the recent floods. Waterlogging is continuing in some areas more than a month after the flood, he said. The government no doubt announced relief package of Rs. 650 crore aimed at distribution of Rs. 10,000 each to households affected by the floods but a major chunk of the funds were swindled by the ruling party leaders leaving the affected families high and dry. The recent report of the Forum for Good Governance exposed that people with criminal antecedents were fielded by all the major political parties while the TDP fielded people with clean track record as its candidates, he said. Mr. Ramana was particularly critical of the MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi for his comments on the PV ghat and NTR memorial. The city was witness to frequent disturbances and curfews and law and order situation returned to normalcy after NTR took over the reins. P.V. Narasimha Rao on the other hand was the architect of the economic reforms which had accelerated economic development. “Mr. Owaisi owes an apology to the Telugu people for his comments on the two Telugu leaders,” he said. Mr. Ramana criticized BJP’s State president Bandi Sanjay for his comments on “surgical strikes” and Rohingyas.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR, DGP stoking fear among voters: BJP chief||State Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy of trying to create fear among voters in the name of anti-social elements trying to foment communal trouble during the GHMC polls. “Who are those anti-social elements trying to create law and order problems? Why is the government not arresting them if they know the persons irrespective of whichever party they owe their allegiance to? Or, is it a ploy of the Chief Minister and DGP to prevent our national leaders from campaigning? Or is to stop the poll because the TRS is losing?,” he said, while addressing roadside meetings at Patacheru and environs on Thursday. Mr. Sanjay Kumar also demanded a criminal case be filed against Majlis leader Akbaruddin Owaisi and arrest for his “anti-national” comments on demolishing NTR and PV memorials at the NTR Ghat. “Why is the CM not reacting? Has he not talked about his respect for both the leaders? Did he not grow politically in the Telugu Desam Party set up by NTR? Even the minority community is not appreciating such comments,” he claimed. “The issue is about a Majlis leader threatening to demolish the memorials of two great Telugu personalities and what action the TRS govenrment is going to take? The Chief Minister and the DGP should also give information about the presence of Rohingyas because the Deputy Chief Minister himself had inaugurated a few shelters for them. “Let them explain or give a report or the Central intelligence agencies will get involved and they will lose face. It is unfortunate that those responsible for maintaining law and order are only trying to foment trouble during the municipal polls time,” he added.  The Deputy Chief Minister himself inaugurated a few shelters for Rohingyas.   Bandi Sanjay Kumar, State BJP chief.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Strike impacts banking operations||Operations at many public sector banks as well as regional rural banks and District Cooperative Central Banks in the State were impacted on Thursday as members of two bank employees unions and an officers union participated in a nationwide strike called by central trade unions. Little work could be transacted at several bank branches across Telangana, including in the city, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Mahabubagar and Khammam, said P. Venkataramaiah, general secretary of the Telangana unit of Bank Employees’ Federation of India (BEFI). The All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) and the All India Bank Officers Association directly participated in the strike.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police book trespass case agaisnt Tejasvi Surya||Osmania University police of Hyderabad registered a criminal case against BJYM national president and MP Tejasvi Surya over his visit to Osmania University campus during GHMC election campaign, following a complaint lodged by the university authorities. Police invoked Section 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 21 and 76 of Hyderabad City Police Act against the MP from Karnataka. Mr. Surya, who was in Hyderabad campaigning for BJP candidates in Baldia polls, addressed a gathering of party workers at Arts College on OU campus two days ago. Accompanied by BJP leaders and workers, he stormed into the campus through the university gate at AMS arch. University authorities kept the gate closed since imposition of lockdown in March due to COVID-19 pandemic. “We registered the case after the OU Registrar lodged a formal complaint on the day the MP entered the campus,” the OU police said. Responding over the First Information Report issued against him, Mr. Surya tweeted that Telangana CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao can register any number of cases against him. “Dear KCR Garu, File as many cases as you want. You can’t stop BJP. You will only make us stronger!”, the young MP from Karnataka tweeted.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘BJP should promise Bharat Ratna to PV, NTR’||Congress Member of Parliament A. Revanth Reddy took objection to BJP and MIM parties dragging the names of great personalities like P.V. Narasimha Rao and N.T. Rama Rao, while indulging in ‘below the belt’ attacks on each other. Mr. Reddy said the low level of political discourses being witnessed between BJP and MIM is exposing themselves but why do they want to drag people who served the country and the State. If BJP has such respect for those leaders, let them prove by awarding Bharat Ratna, which has been a long pending demand, he said. He said the BJP should introspect how it has treated its senior leaders L.K. Advani, Murali Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh before showering love on PV and NTR for votes. He asked Home Minister Amit Shah, who is visiting the city for campaign on November 29, to first visit the ghats of both the leaders and announce BJP’s desire to award Bharat Ratna to them. The Congress MP alleged that Asaduddin Owaisi, Akbaruddin Owaisi, Sanjay and D. Arvind are good friends who are in constant touch under the direction of Mr. Amit Shah to provoke communal feelings and divide people on religious lines. So people should not fall into their trap.  Later in the evening, he addressed road shows supporting Congress candidates Raghavachari in Champapet, Sangeeta Naik in Hastinapuram, Sama Rammohan Reddy in Vanasthalipuram. He said Raghavachari is a true Telangana soldier and played a key role in the Telangana movement but was ignored by the TRS in favour of those who opposed it.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notice to Public Health director||The Telangana High Court on Thursday issued contempt-of-court notice to Public Health and Family Welfare director in-charge G. Srinivasa Rao, the top State government officer, overseeing matters relating to COVID-19, for not complying with its directions in a batch of PIL pleas on the pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy gave two weeks to Mr. Rao to explain why he should not be punished for deliberately disobeying the court orders. During previous hearings, the bench instructed the government to step up number of COVID-19 tests. It specifically asked the Public Health director to conduct 50,000 tests a day for a week from November 19 and enhance the number of tests up to a lakh on one of those seven days. In the latest report submitted by him to the court, the official stated that the number of tests would be increased to 50,000 a day and one lakh once in a week “as and when demand arises. The CJ observed that, despite the court direction, the officer could conduct only 45,000 to 47,000 tests a day during the week and never reached the target of one lakh tests on any day of the week. More tests would help ascertain if there are more number of coronavirus positive persons. The court wanted the government to enhance number of tests to identify people testing positive for COVID-19 in the backdrop of reports about possible second wave of the pandemic. Expressing doubts over the State’s preparedness in the event of the second wave of the pandemic, the CJ said that “you do not start digging up well for water when your house is on fire”. After perusing Mr. Rao’s report, the CJ remarked that the language used by the former was contemptuous. “He is inviting contempt notice from the court…. This court can assure Dr. Srinivasa Rao that he will be at the receiving end for his unwarranted drafting skills,” the bench said. It felt that Advocate General B.S. Prasad should have guided Mr. Rao in presenting a proper report. The bench asked the government to explain the rationale behind permitting huge congregations of people at marriages and meetings of political parties. The CJ said there was likelihood of the pandemic second wave hitting the State and the State government was not geared up to tackle it.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HRMS for railways launched||The Indian Railway has launched completely digitized online Human Resource Management System (HRMS) to leverage improved productivity and employee satisfaction on Thursday. Railway Board chairman and CEO Vinod Kumar Yadav launched following modules of HRMS and user depot useful for railway employees and pensioners through video conferencing. The Employee Self Service (ESS) module enables railway employees to interact with various modules of HRMS including communication regarding change of data. Provident Fund (PF) advance module enables employees to check their PF balance and apply for PF advance online. Advance processing will be online and employees will also be able to see the status of their PF application online. Settlement module digitizes the entire settlement process of retiring employees. Employees can fill their settlement/pension booklet online. Service details are fetched online and pension is processed online completely. This will eliminate use of paper and it also facilitates monitoring for timely processing of settlement dues of retiring employees. Other modules are employee master module which stores all basic information details of the employee, electronic service record module storing service records of employees in digital format, a release said.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Register your exotic live animals by Dec. 2||The Telanngana Forest department, through a statement on Thursday, urged persons and organisations in possession of exotic live animals to register them with the Chief Wildlife Warden of the Telangana, using the online Parivesh website of the Ministry of Environment , Forests & Climate Change, Government of India, on or before December 2.In view of the exotic animals not being listed in any of the schedules of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the department has not been able to monitor the possession and sale of exotic live animals in the State, despite the fact that such animals are kept as pets by individuals, institutions and resort owners, the statement said. To regulate the possession, breeding and trade in exotic live animals, the Government of India issued an advisory on July 2 this year, to the Chief Wildlife Wardens of all the States and Union Territories, for registration of pet owners. Through MoEF&CC, an advisory was issued for voluntary disclosure of exotic live animals before the CWW for obtaining registration of the animals. Six months Six months’ time was given for voluntary disclosure online, which is set to end by December 2. Final registration is to be done by December 15. All the pet owners registering before deadline will not be required to produce documents related to imported live animals in their possession. After December 15, however, all the documents need to be submitted.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meeting to promote North-East tea organised||A virtual B2B meet for promotion and revival of teas of North-East in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh was organised by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry in association with the Indian Chamber of Commerce. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani said such platforms helped buyers in the two States directly network with sellers and manufacturers from Assam. Adulteration Pointing out that tea was the most widely consumed beverage in the country, with consumption approximately one billion kg in FY-2019, he said adulteration of tea, however, was a serious concern since it affected health of people. He appealed to Tea Board of India, whose Deputy Chairman and CEO P K Sahoo participated in the meeting, to address this issue with FSSAI and producers’ associations. He said the board should ensure people to get access to quality tea at affordable price, according to a release from FTCCI.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lubna Sarwath files complaint against MIM||Lake protection activist Lubna Sarwath, who is contesting the civil polls from the Asif Nagar division as an independent, on Thursday approached Asif Nagar police alleging threats by Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) supporters while she was was on the campaign trail. Ms Sarwath, who is an economist, told The Hindu that she was in Syed Ali Guda interacting with residents and distributing pamphlets when AIMIM supporters allegedly told her to leave the area. She also alleged that they followed her for around a kilometre to her home even as they jeered at her. “This happened on Wednesday. They threatened me. They told me to get lost. Soon after, I sent a message to the inspector of police. Today I approached the police with a complaint. I have also sought protection,” she said. Later in the day, she shared a copy of a letter from the State Election Commission which directed the city police, GHMC Commissioner and Ward 72 (Asif Nagar) Observer to inquire and take necessary action based on the complaint.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP manifesto impracticable’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) city committee has described the manifesto released by the Bharatiya Janata Party as “impracticable” and demanded that the party clarify on how it would mobilise the resources required to fulfil the promises it made to people in the manifesto. The CPI(M) said the manifesto released by the BJP incorporated promises that would involve an estimated expenditure of Rs. 1 lakh crore, but the party had not clarified how it would mobilise the resources required for fulfilling the assurances. GHMC revenue The GHMC revenues on an average are around Rs. 4,000 crore and more than half of this amount is spent on maintenance and other aspects. “How is the BJP planning to mobilise the resources? Will the party secure funds from the Centre?”, CPI (M) city secretary M. Srinivas questioned. He wondered why the BJP had assured setting up of four grave yards/burial grounds in each of the 150 divisions, totalling to 600 in the GHMC limits, and asked the party to clarify the need for the same. “The BJP’s manifesto is impracticable and deceitful. It is aimed at cheating the people,” he alleged.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH start-up launcher programme||The Entrepreneur Zone (TEZ - a start-up accelerator) in association with Technology Incubators in University of Hyderabad invites applications for its Online Start-up Launcher Programme (SLP). The programme, which runs over three months, is designed as a combination of online weekend mentorship sessions and start-up incubation/consultancy and support services to help aspiring entrepreneurs to start and scale. Well-known entrepreneurs or start-up consultants/investors will mentor the aspiring entrepreneurs through a structured programme. Selection will be on the basis of the business idea presented. Last date for applying is December 10 and the programme will start on January 16 and end on April 10, 2021. Interested can apply online on www.tez.co.in by clicking on the Start-up Launcher programme or write to us at tez.co.in@gmail.com or call 7660857600.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HR Award for NMDC||NMDC has received the National HR Best Practices Award 2019 of the National Institute of Personal Management (NIPM). The Gold category award recognises the best-in-class workplace practices that affect enterprise-wide success in using human resource as a strategic business tool for enhanced results. NMDC was recognised for its industry leading and progressive HR practices, said a release from the country’s largest iron ore miner. CMD Sumit Deb appreciated the efforts of HR team and congratulated them for the award.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PAGE 4 BRIEF Accupressure walking track||An acupressure walking track and another track shaped as the number '8' have been inaugurated in the Botanical Garden on Thursday by the PCCF and VC-MD of the State Forest Development Corporation P. Raghuveer. The tracks will serve health conscious walkers, a statement said. Mr. Raghuveer also distributed uniforms to the workers of the Botanical Garden and Pala Pitta Cycling Park, the note said.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong leader joins BJP||Former TPCC official spokesperson and NRI cell convenor N. Devender Reddy joined the BJP in the presence of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday. He was formally welcomed into the party by former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Mr. Reddy hails from Makthal in Narayanpet, an official spokesman said.
27 November 2020||KHAMMAM/BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bandh hits coal production||The dawn to dusk countrywide general strike by major central trade unions against the Centre's labour codes severely impacted coal production in the State-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) and paralysed normal life in the erstwhile composite Khammam district on Thursday. Most of the buses of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) remained off the road during the daylong strike. The strike crippled coal production in the SCCL with nearly 75-80 % of its workforce, barring the essential staff, abstaining from duty in the coal mines/departments in support of the strike, SCCL sources said. The largest public sector undertaking, which is the only coal producing company in south India, has around 45,079 employees on the rolls in its 46 coal mines, including 27 underground mines and 19 OCPs, besides various other departments and wings spanning seven districts in the State. Except for the BJP affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), almost all the trade unions owing allegiance to the major central unions including the CITU, AITUC and INTUC participated in the strike in the coal belt region. The ruling TRS affiliated TGBKS also participated in the daylong strike. The strike resulted in a production loss to the tune of 1.50 lakh tonnes of coal in all 11 areas of the company spread across the vast coal belt region of the State on Thursday, sources said. Show of unity In a major show of unity, workers cutting across union affiliations staged a huge demonstration in front of the head office of the SCCL in Kothagudem against the Centre's four labour codes and alleged move to open the coal sector for private players, which they termed as attempts to “dilute” the hard won rights of the working class. In Khammam, the activists of the trade unions affiliated to the Left parties and the Congress took out a huge rally and staged a sit-in in front of the bus depot and bus station. The Telangana Rythu Sangham, the Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham and other farmers’ organisations staged protests in Wyra, Konijerla, Mudigonda and elsewhere in the district as part of the Grameen Bharat Bandh expressing their dissent against the Centre’s new agricultural laws.
27 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||CM’s support to dairy lauded||While Verghese Kurien, ‘Milkman of India’, was instrumental in organisation and ideating village co-operative societies for milk collection every day, that went on to start the Operation Flood and the White Revolution, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the State too has a special focus for dairy development, Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy said on Thursday. “The State government, through banks is facilitating loans for farmers to buy cattle and is procuring milk from dairy farmers at a higher rate to support them. KCR’s focus on dairy development in Telangana is similar to that of Kurien’s, which made India the largest dairy in the world,” he said, addressing farmers. Mr. Sukender Reddy was participating in the National Milk Day event, in commemoration of the birth anniversary of late Dr. Kurien, at Babasaipeta village in Nagarjunasagar along with local legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah. “There is still a lot of scope for dairy development in the State. Hyderabad city alone requires 20 lakh litres of milk, whereas the current supply is only 10 lakh litres,” he said.
27 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||532 Nalgonda officials as GHMC POs and APOs||District Collector Prashant J Patil on Thursday said 532 officials from Nalgonda have been allotted election duty as Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polling to be held on December 1. Speaking to the officials at Udayaditya Bhavan at the Collectorate, as part of their poll duty training, he said they would be transported to Hyderabad, the distribution and reception centres, and back to the headquarters after completing the formalities. A fleet of buses carrying the poll staff would leave Nalgonda town on the early morning of November 30. Mr. Patil said the training, guided by master trainers, involved usage of ballot boxes and other poll material. A repeat session would be conducted on Friday. Strict action, as per election rules, would be taken against officials if they remain absent, he said.
27 November 2020||R. AvadhaniRAMACHANDRAPURAM (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Political parties intensify door-to-door campaign||Lone vehicles with mike and posters of the candidate with State leaders on either side are moving in lanes and bylanes. “Vote for this party. We did so many things and we are promising to do so many,” cries the mike, irrespective of who is hearing. Three divisions — Ramachandrapuram, Bharati Nagar and Patancheru — of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections (GHMC) fall in the limits of Sangareddy district and campaign is at its peak. Party candidates are moving from house to house seeking votes. At some place the voters are complaining that their names went missing in the voters’ list. A few kilometres away, wearing party scarves, are a group of women returning home after having lunch to take rest. They go and participate in the campaign as they are being paid for posing as party workers. At another place women, again wearing masks and party scarves, get down from two DCM vehicles to participate in the campaign. The paid workers walk behind vehicles moving in the front with mike. “The roads were widened and a new market yard was established here. We have the choice before us,” said two persons at a tailoring shop, a few kilometres away from the main road of Patancheru. “Whom do you vote?” asked a woman who has been walking on the roadside at Bharati Nagar. “Every one is telling that party is better. I will vote for that,” said the woman, not mentioning the party of which she was wearing the scarf. Alternative to TRS “In the past we have voted for Shankar Goud of the Congress party at Patanacheru. But this time the party is not much visible. The choice is between TRS and BJP. As we do not wish to vote for TRS the only choice is BJP,” said a man while having tea at a roadside bunk.At least three persons, who had voted for Congress party in the past, indicated voting for the BJP as an alternative for the TRS. Three women who were silent for long when asked about the prospects of different political parties in the elections declined to respond. Later they said: “We are from neighbouring Karnataka and settled here three decades back and are staying in rented houses. We were not offered flood assistance while three or four in a house were given, based on the recommendation of local leaders. Why should we vote for them?” they asked. “We have seen and experienced all parties. Now we want a change for better,” said another woman.
27 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||International webinar ties GITAM, Malaysia varsity||The first international webinar jointly organised by the faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Malaysia and School of Pharmacy and GITAM University, with an MoU on “Challenges and Innovative Drug Delivery Approaches for the Management of Chronic Diseases” was held on Thursday. It was part of National Pharmacy Week celebrations – 2020. The webinar attracted academicians, research scholars, students and industry personnel from across the globe and became a huge success with more than 300 participants from different cultures and different nations including Malaysia, India and UAE. Dean, Faculty of Pharmacy, UiTM, associate prof. Dr. Shariza Sahudin initiated the opening remark followed by Pro Vice-Chancellor, GITAM, Prof. N. Siva Prasad. Both the dignitaries highlighted that collaboration between both the centres of excellence in the field of pharmaceutical sciences in terms of research activities, joint publications, staff and student mobility programmes promote the global visibility and internationalisation in providing access to higher education. Head of Pharmaceutics department, UiTM, Dr. Nor Hayati Abu Samah and principal, School of Pharmacy, GITAM, Prof. Shiva Kumar showcased the research interests and expertise of faculty members with an aim to establish the foundation for international research collaborations between two nations and two higher education institutions. Dr. Nor Hayati highlighted that UiTM carries out a wide range of research and offers a wealth of expertise. Prof. Wong Tin Wui from UiTM and Dr. Sunitha Sampathi from GITAM shared insights on current challenges, innovative technologies, latest developments and new avenues in drug delivery for the tailored treatment of chronic diseases.
27 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Entire family involved in plucking cotton||Baghdad is farmer of Malkapur village of Kondapur mandal. He is a small farmer and took about four acres of land on lease for Rs. 10,000 per each acre. Irrespective of crop yield, he has to pay the total lease amount of Rs. 40,000 to the land owner. Baghdad has cultivated cotton in the leased land and has invested about Rs. 35,000 per acre. Come November, the cotton crop came for harvesting, though part of the crop was damaged due to heavy rains that took place last month. Some cotton balls flowered while some turned black and could not flower. Not only that, even part of the cotton has changed colour due to getting soaked in rain water. Baghdad has a son Sameer and three grand children aged between eight and 13 years. The entire family is involved in plucking the cotton in addition to the hired labour of about 10 persons. “It is becoming difficult to pluck the cotton as the crop has soaked in rainwater and partly damaged. Labour are complaining about pain in hands and their plucking capacities were reduced. They are able to pluck between 30 kg and 35 kg per day instead of 60 to 70 kg last year. The result will that we need to hire them for some more days. Hence, all our family members are involved in plucking. This will reduce our payment to labour,” said Sameer. Children are also taking active part in plucking as schools were not opened. Children taking part in plucking van be witnessed with the families of migrants from Kurnool.
27 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||AEO jumps into Manjeeera river||Chatpe Aruna (34), working as agriculture extension officer (AEO) jumped into river Manjeera at Rayipally village in Manoor mandal on Thursday afternoon. However her body was not yet traced and the search is on. According to police, Sheri Shiva Kumar, brother of Aruna, lodged a complaint saying he received a call from his friend that Aruna committed suicide. She is survived by husband and two children.
27 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Smita Sabharwal visits filter beds||Smita Sabharwal, Special Secretary, Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), examined the filter beds at Peddapur in Sadashivapet mandal, Singur at Pulkal mandal, and Rajampet in Sangareddy mandal. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, HMWS Executive Director Satyanarayana, General Manager Ramakrishna and others were present.
27 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One arrested under PD Act for smuggling ganja||The Excise police arrested one person involved in smuggling ganja. According to K.A.B. Sastry, Deputy Commissioner, Excise and Prohibition, Rathod Bansilal, 44, of Chipally tanda in Jarasangam mandal, was involved in smuggling ganja from Odisha to Zaheerabad. At least in two instances about 1,300 kilograms of ganja was seized from him. “In this year so far, 15 cases were registered, 30 persons were arrested, while 1,386 kilograms of ganja and 385 plants were destroyed,” said Mr. Sastry.
27 November 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Suryapet police destroy illicit liquor unit||A joint operation by the Suryapet police on Thursday destroyed an illicit liquor unit at Chinnagarakunta village of Penpahad mandal. About 600 litres of jaggery syrup and the setup for preparation of the illicit liquor was destroyed, and 12 litres of the liquor was seized, central crime station official Mr. Niranjan said. A person suspected to be involved in the preparation and sale of the product was arrested in the raid. A probe has been opened.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||PAGE 2 - ANCHOR PEOPLE’S VOICE||Flood relief assistance of Rs. 10,000 each was paid on the first two days irrespective of status of applicants. On the third day, it was made applicable to white card holders only and election model code stopped this programme from the fourth day. There are many non-white card holders below poverty line getting a pension less than Rs. 1,000, whose houses got damaged. Top floor dwellers were also badly hit as their terrace was damaged and there was heavy seepage inside the rooms. TRS government is requested to release the relief without any restrictions from Decembefr 4. N. Ramalakshmi Machha Bolarum    Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao had declared that Metro rail would be extended upto L.B. Nagar so that people residing in R.K. Puram, Alkapuri, Snehpuri and other areas along the ring road towards Nagole via Kamineni Hospital would be benefited by extension of the Nagole Metro to L.B. Nagar. I request the Minister to keep his promises. B. Rajendra Prasad IT Colony    We lack proper bus bays in our city at most places. Designated bus bays protect passengers from rain and sun. Hence, I request the authorities concerned to take prompt action to construct proper stations on all bus routes in our city. Prajeet Dev Boinapally Yadamma Nagar    We know that several acres of government land in twin cities are illegally occupied by land-grabbers. Such land should be taken back with a special drive. Many of it can be converted into playgrounds for school and college students. Atheerath Naineni Kukatpally    We do not have enough footpaths in our city. And wherever they exist, hawkers have partially or fully occupied them. Thus, pedestrians are deprived of safety on roads. During my school days in sixties, I had the privilege of walking from Osmangunj to Domalguda daily to attend school. Wide footpaths of those days made my parents encourage me to opt for walking. We have to return to those days to keep people healthy. This also reduces air pollution with less use of automobiles. M.V. Nagavender Rao Anandnagar    I expect the new GHMC corporators to announce a clear road map for open plots inside residential colonies. Many of these open plots have been used as garbage points. N. Nagarajan Secunderabad    Most roads in Secunderabad Cantonment area are out of bounds and badly maintained, forcing citizens to endure long detours. Street-lights are not there in large stretches or are non-functional. Extension of Metro rail to ECIL is vital for this part of the city along with MMTS extension and development of Moula Ali station. Many parks are in bad shape too and there is an urgent need to establish more government hospitals. Lakes’ protection and cleaning too should be taken up in this neglected part of the city. R.G.C. Sekhar Yapral
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. sends show-cause notice on Parliament tree transplantation||The Delhi government on Thursday sent a show-cause notice to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), citing an article by The Hindu, which said that tree transplantation for constructing a new Parliament building was being done violating Delhi government’s condition of approval. “A show-cause notice was sent today [Thursday] and the CPWD has been asked to file a reply within 15 days about the facts of the news article,” a Delhi government official said.  The Hindu had first reported on Wednesday that transplantation is being done at an eco park, 22 km away from Parliament, though it has to be done near Parliament as per the approval given on September 16. The approval was given for transplanting 404 trees. The trees were supposed to be transplanted near the existing Parliament, close to the India Gate area, as per permission. Multiple drivers of trucks transporting the trees and a CPWD official had confirmed that “large trees” were being taken to the eco park at night. Workers at the NTPC Eco Park in Kalindi Kunj also confirmed the development and said that at least “15-20 big trees” from Parliament have been transplanted to the park. Some of the trees, which were given permission to be transplanted, were as tall as 16 meters — taller than a three storey building. Giving permission for the transplantation of 404 trees on September 16, a notification had said that as a compensatory plantation, 4,040 saplings will have to be planted in the precincts of Parliament. This was supposed to be done within three months. Transplantation delay “Now the plantation season is over and the compensatory plantation will most probably get delayed,” the official said. The CPWD will have to file for an extension of the deadline in that case and it is likely to be approved, as the mortality rate is very high for saplings planted during the winter.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality likely to improve today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida improved to the ‘very poor’ category from ‘severe’ category and Gurugram’s was in the ‘poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board data. The air quality of Delhi is forecast to further improve on Friday. Air pollution of the ‘very poor’ category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, according to the government. “Winds are forecast to pick up and improve the ventilation condition for the next two days. The AQI is forecast to improve towards the lower end of ‘very poor’ to the higher end of ‘poor’ for Friday. The lower end of the ‘very poor’ category is forecast for Saturday,” said a statement by SAFAR .  The air quality improved on Thursday as the surface winds picked up speed, which aids in dispersion of pollutants. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 1% on Thursday. Also, the number of fire counts in neighbouring States were only 37, as per SAFAR.
27 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Initiate dialogue with farmers without delay, demands Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday demanded that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government initiate a dialogue without any delay with the farmers staging the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march in protest against the Centre's agriculture sector laws. With the Delhi borders at Gurugram and Faridabad being sealed and the agitating farmers braving tear gas and water cannons in Haryana, Mr. Gehlot said the Centre should understand the sensitivity of the situation, as all farmers' organisations across the country had come together for the movement. “Instead of resolving their woes, the government is up in arms against its own people... Farmers are protesting against the black farm laws,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted, while pointing out that the NDA government's “anti-people policies” had led to various sections of the society coming out to oppose it. In the Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the farmers observed a strike at all the Krishi Upaj Mandis and fruit markets and forced closure of the Food Corporation of India’s godowns on Thursday.  State Bills The Assembly had on November 2 passed three Bills to stop the applicability of the Centre’s farm laws in the State through the amendments making the Central Acts ineffective in certain respects. Rajasthan is the second State after Punjab to formally reject the Centre’s farm Acts, which are being opposed by large sections of agriculturists across the country. The Punjab Assembly had passed the similar Bills as well as a resolution against the Central legislations last month.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||CM praises Mumbai Police on 12th anniversary of 26/11 attack||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray paid tributes to the martyrs of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack on its 12th anniversary on Thursday. He praised the Mumbai Police and said the force needs to be so strong that terrorists do not dare to attack the State or its capital. “Mumbai’s police force performs an important duty of protecting citizens from any threat, be that of a petty thief to that of a terrorist. We are committed to strengthening the force and will ensure that it gains strength,” said Mr. Thackeray in his address while inaugurating the martyrs’ gallery at the office of the Director General of Police at the Maharashtra Police headquarters Mr. Thackeray said though the State is facing a financial crisis, his government will take every step to strengthen the police force. He said the idea behind the gallery was to make people aware of “what conditions the police personnel work in, what is the meaning of the police, what is their life”. “Besides at the police headquarters, this idea can be implemented at various locations across the State,” the Chief Minister said. ‘War on multiple fronts’ State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh also emphasised on the efficiency of the Mumbai Police, which is battling Naxals, terrorists, criminals, and anti-social elements at the same time. “The force has been working 24x7 during the pandemic. The battle against the novel coronavirus is likely to continue till an unforeseen period. I am sure that the force will continue to perform its important role,” he said. The special focus on the efficiency and dedication of the Mumbai Police comes in the backdrop of the recent attacks on the force by political parties and social media users. The attacks mounted especially after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party accused the police of acting at the behest of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and not probing the case professionally.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC dismisses plea seeking CBI probe into Disha Salian’s death||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition seeking a court-monitored CBI probe into the death of Disha Salian, former manager of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and said “if any person has information in the case, he/she is free to approach the police”. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni observed that the petitioner, Delhi-based advocate Puneet Dhanda, had no locus standi to file such a plea. “Who are you? If there is any foul play in the death of this person Disha Salian, then her family can take appropriate steps as per law,” the court said. Salian, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in Malad, following which the the city police registered an Accidental Death Report. In his petition, Mr. Dhanda sought that the case be transferred to the CBI and the probe monitored by the court. The HC, in its order, said the Mumbai Police on August 5 issued a press note saying if any person has any information pertaining to the death, then he or she shall approach the police. “There is nothing on record to show that the petitioner has approached the police. The petitioner has, in fact, directly approached the Supreme Court,” the court said. The apex court last month refused to hear the plea and directed Mr. Dhanda to approach the high court first, following which Dhanda filed a petition in the Bombay HC. The petitioner’s advocate, Vineet Dhanda, argued that there were several media reports insinuating that Salian was murdered and the police had closed the case without carrying out a proper investigation.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||Over 50 accused get bail in Palghar lynching case||A special court in Thane on Thursday granted bail to over 50 people arrested in the Palghar lynching case, where two spiritual leaders and their driver were killed at Gadchinchale village. District judge P.P. Jadhav granted bail to the accused on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 15,000 each. Special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde told The Hindu : “There was no evidence against the accused; therefore they were granted bail.” On April 16, two religious leaders — Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and Maharaj Kalpavrikshgiri (70) — and their driver, Nilesh Telgane (35), were lynched on suspicion of being child lifters while passing through Gadchinchale village. They were travelling from Kandivali to attend the last rites of a Hindu spiritual leader, Ramgiri Maharaj, who had died in Surat. They couldn’t travel on the national highway due to lockdown restrictions and reached Gadchinchle village after taking a detour. The trio was taken into custody by the Palghar police and kept in a police van. A large mob then reportedly stopped their vehicle and dragged the three men out. Armed with sticks and rods, the mob attacked the men and killed them. Offences were registered in connection with the case at Kasa police station and the Palghar police began an investigation. On April 21, the Maharashtra government transferred the case to the State CID and its Kokan Bhavan unit started a probe into the incident. The State CID filed three charge sheets in the case before the Judicial Magistrate First Class court in Dahanu taluka in Palghar district. After examining 808 suspects and 118 witnesses, the CID team had arrested 238 people and detained 11 juveniles in conflict with law in connection with the incident. They were booked under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Police Act and Maharashtra Damage to Public Property (Prevention) Act.
27 November 2020||Nagpur,||Rs. 100-crore investment scam busted in Nagpur; 11 arrested||The police on Thursday claimed to have unearthed a major scam in Nagpur and arrested 11 people for allegedly duping over 25,000 investors from different States to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. The masterminds of the racket, Vijay Ramdas Gurnule (35) and Devendra Bhimrao Gajbhiye (34), have been arrested along with their nine accomplices, DCP (zone 1) Nurool Hasan said. “The duo had founded Metro Vision Buildcon company in Nagpur in 2015 without any permission from the authorities. They devised a plan for chain marketing, under which people asked to invest Rs. 3,000 for getting its membership,” he said. Each investor would get Rs. 730 per month as commission for adding three members. The scamsters floated several such schemes in 2020 and duped more than 25,000 investors not only in Maharashtra, but also in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and some other States,” the official added. “After duping the investors of Rs. 100 crore, the fraudsters hid some of the cash at different locations. One such place was traced in Amravati, from where Rs. 48 lakh were recovered from a house of Gurnule’s relative. The cash was buried and was recovered after digging a two-feet-deep pit,” he said. The police have so far recovered Rs. 1.03 crore cash from mr. Gurnule and his accomplices, the DCP said.
27 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||One killed, 13 injured as truck rams MSRTC bus||One person was killed and 13 others were injured when a container truck rammed into a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday near Panvel on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The MSRTC bus carrying 17 passengers was heading to Mumbai from Satara. The bus left Satara on Wednesday evening and was scheduled to reach Parel depot on Thursday. However, when the bus reached near Kon Gaon in Navi Mumbai, the truck rammed it and pushed the vehicle a few metres ahead. The right side of the bus was crushed in the collision, killing Ganesh Ramdas Kadam (36), a native of Satara, on the spot. Kadam, who is survived by his wife, was a bus driver with the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport undertaking. He was returning to Mumbai to resume work after spending Deepavali with his family, a police officer said. The driver of the truck drove away without stopping to help. The highway traffic police and the local police reached the spot and rushed all the injured to MGM Hospital. The Panvel Taluka police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death by negligence against the truck driver after Jagannath Kisan Raut (48), the driver of the MSRTC bus, filed a complaint. Mr. Raut and three passengers — Shyamrao Shivaji Khawale (45), Santosh Uttam Patekar (49), and Shobha Santosh Patekar (41) — have sustained serious injuries and are undergoing treatment. On Thursday evening, the police detained the truck driver. “We have detained him and are interrogating him to ascertain whose mistake caused the accident. We will take action against the people responsible for this accident after conducting a proper investigation,” senior police inspector Ravindra Daundkar, from the Panvel Taluka police station, said.
27 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Scrapped buses turn toilets in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has converted two scrapped NMMT buses into mobile toilets, which will operate in crowded areas. The NMMC said the move is a step towards ensuring cleanliness in the city and maintaining its distinction of being the only civic body in the State to bag a double plus rating in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan. “Two NMMT buses meant to be scrapped were repaired and converted into toilets. They started operations in the city on Thursday,” NMMC PRO Mahendra Konde said. The buses have three separate toilets for women, and two toilets and two urinals for men. There are also two wash basins and separate changing rooms for men and women. A tank installed on the top of the buses supplies water. “This initiative will especially help women who face an inconvenience in crowded areas such as markets where there are no toilets,” NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Take a call on night curfew in Delhi: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday told the city government to take a call “without losing further time” on whether night curfew is required to be imposed in the entire Capital or some parts of it, to contain the spread of COVID-19. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued the direction after the Centre submitted that States and Union Territories can now impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, based on their own assessment of the situation, as per its November 25 Guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution. The Centre, however, stated that any imposition of a local lockdown outside containment zones in State, district, sub-division or city level will require prior consultation with the Central government. Cashless fines The High Court also asked the Delhi government to make arrangements for making “online deposit of fines to avoid cash transactions as far as possible”. Recently, the penalty for not wearing a face mask and violating other COVID-19 norms was increased to Rs. 2,000, which was Rs. 500 earlier. The High Court also asked the Delhi government as to how it was ensuring that the cap of 50 guests at a marriage ceremony in Delhi is being strictly enforced. House-to-house survey During the hearing, the Delhi government stated that it was in the process of conducting house-to-house survey with the help of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The survey commenced on November 20 and as of November 24, about 57,89,799 persons have been surveyed. “The said survey reveals that the highest of number of asymptomatic persons were found in South-West, East, North-West and West districts,” the city government said. “The containment zones are also the highest in the said districts. There are 23,915 active cases in the containment zones, out of which the maximum number of cases are in West district followed by South-East, East, South-West and North,” it added. Between November 1 and 24, the total number of death in the Capital on account of COVID-19 infection was 2,049. Responding to this, the High Court remarked, “Even if the mortality rate in Delhi due to the infection is lower than some other cities in India, that can hardly be a solace to those who have lost a near and dear one”. The Delhi government said that the number of ICU beds in Delhi government hospitals here was 1,722, as on November 25. ICU beds in hospitals under the Central government have been increased from 89 as on June 01 to 567 as on November 23. In the private sector, ICU beds have been increased from 111 as on June to 2,182 as on November 23. A status report filed by the Delhi government also indicated that there are 13 COVID Care Centres, 6 COVID Health Centres and one Quarantine Facility Centre for COVID-19 patients or suspected cases. The High Court, however, noted that out of the total 8,217 beds in 13 COVID Care Centres, 7,610 beds are vacant as of now. The occupancy is only of 607 beds. The beds in the COVID Care Centre are permitted to be occupied on recommendations made by officers at the district level, upon visiting the residence of the persons concerned and on finding that any family member is infected, thus making other family members susceptible but unable to isolate themselves within their home premises. In the six COVID Health Centres, there are 882 bed facilities, out of which 619 are vacant. The Delhi government stated that there are adequate number of beds available in the COVID Care Centres and COVID Health Centres, as of now. For convenience of the public, the information regarding availability of beds in the 33 private hospitals is made available on Delhi Corona App and on the website – http://delhifightscorona.in – on a real-time basis. A helpline number, 1031, has been established by the Delhi government for people to seek information regarding COVID-19 infection, availability of beds in hospitals, etc. The High Court directed the city government to furnish the data regarding the number of daily calls received on this helpline number from November 1 onwards and the number of queries answered satisfactorily.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||File for hospital pending with Delhi Minister for two years||A plan to construct a 100-bed hospital in Najafgarh by the Union Health Ministry is stuck, as the permission for cutting the trees for the project is pending with the Delhi Environment Minister’s office for almost two years, according to documents accessed by The Hindu . “The official concerned had recommended the cutting of trees and submitted the file to the Minister. It has been pending at the Minister’s office since then. He has not rejected or approved it,” a Delhi government official said. As per a status report of the Delhi government, the file for the project was submitted to the Environment Minister on December 18, 2018. “Marked to Hon’ble Minister (E&F) on 28.02.2020. Submitted for the first time on 18.12.2018,” read the status of the file for the hospital project. In November, up to 55% of hospital beds for COVID-19 were occupied in the city and more than 90% of ICU beds were full. There were many complaints of people finding difficult to find beds during the pandemic and temporary hospitals were started. Many other projects of the Central and State governments are pending with the Environment Minister for durations ranging from over 60 days to almost two years, including two waste water treatment plants (WWTP) to clean the Yamuna, flyover and railway overbridge by the Central government, besides work related to the Regional Rapid Transit System. Refused to comment When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson and the Minister’s office refused to comment on the issue. The files pending before the Minister are projects where the officials concerned have recommended to give tree cutting permissions. Files for rejection of the application do not go to the Minister unless asked specifically. As per rules, an applicant can go ahead and cut the trees if no reply is given by the government within 60 days. But officials said that most government projects do not go ahead without a permission, so as to avoid problems in the future. “The Tree Officer shall give his decision within sixty days from the date of receipt of the application. If the Tree Officer fails to communicate his permission on request within the period specified under sub-section (3), the permission referred to in section 8 shall be deemed to have been granted,” the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, states about permission for cutting of trees. 100-bed hospital “Currently, it is a Rural Health Training Centre and functions as a dispensary and also attends to outpatients, but do not admit patients. The proposal is to construct a three-storey hospital with 100 beds,” a second official said. The file being pending before the Minister has been raised from “different quarters” and Union Minister Harsh Vardhan has also written a letter on permission for cutting of trees for the hospital being delayed, as per officials. Water treatment plant The file for permission of cutting trees for upgradation of Rithala Phase II waste water treatment plant was sent to the Minister on September 23, as per the report. It has been pending since then. Similarly, permission for cutting trees for construction of a WWTP in Okhla has been pending with the Minister since September 29. Both projects are of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) under the State government. Untreated waste water flowing into Yamuna is one of the major reasons for the pollution of the river and the DJB has been pulled up multiple times by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for missing deadlines of different project to clean the Yamuna. Permission for a flyover at Narela by a Central government agency is pending with the Minister since July 8, 2019. Also, another permission for felling trees at a Central government FCI godown at Narela is pending since December 18, 2018.  The official concerned had recommended the cutting of trees and submitted the file to the Minister. It has been pending at the Minister’s office since then A Delhi govt. official
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 5,475 fresh virus cases, 91 deaths||Delhi reported 5,475 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,51,262, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 91 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,811. Of the total cases, 5,03,717 people have recovered and there are 38,734 active cases. About 86.23% ICU beds with ventilators and 72.3% ICU beds without ventilators were full by Thursday night, as per Delhi government data. In many hospitals, including Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and Batra Hospital, there were no ICU beds with ventilators and in Lok Nayak Hospital only four were free and in GTB Hospital, the number was five. Also, out of the total 18,299 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 49.6% were occupied. There were 5,156 containment zones in the city as on Thursday. Senior AAP leader and Minister Gopal Rai tested positive on Thursday and was admitted to Max Hospital in Saket later in the day, according to the Minister’s office. “He is stable now. The hospital will tell whether plasma therapy has to be done or not, by tomorrow [Friday],” a source in the AAP said. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has decided to expand door-to-door survey, officials said. “Officials have been told to continue the survey for the rest for the district. It will take at least one month to do the survey in our district,” a district official said. By Wednesday, the survey was completed in “high-risk areas”under which more than 13.5 lakh households and about 57.5 lakh people were covered.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC terms COVID-19 figures in Delhi alarming||The Delhi High Court on Thursday termed as alarming the number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital while hearing a plea challenging AAP government’s decision to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here. Justice Navin Chawla posted the case for further hearing on December 9. The High Court was hearing a plea by Association of Healthcare Providers seeking to quash the Delhi government’s September 12 order on 80% reservation. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the Delhi government, said they were reviewing the situation periodically and it was last done by Delhi Disaster Management Authority especially with regard to Delhi by the Union Home Minister.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Nearly 600 containment zones delineated in a week||Close to 600 containment zones were delineated in the Capital over the last week amid the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. The virus has so far claimed over 8,800 lives in Delhi. Revenue Department records put the total number of containment zones till November 25 at 5,156 — an addition of 596, an average of 85 per day — since November 20 as the authorities concerned put into effect a strategy based on enhanced surveillance and strict enforcement in containment zones to contain the infection. According to the Delhi government, the positivity rate in the city is currently 8.65% and the death rate 1.77%. COVID-19 cases, according to Revenue Department records, surged between November 13 and November 20 with the delineation of containment zones along side. The maximum rise of 104 zones was recorded on Deepavali. According to Delhi government records, there were 4,184 containment zones on November 13 that increased to 4,288 on November 14. As of November 20, the total number of containment zones in the Capital stood at 4,560. Till November 25, 11,003 containment zones have been marked in the city since the pandemic struck earlier this year, of which 10,669 were delineated after June 21. Records posit that the South-West district has the most number of containment zones at 1,952 followed by 1,635 in the West district and 1,053 in the North-West district. The North-East district has the least number of containment zones at 455 followed by 535 and 660 in the East and New Delhi districts. On Wednesday, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal had directed strict monitoring of COVID-19 patients of home isolation and ensure their timely hospitalization in case of emergency.
27 November 2020||WILMINGTON,||Biden seeks unity as U.S. battles virus||On a day of grace and grievance, President-elect Joe Biden summoned Americans to join in common purpose against the coronavirus pandemic and their political divisions while the man he will replace stoked the fading embers of his campaign to “turn the election over.” Mr. Biden, in a Thanksgiving-eve address to the nation, put the surging pandemic front and centre, pledging to tap the “vast powers” of the federal government and to “change the course of the disease” once in office. But for that to work, he said, Americans must step up for their own safety and that of their fellow citizens. “I know the country has grown weary of the fight,” Mr. Biden said on Wednesday. “We need to remember we’re at war with the virus, not with one another. Not with each other.” ‘Overturn election’ President Donald Trump, who has scarcely mentioned the pandemic in recent days even as it has achieved record heights, remained fixated on his election defeat. “We have to turn the election over,” Mr. Trump said from the Oval Office, where he joined the meeting by speakerphone. “This was an election that we won easily,” he said. “We won it by a lot.” In fact, the election gave Mr. Biden a clear mandate, and no systemic fraud has been uncovered. Judge after judge has dismissed the Trump campaign’s accusations as baseless, and the transition to Biden’s presidency is fully underway. Nevertheless, Mr. Trump repeated- “This election has to be turned around.” Mr. Trump had been expected to appear in person in Gettysburg, but did not after another member of his legal team tested positive for the coronavirus. Few at the meeting wore masks. Altogether, the forum heard — and cheered — yet another declaration from a U.S. President seeking to reverse a democratic election and the voters’ will because he wants to stay in power. The setting was about a mile from the scene of Pickett’s Charge, where Union troops repelled a desperate Confederate attack in July 1863 and helped turn the tide of the Civil War.  For his part, Mr. Biden has largely projected serenity as the necessary elements of a presidential transition — money, access to office space and more — were held at bay for nearly three weeks by Mr. Trump’s machinations and a delayed ascertainment by the General Services Administration that he had won the election. On Wednesday, he addressed Mr. Trump’s raw tactics only in passing. “Our democracy was tested this year,” Mr. Biden said, “but the people of this nation are up to the task.” “In America, we have full and fair and free elections, and then we honor the results,” he said. “The people of this nation and the laws of the land won’t stand for anything else.” And he offered an optimistic vision, calling on Americans to “dream again” and predicting that “the 21st century is going to be an American century.” Combating virus Mr. Biden pledged more virus testing, more protective gear and clearer guidance for businesses and schools to reopen when he becomes President. Until vaccines are distributed, he said, masks, social distancing and limits in the size of gatherings “are our most effective tools to combat the virus.” Mr. Biden’s remarks came as COVID-19 cases are surging nationwide. Hospitalisations, deaths and the testing positivity rate were also up sharply as the nation headed into Thanksgiving. Health experts have warned that the large family gatherings are likely to extend and exacerbate the surge. This week, Mr. Biden unveiled his national security team on Tuesday. Drawing implicit contrasts with Mr. Trump, Mr. Biden said the team “reflects the fact that America is back, ready to lead the world, not retreat from it.” He’s expected to name Janet Yellen as Treasury Secretary in the coming weeks. Mr. Trump will forgo his usual plans to celebrate Thanksgiving at his private club in Florida and will instead remain at the White House.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Transition of power in the United States risks conflict on both sides’||Weeks after the 2020 U.S. presidential election, the ferment Washington politics looks to be impacting the broader transition to a new arrangement in the federal government, owing to outgoing President Donald Trump’s refusal to concede power and perhaps also less-than-forthcoming cooperation from the bureaucracy. Professor Karen Hult of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, and a board member of the White House Transition Project, spoke about the risks and opportunities within the opaque presidential transition process.  What are the different dimensions of the presidential transition process — in terms of budgets, personnel, infrastructure — and what challenges does it faces? A presidential transition is always important because it is a time when the U.S. is moving the entire working Executive, including people in the White House, Cabinet members and executive branch departments and agencies. Those people are transitioning out of power, and a new group is coming in, and that is difficult to do for logistical reasons, but also because of policy differences. Transitions become more difficult, perhaps not surprisingly, when an incumbent President loses an election, as President Trump did in this case, and when the political parties are turning over, as also happened in this case. All of this make the transition of power fraught and risks conflict on both sides. In the U.S. context, when a President leaves office, most of the White House staff that supports the President in policy debates and in structuring decision-making, also leaves with the President. The President also has about 4,000 appointees throughout the broad executive branch of government, including the Department of Defence, Department of the Treasury, Department of State, and so on. The new President has to be prepared for putting people in places in those positions, as well as figure out what it is that the current administration has been doing, what programmes are in place, and what challenges are there for the President-elect to take care of. Do you think there might be institutional resistance to the transition? There was already a delay in the ascertainment of Mr. Biden’s election victory, by General Services Administration chief Emily Murphy. By and large, this is driven by senior career civil servants, who do this as part of their professional lives repeatedly. Many of them take an oath on the Constitution, and they take that oath seriously. What this means is that in preparing the transition, they are prepared to do the best job they can to get the information available to the Biden team to work toward as smooth a transition as possible. Will there be resistance? Presumably, there will be in limited cases. Will there be some slow-walking or delaying of some kinds of activities and responses? Presumably, there will be, and we have had evidence of that in past transitions. Are there any circumstances where this sort of obstructionism might compromise national security of the U.S.? Certainly, that is possible. It is that kind of slowness, that kind of lapse of information being communicated, and then being communicated in credible ways, that could produce some issues related to national security, Homeland Security, and certainly with the logistics of moving forward with the vaccine. This is a very fraught period. Some have called this transition process in the U.S. the most perilous time in the shift of power. Looking forward to how the Biden administration might work, do you think they will return to business as usual in terms of the Democratic Party values and agenda, or win broader acceptability they might pivot towards something else? There will be at least two different streams. In terms of the legislative agenda, there will be an effort to build small majorities in both houses of Congress. That means moving away from what some may view as standard Democratic values. Simultaneously, in terms of appointments within the larger executive, and actions that the President-elect takes, in terms of the executive order and other things that presidents can do administratively, there will be an effort to open up and follow the values that have been put forward by some on the Democratic side. I would expect to see right away that there will be very quick movements to attempt to re-join the Paris Accord, to at least work rejoining the Open Skies agreement, and to do a whole variety of things to re-engage other parts of the world. I also think that a very strong signal has been sent by naming former Secretary of State John Kerry as the President's Special Envoy on Climate Change. That, to me is a poignant marker, both symbolically about presidential priorities, but probably in terms of early actions that the United States is poised to take.  A very strong signal has been sent by naming John Kerry as the President's Special Envoy on Climate Change
27 November 2020||New York,||U.S. top court backs religious groups on virus rules||The U.S. Supreme Court late on Wednesday backed Christian and Jewish houses of worship challenging New York state’s latest restrictions in novel coronavirus hotspots. The court on a 5-4 vote granted requests made by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and two Orthodox Jewish congregations. The order marked one of the first consequential actions on the court of President Donald Trump’s new appointee, conservative Justice Amy Coney Barrett, who cast a deciding vote in favour of the religious groups. Conservative Chief Justice John Roberts dissented along with the court’s three liberals. An October 6 decision by New York Governor Andrew Cuomo shut down non-essential businesses in targeted areas where infections have spiked, including some Brooklyn neighborhoods. It limited gatherings at religious institutions to 10 people in some areas and 25 in others. The houses of worship say that the limits violated religious freedoms protected by the U.S. Constitution, and that their facilities were singled out for more stringent restrictions than essential businesses, such as food stores. The court noted that: “Even in a pandemic, the Constitution cannot be put away and forgotten.” “The restrictions at issue here, by effectively barring many from attending religious services, strike at the very heart of the First Amendment’s guarantee of religious liberty,” the ruling added. A federal judge in Brooklyn rejected separate requests made by the religious groups on October 9. The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals declined emergency requests filed by both sets of challengers on November 9. In two previous cases this year, the court turned away similar requests by churches in Nevada and California. Those votes occurred before the death of liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and saw her and her three liberal colleagues joined by Justice Roberts in the majority.
27 November 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi activist’s trial transferred to terrorism court, says family||Saudi authorities have transferred the trial of jailed activist Loujain al-Hathloul to an anti-terrorism court, her family said on Wednesday, raising the prospect of a lengthy prison sentence despite international pressure for her release. Ms. Hathloul, 31, was arrested in May 2018 with about a dozen other women activists just weeks before the historic lifting of a ban on female drivers, a reform they had long campaigned for. While some of them have been provisionally released, Ms. Hathloul and others remain imprisoned on what rights groups describe as opaque charges that include aiding enemies of the state as well as contacting foreign media, diplomats and activist groups. Ms. Hathloul, who recently went on a two-week hunger strike in prison, was visibly “weak” and “shaking uncontrollably” when she appeared at Riyadh’s criminal court, where she has been tried since March 2019 in closed-door sessions, her sister Lina Hathloul said. The judge announced that his court lacked jurisdiction and transfered Hathloul’s case to the Specialised Criminal Court, or the anti-terrorism court, she said. “How is it possible for the judge to realise the court lacks jurisdiction after dealing with the case for 1 year and 8 months?” Ms. Lina wrote on Twitter.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||With self-reliance push, China looks to reset ties with world||Call it Atmanirbhar China. Self-reliance isn’t only the flavour of the moment in India, but increasingly the phrase of choice in China, where a leadership, chastened by the impact of COVID-19, a trade war with the U.S., and a reassessment by many countries of their dependence on Chinese supply-chains, is making an accelerated push to reframe the nature of China’s engagement with the world. At the heart of this push, as President Xi Jinping outlined in an essay published in the November edition of the Communist Party’s official journal, is an aim to essentially make China less reliant on the world and to make the world more reliant on China. Doing so, in Mr. Xi’s view, is particularly important when it comes to what he described as “trump card” technologies that can be decisive in a conflict. ‘Dual circulation’ “Dual circulation” is the name that Beijing has given this approach favoured by Mr. Xi, of boosting the domestic economy (or internal circulation) while recalibrating China’s external relations (the other circulation) — an anodyne term that blurs the increasing importance of self-reliance in Beijing’s outlook today. In the newly published essay, which was based on an internal speech Mr. Xi delivered in April that wasn’t publicised, the Chinese President said “the strategy of domestic demand expansion” should be China’s priority, and “building a complete internal demand system bears on China’s long-term development and long-term peace and stability”. “Economic globalisation has encountered headwinds, and this pandemic may intensify counter-globalisation trends,” he said. “With inward-turning tendencies clearly on the rise among nations, there could be significant changes in the external environment facing China’s development. Implementing the internal demand expansion strategy is a necessity for responding to the pandemic’s impact.” The second pillar of this strategy, as he put it, was to “optimise and stabilise production chains and supply chains.” The pandemic, he said, was “a stress test under combat conditions” and had served warnings of the dangers of decoupling. “In order to safeguard China’s industrial security and national security, we must focus on building production chains and supply chains that are independently controllable, secure and reliable, and strive for important products and supply channels to all have at least one alternative source,” he said, listing sectors such as high-speed rail, electric power equipment, new energy, and communications equipment where China needed to preserve its advantages. The most revealing part of Mr. Xi’s essay was his statement that China “must tighten international production chains’ dependence on China” with the aim of “forming powerful countermeasures and deterrent capabilities”. This would give China leverage should countries threaten to limit access to key technologies, as the U.S. has done with semiconductors. The idea, in his view, is for China to “rely more on the domestic market”. He said there was “no contradiction” between doing so and opening up, because domestic and external “circulation” would be “mutually reinforcing”. Self-sufficiency That, however, is not how India and many of China’s biggest trading partners see it, instead viewing a push that will increasingly prioritise self-sufficiency. The key difference with India’s own “self-reliant” emphasis is that China is at the same time embracing new trading arrangements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), from which India withdrew last year, and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), the other big regional trading bloc that succeeded the TPP after America’s withdrawal, which Mr. Xi has expressed interest in joining. Trading agreements, in Beijing’s view, will open new markets and help increase trade dependencies on China overseas — China is already the biggest trading partner for many of the RCEP’s members — even while China is moving to erect ever higher non-tariff barriers for foreign firms, particularly in sensitive sectors — all while positioning itself as a defender of globalisation. In fact, agreements like the RCEP failing to adequately address this contradiction was one key reason why India ultimately withdrew from the negotiations, receiving no assurances of a level playing field, even as it was asked to open up its economy.
27 November 2020||NAIROBI,||Troops ordered to move into Tigray capital: Abiy||Ethiopia’s Prime Minister said on Thursday the Army has been ordered to move on the embattled Tigray regional capital after his 72-hour ultimatum ended for Tigray leaders to surrender, and he warned the city’s half-million residents to stay indoors and disarm. The military offensive “has reached its final stage” after three weeks of fighting, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s office said. That means tanks and other weaponry can close in on Mekele, whose residents were warned of “no mercy” if they didn’t move away from Tigray leaders in time. That caused international alarm as rights groups said such wording could violate international law and put civilians in further danger. “We will take utmost care to protect civilians,” Mr. Abiy’s statement said. It also asserted that thousands of Tigray militia and special forces surrendered during the 72-hour period. The UN has reported people fleeing Mekele, but communications and transport links remain severed to Tigray, and it’s not clear how many people received the warnings in time. Tigray regional leaders couldn’t immediately be reached.
27 November 2020||Ankara,||Over 300 get life term in Turkey’s 2016 coup trial||A Turkish court jailed 337 former pilots and other suspects for life in one of the largest trials stemming from the bloody 2016 coup attempt against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based Muslim preacher who was once an Erdogan ally, is accused of ordering the failed putsch. Mr. Gulen, whose movement has been proscribed as a terrorist group by Ankara, strongly denies all charges. A total of 251 people died and more than 2,000 were injured in what has turned into the defining moment of Mr. Erdogan’s rule and contemporary Turkish politics. The presiding judge handed down multiple life sentences to disgruntled air force pilots, who bombed the capital Ankara, and civilians who orchestrated the coup attempt from inside the Akinci military base near the capital. Court documents obtained by AFP showed 337 defendants were handed life sentences for murder, violating the constitutional order and attempting to assassinate Mr. Erdogan. Sixty suspects were given jail sentences of various lengths while 75 were acquitted.
27 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Ajit Doval to visit Colombo on Nov. 27||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval will be in Colombo on Friday for trilateral discussions among India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Ahmed Didi will also travel to Colombo, while the Sri Lankan side will be represented at the highest levels by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, officials said. This is Mr. Doval’s second official visit to Sri Lanka this year. He was here in January — on the heels of President Rajapaksa’s resounding election victory last year and New Delhi visit soon after — and held discussions on strengthening military ties and countering a “debt trap”, with the Sri Lankan leadership. Friday’s scheduled meeting of the Indian Ocean neighbours marks the resumption of the NSA-level trilateral Maritime Security Cooperation talks, after six years. The last such discussion was held in New Delhi in March 2014, and the Sri Lankan side was represented by President Rajapaksa, who was then the Secretary to the Ministry of Defence and Urban Development. The initiative began in 2011 and top officials met regularly until New Delhi’s relations with the former Abdulla Yameen administration in Male deteriorated, according to diplomatic sources. On the sidelines of the meeting, the NSA is expected to have “other high-level bilateral engagements”, a press release from the Ministry of External Affairs said, in an indication that bilateral matters of top priority to New Delhi will be discussed with the Sri Lankan leadership. Significantly, the meeting comes months after the Maldives signed a defence deal with the U.S.
27 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump pardons ex-NSA Flynn||President Donald Trump announced on Wednesday he has pardoned his former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who had twice pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI during the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.AP
27 November 2020||TEHRAN,||Iran says British-Australian academic freed for 3 Iranians||Iran has freed a British-Australian academic who had been detained in the country for over two years in exchange for three Iranians held abroad. Kylie Moore-Gilbert, 33, was a Melbourne University lecturer on Middle Eastern studies when she was picked up at the Tehran airport as she tried to leave the country after attending an academic conference in 2018. She was sent to prison, convicted of spying, a charge she vehemently denied. She was sentenced to 10 years behind bars.AP
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Are tougher laws the answer to check online abuse?||Following widespread criticism, the Kerala government has decided to withdraw an Ordinance that gives unbridled powers to the police to arrest anyone expressing or disseminating any matter that it deems defamatory. However, the move to introduce such a law in the first place shows that State governments believe that existing laws are not adequate to deal with social media abuse. To what extent is this true? Vrinda Bhandari and Rishab Bailey discuss this question in a conversation moderated byJayant Sriram. Edited excerpts: The principal argument of the Kerala government in bringing this law was that the Central government had not brought in legislation yet to replace the revoked Section 66A, and that had left the police hamstrung in effectively dealing with social media abuse and cyber crime. Are there effective laws to deal with these issues and is it then a question of implementation being weak? Vrinda Bhandari:I think the Kerala experience shows a belief that many State governments have, that the existing laws are inadequate. But our existing laws are actually adequate. We have the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that criminalises speech that is obscene, defamatory, that insults the modesty of women and intrudes upon her privacy. It punishes anonymous criminal intimidation, it punishes voyeurism, it punishes digitally enabled stalking, hate speech, and even non-consensual sharing of sexual images online. In addition to that, you have the Information Technology Act of 2000 that punishes speech that is obscene. The IT Act also places obligations on intermediaries, where intermediaries have a duty of due diligence; they have to take down content based on a request by the government or a court order. This obligation is actually very broadly worded — any information that is grossly harmful, harassing, blasphemous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, libellous, invasive of another’s privacy, hateful, or racially or ethnically objectionable, disparaging, etc. As you can see, there is a strong and wide gamut of laws that covers all of these offences. Yet, you do have States which believe that the laws are inadequate. Apart from Kerala, you have Chhattisgarh, for instance, which recently brought in an amendment to criminalise sexual harassment online. This looked at criminalising “obscene, lewd, filthy or indecent comments online”. And we saw this law being misused against Mohammad Zubair, the Alt News co-founder.   State governments must also be focused on improving the criminal justice system in order to make it easier for women to be able to access the system to make complaints, and for the police to be able to prosecute the complaints properly. Rishab Bailey:There is no doubt that there is a problem with hate speech in the online space. This is something that’s been discussed at various levels of government. In fact, in 2017, the Law Commission of India recommended that two new provisions be introduced to the IPC to specifically deal with online hate speech. The Central government has also initiated consultations on amendments to the IT Act. One of the issues being taken up in this context is likely to be the scope of offences under the Act; in particular, whether Section 66A needs to be replaced with a better drafted provision. Of course, putting in place arbitrary or poorly defined offences is really not going to help the situation. So, in the Kerala example, rather than rush into making a new law that is likely to be struck down by the courts, it might have been better if the government had actually outlined the specific problem and conducted more transparent consultations with the stakeholders involved to try and figure out solutions. Enforcement and implementation of existing laws is not very good. It’s common knowledge that it’s generally not very easy for victims or individuals to file and proceed with complaints. Given the massive usage of the Internet in India, the huge amounts of hate speech online or what you and I would normally recognise as hate speech, there is a really low number of cyber crimes as per the NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) data. In 2017, for example, there were only about 21,000 cases in India, which is a huge jump from the 12,000 odd cases in 2016. But that still appears to be a fairly low number in the Indian context. I want to take you back a little. What does the legal landscape on regulation of content online look like post the famous Supreme Court judgment of 2015 that struck down 66A of the IT Act? Has there been any significant legislation or guidelines on grievance redressal or removal of offensive content and do these work effectively? RB:To answer your question quite simply, there hasn’t been any single legislation that deals with online content, though, as Vrinda mentioned, there have been some States that have put in place amendments to the IPC. What a lot of the public discussion has focused on is how intermediaries need to do more to make the Internet a safer place. To this end, there have been some efforts to amend existing legal frameworks. Two are worth mentioning. The first was a Private Member’s bill, which was introduced in Parliament by the Congress’ Arunachal East MP, Ninong Ering. It was called the Social Media Accountability Bill and it sought to impose a range of obligations on social media platforms, and also create a new regulator to oversee the space. However, the Bill wasn’t actually taken up by Parliament. Then there were proposed changes to the intermediaries rules under the IT Act that were released to the public in December 2018. They lay down the due diligence guidelines that intermediaries need to follow in order to not face prosecution for illegal content being shared by users on their platforms. These amendments basically sought to increase the number of obligations on intermediaries of all types, so they would be required to use automated tools to filter illegal content and would also be required to ensure the liability of all the users and so on. The draft faced a lot of criticism from civil society and industry due to the possible chilling effects on free speech, the problems associated with automated filtering of content, and the cost to platforms. So, no new rules have as yet been announced by the government despite the fact that we keep hearing that this may be done any time. In the absence of any changes in the legislative structure, courts and governments have largely resorted to blocking content or forcing intermediaries to take steps to limit the spread of illegal content. You might remember, for example, how the Madras High Court threatened to ban TikTok because it was supposedly enabling the circulation of obscene content. It’s also important to remember that the government from time to time issues directions, which has happened most recently in the context of WhatsApp, where they have been asked to take certain steps pertaining to illegal content on their platform. You also have an independent regulator, like the Election Commission, which has taken some steps in the context of electorally sensitive content. What kind of precedent will this set, given that part of the motivation for this law was reportedly a surge in criticism of the Kerala government? Can other States also argue that what has followed 66A is still too transient and in the realm of proposal and so they need new laws? VB:I think though it might have been politically motivated, one praiseworthy fact about the Kerala government is that it backtracked once there was significant criticism, and that is very rare to see. I hope that may give some cause of concern to other States before they rush to implement some laws, or they recognise that there are possibilities of misuse and will try to tailor the laws narrowly. I think one thing we want to be clear on is if a law is worded in a manner that is so broad that just does not allow any kind of reasonable interpretation and can be completely and patently subject to different interpretations, such a law will not stand. So, I think, yes, the fact that the Kerala government took this step may mean that other States may also take this up. Like I said before, Chhattisgarh has already passed an amendment using similarly broad language to criminalise online sexual harassment and I would argue that this law has already been misused. But I would hope that the Kerala government’s most recent move of withdrawing the Ordinance will make other States stop and think before they pass such laws, or have proper public consultation. RB:The Kerala government has actually set a good precedent, not just for the States, but also for the Central government. Governments can actually afford to be responsive to criticism and take back laws that face significant public opposition. Like the Kerala government using the Police Act, are there other State laws that governments can adapt to content online? Is the multiplicity of such laws a problem in this case? RB:I wouldn’t say that it’s a problem as such, because our Constitution does recognise that States can make criminal law. What could be problematic is if you have a variety of laws being passed to deal with the same issue which might lead to inconsistency. Second, very often State amendments are not going to get public attention in the same way that Central laws do. For example, numerous States have amended laws such as the Goondas Act to apply these to the digital space. However, there’s very little discussion on how exactly these laws are actually being implemented. VB:The interesting point with regard to State laws is that in Shreya Singhal , which struck down Section 66A, the same judgment also struck down Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act which had similar provisions to Section 66A. The court said that Section 118(d) is also vaguely worded and over-broad and adopted a similar analysis to 66A. This may be a purely hypothetical conjecture on my part, but I think one of the reasons that this Kerala example became so big, the reason it is received a lot of media attention is because it was Kerala that was doing it, and it was just a combination of factors that led to this example being discussed. And I think that’s why the government also backtracked, whereas I think in many cases, when amendments are made, especially State-level amendments, they don’t get that kind of national attention.  Rather than rush into making a new law that is likely to be struck down by the courts, it might have been better if the government had actually outlined the specific problem and conducted more transparent consultations with the stakeholders involved to try and figure out solutions. Rishab Bailey
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A clear reading of the Ayurveda surgery move||In 2014, while speaking at the inauguration of a hospital in Mumbai, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extolled the virtues of India’s medical heritage. ‘How else would Shiva have grafted an elephant head on Ganesha after having beheaded the boy,’ he asked to thunderous applause from an audience of senior doctors and very important persons. Shiva as a surgeon is of course mythology. But we know about Sushruta and his surgical dexterity at a time when the world had not yet woken up to the art and the science of surgery. There are detailed descriptions in the Sushruta Samhita , the ancient Sanskrit text on medicine and surgery, of procedures such as rhinoplasty where the nose is reconstructed with tissue from the cheek. It was thousands of years later that modern plastic surgeons described this procedure. Response to notification Last week, on November 20, a Gazette of India notification (https://bit.ly/3m8txXl) by the Central Council of Indian Medicine — a statutory body under the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, and “which regulates the Indian Medical systems of Ayurveda, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa and Unani Medicine” — identifying surgical procedures that can be performed by post-graduate Ayurvedic doctors in Shalya (surgery) has stirred up a hornet’s nest. Many of the reactions are on predictable lines. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written a curious self-flagellating letter to the Prime Minister. Allopathic surgeon colleagues are outraged. Social media and WhatsApp groups are abuzz with alarmist responses. Some have portrayed doomsday scenarios, ‘where our children will be operated’ by half-baked ‘Ayurvedic doctors’ in the future. After 1947, what the state did What is the overexcitement about? It is useful to go back a bit into history to understand the imbroglio better. After Independence, the Indian state was faced with the difficult task of accommodating both the ascendant modern medicine brought in by the British and India’s traditional systems of medicine, notably Ayurveda. There were two options. One was to take the best from all systems and integrate them into one cohesive science. This was possible but not easy as the systems have certain incompatible differences of approach. Faced with this vexing question, the state attempted everything. It patronised and encouraged formal medical education in modern medicine as well as in other traditional systems. For a brief period there actually existed ‘integrated’ courses, wherein both Ayurveda and Modern medicine were taught to students. But these withered away partly due to opposition from purists in Ayurveda who were outraged by the ‘dilution’ of their science. Thus, the degree in Ayurvedic medicine became largely an Ayurveda course. However, it was necessary out of a practical career compulsion to teach the basics of modern medicine to these graduates. They had to survive in the medical market, which by that time was the dominant form of health care in India. Most Ayurvedic graduates entered general practice. More importantly, several of them went on to work in rural and under-served areas. Some set up nursing homes. In rural Maharashtra, several nursing homes were run by integrated graduates. In Chiplun in the Konkan, for instance, the only nursing homes offering emergency obstetric and surgical services were run by non-allopathic graduates. In health care, availability is often more important than quality, specialisation and such extravagant ideas. Handling an identity crisis As modern medicine made rapid strides, Ayurvedic graduates experienced an identity crisis. Many of them had joined the course not for the love of Ayurveda but to get a degree with the honorific ‘Dr.’ which gave them upward mobility, social status and even value in the marriage market. They could not but practise allopathy which most of them do. And became an important cog in the modern medicine machine. Thus, they became resident doctors, intensive care duty doctors and operation theatre assistant surgeons. They picked up skills, were diligent and unlike their counterparts in MBBS, were not constantly distracted by thoughts of post graduation and entrance exams. In an instance from a hospital, the Ayurvedic surgical assistant employed there closes the abdomen better than new trainees. In Mumbai, there is an instance of a homoeopathic graduate manning and training others on the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or ECMO, a complex heart lung machine in the largest unit used for critically-ill COVID-19 patients. In Maharashtra, the ‘108’ emergency response ambulance service is manned by non-MBBS doctors. During COVID-19, a large number of the quarantine centres were manned by these doctors. Incidentally, they work for less pay which allows hospitals to control costs and even make profits. All this is not a rationalisation but an explanation which we ought to know. Now to the idea of Ayurvedic surgeons. In an effort to develop postgraduate programmes, Ayurveda medical colleges developed one in “Shalya’ or “surgery”. This is awkward as unlike the vast pharmacopeia, there is really nothing called Ayurvedic surgery. A procedure called ‘Kshar Sutra’ used for anal fistula was described in Ayurveda texts and has been incorporated in modern medicine. In fact the Indian Council of Medical Research conducted a trial on this many years ago. To my knowledge, “Kshar Sutra” is the only substantive contribution. Most Ayurvedic medical colleges run hospitals. In some areas, theirs is the only viable and equipped hospital. I am aware, for example, of the phenomenal work done by a surgeon in an Ayurvedic hospital in South Konkan who served the community for many years and at very low cost. Even today, even when there are several MS qualified surgeons, there is hardly a patient in this area who agrees for surgery unless they have his opinion. The Mumbai Municipal Corporation has appointed Ayurvedic surgeons to many of their hospitals, . but I have not seen them perform any surgery. Procedures and complexities The controversial notification, issued on November 20 — called the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Amendment Regulations, 2020 — by the Central Council of Indian Medicine authorises an MS (Ayurved) Shalya Tantra, or General Surgery postgraduate degree holder on completion of his course to perform 58 surgical procedures. Some of the procedures in the list are rather complicated. For example, I would not even trust a modern surgical postgraduate to perform a removal of the gallbladder called cholecystectomy independently unless they have assisted or been taken through at least 100 odd procedures. For Ayurvedic surgeons to do it is an obvious overkill. It has been listed as “ PittashmariNirharan-chhedan ” in the notification. A silver lining But there are ways to look at the move beyond just outrage and alarmist social media tropes. Ayurveda graduates including surgeons are a large workforce in search of an identity. India needs them. If they are creatively and properly trained, they can play important roles in our health-care system. In fact as we have seen in certain situations, they already do. On site or ambulance care of trauma victims is in a shambles in India. It is effectively delivered by trained paramedics in many countries. Given the right training, pay and identity, Ayurvedic surgeons can be trained to strengthen this service and save hundreds of lives. AYUSH, or Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy, is a priority area for the present government. The revival of Indian medicine fits well into a certain narrative. Be that as it may, the IMA in its opposition to such moves needs to be precise and constructive. Currently, its response is like faux chest thumping of a guild of insecure professionals. A former office-bearer of the IMA has been active on social media during the COVID-19 pandemic invoking Rahu Ketu in the war against the novel coronavirus. If the IMA is defending science, it needs to publicly oppose such opportunism also. Pseudoscience is not a preserve of Indian medicine. If the noise is a turf war between an overambitious Ayurveda establishment on the one hand and modern medicine with a siege mentality on the other, it is a superfluous distraction which will hopefully die down. But if it is a pointer to an urgently needed and serious discussion about utilising India’s large workforce of non-MBBS doctors to improve access to decent health care for our ordinary citizens, then it is well worth our time. Dr. Sanjay Nagral is a surgeon and writer from Mumbai
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Rein in the vaccine nationalism, the profiteering||It is illegal to hoard, for black marketing, essential goods in drought-affected areas. Overcharging of commodities and services during any natural disaster is always a scandal. It is a crime against humanity to make a profit during any human tragedy. On the contrary, there is (and should be) empathy and concern about human suffering. Such solidarity is a recognition of the need to: prevent further damage and destruction, rescue and evacuate affected people to safer zones, and salvage belongings and meet their minimal survival needs. For this nobody is charged. Instead, it is considered as relief work which comes out profusely as charity; a humane gesture. Business out of suffering The COVID-19 pandemic is also a human tragedy and needs global solidarity. It is definitely not a time to be doing business and making a fast buck. Making enormous profit out of a human tragedy is shameful. Unfortunately, such a sense of shame is missing in the international trade market. When economies crumbled in many countries, e-commerce and gadget-based gaming business boomed. And in the novel coronavirus pandemic, there are numerous examples of companies having made enormous profits in the supply of personal protective equipment and kits and ventilators. In a liberalised economy, there is a shocking silence in the global market trying to do business out of human suffering. Business lies in selling technologies around COVID-19, the diagnostics, drugs and vaccine candidates. This is where organisations of the United Nations and global networks for people should come together in one voice. The World Health Assembly, in May 2020, in cognisance of the obstacles to equitable access to COVID-19 technologies such as vaccines, diagnostics, medicines, PPE kits and machines, set up mechanisms to counter it. When the entire global population, estimated to be nearly eight billion people, is in need of a vaccine (still being tested and yet to be approved) then production at full capacity and supply to every country will take time. Mechanisms that can help We cannot allow the rich and the strong to grab everything first. The advance purchase agreements that some countries have negotiated with pharmaceutical companies exemplify such adverse trends. Such vaccine nationalism undermines equitable access to vaccines. There has to be prioritisation for high-risk groups in all countries, especially in the least developed, low- and middle-income nations. That framework has to be accepted by the global community without dispute. In this, the COVAX partnership is a mechanism for ensuring that. GAVI, or the Global Alliance for Vaccine Initiative, was in existence during the pre-COVID-19 period to ensure the pooled procurement and equitable supply of life-saving vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. It has been roped in for the COVID-19 vaccine too. Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the World Health Organization Director General, on June 13, exhorted member countries to treat COVID-19 technologies as a “public good”. Obviously it fell on deaf ears as far as pharmaceutical companies were concerned. WHO’s idea of a “voluntary pool to collect patent rights, regulatory test data, and other information that could be shared for developing COVID-19 therapies, vaccines, and diagnostics” was met with criticism. The CEO of Pfizer even qualified this as, “... I think it’s nonsense, and… it’s also dangerous.” Governments have a part A public good is a common property of the nation and such goods are not excludable or there should not be any rivalries in dealing with it. If it is a public good, governments must step in to regulate its development, innovation, manufacture, sale, and supply ultimately to the public. If there is public financing for technology development, there is no scope for grant of patent protection. A public good cannot be submitted to the vagaries of market fluctuations of pricing dependent on demand-supply dynamics. Governments should be the custodian of public goods. If such an idealistic outcome does not materialise based on basic human rights for availability of accessible and affordable health care, then some regulation mandated by the UN General Assembly must be thought of. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) had raised concern over public health with regard to the non-availability of patented drugs in sufficient quantity, and at affordable prices. Through the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) and the Doha Ministerial Conference declaration 2001, the WTO made provisions for compulsory licensing. This is a provision where the government intervenes when patent clauses regarding availability, reasonable pricing, local production and technology transfer are not met by the patent holder. Compulsory licensing is an “involuntary contract” issued by the national government between a “willing buyer” or local manufacturer and an “unwilling seller” or patent holder foreign company. Thailand and Brazil have done this. India utilised this provision for the first time on March 9, 2012 to grant licence to Natco Pharma Hyderabad against the will of patent owner Bayer, Germany, to manufacture Sorafenib tosylate, a life- saving anti-cancer drug for kidney and liver tumours, with 97% cost reduction (https://bit.ly/368EW3S). It is sold by Bayer under the brand name, Nexavar. This is an extreme step available with India if rich countries go for advance purchase and hoarding of a COVID-19 vaccine produced in India by multinational pharma companies and deny India’s supply needs. COVID-19 vaccine candidates are still in Phase 3 trials; regulatory approval and patent are still awaited. So, failure to comply with patent regulations as a reason for the issue of compulsory licence cannot be applied. Coercion to issue “voluntary licensing” to subsidiary companies in many developing countries such as India, Egypt, Thailand and Brazil by the patent holder is another option. A chance to act Seizing the opportunity of the WTO itself mapping out key trade issues arising out of COVID-19 vaccine and fostering dialogue, India and South Africa jointly sent out a communication, on October 2, 2020 to the IPR Council of the WTO for a waiver of the protection of copyright, design, trademarks and patent on COVID-19 related technologies including vaccines. It is claimed that India’s submission has the support of 43 members of the African group and 36 members of Least Developed countries group apart from South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries, Indonesia, Venezuela and Nicaragua. If this is decided favourably as a special case considering the unprecedented impact of the pandemic, it will set a precedent. A UN organisation such as the WTO can wield influence on member-nations to forgo trade profits for a humanitarian cause. Global campaigns through the media and civil society organisations can garner enough momentum to exert pressure on TRIPS. This is a pragmatic step for the time being. But having nothing less than vaccines and life-saving medicines being treated as a public good must definitely be the long-term goal. Dr. K.R. Antony is a public health consultant at Kochi and an independent monitor for the National Health Mission. The views expressed are personal
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Policing faith||The proposed Uttar Pradesh ordinance seeking to prohibit “unlawful” religious conversions represents a regressive march towards unacceptable medievalism and a reprehensible zeal to police the private lives and beliefs of citizens. Cleared for promulgation by the Governor, it does not use the Islamophobic term that votaries of Hindutva have been bandying about to denote certain inter-faith marriages, but it is clearly targeted at the idea. It eschews the phrase “freedom of religion” that several other anti-conversion laws in other States have employed to title their laws. However, apparently inspired by similar legislation in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, it has sought to include “alluring into marriage” as an additional ground for declaring an instance of religious conversion as illegal, apart from the use of “force, coercion, undue influence and deceit”. The U.P. proposal envisages prison terms, from one to five years in general, three to five years for conversions involving women and SC/ST members, and adds a possible three to 10-year jail term for “mass conversion”. There is also a prior declaration provision on an intended conversion. These suggestions were contained in a report of the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission submitted last year. While the panel had suggested that conversion solely for marriage should be declared null and void, the State’s note on the ordinance says it provides for invalidation of marriages solemnised solely for conversion. While upholding the validity of the Freedom of Religion Acts of Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, in Stanislaus (1977), the Supreme Court had held that the “right to propagate” a religion did not include the “right to convert”. However, those early laws did not bar conversions by marriage. The Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and the proposed U.P. law would be vulnerable on that score. After the Court’s “right to privacy” judgment, and the Shafin Jahan-Hadiya case (2018), it would be no more constitutional to use “marriage” as a ground for prohibiting conversion, as it involves the rights of privacy, choice and marital freedom. Further, all such previous laws were seen as “public order” legislation — the claim is that “forced” or “fraudulent” conversions lead to disturbance of order. An inter-faith marriage, by itself, is unlikely to be seen by the courts as an event impinging on public order. Therefore, making marriage simpliciter a ground for rendering conversion illegal may not survive judicial scrutiny. Probably to avoid this lacuna, the U.P. ordinance uses the term “allurement by marriage”, but its potential for misuse is the same. Further, the provision on mandatory prior declaration of an intent to convert is similar to the one struck down by the Himachal Pradesh High Court in 2012 as violating the right to keep one’s faith a secret. It is disconcerting that several States are keen to join this bandwagon against inter-marriages despite its potential for deepening social discord and communal divides.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Storm warnings||Cyclone Nivar raised fears of another epic disaster for millions of coastal residents in the south, but its passage overland near Puducherry early on November 26 was less destructive than anticipated. The reported loss of at least three lives is a relatively low toll for such a large-scale weather system, although property and agriculture have suffered considerable damage from the fierce winds and massive volume of rain it dumped in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Citizens and the government were fearful of a deluge that could be a repeat of the 2015 flood — which killed a few hundred people — and they overcame COVID-19 fatigue to prepare for the worst. There was also a welcome emphasis on periodic alerts and warnings. The IMD has been getting better at forecasting slow-moving, linear tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, and multiple satellites now provide cyclone data. The deployment of over two dozen NDRF teams and disaster management equipment along the coast reassured civic agencies. Not everyone escaped Nivar with a minor penalty, however, and for suburban Chennai, the peak one-day rainfall of 31 cm in Tambaram wrought destruction mirroring what happened five years ago; smaller inland towns have also suffered inundation and severe losses. The aftermath now presents an opportunity to make a full assessment not just for distribution of relief but also to understand the impacts of extreme monsoon weather. The Tamil Nadu government has shown alacrity in handling the acute challenge of a severe weather event, which has occurred in the run-up to the Assembly election due early next year. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami made field visits, and in parallel, the DMK, as the lead Opposition, mounted its own relief operations. What must worry the two major parties is that periodic papering of the cracks does not offer a sustainable solution to Chennai’s evident civic decay. There is extensive documentation on the loss of its floodplains, lakes and peri-urban wetlands to encroachment, a key factor that is exacerbating monsoon flooding. This land grab is made possible by the benign indulgence of successive governments. What is more, governments have not shown the rigour to collect and publish data on annual flooding patterns, and measure the peak flows in the neglected rivers and canals to plan remedies. Appalling indifference to land use norms has spawned an amorphous housing sector characterised by inflated, speculative prices but no foundation of civic infrastructure. To keep Tamil Nadu competitive, governments and local bodies should hardwire urban planning and invest heavily for a future of frequent disruptive weather.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Putting trade ties on a new footing||It goes without saying that the Joe Biden administration will be a far cry from what we have seen over the last four years. This will include its trade policies, although it may not be a radical departure altogether from the Trump administration. Certainly, there will be a more constructive stance on multilateral issues in the World Trade Organization (WTO). That should be welcome, as the Trump administration went out of its way in seriously undermining WTO institutions when the organisation was already on the ropes, although admittedly in need of reform and new direction. In bilateral trade policies, the Biden administration is likely to emphasise enforcement, and that will not differ so much, although it is less likely to engage in unilateral tariff increases and more likely to pursue remedies in the WTO. For India, what might this mean? The Trump administration appeared to be interested in prioritising the trade relationship, as it pursued an aggressive approach to resolve market access concerns through threats to eliminate India’s benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences programme. However, the follow through was weak. The administration was on the brink of concluding a historic bilateral trade deal, yet it lost focus. Will the Biden administration resume these negotiations? Will it pursue new avenues for better aligning the trade relationship with the growing strategic one? Or will it revert to the approaches of previous administrations in putting trade issues with India on the back burner? Five likely developments I see five likely dynamics that could build on the early efforts of the Trump administration to raise the profile of U.S.-India work on trade but also mark substantial departures from the circumstances of the last four years. One, it is clear that Mr. Biden plans to focus on domestic concerns first, particularly in implementing a coherent COVID-19 policy. There may be trade aspects to some of these efforts, but they may have limited early relevance for a future U.S.-India trade policy. Two, as it turns to trade policy, the Biden administration is not likely to place India among its top few priorities. A first question is whether it should prioritise concluding Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations with the U.K. in April before the Trade Promotion Authority expires. Other top priorities will include fixing pending WTO issues, resolving the Airbus-Boeing dispute with the European Union, and of course formulating its approach with China, such as finding alternatives to the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership to set new global standards that address China’s practices. That said, India should be among the priorities at the next level down. Three, the trade deal still pending with the Trump administration remains compelling. There could be an early opportunity to conclude these negotiations and for the Biden administration to get credit. Looking ahead, a bilateral deal will not lead to serious consideration of FTA negotiations any time soon. But this first trade agreement could pave the way for later additional small agreements. Four, the existing Trade Policy Forum (TPF) met only once over the last four years, as negotiations on a trade deal sucked all the air out of the room. It seems likely that the Biden administration will see the TPF’s value as a venue for more regular discussions on a range of trade issues. Finally, a reinvigorated TPF will present new opportunities for the two countries to take up a range of cutting-edge trade issues that will be critical in determining whether the U.S. and India can converge more over time or will drift further apart. These include digital trade issues, intellectual property rights and approaches to nurturing innovation, better health sector alignment, and more regular regulatory work on science-based agricultural policies. The future looks bright for U.S.-India trade under a Biden administration, but that does not mean it will be any easier. It will be critical for leadership on both sides to commit to strong efforts to put the trade relationship on a new footing, which will have to involve a ‘can-do’ attitude to solving problems. Mark Linscott is Senior Fellow at The Atlantic Council and former senior U.S. trade official
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The false comfort of a perfectly organised election||It was only a little past seven on a March morning in Beijing. But by the time I arrived at the Great Hall of the People, the massive structure near Tiananmen Square where China’s leaders convene every year, a line of journalists were already snaking through the street all the way to the corner. It was a line so long that I couldn’t even see the building’s columned entrance (“Give me the name of your contractor,” Barack Obama joked to an expressionless Hu Jintao when told this edifice was built in a year). At the front of the line was a tired-looking cameraman for Reuters, who had been waiting in sub-zero temperatures since three in the morning for the honour of being first. Such was the media interest in China’s presidential election — no matter that it was, as the Chinese State media called it without a hint of irony, a “one candidate election”. This was an election with a foregone conclusion that had been decided six years before that spring day in Beijing in 2013, in a behind-closed-doors Communist Party Congress that had anointed Xi Jinping as Mr. Hu’s successor as Party General Secretary. The next Party Congress, in November 2012, had confirmed Mr. Xi as the Party’s next leader and as head of the Central Military Commission. The meeting of Parliament, four months on, may have been merely to rubber-stamp Mr. Xi donning his third (and least important) crown, as President, yet it was striking that such an elaborate procedure was being followed to give the entire process the pretence of authenticity. Covering the carefully choreographed ascension of Mr. Xi that year came to mind as I followed, this November, the long-drawn-out election in America, all the chaos (mostly thanks to an incumbent who seems to thrive on it), and, to my mind, the somewhat over-the-top hand-wringing about how the most powerful country couldn’t get its act together to smoothly choose its next leader. No matter that it had, in the middle of a pandemic, been able to ensure that more than 150 million people were able to cast their vote — not that it stopped the losing incumbent, Donald Trump, from inventing allegations of widespread fraud that did not take place and demanding a recount, claims that the U.S. courts, so far, do not appear to be taking very seriously. Back at the Great Hall, we filed in a few minutes before the voting began, making our way to seats in the nosebleed section of the cavernous hall reserved for print media. A ballot box in bright red was placed on the stage, and one by one, the 2,956 Party-chosen delegates of the National People’s Congress marched in to cast their vote for the leader of their Party in an election that had no other candidate. The reporters then trooped out, before being called back in for the result: 2,952 for, one against, and three abstentions. It was a victory for Mr. Xi with 99.86% of the vote. The one vote against was the biggest talking point, leading some Chinese reporters to joke if it had come from Mr. Xi himself. There were no calls for recounts, legal challenges or other such messiness at the Great Hall (not that a legal challenge would get very far as the courts are also controlled by the Party). The inevitably messy workings of a functioning democracy might not necessarily be the worst thing, I learnt, when covering the most perfectly organised election I had ever witnessed on a cold spring morning in Beijing.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The next Viceroy||It seems fairly certain that Lord Willingdon is to be the next Viceroy. Everyone who recognised His Excellency's good heartedness and genuine liberalism will also have to admit that in selecting him for a most arduous office in these testing days England is not giving to India even of her second best, whereas the need is for a first rate statesman. The “Bombay Chronicle” writes: - There is a persistent rumour in a section of the British Press that Lord Willingdon is to succeed Lord Chelmsford as Viceroy of India. The “Evening News”, the “Observer” and “The Times” all point out that the final choice will fall on Lord Willingdon, the last named mentioning his continuous service in India and wide experience of Indian affairs. India has to look on at these discussions with her eyes wide open, but without the power to raise her voice against an appointment or suggestion. Evidently, if the India Office wants a Viceroy, who will say “Amen” to all its edicts, Mr. Montagu could not select a better person than Lord Willingdon. Anyone possessing a strong personality and original ideas of Government, such as a Winston Churchill or a Haldane, will not be suitable if the object is to have an India Office gramaphone set up in Simla.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Dearth of suitable films for children||Paucity of suitable films for children is stated to have greatly affected the growth of the Children’s Film Movement in the country, particularly in the South. More than a decade ago, when it was realised that in India cinema was a powerful medium for educating children and enlarging their vision, plans were initiated to establish one Children’s Theatre in each district in the country. These theatres were meant to screen films produced exclusively for children. Promptly, to begin with, in almost every State headquarters, a Children’s Theatre sprang up. But the early enthusiasm soon waned due to non-availability of suitable films to be screened even in the few Children’s Theatres, according to an official closely connected with the Children’s Film Movement. The dearth of children’s films was attributed by him to the ‘lack of will’ on the part of the Government-sponsored Children’s Film Society, entrusted with production of suitable films since no private person would be interested in producing such films, which had no commercial value.
27 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Recovery’s momentum is stronger-than-expected: Das||India’s economy has exhibited a stronger-than-expected pick up in momentum of recovery following a multi-speed normalisation of activity in the second quarter, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thurday. “The global economy has also witnessed a stronger than expected rebound in activity,” Mr. Das said at a Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) event. “The IMF has accordingly revised its assessment for global growth in 2020 to a less severe contraction than what was assessed in June,” he added. The RBI chief, however, cautioned that even as the economic outlook had improved, downside risks to growth continued due to a recent surge in COVID-19 infections in advanced economies and parts of India. Post-festival activity “We need to be watchful about the sustainability of demand after festivals and a possible reassessment of market expectations surrounding the vaccine,” he stressed. “The monetary policy guidance in October emphasised the need to see through temporary inflation pressures and also maintain the accommodative stance at least during the current financial year and into the next” fiscal, he added. Mr. Das said a key source of resilience had been the comfortable external balance position supported by surplus current account balances over two consecutive quarters, resumption of portfolio capital flows on the back of robust FDI inflows, and sustained build-up of foreign exchange reserves.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘GDP contracted 10.7% in Q2’||India’s GDP likely contracted 10.7% in the second quarter, with a further recovery likely in the third quarter, SBI Research said in a report released on Thursday, citing improvements in economic indicators over October and November. “After witnessing a decline of 23.9% in real GDP in Q1 FY21, we expect Q2 GDP growth at -10.7% (earlier: -12.5%) with positive bias, based on our ‘Nowcasting’ model with 41 high frequency indicators, associated with industry activity, service activity, and global economy,” SBI Group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh wrote in the research report. “The SBI business activity index also shows that there is continuous improvement and Q3 numbers could be even better. However, the extent of recovery in subsequent quarters can only be gauged after the actual Q2 numbers are published,” Mr. Ghosh added. Moderate growth The yearly SBI Composite Index reached a 19-month high of 53.9 (reflecting moderate growth) this month, compared to 53 in October. The monthly index has touched an all-time high of 62.1 (reflecting high growth) in November, from 59.3 in October, the report’s author pointed out.  GST collections to rise Based on this, SBI projected that the index of industrial production (IIP) and manufacturing sector output may grow by 2-3% in October 2020 and 3.5-4.5% in November. Goods and Services Tax collections were expected to improve further in November. “We project November GST collections at a 10-month high of Rs. 1.08 lakh crore as compared to Rs. 1.05 lakh crore in October. The excellent improvement in GST is mainly due to traction in economic activities and services in festive month of November,” Mr. Ghosh said.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nielsen widens estimate for FMCG contraction to 1-3%||The FMCG sector in India is expected to contract by 1% to 3% in 2020 despite green shoots seen recently in economic indicators, due to significant headwinds seen in the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in March, according to market research firm Nielsen. This is the third time that Nielsen has downgraded its growth forecast for the sector amid the outbreak of the pandemic. In January, the sector was projected to grow at 9-10% in 2020; this was revised to growth of 5-6% and then to a minimal change over the previous year, in the range of -1% to 1%. Replying to a query, Rajesh Shirali, lead, Data Science, South Asia, Nielsen Global Connect, said, “The fact is that the headwinds, whether it is overall consumer confidence which has plummeted or GDP which is still to get back into the green zone or inflation which is still inching towards higher levels or IIP which is still somewhere around the borderline... The headwinds are outweighing the tailwinds.” He added that the sector saw significant degrowth in the second quarter ended June and it was highly unlikely that that would get compensated for in the fourth quarter [October-December]. However, in the July-September quarter, the FMCG industry displayed some signs of recovery with a 1.6% growth over the year earlier period. The growth followed a year-on-year decline of 19% in Q2.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||F.C. Kohli set India on a path that brought it glory||It is debatable if India could have become a force in the Information Technology (IT) industry if Faqir Chand Kohli had not assumed leadership of a tiny division of Tata Sons called Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) in 1969. He was, at first, reluctant to assume the position of General Manager in TCS when he thought he was destined for much greater things in Tata Power, an organisation he had joined in the early 1950s after graduating from MIT in the U.S. An engineer first, he soon became fascinated with computing technology, which was reshaping the world. He felt that India had the capability to participate in the IT industry on equal terms along with the giants in the western world. He went about preparing TCS to pioneer the Indian IT revolution. Mr. Kohli set TCS on a totally different orbit. India was not the only market TCS would serve. Right from the early 1970s, he wanted an international presence for TCS, initially through alliances and thereafter directly. He worked with Indian universities to create Computer Science departments in those early days. He convinced the Government to let TCS import the latest generation of computers, with the promise that TCS would get substantially more in foreign exchange through its exports. Mr. Kohli did all this in the 1970s and created the ecosystem which would serve India well during the following decades. He was truly a pioneer. Having worked with Mr. Kohli from 1970, I was involved closely in all his major initiatives. When I look back, the 1980s were even more transformative for TCS. He started a world class R&D centre in Pune to work on many areas in software technologies. He created a Software Products division in TCS, to market software products in India and overseas. While TCS may not have succeeded in bringing about major software products, these initiatives enhanced the technology competence of TCS as it went about providing services to demanding clients worldwide.   Laid the foundation The foundation that he laid in the two decades propelled TCS to take large projects. Technology solutions that helped TCS to solve the Y2K problem for large global clients in the late 1990s were built on the company’s R&D foundations. The ecosystem that he helped set up and its track record of successful projects paved the way for many other talented entrepreneurs to get into this industry and make India a global force in IT. If anyone deserved the title “Father of Indian IT industry”, it was Mr. Kohli. He could see the future and his intuitive capability in forecasting technology trends was truly impressive. It is amazing that India’s software capabilities have kept pace in this rapidly changing technology area and credit should go to these pioneers who shaped the industry from its early days. Mr. Kohli developed people. He was a demanding boss, but never unreasonable in his demands. I benefited from his grooming. He developed stalwarts like Mr. S. Ramadorai and Mr. N, Chandrasekaran. He created a succession pipeline, which is the envy of any organisation. Mr. Kohli did not rest on his laurels even after he retired in the year 2000. He focussed on using information technology capabilities to help solve large national problems, like illiteracy. As in TCS, he wanted India to use this technology to leapfrog. I have been associated with him for 50 years and have always been amazed at his sharp intellect, humanity, his impatience and above all, the large canvas on which he operated. He set India on a path which has brought glory to it. A national icon has gone.
27 November 2020||Chennai,||TVS Group firm to buy 100% stake in MFCS, arm||TVS Automobile Solutions Pvt. Ltd., (TVS ASL), a part of the TVS Group, announced the acquisition of the entire equity stake of Mahindra First Choice Services Ltd. (MFCS) and its subsidiary Auto Digitech Pvt. Ltd. (ADPL) through a share-swap deal. The acquisition will enable MFCS, a part of the $19.4 billion Mahindra Group, to integrate its operations with TVS ASL, a multi-brand independent automobile aftermarket player, the companies said in a filing. “It is a share swap transaction in which M&M will secure a minority stake in TVS ASL, while the latter will get 100% stake in MFCS,” G. Srinivasa Raghavan, MD, TVS ASL, said. M&M said the company would invest about Rs. 35 crore for acquisition of shares in TVS ASL, comparable to the consideration the latter will pay to acquire shares of MFCS and ADPL.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||Future rebuffs Amazon tack on disclosure||The Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) on Thursday accused e-commerce giant Amazon of adopting a media strategy of “having every development reported and converted into a line of communication with stock exchanges” regarding the Amazon-Future Coupons’ arbitration proceedings in Singapore. The Court of Singapore International Arbitration Centre had turned down a plea by FRL to be excluded from being a party to arbitration. In a regulatory filing, FRL said, “This disclosure is being made out of abundant caution to avoid any speculation.”
27 November 2020||Chennai,||TII acquires control of CG Power||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a Murugappa group firm, has acquired controlling stake in CG Power and Industrial Solutions with allotment of equity shares and warrants. With the allotment of equity shares, TII holds 50.62% and CG Power has become its subsidiary. As per the proposal, CG Power has allotted 64.25 crore equity shares of Rs. 2 each at a price of Rs. 8.56 (including premium) per share, for an aggregate sum of Rs. 550 crore, and 17.52 crore warrants amounting to Rs. 37.50 crore. TII has decided to raise Rs. 350 crore by issuing preferential shares on a private placement basis to Azim Premji Trust and SBI Mutual Funds. The Trust will be investing about Rs. 200 crore and SBI MF the remaining sum. The shares with a face value of Rs. 1 are being issued at a premium of Rs. 730.70 per share.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Skoda VW plea to quash FIR||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea to quash an FIR registered against a company dealing with the business operations of luxury car brands for allegedly "duping" a customer. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde refused the plea filed by Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Pvt. Ltd. — which handles brands such as Skoda, Volkswagen and Audi — in a judgment. The FIR was based on a complaint filed by a customer in U.P. He claimed he had bought 7 Audi cars from authorised dealers who had assured him there were no cheat devices in the cars to manipulate the effectiveness of emission controls. He later found the NOx emissions high and had to pay a hefty fine.
27 November 2020||MUMBAI,||NPCI raises Rs. 81.64 cr. from 19 entities||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has completed private placement of 4.63% of its equity shares worth Rs. 81.64 crore. NPCI made an offer for private placement to 131 RBI-regulated entities, out of which 19 showed interest and were allotted shares. “With this we have also broad based our shareholding to include new categories like payments banks, small finance banks and payment system operators in addition to existing public sector, private sector, foreign, cooperative and regional rural banks,” said NPCI’s chief of finance Rupesh H. Acharya.
27 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘All developers won’t meet debt rejig rules’||All real estate developers may not be able to avail of the benefit of Reserve Bank of India’s one-time restructuring scheme as they might not meet the required financial ratios and have the necessary credit rating, HDFC Ltd. vice chairman and CEO Keki Mistry said. He was speaking at a real estate and infrastructure investor summit organised by Naredco. “Restructuring may not necessarily help every developer because not too many will be able to meet the criteria laid down in terms of meeting the various ratios and getting credit ratings,” Mr. Mistry said.
27 November 2020||Naples,||Naples bids adieu to its adopted ‘king’||A cry goes up outside the San Paolo Stadium in Naples, where since daybreak Thursday tearful mourners have been laying candles and messages for football great Diego Maradona.  “Diego, Diego, Diego!” chants the crowd which gathered where scarves and shirts in Napoli’s blue and white have been hung on the fence, transforming it into a makeshift shrine to the city’s adopted “king”. “Hear our voices, hear our hearts,” shouts Rosario, 77, famed among fans as the stadium’s resident “poet”, as applause goes up and grown men in face masks in the team’s colours openly weep. An icon Buildings around the southern Italian city are adorned with depictions of the man who dragged Napoli to the top of the Italian game and became an icon for Neapolitans. Maradona played for the then-unfashionable Napoli between 1984 and 1991, after joining following an increasingly unhappy spell at Spanish glamour club Barcelona. He also lifted the 1989 UEFA Cup, Napoli’s only European trophy. He was still Napoli’s record goalscorer until three years ago. Sunday warrior “He was our Sunday warrior,” 46-year old Fernando Carfora, whose apartment building sports a mural of Maradona, told AFP. “Maradona didn’t play with his feet, he played with his head. Nobody scored Maradona’s goals,” he said. “We couldn’t wait for him to play, (Sunday) was a day of celebration. When he wasn’t playing we were all sad.” Quasi-religious Courted by criminals, the King of Spain and even the Pope, Maradona became a quasi-religious figure in Naples. He brought joy to a desperately poor city blighted by bloody conflicts between the competing clans of the powerful Camorra organised crime network, one of whom Maradona would get to know well. On Thursday many of the pictures and letters being left for him outside the stadium were from adoring children. Fathers and sons performed the sign of the cross in front of blown-up photos capturing the footballing wizard as he ran wildly down the pitch after scoring, his arms raised in triumph. Others stopped to pray in front of the red candles. Captain of angels “My only wish now is to know that he is happy among the angels, maybe they wanted a captain! And he will take them to victory as only he knows how,” Giampiero said. So deep was Maradona’s attachment to Naples that he called Napoli’s first ever league title, won a year after he led Argentina to the 1986 World Cup, the “greatest triumph” of his career. His achievements at Napoli, who had been also-rans until he arrived in 1984, cemented his position as the greatest player of his generation and, to many observers, make him the best ever. “I remember the Naples-Juventus game of ‘86,” said local theatre actor Ciro Cocozza, 51. “There was an explosion in the stadium when Maradona scored. There were 80,000 of us fans, and even the Juve fans were applauding,” he added. “It was an amazing feeling”.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A storied rivalry looks to add more engrossing chapters||In a year that witnessed a virus forcing mankind to be static, it is time for Indian cricket to get back on the rails. The southern hemisphere beckons and Virat Kohli’s men are set to kick off their Australian tour with the first ODI at Sydney on Friday. And over the next eight weeks, the Men in Blue will play two more ODIs and three Twenty20Is before slipping into their whites for the subsequent four Tests. Interestingly, it was from Australia’s Trans-Tasman neighbour New Zealand that India flew back after the second Test concluded at Christchurch on March 2. And now, after a prolonged gap forced by COVID-19, the team is back Down Under. Most of the stars played the recent Indian Premier League, but as members of a united national team, the Sydney clash would be their first after eight months. Kohli and company will step into a storied rivalry on par with the Ashes and Indo-Pak encounters. India and Australia have carved their unique niche, with the miracle at Eden Gardens in 2001 remaining top of the charts. Kohli’s men have to add their share of engrossing chapters. They did that with aplomb during the 2018-19 tour in which the Test and ODI series were won. But this time, more needs to be done, be it coping with bio-bubbles or devising plans against a strong host. Smith, Warner back Australia has the services of Steve Smith and David Warner besides other promising batsmen, notably Marnus Labuschagne, and an incisive pace attack featuring Mitchell Starc. Smith and Warner were absent in the 2018-19 series following the ball-tampering controversy. In contrast, India will miss Rohit Sharma (sore hamstring) in the limited-over encounters. However, there is an opportunity to seize for newly elevated vice-captain K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Mayank Agarwal, Shreyas Iyer and Manish Pandey. Hope floats too for left-arm seamer T. Natarajan.  And as the outfit dons a 1990s inspired retro-jersey, it also marks India’s maiden foray in the post-M.S. Dhoni era. The former skipper’s shoes are massive and whether the balancing and explosive role he combined together would sit easy on Hardik Pandya or Ravindra Jadeja remains to be seen. The longer format would offer a tougher scrutiny, especially with Kohli taking paternity leave after the first Test. There is uncertainty around Rohit being fit in time for the last two Tests, and also about getting past the quarantine clause. Much would hinge on Cheteshwar Pujara continuing being the bulwark. Meanwhile, Ajinkya Rahane will have the added pressure of leading in the last three Tests. What would satiate the Indian appetite through the tour is the presence of speedsters Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami, who could be a handful both for Aaron Finch’s men in limited-over skirmishes and Tim Paine and colleagues in the Tests. With fans being allowed, though with curbs on their numbers, live audience-involvement would bolster the players. Sport needs an audience and India against Australia has its own splendid charms.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Maradona’s genius was innate in his veins||A goal scored in football is the highest form of sporting high. The crowd is on its feet, the striker is in his slice of heaven, team-mates are delirious and soul-numbing grief is the shroud that chokes the rivals. Football - the calisthenics between fast legs and a ball, the art that fuses the dodge and the sprint while a sphere beats the goalkeeper - lost its heart-beat when news broke that Diego Maradona passed away at 60, back home in Argentina. Yes, there is Pele with his description of football as the beautiful game. And in that pantheon of excellence with the Brazilian legend saying the right things, Maradona, the Argentinian wizard, the Boca Juniors maestro, the hero for Napoli, walks in with a saunter, curly hair, stocky build, magic in his feet and never the politically correct word emanating from his lips. This was genius with shades of the devil, and strangely in 1986, Maradona was one with the gods. This was the fusion of extreme contrasts. Great athletes impose their will on the game and Maradona was right up there. He believed that Argentina will win the World Cup at Mexico in 1986 and he backed that intuition with a footballing skill that was suffused with a magic realism that would have made Gabriel Garcia Marquez proud. Such was Maradona’s dominance — dribble, feint, sell a dummy, score a goal and then grin like a child at a candy store. If you were a sporting fan of the 1980s, this was bliss multiplied by infinity. But he wasn’t entirely clean; a ‘header’ against England in that World Cup which he owned, emerged from his hands. It was an adrenaline-laced blur, the leap, the head swivelling, a hand jutting out and a goal was scored. Back then television wasn’t all encompassing. The goal was awarded to Argentina and in the larger scheme of things, the Falkland Islands skirmish between his nation and England was ruling the airwaves. Hand of God That old aphorism swept the air – all is fair in love and war. Years later Maradona admitted that the goal was struck with his hand but in 1986, he philosophically spoke about the ‘Hand of God’, and a controversy was swept under the carpet of cosmic greatness, which also contained the 'goal of the century', scored in the same match, after a bewitching run that started in his own half. Maradona won that World Cup for Argentina, it was his high and equally became the cross that Lionel Messi had to bear while trying to get the Latin American nation excel at the World Cup over the last decade. Messi the FC Barcelona legend is not exactly Messi the Argentinian whiz kid. And the exploits of Maradona was too much of a legacy to carry forward.  Maradona, however, could not extend that 1986 spirit of zest into the subsequent World Cups. He did helm his men into the 1990 final but in the 1994 championship in the USA, ignominy wrapped him forever as he failed a drugs test. The genius had wilted, caught up in his own super-hero image. Drugs, excessive alcohol and delusion undid the great man. He turned obese, had health issues but there was still some magic in his feet. Some years back, he was in Kerala, busy promoting a jewellery brand. Having downed a few rums in his room, he was high-spirited. Along with Indian legend I.M. Vijayan at Kannur, the maestro juggled a football with his legs, took it on his chest, headed it a few times and stayed in control. Time was frozen, sporting paradise had descended on Malabar, and Maradona showed that genius was innate in his veins. But on a Wednesday night in a year lost to the coronavirus, football’s maverick-great breathed his last. The sport is poorer while searing memories remain.
27 November 2020||Buenos Aires,||Argentina mourns its ‘dios’||Stunned Argentines were plunged into grief on Wednesday by the death of the country’s favourite son Diego Maradona, a sublimely gifted sporting hero they saw as “the most human of Gods.” Hammer blow The news fell like a hammer blow to a nation beaten down by months of economic crisis and the coronavirus pandemic, but one where soccer is seen as a panacea for all ills. At 10 p.m. Buenos Aires exploded in cheers, horns, sirens and lights for the man who famously wore the number 10, after a viral social media message called for “one last applause”. At the Diego Maradona stadium, home to the Argentinos Juniors club — where Maradona played as a child and made his debut as a professional player — fireworks were launched as a large crowd flooded into the field to the cry of “Maradooo, Maradooo”. Earlier, fans searching for a place to grieve gravitated towards the Obelisk landmark in downtown Buenos Aires — and, of course, the Bombonera, the steep-sided cauldron of a stadium that is home to Boca Juniors, where Maradona’s genius was forged. “Today’s a bad day. A very sad day for all Argentines,” President Alberto Fernandez summed up in an interview with sports channel TyC, after declaring three days of national mourning. All around the city, the mourning had already begun as fans stood forlornly beside banners in homage to the Number 10. Many of the banners simply said D10S, a play on the Spanish word dios for god that includes Maradona’s jersey number. Maradonian Church If soccer is a religion in Argentina, then Maradona really was its God — especially for the founders of the Maradonian Church, a mostly internet-based group that uses religious language to venerate the player. Around 1,000 people answered the ‘Church’ call for fans to gather in his honour.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Athletes at ease, promise their best performance||It was surprise back home when they set out to compete in the Airtel Delhi Half marathon scheduled for Sunday, but the defending champions and world record holders were at ease in the Capital. They promised their best performance in their interaction during the “meet and greet” session here on Thursday. With the pandemic having swept the world, sporting activities have been few around the world. Despite a surge in the positive cases of the coronavirus, the organisers in the Capital have assured the safest arrangements, much to the conviction of the assembled world-class field. “Very happy to be in India. I love to run here,” said the men’s defending champion Andamlac Belihu, quite confident that the focused training back home could lead to a course record, even though he had missed a medal in the world championship. The two-time world champion in 5000 metres, Muktar Edris, still grappling with a bit of pain on his right thigh, said that he was hoping to run a good race. Defending women’s champion, Tsehay Gemechu of Ethiopia, is aspiring to emulate compatriot Derartu Tulu in winning Olympic medals. Ababel Yeshaneh and Brigid Kosgei who hold the world record in half-marathon and marathon respectively for women, said that they were happy to be competing again. Kosgei had won the Chicago and London marathons the last two years. “I am ready to run well. I like both half-marathon which is like preparation for the more challenging marathon,” said Kosgei, who broke the women’s marathon world record last year in Chicago.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||NorthEast holds Blasters in a thriller||On a day when the Kerala government announced a two-day official mourning in honour of Diego Maradona, the State’s best-known football team — Kerala Blasters — tried hard to give something to cheer about for the fans, but did not quite succeed. Blasters, however, picked up their first point of the ISL season thanks to a thrilling 2-2 draw with NorthEast United at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim, Goa. Kibu Vicuna’s boys would not be too pleased with that result, though, having led 2-0 at one point. They seemed determined to put behind their disappointing start to the campaign, when they were beaten 1-0 by ATK Mohun Bagan six days ago. After conceding a free-kick, from a potentially dangerous position in the second minute, Blasters hit right back and took the lead not long after. In the fifth minute, a superb, curling free-kick into the box by Seityasen Singh found Sergio Cidoncha, who jumped above the NorthEast defenders and headed the ball in. Some 18 minutes later, the Spaniard provided an excellent chance to Gary Hooper, who, however, messed it up. But Hooper made amends from the spot in injury time. The penalty, awarded for Rakesh Pradhan’s challenge on Puitea, seemed a harsh one though. The NorthEast men came strongly back in the second half. They reduced the lead six minutes after the break through Kwesi Appiah, following a corner kick. But his joy turned into agony some 15 minutes later, as he wasted a penalty. Idrissa Sylla, however, found the equaliser towards the end, giving the finishing touches to a splendid long ball from Gurjinder Kumar.  The result: Kerala Blasters 2 (Sergio Cidoncha 5, Gary Hooper 45+1-p) drew with NorthEast United 2 (Kwesi Appiah 51, Idrissa Sylla 90).
27 November 2020||Paris,||Lewandowski fires Bayern into last 16||Robert Lewandowski set Bayern Munich on the way to a 3-1 Champions League win over Salzburg on Wednesday as the holder joined Manchester City in qualifying for the last 16 with two group games to spare, while Liverpool went down 2-0 to Atalanta. On a night when clubs marked news of Diego Maradona’s death by holding a minute’s silence before all games, Bayern eased to a record-extending 15th straight win in the competition. Pep Guardiola’s City earlier secured progress with a 1-0 win away to Olympiakos in Greece, its fourth win out of four in Group C. Meanwhile, Inter Milan is on the brink of being eliminated in the group stage after Arturo Vidal was sent off as it lost 2-0 at home to Real Madrid.  The results:   Group A: Atletico Madrid 0 drew with Lokomotiv Moscow 0; Bayern Munich 3 (Lewandowski 42, Coman 52, Sane 68) bt Salzburg 1 (Berisha 73).   Group B: Inter Milan 0 lost to Real Madrid 2 (Hazard 7-pen, Hakimi 59-og); Borussia Monchengladbach 4 (Stindl 17-pen, Elvedi 34, Embolo 45+1, Wendt 77) bt Shakhtar Donetsk 0.   Group C: Marseille 0 lost to Porto 2 (Sanusi 39, Oliveira 72-pen); Olympiakos 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Foden 36).   Group D: Ajax 3 (Gravenberch 47, Mazraoui 49, Neres 66) bt Midtjylland 1 (Mabil 80-pen); Liverpool 0 lost to Atalanta 2 (Ilicic 60, Gosens 64).
27 November 2020||Buenos Aires,||Argentina mourns its dios||Argentines lined up in the streets of Buenos Aires on Thursday to say goodbye to Diego Maradona, who passed away on Wednesday and whose casket lay in state at the Casa Rosada presidential palace draped in an Argentine flag and his famous No. 10 shirt. Maradona was slated to be buried later in the day at the Jardin de Paz cemetery where his parents were also laid to rest. “Maradona for me is the greatest thing that happened to me in life. I love him as much as my father and it’s like my old man died,” Cristian Montelli, 22, a fan of the star’s former club Boca Juniors said with tears in his eyes. Maradona’s body lay in a wooden coffin with the blue and white national flag and an Argentina soccer jersey with the number 10 that had been part of his nickname “D10S” — a play on “dios”, the Spanish word for God. “He was someone who touched the sky with his hands but never took his feet off the ground,” President Alberto Fernandez said on Wednesday. Argentina also declared three days of national mourning. Major athletes and world leaders, including Argentina-born Pope Francis, paid tribute to Maradona. The first to bid farewell were his daughters and close family members. Then came former teammates of the 1986 World Cup-winning squad including Oscar Ruggeri. The first fan to visit was Nahuel de Lima, using crutches to move because of a disability.  Meanwhile, Carlos Bilardo, the coach of Argentina’s 1986 World Cup-winning team who is in poor health, was still unaware on Thursday of Maradona’s death because of his family’s wish not to upset him. “I cannot tell him that Diego is dead,” Carlos’s brother Jorge Bilardo told Radio Provincia, because he had a “father-son” relationship with Maradona.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Thought Rohit was travelling with us: Kohli||Virat Kohli, disappointed at the lack of clarity in the Rohit Sharma issue, said the way the matter was handled was “confusing.” He also felt that Rohit and Ishant Sharma could have recovered in Australia like Wriddhiman Saha. At a virtual press conference of Thursday, the India skipper was candid in his views. Excerpts:  On Rohit and Ishant's rehab in India and Saha's recovery in Australia It would have definitely increased their chances of playing the Test matches [had they travelled]. Saha had an injury during the IPL and has been doing his rehab with the team. We are aware of his progress and he is on the right path to make sure he is fit and available in time to play the Test series; that would have been the case with Rohit and Ishant too. On Rohit’s exclusion for the limited-over leg Two days before the selection meeting in Dubai, we got a mail which said that he [Rohit] was unavailable for selection as he had picked up an injury during the IPL. It mentioned that there was a two-week rest and rehab period. That was the information we got, and after that he played in the IPL. So we thought he was going to be on that flight to Australia. We had no information on why he was not travelling with us. The only other information we received officially was that he was at the NCA and will be further assessed on December 11. We had been playing the waiting game for a while, which is not ideal at all. It has been confusing. On the paternity leave after the first Test The decision was made before we had the selection meeting. I wanted to be back home in time to be with my wife [Anushka Sharma] for the birth of our first child. It is a special and beautiful moment in my life. On youngsters such as Gill We are looking at giving opportunities to the younger players. It is a very important series for them to grow as individuals. On Bumrah and Shami's workload in the series It is a no-brainer. They have gone through a full IPL season and bowled beautifully. They are in great rhythm. It will be important to monitor the workload and that's when the young guys come in. As a captain, it is crucial to know how the bowlers stand in terms of workload and how their bodies are feeling. On starting well in the white-ball series for momentum I don't think there is any extra desperation or need to think on those lines. The last time we were successful here was for a reason. We are focusing on a process and we are strong in our mind to be at our best in difficult situations and that doesn't change. On the percentage point system in the World Test Championship It is surprising because we were told that points were the matter of contention for the top two teams qualifying in the World Test Championship and now suddenly, it has become percentage. Further questions about this should be asked to the ICC to understand why this has been done.
27 November 2020||Pune:,||Spring Grove for Welcome Trophy||Trainer M.K. Jadhav’s ward Spring Grove should score over her rivals in the Welcome Trophy, the main event of the opening day’s races of Mumbai winter racing season to be held here on Friday (Nov. 27). There will be no online or totalisator betting operations at RWITC. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.     M D PETIT PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 – 1.30 p.m.: 1. Romanesque (5) C.S. Jodha 59, 2. Colosseum (9) Merchant 57.5, 3. Saffron Flower (8) Santosh G 57.5, 4. Forever Free (11) S. Amit 56, 5. Thea’s Pet (1) Kaviraj 56, 6. Masar (6) Nazil 55, 7. Fire Flame (3) J. Chinoy 54.5, 8. I Am The Way (7) Kuldeep 54.5, 9. Red Fire (4) Prasad 52.5, 10. Whispering Queen (2) Peter 52.5 and 11. Bohemian (10) Ayyar 52.  1. ROMANESQUE, 2. I AM THE WAY, 3. SAFFRON FLOWER   MASTER SHIFU PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 2.00: 1. Aquarius (1) V. Walkar 59, 2. Beemer (13) P. Trevor 58, 3. Mount Olympus (6) Kaviraj 58, 4. Stick To The Plan (3) P. Shinde 58, 5. Mikayla’s Pride (4) Bhawani 56.5, 6. Speculator (11) Santosh G 56, 7. Hollywood Park (2) Kuldeep 55, 8. Marianne (12) Chouhan 55, 9. Ms Boss (9) Sandesh 55, 10. Genau (10) Neeraj 54.5, 11. Victorious Spirit (7) Zervan 54.5, 12. Between Friends (8) Ayyar 54 and 13. Take It Easy (5) Nazil 53.5.  1. BEEMER, 2. VICTORIOUS SPIRIT, 3. MIKAYLA’S PRIDE   ABEETA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 2.30: 1. Gloriosus (1) A. Sandesh 59, 2. Mystic Bay (4) P. Trevor 59, 3. Kariega (9) S. Zervan 56.5, 4. Kildare (6) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 5. Barack (5) Kirtish Bhagat 55.5, 6. Golden Era (3) Shailesh Shinde 55.5, 7. Majestic Warrior (2) Kaviraj 54, 8. Rainbow Trout (7) Peter 54 and 9. Sultan Suleiman (8) Akshay Kumar 53.  1. KILDARE, 2. KARIEGA, 3. MYSTIC BAY   M D PETIT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. Abraxas (7) Aniket 61, 2. Eternal Dancer (4) Shahrukh Khan 60.5, 3. Faldo (6) Ayyar 60.5, 4. Adams Beginning (11) Malam 59.5, 5. Caesar (10) Chouhan 59.5, 6. Ame (2) Parmar 59, 7. Arabian Storm (9) Kaviraj 58.5, 8. Sandalphon (1) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 9. Honourable Eyes (5) Dashrath 57.5, 10. Lambretta (3) Bhawani 57, 11. Gandalf (8) A. Prakash 56.5 and 12. Navigator (12) J. Chinoy 56.  1. FALDO, 2. AME, 3. ABRAXAS   SECRET STAR PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.30: 1. Questionable (5) Chouhan 62, 2. Galloping Goldmine (8) C.S. Jodha 60, 3. Bostonia (6) P. Trevor 59, 4. Western Front (9) J. Chinoy 59, 5. Mount Moriah (3) A. Sandesh 56, 6. Star Comrade (withdrawn), 7. Sunrise Ruby (2) Zervan 55, 8. Fleur De Lys (1) Kaviraj 53.5 and 9. Giant Star (7) Yash Narredu 50.5.  1. GIANT STAR, 2. MOUNT MORIAH, 3. GALLOPING GOLDMINE   WELCOME TROPHY (1,000m), (Terms), Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Aegon (1) J. Chinoy 56, 2. Fuhrer (12) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Major General (7) Santosh G 56, 4. Monarch (13) S. Zervan 56, 5. Rays Of Sun (10) Nazil 56, 6. Strong One (9) A. Sandesh 56, 7. Cognosco (3) Neeraj 54.5, 8. Enigma (4) Yash Narredu 54.5, 9. Finalist (6) Kaviraj 54.5, 10. One Wish (2) N. Rawal 54.5, 11. Planet Of Cape (5) Chouhan 54.5, 12. Spring Grove (11) Parmar 54.5 and 13. Suited Aces (8) Aniket 54.5.  1. SPRING GROVE, 2. FINALIST, 3. STRONG ONE   RAZA ALI PLATE (1,200m), (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.30: 1. Leopard Rock (7) Yash Narredu 57, 2. Recall of You (4) A. Sandesh 55.5, 3. Pepper (3) Akshay Kumar 54, 4. Sergio (2) S. Amit 54, 5. Costa Rica (6) Parmar 52.5, 6. Hioctane (5) Neeraj 52.5 and 7. Powerful Lady (1) C.S. Jodha 52.5.  1. RECALL OF YOU, 2. LEOPARD ROCK, 3. POWERFUL LADY   MASTER SHIFU PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Timeless Deeds (2) Kaviraj 61.5, 2. Jetfire (9) Parmar 60.5, 3. Guarnerius (13) Neeraj 59.5, 4. Steppenwolf (3) Chouhan 59.5, 5. Brazos (1) V. Walkar 59, 6. Pulverize (10) Bhawani 58.5, 7. Safdar (12) Sharukh Khan 58.5, 8. Dreams (5) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 9. Power Of Neath (7) Merchant 57, 10. Wild Flower (Late Laburnum) (4) J. Chinoy 57, 11. Aspiration (Late North Winds) (11) Peter 56, 12. Belenus (6) A. Sandesh 56 and 13. Monk (8) S. Zervan 54.  1. BELENUS, 2. GUARNERIUS, 3. TIMELESS DEEDS  Day’s Best: GIANT STAR  Double: BEEMER — BELENUS
27 November 2020||Manama,||Steiner applauds Haas’ survival skills||Haas team chief Guenther Steiner believes the American Formula One outfit’s greatest achievement this season was the first and most important of all — survival. Speaking at a virtual news conference on Thursday ahead of this weekend’s Bahrain Grand Prix, Steiner admitted that earlier this year, following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, team owner Gene Haas had considered pulling out of F1. Asked to sum up Haas’ season, Steiner said: “We survived. That’s what we have done right. “I think I’ll leave it at that. I think there was a big chance that we are not here anymore, and I think everybody pulled together and we are here to stay.
27 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Town Club rides on Basu’s blistering knock||Town Club rode on Gitimoy Basu’s blistering knock (45 n.o., 19b, 5x4, 3x6) to stun East Bengal by 14 runs in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday. Asked to bat, Town scored a challenging 142 for seven before stopping EB at 128 for eight to record its second win. Opener Sudip Gharami (35, 42b, 2x4) and left-hander Purab Joshi (25, 29b, 4x4) batted patiently to collect 57 runs for the second wicket before falling in left-arm spinner Akash Pandey’s successive overs. Wicketkeeper-batsman Basu unleashed his clinical strokeplay to plunder 30 of the 34 runs scored by Town in the last two overs, delivered by Kanishk Seth and Mukesh Kumar, and challenge EB. Poor start EB lost three wickets, including two to pacer Mohammed Kaif, inside four overs. It was in the game until Ranjot Singh Khaira (24 off 25, 1x4, 1x6) was run out due to a mix-up with captain Arnab Nandi. Nandi (55 n.o., 38b, 6x4, 2x6) fought a lone battle before witnessing EB’s second successive defeat. Prior to both matches on Thursday, the players and match officials observed a minute's silence to pay their respect to football legend Diego Maradona.  The scores: Town Club 142/7 in 20 overs (Gitimoy Basu 45 n.o., Sudip Gharami 35, Akash Pandey 2/24) bt East Bengal 128/8 in 20 overs (Arnab Nandi 55 n.o., Mohd. Kaif 3/31, Ananta Saha 2/14, Azaz Ansari 2/21).   Calcutta Customs 121/8 in 20 overs (Agniv Pan 48, Sandipan Das 3/18, Ramesh Prasad 2/20) bt Tapan Memorial Club 110/8 in 20 overs (Shahbaz Ahmed 30, Karan Lal 3/13, Shreyan Chakraborty 2/21).   On Wednesday: Mohun Bagan 137/4 in 20 overs (Anustup Majumdar 73 n.o., Shivam Sharma 34, Sourav Mondal 2/30) lost to Kalighat Club 140/4 in 19.5 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 51 n.o., Subham Chatterjee 31, Prince Yadav 2/23).
27 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sreesanth set to make domestic comeback||S. Sreesanth will make his much-awaited comeback into domestic cricket when the KCA President's Cup T20 cricket tournament gets underway in December. The 37-year-old has been named in the KCA Tigers squad which is one of the six teams taking part in the tournament. It will also officially herald the start of cricketing activities in Kerala. From December 17 The tournament is tentatively scheduled to be held at the SD College ground, Alappuzha, from December 17 to Jan. 3. KCA Royals, KCA Tigers, KCA Tuskers, KCA Eagles, KCA Panthers and KCA Lions are the teams taking part. The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has requested permission from the State government for conducting the tournament. KCA-TCM ink deal The KCA has also inked a three-year deal with Twenty First Century Media (TCM) for marketing the tournament. There will be live streaming of all the matches which will played during the day with white ball and the players will wear coloured clothing. The KCA selection committee has selected 14 players for each team and there will be four players ‘on call’ for each team in case of replacements. All players, support staff and officials will be brought under a bio-secure bubble. The KCA will strictly follow the COVID-19 safety protocols.  The squads: KCA Eagles: Mohd. Azaruddeen (capt.), Basil Mathew, Shiv Ganesh, Rohan Prem, Aswin Anand, Ananthakrishnan, Abhishek R. Nair, K.J. Rakesh, Adhitya Krishnan, Sreehari S. Nair, Sharafudheen, K.C. Akshay, N.P. Basil, Rabin Krishnan. Coach: Sunil Oasis.   KCA Lions: P. Rahul (capt.), C.H. Abhiram, Vishnu Mohan, Akshay Manohar, Abdul Basith, Salman Nizar, Vinu Kumar, Alfin Francis, P.K. Midhun, Vinod Kumar, Visweshwar Suresh, S. Midhun, Abhishek Mohan, P.A. Riyas. Coach: Mazar Moidu.   KCA Panthers: Akshay Chandran (capt.), Rohan Kunnumel, J. Adhidev, S. Subin, Sachin Mohan, Sanju Sajeev, Shaun Roger, Akhin Sathar, Vinoop Manohar, Kiran Sagar, Anand Joseph, Basil Thampi, S. Sachin, Jose Pirayil. Coach: Rajagopal.   KCA Royals: Sijomon Joseph (capt.), Vishnu Raj, M. Ajnas, Rojith, Abhishek J. Nair, Albin Aliyas, Krishnaprasad, Shahansha, Manukrishnan, K.N. Harikrishnan, M. Arun, Atul Diamond, Abi Biju, K.M. Asif. Coach: P. Prasanth.   KCA Tigers: Sachin Baby (capt.), Varun Nayanar, Bharath Surya, K.A. Ajith, Aquib Fazal, Akash C. Pillai, Mohd. Kaif, Aditya Mohan, A. Akhil , Atul Raveendran, Fanoos, Akhil Anil, S. Sreesanth, Gautam Mohan. Coach: Sebastian Antony.   KCA Tuskers: Vatsal Govind (capt.), Vishnu Vinod, Anand Krishnan, Joffin Jose, Arjun Aji, Anuj Jotin, Neeraj Kumar, M.P. Sreeroop, Vaishak Chandran, Vishnu P. Kumar, Mohit Shibu, K. Monish, M.D. Nideesh, Farzeen. Coach: Bijumon .
27 November 2020||Chennai,||Ranji Trophy is our ultimate goal: Radhakrishnan||U.R. Radhakrishnan is clear about where Tamil Nadu cricket needs to improve. “It is at the junior under-19 level. It is there that we are not producing enough cricketers of genuine talent. Consequently, our bench strength at the senior level suffers,” he said. A member of the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC), Radhakrishnan had hit the nail on the head. “If you look at Mumbai or Karnataka, they have a strong junior system and bench strength at the senior level.”  Ideal scenario He added, “We should be in a situation where if our international cricketers are away on India duty, our Ranji side should not miss them.” In this context, Radhakrishnan spoke about reviving the TNCA Academy soon; it has largely been non-functional after COVID-19 broke out this year. Now 57, Radhakrishnan was a punishing left-handed opening bat in his heyday. He did not enjoy a long career but made a distinct impression in the time he spent with Tamil Nadu, Railways and Goa. In 19 First Class games, Radhakrishnan made 1,364 runs at 50.51 with five hundreds and four fifties. Importantly, Radhakrishnan was part of the Tamil Nadu eleven, under S. Vasudevan, which last triumphed in the Ranji Trophy in 1987-88. ‘Keen observer’ Radhakrishnan was pleased about Vasudevan becoming the chairman of selectors. “He is quiet but is a keen observer.” The former opener felt Tamil Nadu needed to improve its game awareness at pivotal moments of a Ranji Trophy contest. “Those situations should be played with tact and craft.” Travelling back to his career, Radhakrishnan moved to Railways for job security, performed admirably for the side and made his way into the Central Zone team. And he was the first standby for the Indian team which toured New Zealand in 1990. The National call never came. Radhakrishnan, a lively character, doesn’t have any regrets. All he wants to see now is Tamil Nadu reach the pinnacle. “The Ranji Trophy is our ultimate goal,” he says.
27 November 2020||Wellington,||Six Pakistan squad members test positive in NZ||Pakistan's cricket tour of New Zealand was in the balance on Thursday after six squad members tested positive for COVID-19 and the team received a “final warning” for flouting quarantine rules. New Zealand health authorities revoked the permission given to Pakistan players to train while in isolation at their Christchurch hotel, making it clear they would not tolerate risky behaviour in a country that has largely eradicated the virus. “It is a privilege to come to New Zealand to play sport, but in return teams must stick to the rules that are designed to keep COVID-19 out of our communities,” director-general of health Ashley Bloomfield said in a statement. Bloomfield said CCTV showed members of the tour party breaching social distancing protocols.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen survives day of upsets||Magnus Carlsen was the only expected winner, after other pre-match favourites Hikaru Nakamura, Ian Nepomniachtchi and Wesley So crashed to surprising first-set defeats, in the quarterfinals of the $100,000 Skilling Open online chess tournament on Wednesday. Carlsen, after escaping a seemingly lost position in the first game of the best-of-four-rapid-game set, saw off Anish Giri in two more games before winning the fourth. Giri, like the other three losers of the day, faces a must-win situation in the second set to stay alive in the competition. Teimour Radjabov won with black against So to emerge the fastest winner of the day.  The results: Quarterfinals, Set One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 2.5-1.5; Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2.5-1.5; Teimour Radjabov (Aze) bt Wesley So (USA) 2.5-0.5; Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2.5-1.5.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Changed habitat, but same old rivalry||One of the most important dates in the Indian football calendar, the day of Kolkata Derby, returns after a prolonged break. The clash of the Kolkata giants East Bengal and Mohun Bagan has changed its habitat to be a part of the Indian Super League from this season.  This transformation is the result of a metamorphosis in the two teams’ ownership pattern but the change does little to dent the intensity of the rivalry that is almost a century-old now. The spirit has definitely permeated to the squads preparing for the “big match” which gets underway at Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco da Gama, Goa, on Friday evening. “It is a massive game not because we are playing ATK Mohun Bagan, but it is important because it is our first game as a team,” said the East Bengal coach Robbie Fowler. “But the important thing is you got to go into them and try to use your head. You got to try and be sensible. In these types of games, the players can’t get carried away. You will dive into tackles, you will get too enthusiastic. So in this case, let’s try and play sensibly,” says the Liverpool FC legend. East Bengal has announced experienced defender Daniel Fox as the captain for the season. Spirit upbeat The spirit is quite upbeat in the ATK Mohun Bagan camp, which is now an amalgamation of the ISL and the I-League champions. Spanish head coach, Antonio Lopez Habas said both the sides are on an even plane even though his side may have the confidence of winning the opening match against Kerala Blasters. “Maybe the advantage is with us as we have played the first match and won it. That way it may not be favourable for East Bengal. Again, East Bengal can be benefiting as they are playing their first match,” Habas said.
27 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||When Shabbir ‘touched the hand of god’!||For Shabbir Ali, former India captain and one of the best-ever footballers from the City, December 6, 2008, remains one of the most memorable days of his life. That was the day he had a ‘dream-come-true’ meeting with football legend Diego Maradona, who passed away on Wednesday. “Honestly, shaking hands and exchanging pleasantries with the great Maradona gave me the feeling of having ‘touched the hand of God,” Shabbir said. Exhibition match “Those moments are frozen in my memory. The great Maradona was in Kolkata to inaugurate an exhibition match featuring players from Mohammedan Sporting and East Bengal. I was the coach of Sporting while my illustrious colleague Subroto Bhattacharya was with East Bengal,” 64-year-old Shabbir recalls in a chat with The Hindu . “There was no lengthy conversation owing to the huge, noisy crowd. All I could tell him was that I was a huge admirer. Then we shook hands before he went onto the field to showcase his dribbling skills before the game began,” said Shabbir. “His death is a huge shock for the football fraternity across the world. He had remarkable skills and combined speed with precision in scoring those unbelievable goals,” he said. “I consider myself unlucky that when the Argentine national squad played the 1984 Nehru Cup, except Maradona almost all big names of Argentina were there. Two years later that team went on to win the World Cup. Wish we had played against Maradona in that tournament,” said Shabbir, a member of the Indian team in that event. Amalraj’s salute Another former India captain Victor Amalraj, who admits he has never met Maradona, stated he was the greatest footballer of the post-Pele era. “A genius by any standards. An inspiration for millions, coming from such a humble background,” Amalraj said.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Engage in atma vichara||All sacred texts advocate the need to engage in atma vichara as the only way by which one can enter the spiritual path. In the Prakarana grantha Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, the author provides an exhaustive explanation and discussion on how to pursue this effort that is crucial for spiritual development, said Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. In day-to-day life, the most common utterance heard is “I am so and so,” “I have secured a job,” “I am hungry,” “I have learnt the Upanishads,” “I am a sanyasi,” “I hail from Andhra Pradesh,” and so on. The importance is placed on the kind of activity a person engages in, or in the achievements made possible by one’s use of the karmendriyas, jnanendriyas, mind, intellect and so on. But, in the view of Vedanta, the emphasis is purely on the phrase “I am.” No matter what the embodied jivatma does by way of thought or word, what ultimately prevails is the existence of the atma that is never absent, is free from all these associations, and is the only source of all awareness, that is, consciousness. It is also significant that constant meditation on the immortal atma is itself the revealer of the truth, for it reveals itself as well as all else in the entire universe. It is the cause and source of all kinds of awareness in each individual. The sun is full of radiance and effulgence and provides the needed light without which one will not be able to recognise and identify objects, etc in the world. It also reveals its brilliance and its power to illumine. In the same way, the atma is of the essence of consciousness and is the only source by which not only the truth is revealed but the fact of its self revealing quality is also established. There is no other source that can reveal this atma tatva.
27 November 2020||Sydney,||India, Australia to honour Jones’ memory||The Indian and Australian cricketers will wear black armbands and observe a minute’s silence ahead of the first ODI on Friday in honour of Dean Jones, who died during the IPL in September. To honour his life, Cricket Australia has decided to pay two significant tributes during the India series. “The first celebration will come at Friday’s opening ODI against India at the SCG when there will be a minute’s silence before play and both nations will don black armbands. There will also be a highlights package of his grand career on the big screen,” said a report in Sydney Morning Herald.  CA has also arranged a tribute on the opening day of the Boxing Day Test at the MClbourne Cricket Ground, Jones’ home ground.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||We have lost a genius: Kohli on Maradona||Virat Kohli remembered Diego Maradona, who passed away on Wednesday, as someone who inspired people from every discipline. “It’s a sad day for sport, and obviously for football. We have lost a genius. We have lost someone who has inspired people across generations and walks of life. “People were mesmerised watching him play and that happens only with a few,” said Kohli. “I watched his documentary last year while we were at the World Cup. It was amazing to see the aura and the persona around him, and the stuff that he went through. It is a void that can’t be filled.”
27 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Ishant ruled out; Natarajan in ODI squad||The BCCI has announced that pacer Ishant Sharma has been ruled out of India’s Test series in Australia, while left-arm pacer T. Natarajan has been added to the ODI squad ahead of Friday’s opener as a back-up for the injured Navdeep Saini. The Board also clarified that Rohit Sharma had returned to Mumbai from the UAE to attend to his ailing father.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||South Zonal World Jumping Challenge from today||The South Zonal round of the FEI World Jumping Challenge 2020 will be held at the Embassy International Riding School here. The tournament, organised under the aegis of the Equestrian Federation of India (EFI) and the Federation Equestrian International (FEI), will be held on November 27, November 29 and December 6. Equestrian clubs like United Riders Barn, Chennai Equitation Center, Flying Sea Stallion and Doblin Equitation Center will compete in the events. The tournament will be held for children over the age of 14 years, and adults, in three categories of Jumping.   Milind Soni fired a three-under 69 to take the lead in the ‘Teen A Boys and Amateurs’ section in the penultimate round of the Eagleton Champions Golf Tournament here on Wednesday.  The scores (leaders): Teen A Boys & Amateurs: 143: Milind Soni (74, 69). Teen Girls & Amateurs: 144: Sneha Sharan (73, 71). Teen Boys (13-14 yrs): 74: Vishesh Sharma. Teen Girls (12-14): 78: Trisha Harish. Boys C (10-12 yrs): 76: Ishnidh Virdi. Girls C (10-11 yrs): 88: Jeeva Ashok. Boys D: 87: Jashan Ganapathy. Girls D: 106: Manvitha Sharath .    P.D. Nitish (eight for 10) powered FUCC (2) past Standard CC in the Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial tournament here.  The scores: Standard 22 in 12.2 overs (P.D. Nitish 8/10) lost to FUCC (2) 23/1 in 4.2 overs.   Silky Town 217/8 in 50 overs (Shashank 45, K.S. Chandrashekar 40, Syed Husaid 46, Manju 4/35) bt Young Boys CA 103 in 29.1 overs (H. Abhishek 32, R. Umesh 7/32, Syed Asif 3/28).   Government Science College 99 in 25.2 overs (Muthahir 5/24) lost to Herons 100/2 in 10.2 overs (Arjun Hoysala 38 n.o., Mohsin 30 n.o.).   Young Pioneer 171 in 32.5 overs (Sunil Kumar 30, H.N. Roopesh 3/31) bt Kapali 68 in 28.3 overs (Sunil Kumar 3/12, Abhiranjan 4/10).   Head Quarters 160 in 38.1 overs (Naresh 46, S. Ashwin 38, S. Bharath 4/36, Kadir Velu 3/29) lost to Garfield Cricketers 164/2 in 18.1 overs (Thanigaivelu 42, N.G. Anand 27 n.o., Adarsh Anand 43 n.o.).   Engrades 119 in 24.4 overs (S.U. Gaurav 32, Bhagwan 45, Mallikarjuna 3/41, Dheeraj 4/38) bt Century Cricketers 125/4 in 18.4 overs (Pradeep 68 n.o.).   Bharath 172 in 33.3 overs (K. Kiran 33, R. Rahul 29 n.o., Rishab 3/46, Pradeep 3/8) lost to Johnson 173/6 in 45.4 overs (Hrishab 51, Amay 31, Kiran Kumar 4/40).   Coles 383/5 in 50 overs (Bharath 189, Roopesh 105) bt Seshadripuram College 94 in 34 overs (Vinay 42, Athiq Khan 3/17).   Freelancers 366/9 in 50 overs (V. Deepak 53, S. Sanjay 58, S. Preetesh 61, Prem Kumar 81, Chetan Kumar 3/34) bt Jai Hind 219 in 44.4 overs (P.J. Sadiq 33, S. Kishan 60, H. Akash 50, V. Deepak 3/38, Om Prakash 3/32, S. Preetesh 3/24).   Deccan United 324 in 49.5 overs (Dhruv Dimri 35, Mithul Bhat 43, Yash Jadhav 58, Nischal Das 70, Steve Wills 3/52, Tanmay Kulkarni 3/48) bt Eminent Cricketers 147 in 33.3 overs (Sidhanth Sudheer 5/54).   Young Boys CC 172 in 38.5 overs (Mohammed Asim 38, Sachin Gankal 3/12, N. Jayanth 4/40) lost to Sparton SC 174/4 in 16.3 overs (N. Jayanth 61 n.o., Sachin Gankal 54, Ratan Thosh 26 n.o.).   Jayanagar United Cricketers 311/9 in 50 overs (Athuljith Anu 85, G. Bhaskar 90, L. Guruprasad 31, A.R. Chiranth 4/68, B. Nagaraj 3/40) bt Young Challenging Cricketers 231 in 47.1 overs (H.S. Karthik 47, Rohan Shetty 31, R. Varun 29, A.R. Chiranth 30).   Young Cricketers (1) 81 in 34.2 overs (Madhu Krishna 26, B. Bharat 3/14) lost to Vikram CC 85 for no loss in 11 overs (P. Ganesh 59 n.o.).   Vivekananda Union 124 in 37.1 overs (Vishwanath Gopal 5/36) lost to Lions 125/2 in 13.1 overs (Raghavendra 39, Ramanji 39 n.o.).   Malleswaram SC 314 in 49.2 overs (Srihari Satish 26, S.P. Abhin 31, Sohan Reddy 52, Varun Annadani 87, Shoheb Pasha 26, S. Monish 4/42) bt Diamond 244/9 in 50 overs (Gaurav Shanbhag 65, S. Monish 47 n.o., S.V. Shivakumar 3/45).   Bangalore Star CA 173 in 32 overs (K.S. Pavan 47, N. Mohan 50, Kunal 6/56) lost to Seshadripuram PUC 176/6 in 19.2 overs (Nithin Shyam 60, K.P. Kiran 76, Advaith Gowda 3/33).    As part of its tennis resumption measures, the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) will conduct a AITA Talent series event at the KSLTA courts here. The tournament, with 32 boys and 32 girls in action, will commence on Friday. Jason Michael and Amodini Vijay are the boys’ and girls’ top seeds respectively.
27 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Maradona Cup football||The Diego Maradona Cup football tournament for under-15 boys will be held at Skykings Ground here on November 28 and 29, according to State Bank of Hyderabad football coach E. Shyam. Players born on or after January,1, 2016, are eligible to take part. Entries close on November 27 and for details contact Shashikanth, Ph: 9703674343.   Boxing Council (India), an affiliate of the WBC Asian Boxing Council, will conduct a certification course-cum-seminar for ring officials on December 19 and 20. The workshop will cover topics such as refereeing, judging, rules of fight and ring officials code of ethics. For details, contact Kailashnath Yadav, secretary-general, Ph: 9347040532 or email to boxingcouncil96@gmail.   com .   Telangana Football Association president Mohd. Rafath Ali and secretary G. Palguna have condoled the death of football great Diego Maradona. The officials observed two minutes silence before the start of the day’s proceedings for the coaches and referees committee training programme at Gymkhana Ground here on Thursday. Dr. Mohammad Khan of Dubai Media City said having been involved in the conduct of FIFA World Cups and also in the Olympics he had had the privilege of interacting with Maradona. “He was not only one of the greatest footballers ever but an unassuming, loveable personality off the field,” he said.
27 November 2020||CAIRO,||Manish goes down fighting||Manish Sureshkumar was beaten 3-6, 6-2, 6-4 by qualifier Yurii Dzhavakian in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here. In another match, Poland’s Daniel Michalski got the better of Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-2, 6-2.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 08:46 IST,||Sudoku - November 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Match made in heaven||There are a lot of benefits if you are nice to your tailor. Spare them the last-minute orders and unreasonable design requests for a quintessentially 2020 perk: they will not just stitch your clothes well and on time, but will also offer to make a pretty matching mask with the leftover fabric. At least that’s what Guwahati-based tailor Mohammed Ali of New Tailoring House is doing. He is keeping his clients happy by volunteering to stitch masks with leftover silk material from blouse orders. He does not charge for the masks and says he does it out of goodwill because of the business his clients have been giving him over the years. Ali says: “Most of my regular clients enquired about me and my team’s well-being during the lockdown. Stitching a mask is no big deal for tailors, what we need is time and the right material. I have made masks out of paat, muga and eri (types of Assam silk) for my regular clients.” Stating that the wedding season and Bihu were in lockdown he says things finally looked up during Durga puja. “So we wanted to cheer our clients. Masks are a necessity and if it is matching their outfits, it will make them happy. Anyway, their make-up is not seen, so we thought the beautiful mask can make up for that. We use a double-layer lining for muga and triple for paat and paat-muga,” Ali says. “The borders are stitched in a way that it doesn’t have contact with the skin. Gold thread can cause rashes on the face. Also because muga and eri silk are a little rough we add piping to the masks from those materials,” he says. Ali uses elastic and makes fitted masks for his regular clients. He, however, refuses to make masks with materials that come with tiny beads and glitter. “I feel it is not safe to have beads and glitter around the nose and mouth,” he says. Hyderabad-based fabric designer Sravanthy Anand who also has a stitching unit for select clients says matching masks with blouses for special occasions are in demand. She started stitching them as a complimentary giveaway. It all began when she needed a coordinating mask for her Kalamkari silk sari for a family occasion. “So, I decided to stitch one for myself to match my blouse. It caught everyone’s attention and I received requests from family. We are, however, avoiding masks with pattu sari because of the heavy borders. They tend to irritate the skin.” Sravanthy suggests those who want the sari border or lace on their masks should ask their tailors to fix it in a place that does not touch the skin. She adds, “Kanjeevaram material is good because even though it is silk, it is quite soft and thick at the same time. For Kanjeevaram silk, we use single-layer pre-washed lining material. For the rest, we use a double layer.” Her clients though want the string instead of elastic. Says Sravanthy, “They cleverly tie the string at the back and hide it with their hair or jewellery.”
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Not on our streets||A survey conducted by L’Oréal Paris in 2019 about women’s issues showed that 78% of women have experienced sexual harassment in public spaces. Only 25% of the victims say they were helped. 86% of them do not know what to do when they witness it happening. 79% say it improved the situation when a witness intervened. To bring about public awareness on this issue, the company launched a global anti-harassment campaign, Stand Up, in March. The initiative kickstarted in India on November 25, observed as International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. The campaign was launched by Pau Gruart, general manager, L’Oréal Paris, India; Sohini Bhattacharya, president and CEO, Breakthrough; and brand ambassador and actor Aditi Rao Hydari. “At the heart of this movement is the aim to address the basic question: What bothers women the most? And the most common answer to that was street harassment which was above domestic violence, equal pay, and sexual violence,” said Pau at the virtual launch of the anti-harassment campaign. The brand partnered with Ipsos, a market research company to conduct field research across Canada, France, India, Italy, Mexico, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S. Over 15,500 people were interviewed for research. In India, the brand has collaborated with Breakthrough, an NGO that has been working for about two decades to formulate methods to fight street harassment. People can receive training free of cost through a designated website, standup-india.com, which was launched on Wednesday. Through a series of questions and videos, the website tries to create awareness of what to do when you are being harassed or see it happening to someone else. “We will train people with the ‘5Ds method’: distracting, delay, delegate, document and direct. It is a bystander intervention training programme devised to encourage the witnesses of harassment to take action to defuse situations and make public spaces safer,” said Sohini. Speaking at the event, Aditi, who underwent the 5Ds training, said, “Distract and delay methods worked very well with me as distract requires the creativity to interrupt an incident by asking the time or pretending to be lost. I found it to be effective and timely. I also like the concept of delay where you be a friend and comfort the harassed person after the incident and acknowledge that the behaviour was wrong. It is so important for the victim to know that they are not overreacting and what happened to them was wrong.” The brand will soon start in-person training for the campaign for which they will send out fellowship forms through their social media handles. The candidates will be screened, interviewed and then trained through workshops. “These fellows will turn volunteers and create awareness in their respective cities. Our aim is to reach beyond metros and create awareness even in Tier-two cities,” Sohini added. The goal is to train 1 million people in India in bystander intervention to tackle street harassment by 2022, she said.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Knotty affair||Actors Sanya Malhotra and Abhimanyu Dassani are all set to star in Netflix’s upcoming romantic comedy, Meenakshi Sundareshwar, in Vivek Soni’s directorial debut. The two play the titular characters, a young couple facing issues of long-distance and the struggles of marriage. The film is reportedly set in Madurai. The project will see the Bollywood debut of Tamil music composer Justin Prabhakaran, popular for his tunes in Monster and Telugu flick Dear Comrade.  The film also marks Sanya’s third OTT film release this year after Shakuntala Devi and Ludo . Dassani made his acting debut with Mard Ko Dard Nahi Hota and this film marks his first outing with Dharma Productions. Meenakshi Sundareshwar is expected to be out soon.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Say hello to Wonder Woman||Warner Bros. recently announced that their ninth instalment in the DC Extended Universe, Patty Jenkins’s Wonder Woman 1984 , will release in theatres and HBO Max simultaneously. The production house has now confirmed the release dates. Wonder Woman 1984 is set to release in theatres in India, the U.S., Canada, and a few other European counties on December 25. In an attempt to avoid piracy, plans are on to release the Gal Gadot superhero film in international markets, where HBO Max is not serviceable, ahead of its release in the U.S. on Christmas day. Patty Jenkins directs the superhero sequel with Gal Gadot, Chris Pine, Robin Wright, and Connie Neilsen reprising their roles from the 2017 box-office hit Wonder Woman . The film also stars Kristen Wiig as the antagonist, Cheetah. It must be noted that the film’s trailer, which was released earlier in August, received overwhelming responses from fans of the franchise.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Black and white, cow and cat||On November 24, 1877, Anna Sewell published a book about a horse, a touching story that brought about legislation concerning better treatment of the animals. The book was titled Black Beauty . Anna Sewell was born in Great Yarmouth, England. One rainy day, when she was 14, she fell while walking back from school and injured her ankles. This never healed and she became dependent on horse-drawn transport to move around. She began to learn more about horses. In declining health, she spent most of her time in bed. With the help of her mother, she wrote a novel about a horse. Written in first person, Black Beauty, was published by Jarrold & Sons and became an instant bestseller. Anna described at length the terrible condition of horses that drew London’s taxicabs. The story is told in the words of Black Beauty, beginning with his carefree days as a foal on a farm with his mother. From there, the narrative shifts to his life in London, having to pull cabs and the many hardships and cruelties he faces and sometimes, a bit of kindness too. But all is not lost as his life comes full circle and ends on a happy note. .   S uddenly Cow , by Sowmya Rajendran, is a funny story about a cow that appears ... well ... suddenly. Anu is at the breakfast table, not wanting to eat upma . Then, as if by magic, suddenly, a cow appears and eats her share of the upma quite happily, not leaving behind even the chillies. Suddenly Cow makes her appearance at the oddest of times, in the weirdest of circumstances, without any warning. In Megan Rix’s Winston and the Marmalade Cat , nine-year-old Harry rescues a little ginger cat that is caught in a filthy pipe. It’s love at first sight and Harry names him Little Houdini and wants to keep him. But, Little Houdini is destined for greater things. The ex-Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill wants him. What will happen now? Written by Jack London, White Fang is about a wolf-dog hybrid that ends up in a Native Indian camp. Disliked by the puppy pack at the camp, White Fang grows up to be a savage, morose, and deadly fighter. Follow his harsh life until he gets a kind master who, with patience and kindness, teaches him the power of love.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle Meeting Omen||The story so far: Aniket and Fortune, whom he released from the silver bottle, are travelling to Lady Lucklina’s castle, listening to the conversation between the different aspects of Nature.  “The rustling of leaves is the wind and the trees talking to each other. All you have to do is to listen quietly in solitude and you can hear their conversation,” Fortune explained. All of a sudden, a wooden boat that was nowhere to be seen on the water earlier, now drifted towards them. Aniket was flummoxed. There was nobody on the boat but the oars were moving as if by magic, in perfect rhythm with each other and the water. Soon, the boat came to the edge of the water, near where they were standing. “Who is rowing the boat?” Aniket whispered. “Oh, that’s Omen, a mischievous ghost. He makes a lot of noise. He keeps tapping the oars to announce his arrival or make his presence felt,” Fortune replied. “Why can’t we see him?” Aniket asked. “Omen’s presence can only be felt; few people have been able to catch a glimpse of him,” Fortune replied.  Tap, tap, tap, tap. Omen struck the side of the boat with his oars to get their attention. “Omen, we know you are on the boat. Stop making the irritating noise. By the way, this is Aniket,” Fortune announced. Tap to answer Aniket absent-mindedly extended his right hand to shake hands just as his father had taught him. Before he realised that ghosts don’t shake hands, he felt his hand being grasped by a soft and moist hand in a firm handshake. Aniket heard the tap four times. “He says, ‘Welcome to Laura Lucklina’s Island’,” Fortune translated. “Thank you, Omen,” Aniket said, climbing into the boat. The moment Fortune too sat in the boat, Omen started rowing. “Aniket, Omen can answer questions regarding the future. Two taps mean NO. Three taps are for YES. Five taps mean MAYBE. You can ask him anything you want,” the imp said, delighted at the look of amazement on Aniket’s face. Aniket needed no coaxing. “Will I be the class monitor when the school reopens tomorrow?” he asked eagerly. The oars struck the side of the boat. Tap. Tap. Tap. “Three taps mean YES!” Aniket said excitedly. “Yay, I’ll be the class monitor!” “Will I be the junior school sports captain?” Aniket asked again. Tap, tap. Two taps meant NO. Aniket’s heart sank. He felt sad. More than being the class monitor, he was dying to be the junior school sports captain. “Will my classmate Kabir become the sports captain?” Aniket finally asked the question that had been haunting him like a friendly ghost ever since Kabir beat him in the annual tennis tournament. Tap. Tap. Tap. Three taps. YES. “Too bad,” Aniket muttered. “Kabir’s large head will become larger. Imagine that pain in the neck becoming the sports captain!”  To be continued...
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Monstrous surprise||Ahaan was happy. It was his birthday and had been a great day so far. He had worn his brand-new Spiderman T-shirt to school and had a special celebration. Now, on the bus back home, he could only think of his gift. Mummy was at the bus stop, as always. She was smiling as if she had a secret. “Mummy, did you get my birthday gift?” asked Ahaan. “Umm…maybe! Why don’t we rush home to check?” Mummy teased. As soon as Mummy opened the door, Ahaan saw a gigantic package wrapped in glistening orange. It looked like someone had lit a fire in the middle of the room. Scary package Ahaan stopped. Mummy pushed him towards it gently, saying “Don’t you want to see what it is?” “Y-yes!” he said. “Go on then. I’ll check on the cake. Your friends will be here soon,” Mummy said, walking away towards the kitchen. Ahaan took a tentative step towards the package. Something about it was making him anxious and scared. Maybe it was the bright colour, or the size, or probably the rhino-like horns in multiple places. It looked like a monster, waiting to bare its teeth at him.  Ahaan touched it gingerly, and felt something soft and squishy inside. He poked a little more, and it let out a huge bellow that made him jump back in fright. Just then, one of the horns caught his shirt. There was a sharp tug and he fell down. He opened his mouth to call Mummy, but his voice got stuck in his throat. The monster had turned towards him, and was staring at him with an enormous silver eye, a Spiderman dancing at its centre. It was moving. Ahaan, lying on the floor, watched in horror as it moved closer and closer. Terrified, he fainted. “Wake up, Ahaan, here’s your favourite banana shake. Drink it, and go for a quick ride on your new bicycle with Papa,” Mummy sounded distant and faint. Beauty and the beast As he slowly opened his eyes, he saw that the orange monster was gone. In its place was a gleaming bicycle — just the kind he had wanted. It had looked so beautiful in the pictures but now, he couldn’t get over its ugly monstrosity. “Can we go for the ride tomorrow, Mummy? I don’t want to go out in the dark with the new bicycle,” asked Ahaan. Maybe, the morning would make him see that the ugly orange monster was just the clumsy wrapping of his birthday gift, the horns were the pedals and handle, the squishy thing that bellowed was the blow horn, and the enormous eye of the monster was actually the shiny, silvery surface of the rearview mirror that reflected his own clothes. Maybe the morning would change the bicycle from an ugly monster to a friendly one.  Mummy was there at the bus stop, as always. She was smiling as if she had a secret.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Check it off||The other day, I came across a new phrase: bucket list. It’s a list of things a person wants to do or experience before he/she reaches a certain age. It usually includes things like bungee jump off the side of the Grand Canyon (why would anyone want the first thing on their bucket list to be the last thing on it?), acting in a movie, writing and publishing a book, scaling a mountain…the things people want to add to their bucket are usually pretty far out and seem impossible. Which makes sense, I guess; it would be super sad if your bucket list had things like ‘eat more oats’ or ‘learn differential calculus’. Well, that got me thinking about what my pandemic bucket list would look like. Since I’m only 12 and, ‘hello, COVID-19’, I didn’t add everything I want to do in life to the list — like being the opening bowler for India’s T20 side. So, remember that these are the things I’d like to do before the vaccine for COVID-19 is ready for all of us. If you think my list is basic, then make your own. My list  Colour my hair. Before my hair turns white from the boredom of online school, I’d like to see how my hair would look pink. Or red. Or CSK yellow and blue. Or why not be 100% inclusive and do all the colours of the rainbow? Plus, I’ll be breaking school rules and there’s nothing anyone can do about it! I mean, they can’t suspend me because I’m already at home, right?  Wear a dress. Look, I don’t care what you want to call me for this one, but you have to admit that dresses and skirts look so much more comfortable than pants. And there’s so much more colour and prints. My wardrobe is a sea of brown, blue and black. BORING!  Tell middle-school bully S exactly what I think of him for picking on people, pantsing them, heckling bowlers and bodyshaming classmates. If you think about it, this is the perfect time. S is 6 ft tall and already shaving. It’s better to call him out online than in real life. I may not be around for the vaccine if I tell him to his face.  Get another pet. I think W is feeling pretty lonely these days, and is sick and tired of us hoomans who want to cuddle him all the time. I’m thinking of something better than a four-legged amigo… an eight-legged friend, maybe?  Get a tattoo. A giant MSD face on my back in full colour. What do you think?... They do what? Poke holes in your skin with a needle over and over again? And it takes how long?... Okay, I’ll settle for a poster on the wall of my bedroom. So, now that I have my bucket list ready, which item should I start with? And what would you put on your pandemic bucket list?  You have to admit that dresses and skirts look so much more comfortable than pants!
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fit to survive||Meerkats In South Africa, baby meerkats explore the world with their family and stay protected, well cared for and fed, in the first two months. But soon, it’s time for them to find their own food. A meerkat’s first lesson starts with ‘Anti-Hunting’. Once they are trained, the pups need to prove themselves by facing the danger of scorpions, a meerkat’s favorite food. A scorpion’s sting is extremely painful but it’s a test that every member of the meerkat family will have to go through. In order to survive, adult meerkats teach the pups to get rid of stingers and the toxins in them before eating the scorpion. It’s their greatest survival tactic.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive treats||Durga, the powerful warrior-goddess, has nine special forms — Shailaputri, Brahmacharini, Chandraghanta, Kushmanda, Skandamata, Katyayani, Kaalratri, Maha Gauri, and Siddhidatri. Together they are the Nava Durga worshipped during Navaratri or Dussehra. The full-colour illustrated book explains the nine forms and is filled with stories and trivia for you to learn about the different customs and rituals celebrated across the country. It focuses on both popular and lesser-known celebrations, with the depictions breaking a number of stereotypes associated with the representations of the goddess.   Aren’t we chubby, aren’t we cute?   Aren’t we lovely, as sweet as fruit?   Give us a bear hug, give us a kiss   Regret not later for giving it a miss.  Don’t go by these sweet words, for, all little asura kids are naughty and always up to something! Read about Asura twins Kundakka and Mandakka hate going to school; clumsy Bhasma and pet pig Nakura create trouble in the village; brothers Atapi and Vatapi like to eat 96 cartfuls of fruits as dessert; the great Bana who claps with his 1,000 hands... Bestselling author Anand Neelakantan brings the fun back into mythology with these stories, song and poems.  In Hindu mythology, wherever there was evil and whenever the world needed to be rescued, Lord Vishnu would materialise to fulfil his role as protector. He was a master shapeshifter, who manifested in different forms or avataras, each time. Daśāvatāra is a fun retelling of Lord Vishnu’s 10 avatars, and how he appears on Earth each time to save it from dangers, demons, and more. Piyusha Vir’s beautifully illustrated book also talks about fearless kings, mythical creatures, powerful demons, and even more powerful gods and goddesses.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Power Up||Across  1 Use a charger when this is low (7) 4 Turn the lights ___ when you leave the room (3) 7 To catch ﬁre (6) 8 Coal is an example of this type of fuel (6) 9 A source of clean energy (4) 11 A ____thermal reaction causes absorption of heat (4) 12 Type of energy produced by ﬁssion or fusion (7) 15 Ocean energy is harnessed from these (5) 17 A unit of power (4) 18 A greenhouse gas (7) Down 1 Energy derived from living matter (7) 2 High _____ wires are used to transmit electricity (7) 3 A locomotive runs on a ___way line (4) 5 Petrol, for example (4) 6 Makes a vehicle move (6) 10 The D in DC (6) 13 Solar is an example of this type of energy (5) 14 Structure that blocks the path of a river (3) 16 Remains of a ﬁre (3)
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do cockroaches lie upside down when they die?  Cockroaches’ bodies are bulky and they have only six long legs to support their three-segmented body. So, often, they involuntarily roll onto their backs while dying. This is because, at the time of death, they lose muscle control, which causes their leg muscles to contract and tuck themselves underneath their bodies. As they do not have anything to hold them to the ground, their heavy bodies topple over and they die on their backs.  Why do slothstake two weeks to digest food?  Sloths spend very little energy, as their diet does not provide them adequate nutrition. They usually consume tough, rubbery rainforest leaves, which are full of toxins. However, it doesn’t harm them as they have a digestive system that is capable of handling these highly indigestible leaves. Their stomachs are multi-chambered, much like a cow’s, and contain a mix of bacteria which helps to slowly break down the leaves. So, it takes two weeks or even a month for sloths to digest one meal.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||An equal music||There’s a certain unmistakable swag about Isaivani when she is on stage. When she breaks into a deeply political gaana number in an impeccable blue suit while keeping her assured smile intact, Isaivani transforms into the change she is singing about. On November 24, when the singer was listed among the BBC’s 100 most inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2020, Isaivani turned up her popularity a notch higher. The BBC called her a ‘distinctive gaana singer in India, [who has] spent years singing and performing in this male-dominated space.’ Growing up in Chennai’s Royapuram area, Isaivani had definitive influences early in her life. Her father D. Sivakumar was one, to begin with. “He is a self-taught musician. He would sing and play the keyboard. He did a lot of light music shows and that is where I started,” she says. Isaivani was barely six when she started singing. “My father was very ambitious for me. At one point, I was confident enough to handle many solos at light music shows.” But the big break was still elusive. Till gaana came into her life. “I started singing gaana about four years ago, even before I came in touch with Casteless Collective,” she says. There were gaana singers who would come home to meet her father. She remembers listening to the singing of exponents Palani and Ulaganathan when growing up. “They had such depth and richness; I was fascinated.” So Isaivani decided to try gaana whenever audiences asked for it. “People immediately asked how I could sing gaana; only men could sing it on stage.” She convinced them to give her a chance, but even though the response was overwhelming it was not enough to make her go places. “I decided to give music a break and joined a private company.” Joining Pa Ranjith’s band In 2017, gaana singer and music composer Sabesh Solomon told her about Tamil film director Pa Ranjith’s new and yet-to-be-named band — which would later be called Casteless Collective. “Sabesh anna insisted I go for the audition. I was about to collect my salary, but he told me to do that later. I went and I was selected.” To this day, Isaivani hasn’t collected her salary. Pa Ranjith, in turn, is enormously proud of Isaivani’s achievement. “I was very certain about including a woman in the band when we started. Initially, Isaivani had a lot of inhibitions. She was given training to open up her voice. Since all the singers came predominantly from working-class backgrounds, they were able to understand the politics that Casteless Collective was putting forth. We would often engage in conversations around feminism and caste.” Her parents, who were initially wary of her singing gaana, were overwhelmed when they saw Isaivani on stage, effortlessly and stylishly belting out songs to rousing applause. As Ranjith says, Isaivani’s first performance for Casteless Collective was a revelation. “Her performance and appearance on stage was amazing. She could effortlessly create a fan base of her own.” The BBC recognition, says Ranjith, “is not just a proud moment for Isaivani, but for the entire team. I believe more women from the working class will emerge. I believe Isaivani will go places.” “When my parents saw me on stage, I think that’s when they completely accepted me as a gaana singer,” says Isaivani, who calls the stage her ‘happy little world.’ She says she is an entirely different person when singing, who can let go of everything. “I forget my problems and worries the moment I get on to the stage. Gaana is my comfort zone, my safe place.” Even though gaana originated as songs sung in praise of the dead, it has now become an all-encompassing and liberating genre. Isaivani believes gaana is the kind of music you can listen to at any time, in any mood. “It doesn’t matter if you are happy or sad, gaana could still be your song. There have been occasions when I have listened to my own song when I feel low,” she says, laughing. Her songs for Casteless Collective, including ‘Beef Song’ and ‘I am sorry Ayyappa’ were instant hits, but also drew sharp criticism. People argue with her about the politics of these songs, and she explains to them that the songs are only about asserting and demanding her rights as a woman. “I have realised that when you speak your politics through art, it reaches people better.” At Casteless Collective, Isaivani feels at home. “Right from Ranjith anna to other members like Tenma who arranged the team, and Arivu and Logan who wrote the two songs, everyone treats me as an equal. It is such a free, liberating space.” And that’s exactly the message she wants other women to pick up. “Step out and try. You will feel the change.”  The writer is a Chennai-based independent journalist.     Isaivani, who calls the stage her happy little world, says she is a different person when singing, who can let go of everything
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The real magic is missing||Reality is constantly changing. It is not about living in a world with lesser trees, rising sea levels, faster trains, and slimmer computers. Change constitutes more than the physical, it is about the impact of the physical. This is an area that has been addressed by the performing arts. Art engages with humanity, and when artiste and audience cohabit a real space, they experience a heightened emotional state. Space and time are not constants, nor is a performance. For instance, playwright Mohan Rakesh’s Ashad Ka Ek Din, performed in the 80s will be starkly different from a 2018 production of the same play. ‘Mathe Malayadhwaja’, the daru varnam in Khamaj rendered 20 years ago will not be how a musician performs it today. Will contemporary dancers perform ‘Viralimalai Kuravanji’ the way the trio of Sudharani Raghupati, Padma Subrahmaniam and Chitra Visweswaran danced it in 1986? While physical changes — trees, sea, train, computer — have had a bearing on the creation of art, time has transformed its emotional nature. Art reality, therefore, is a dynamic, three-dimensional creature. Its breathing apparatus is time, space and human interaction. With the pandemic, physical spaces have shut down and nearly all art has moved into the virtual realm. In an unusual situation such as this, the digital medium could well be seen as a boon, allowing an artiste to experiment and push the frontiers of his or her art. But how do various art forms lend themselves to the virtual medium? How does the art of theatre, which is an inseparable relationship between space and time, re-vision itself for such a challenge? How does Indian music, which rests largely on manodharma , refashion itself for the online space? Doesn’t this new environment allow artistes to manipulate perspective? In other words, “mimesis” gets told rather than shown. Vinay Kumar, artistic director of performance group Adishakti in Puducherry, says that what Covid-19 has done to theatre and theatre education is unprecedented in modern history. “It has destroyed the notion of a collective. “For an artiste,” says Vinay, [this crisis] is more about creative survival and not so much about physical survival.” Artistes have been given a chance to pause and rethink their art, he says but “we need to think of new narrative methodologies”. For Nimmy Raphel, assistant director at Adishakti, “The digital medium has forced us to look into possibilities that were not there before.” For Nimmy, digital is good for classes and workshops, but certainly not the option as an actor. “Theatre validates itself through the performer. You work with co-actors, there is a synchronisation of energy between us, which is palpable for the audience. To even think that the stage is a far reality is heartbreaking.” “The online medium has advantages, but it comes with its own set of challenges and difficulties,” explains Abhilash Pillai, assistant professor of the National School of Drama in New Delhi. He explains that the NSD has students from all corners of India, like Nagaland, Ladakh, Kashmir and more. They also belong to different economic backgrounds. And online classes are not merely about economic privilege, but also about space. “Let’s say we are working on Romeo and Juliet . I ask someone from an underprivileged background to discuss Juliet’s role with me. It is impossible for her to do it if she is living in a one-room place with the rest of her family. It can be very traumatic,” says Abhilash. Recognising these limitations, NSD, through its online classes, has been teaching coding to students as well as the theory of theatre. “Theatre deals with all the five senses. You cannot touch, smell or taste in the online medium.” Abhilash recalls how during the production of a play, rehearsals would start at 8 a.m. and end at 6 p.m. But students often chose to rehearse till 3 a.m. “In the digital space, that passion and rigour cannot be replicated. We cannot have intense classes. It is all a transactional process. Universities are trying to keep students and teachers engaged. That is how much this medium can do.” Kuchipudi exponent and guru Vyjayanti Kashi talks of earlier challenges. “Kuchipudi faced a huge threat from theatre. We have also faced it when television and social media came into the picture. I am very positive that we will tide over this situation too,” she says. The digital medium, she says, is best suited for lecdems, workshops and seminars. “In the last six months I have listened to some wonderful and rich talks. I organised an 18-day international seminar and the papers presented were extraordinary. In the online medium, there is no need to be rigid about time, and that makes a good difference.” While the online space is certainly not ideal for creative work, she worries about the mediocrity the space is now inundated with. “It is time to read, to think; it is the best time for a seeker.” Time for an inward journey Renowned violinist and sought-after mentor R.K. Shriram Kumar also sees it as the best time for an artiste’s inward journey. “Live performances are important, drawing energy from the audience is important, but passion, shraddha, and integrity to your art is most important. Whether you are performing for five people or 5,000, your commitment must remain unwavering. I think that is the biggest lesson to be learnt in these times. All the energy must be contained within you,” says Shriram. “It is the time to set aside various apprehensions and just love your art.” Interestingly, most artistes we spoke to were certain that the online medium does not work as a performance medium. “I am uncomfortable even doing classes. It just doesn’t work for a form that is based on manodharma . It has to be a live interaction where a lot of learning happens through exchange of ideas. I restrict online classes to revising kritis,” says Shriram. For Vinay, digital is a cheap imitation of cinema. The struggle for a theatre actor is to be as far as possible from cinema. The core value of theatre is to be on stage. Nimmy agrees. “In theatre, there are no boundaries as there are in cinema. So the actor moves into the zone of a musician, a lighting technician, a backstage worker and so on. We end up carrying multiple creative expressions and emotions. Digital theatre can at best be the poor cousin of a well-made film. It cannot be theatre. The craft and language are different,” she explains. Digital is here to stay, but almost all practitioners believe it can never replace live theatre, music or dance. “It is a phase and it will pass. We will return to the old normal,” they say. Digital is best for documentation, says Akshara K.V., playwright and director of theatre school Ninasam. “Digitalisation itself is manipulation of perspective. What is in the can may be fruit juice. But it is not the fruit, is it? The life of all performing arts is in the midst of people.”
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Shift, Enter December Season||As always, a cool breeze will sweep across the city, heralding pleasant days ahead, but Margazhi mornings and evenings will not be the same this year. You are unlikely to wake up to the sound of bhajans sung by groups of devotees walking around the streets with their cymbals and songs. You may not hear the pealing of temple bells that break the pre-dawn silence. You will not be able to hop from sabha to sabha dressed in your traditional best. And the many who like a crisp rava dosai before an elaborate raga alapana will miss the delectable spread at the canteens. Instead, this December, switch on your laptop or mobile phone, sit back with a cup of home-made filter coffee, and watch your favourite artiste online. “We know that it is difficult to recreate the ambience and mood of the Season on the digital platform, but we have tried to make the experience exciting for rasikas. Much before the lockdown was lifted, we had decided on a virtual festival to avoid placing the artiste or the audience at risk,” says N. Murali, president, The Music Academy. From a formidable line-up of 83 concerts every year, filling senior, sub-senior and junior slots, the festival has shrunk to 27 concerts of shorter durations (seniors - 90 minutes and sub-seniors and juniors - 60 minutes). The festival will also be held for only eight days (December 24 to 31). No titles are being awarded this year, not even the Sangita Kalanidhi. And neither will music lovers be able to participate in the usual well-curated lecture demonstrations. Digital challenges In these times of uncertainty, fear and social distancing, you still don’t know when it will be safe to walk into a sabha again and keep beat with the performer onstage, uninhibitedly utter sabash or bale in appreciation of a heartwarming swara phrase, or peep into the raga guidebook your neighbour is frantically going through to know the raga being sung. It’s hard to match the atmosphere of live music to the one-dimensional screen of your preferred device. “The intimacy and connect of a live show obviously cannot be transmitted through electronic gadgets, but we hope to make the virtual kutcheris engaging with cutting-edge technology. We held discussions with filmmakers such as Rajiv Menon before roping in Usha Rajeswari of Prakrithi JIVA Media. The aim is to ensure flawless audio and visuals. “The artistes chosen in the three categories are recipients of honours and titles last year and a few Sangita Kalanidhis. There will also be a nagaswaram concert and harikatha performance. The performances have been recorded on the Music Academy stage. And, as always, the sub-senior and junior concerts are free while that of the seniors are ticketed. I think this year’s virtual Margazhi could open the doors for a hybrid festival, a mix of physical and digital streaming, in the future,” says N. Murali. More than tech Technology apart, what will enhance the viewing experience are the audio-visual clippings that will be streamed between concerts. Did you know the various locations the Music Academy functioned from before shifting to the present building? Do you know the architect who designed the bell-shaped structure? Are you interested in the Academy’s rich archival treasure of books, photographs and recordings? Do you want to know about the famous cooks who have run its canteen (the Academy pioneered the concept of canteen in 1941)? According to Sriram V, historian and secretary, Music Academy, “During the making of the 18 clippings, which deal with both the history and the activities of the institution, we realised there is so much to share with the Carnatic aficionados who have over the years developed a special bonding with the cultural institution.” Not just the past, the audio-visual capsules track the journey of the Academy from its first Margazhi Season in 1929 to the present. “We have a large collection of books and recordings that could be a scholar’s delight or help young artistes develop a better understanding of the art. We have newspaper clippings from 1925 that have been digitised. The year-round academic activities, include workshops, lec-dems and music classes to train young enthusiasts in the art,” says Sriram. There are clips on the Sangita Kalanidhi title awarded by the institution, considered the highest accolade in the field of Carnatic music. “One of the clippings has Sudha Ragunathan talking about what the award means, not just personally to the recipients but to the art, while Aruna Sairam describes the sense of fulfilment she experienced to see her photograph up there,” says Sriram. Virtual concerts may not have the energy and emotion of a live concert, yet their content should be designed to make sure the performances still have a raw, human edge to them. The Music Academy’s 2020 Margazhi Utsavam certainly seems to be an effort in this direction.  The audio-visual capsules track the journey of the Academy from its first Margazhi Season in 1929 to the present
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||New story with old songs||One of the many joys of watching Anurag Basu’s Ludo is seeing gangster Sattu Bhai listening to ‘O Betaji, O Babuji’ as he goes about his criminal activities. The C. Ramachandra composition lends heft to the anthology where the four strands are connected by a quirk of fate. After all, one of Sattu’s victims was watching the song before being killed. Originally part of the Bhagwan Dada and Geeta Bali film Albela (1951), the song sets the tone for the Netflix film that muses over the purpose of life and death, without being didactic. It helps the audience identify with the emotional arc of its zany characters. Lyricist Rajendra Krishna’s simple yet profound verse, ‘Qismat ki hawa kabhi naram, kabhi garam...’, makes our landing in Basu’s signature universe, where you feel the urge to embrace even a dreaded gangster, smooth. “I am an encyclopedia of Hindi film songs from the 1950s to 1970s,” says Basu. “The songs of Albela are with me since childhood as we had an LP of the film at home. While writing the script, I said that this is the song I would like to use if we get the rights. It is so apt for the situation,” he explains. Borrowed beats Basu is not the only one to rely on old songs for fresh situations and contexts. Unlike remixes, which are largely used as ‘items’, it is an art to infuse old songs into new scripts. Recently, director Ram Madhvani made Balika Badhu ’s ‘Bade Achche Lagte Hain’ central to his story in Disney Hotstar’s Aarya . The protagonist’s husband used to sing the R.D. Burman composition to her and when he is shot dead, the Anand Bakshi song becomes a leitmotif for him and even inspires his family to crack the code to his wealth. In an interview, Madhvani said he was inspired by Sriram Raghavan’s Johnny Gaddar (2007), where Sheshadri played by Dharmendra listens to Bandini ’s (1963) ‘Mera Gora Ang Laile’ when he remembers his wife. Interestingly, like Basu’s Sattu, Raghavan’s Sheshadri is not a cardboard criminal and the S.D. Burman composition provided a window to his heart. Ofted, directors use the audience’s familiarity with a song to surprise them or to establish a period. In Aarya , Madhvani uses ‘Akele Akele Kahan Ja Rahe Ho’ ( An Evening in Paris ) in the background just before a kidnapping sequence. In Sacred Games , Do Bigha Zamin ’s ‘Dharti Kahe Pukar Ke’ is played to establish the socio-political churning.  In tribute Aanand L. Rai used ‘Ja Ja Ja Bewafa’ ( Aar Paar , 1954) in Tanu Weds Manu Returns . “I was dealing with cracks in a husband-wife story and I really needed a song to depict that they are still connected. Majrooh’s (Sultanpuri) simple lines ‘Ja Ja Ja Bewafa, Kaisa Pyar, Kaisi Preet Re, Tu Na Kisi Ka Meet Re’ has so much love and pain,” says the director. Again, the O.P. Nayyar composition helped the audience understand the turmoil the character was in. A fan of C. Ramachandra, Basu reminds us that all the songs of Albela are a little quirky and apt for our times. “Remember ‘Sham Dhale, Khidki Tale’? The cinema, stories, and music of the 1950s and 1960s were ahead of time. It is we who are going backward,” he says. On YouTube, in the comment section of the original song, many have said that they were introduced to the song picturised on Shyama through the Kangana Ranaut number. “This, I feel, is the true tribute,” says Rai, recalling how he repurposed Nayyar’s ‘Kajra Mohabbat Wala’ ( Kismat , 1968) in Tanu Weds Manu . He fondly remembers how Saroj Khan, who choreographed the song and was a dancer in the original picturised on Biswajit and Babita, praised his effort. Both Basu and Rai, however, say that getting the rights is a complicated and expensive process. The rights of most old songs are reportedly with Saregama (previously HMV) and the negotiations involve time and, at times, a give and take approach. “Creating an original song would have been easier and cheaper,” says Basu.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||When music meets the mind||Observing his affinity for nadaswaram ensembles at weddings, Vignesh Ishwar’s grandmother, Sarada Krishnan, enrolled him for vocal lessons at age four. “I am singing now only because of her,” says Vignesh. This young vocalist, gifted with a sonorous and ringing voice, continued with that same teacher in Mumbai, Palghat T.S. Anantharaman Bhagavathar (TSA), for almost two decades before joining T.M. Krishna’s tutelage. “Amongst the rich crop of skilled and talented youngsters, Vignesh really stands out. Those with good voices rarely exercise discretion in using it, but he has internalised this aspect from Krishna,” says R.K. Shriramkumar, senior musician. According to senior vocalist, N. Vijay Siva, “He combines the rich assets of his guru’s music with his own astute perceptions.” Initial training On his initial years in music, Vignesh, who received the Shanmukha Sangeetha Shiromani Award last year, says, “TSA sir laid a thorough and strong foundation. It took three years to reach varnam.” His grandmother would escort him to his classes and take notes on TSA’s suggestions. “She used to make me sing the alankarams backwards in tri-kalam, swaram and akaaram,” says Vignesh, demonstrating it with easy fluency. TSA added further variations — singing each line of the alankaram in a different raga, changing one note each time. “We had regular screaming matches but my grandmother always won and got me to practice. I have sung even through fever and throat infections,” says the young singer. A single mistake meant the entire cycle had to be repeated. In 1999, Vignesh heard T.M. Krishna sing in Mumbai. “I was mesmerised,” he says. He began learning from Krishna on Vijayadasami 2008, with TSA’s go-ahead. Until he moved to Chennai in 2011, Vignesh, on a CCRT scholarship from 2008 to 2010, learned from TSA in Mumbai and from Krishna in Chennai. “Both were magnanimous enough to allow that.” Engineered for sound Good at studies (“my mother was insistent that I study well and be self-sufficient”), he was confused between music and academics. Krishna roped Vignesh into the CompMusic (Computational Models for the Discovery of the World’s Music) project he was then an advisor for. With a bachelor’s in Electrical Engineering, Vignesh was a natural fit for the Carnatic music aspects, and he completed his Masters in Barcelona at Universitat Pompeu Fabra, which oversaw the project. The topic was ‘Predominant Melody Extraction in Carnatic Music.’ Although interested in pursuing a Ph.D in engineering, he realised it would mean years of music taking a back seat, so decided against it and plunged full time into music. “Krishna anna got us to apply ourselves totally and push beyond our mental confines,” he says, recalling how he was asked to sing Bhairavi without the chatusruti Dha. “I had to sing until I couldn’t any more. If I repeated phrases, I had to begin again.” Vignesh says Krishna would give assignments such as learning new ragas, singing swaras at unusual places for known songs, and at usual places for unknown songs. “He would tell us to sing neraval for songs we don’t know.” Neraval is a transition of sound subject to raga, tala and spacing of syllables — it, therefore, requires complete internalisation of that line. Neraval is harder for lines with lesser syllables. “He would, thus, ask us to practice singing neraval for varnams — madhyama kala neraval is a real exercise. We would go through some rounds keeping each syllable exactly in place before we started exploring how to stretch the placements. Time was totally fluid. We spent many hours, sometimes entire days, at his house.” According to vocalist Sangeetha Sivakumar, “Vignesh is sensitive to the numerous issues and complexities that riddle this field. He is lucky to be endowed with a charming voice and a natural briga style, with the right ‘weight’ suited for Carnatic music. But more than this, he is sensitive to the Carnatic sound, and has an understanding of its nuances.” The author writes on classical music and musicians.  I had to sing Bhairavi without the chatusruti Dha –until I couldn’t any more. If I repeated phrases, I had to begin again
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||No place for artistes||Early last week, some senior artistes, several of them decorated by successive governments with Padma awards, were handed notices for overstaying in the flats and bungalows allotted to them by the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. They have been asked to leave their homes by December 3, failing which eviction notices are to be pasted on the walls of their homes. All this has happened during what is being called the secondwave of the COVID-19 pandemic. As all of us negotiate our lives in this swiftly changing new reality, artistes are no exception. With no theatres and no audience for their art, they are in a limbo. Many have gone online in a bid to stay relevant and visible, many are taking classes, many are unable to do either. Among the 27 artistes who have been asked to vacate the homes they have occupied for many decades are veteran Odissi exponent Mayadhar Raut, Kathak maestro Birju Maharaj, dance critic Sunil Kothari, painter Jatin Das, dancer Bharati Shivaji, and several others in descending order of their age. Raut, master Odissi teacher, is in his 90s. Birju Maharaj, in his mid-80s, was decorated with the Padma Vibhushan in 1986. These artistes are past their prime in age and health. The eviction order by the government at this difficult time is thus viewed as particularly insensitive. The notices stem from a November 8 decision of the Cabinet Committee of Accommodation, which hints at irregularities and misuse of the accommodation leased by the government. Charges the artistes vehemently deny. A daughter of one maestro said that rents have been paid regularly. The accommodation was initially allotted to artistes for five years, and then extensions were granted by each successive government, regardless of the political party in power. These extensions were usually reissued every three years. “Governments have been extending it for as long as we can remember,” said one artiste. Now, some of them have written to the Prime Minister for his intervention while some artistes like Birju Maharaj have threatened to return their state awards if evicted. State patronage of the arts is essential, but it needs to be handled with some degree of standardisation and efficiency. After the princes and royal families, it was All India Radio that was the first government platform to emerge as the premier patron of musicians; Doordarshan followed suit with the National Programme of Music and Dance. It was with a similar idea that the practice of allotted accommodation for artistes was begun sometime in the 70s. Close to 40 homes in the Asiad Village and on Shahjahan Road were earmarked for artistes younger than 60 and with incomes no more than Rs. 20,000 per month, but the spirit of the idea has been somewhat lost in the mists of time. The period of five years was meant as a stepping stone, and once artistes stabilised their careers, they should have been encouraged to yield their accommodation to younger and needier artistes. Instead, by granting extensions indiscriminately, these artistes were allowed to assume that the accommodation was a lifelong grant. Now, in their twilight years they are ill-prepared to face the spectre of eviction. A quick perusal of the several schemes announced on the Ministry of Culture website reveals that there is not a single scheme that addresses old artistes. There is no pension, no health coverage, and no official accommodation plan. In short, the government has no culture policy in place for the welfare of artistes. The only thing so far has been the pro tem flats and bungalows allotted by well-meaning but short-sighted governments. It cannot be very difficult for the government to ask the DDA and other municipal authorities to allocate land and house for artistes after laying down conditions for eligibility that are strictly followed. Nor can it be impossible to create a pension or subsidised health insurance scheme. These are the questions the Ministry of Culture needs to engage with to come up with a lasting solution. Removing 27-odd artistes from their homes is at best a short-term solution. Despite requests, Ministry officials refused to comment on the subject. India’s culture policies are in sharp contrast to countries like France and Germany, where not only is state patronage of arts and artistes a given but culture itself is given primacy without stifling it within government regulations. A government that pays so much importance to ‘soft power’ and ‘ancient Indian culture’ is expected to be more sympathetic to the real issues that artistes face on the ground.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Into the inner world of a disciple||Chaitanya Tamhane’s The Disciple remains firmly anchored in its appointed space, time and social world — Mumbai in the early 2000s. This enables the film to cast off the tired cinematic tropes, such as gilded royal courts and stone-melting miracles, through which Hindustani music has been conventionally represented from Baiju Bawra (1952) to Bandish Bandits (2020). Deriving from pedagogic parables, such films have typically offered a David-Goliath tale, set on an exclusionary binary of musical philosophies. The underdog hero’s ‘spiritual’ music, through trials and tribulations, vanquishes his antithesis, a worldly virtuoso in a climactic musical sequence. In contrast, The Disciple brings us forward to the legacy of this dichotomy, as the spiritual-material dualism is internalised in the protagonist Sharad Nerulkar (Aditya Modak). His guru Pt. Vinayak Pradhan (Arun Dravid), as a barely known but critically acclaimed musician, represents the slow-yielding austerities of this tradition and expects stoic patience and dedication from his students. But is Sharad up to this formidable task? The film’s two halves and a brief third act trace Sharad’s struggles, first as a young student in 2004, and later, as a professional Hindustani vocalist in 2017. The film establishes its twin focal points promptly: the disciple Sharad and the social world of Hindustani music. The deftly executed inaugural scene begins with Tamhane’s signature static wide shot that reveals a vocal concert in progress and concludes with a slow push-in on the enraptured tanpura accompanist, Sharad. The broad canvas afforded by static shots enables a rich, quotidian realism to emerge from the margins throughout the film: for instance, in the first frame, a gentleman ambles in midway through the concert, blissfully ignorant of the video-recording that he interrupts, and is ushered to a seat by a young volunteer — an otherwise unremarkable detail that enriches the overall mise én scene of the frame. In contrast, the camera is much more solicitous when Sharad’s inner world is its focus, as seen in the push-in shot. Modernist palette In keeping with its general modernist palette, the film moves forward through unremarkable micro-events that gain momentary significance for the protagonist, without necessarily propelling any drastic or lasting change. For instance, early on, we see Sharad prepare diligently for an intercollegiate competition, which he does not win. This seems to disappoint him considerably, although in the larger scheme its impact diminishes quite quickly. Likewise, a decent performance at the end of the first half seems to leave him untouched. Sharad’s musical ideas are governed by a set of lecture recordings of a legendary musician called ‘Mai’, late teacher to both his father and guru. Mai stubbornly insists on ascetic renunciation, scoffing at those that link music to pleasure. Sharad listens to these commandments like daily prayer, programming himself against every gratification.While he anxiously craves musical greatness, this indiscriminating conviction in Mai’s wrinkled pontifications splits him up, causing his personal relationships, desires and even finances to suffer. Most tragically, he seems to lose any joy in the music itself. Ambition strains the sublime, reducing it to humourless deadweight. Possible redemption arrives, although it is rejected, in the caricatured figure of the crude, hedonistic musicc ollector who berates such high discourse as hot air that fortifies the myths that fans love about musicians. The film, however, remains conveniently non-committal on its musical philosophy in the true spirit of the Gorakhnath ulatbānsi that brings it to a close. There’s much to like about the film. Like Tamhane’s highly acclaimed Court (2014), The Disciple’s strength also lies in its textured sociological realism in delineating the world of Hindustani music in Mumbai. However, this is at times achieved at the cost of Sharad’s individual story; notably, his backstory remains half-baked and neglected. Contrary to the hints of a difficult father, the flashbacks give us a portrait of an affectionate man, not a stubborn tyrant, only adding to the confusion. In the second half of the film especially, the protagonist is treated as an excuse to introduce other characters and interlocutors from the musical field. The scenes turn like staccato snaps in a photoalbum, without a film’s fluidity. Long road ahead While we see his frustration, the disjointed tonality fails to add up to his motivations. In the second half, Sharad’s cohorts have moved ahead in life — for instance, Sneha has achieved both personal and professional success. She has married and has performed in the U.S. besides being in demand on the local concert circuit. Sharad has been prepared for the long road, but such milestones have eluded him. Talent-hunt shows and fusion bands are lucrative shortcuts for some, but Sharad is too far down a different path. However, the overall schadenfreude of his life and the cyclicality of his impatient ambition and failure do not quite prepare us for his eventual enervation. We are set up for a jumpy tragedy that unfortunately never quite arrives. The second half concludes with one of the film’s finest scenes. As the camera arcs patiently from behind the stage to the front, we hear Sharad desperately trying but failing to find the notes in his Malhār. The tension is reinforced by a brilliant glance shared between the tanpura accompanists. By the time the camera completes the arc and pushes in, Sharad’s music has completely imploded. The film’s realism benefits immensely from Aneesh Pradhan’s realistic music design. Conventionally, given time constraints, music directors use a finished-product style of song to stand in for the elaborative and improvisatory khayāl. Pradhan circumvents this artifice by principally moving in and out of musical sequences in medias res, employing the spiralling and accretive linearity of khayāl to represent the whole performance. Imperfections of the voice are retained purposefully. However, Murad Ali’s sarangi for Vinayak Pradhan’s accompaniment in the harmonium-haunted Mumbai is a momentary slip into socio-musical idealism.  The Disciple’s struggle-and-failure story holds universal appeal beyond the musical domain. But its more significant achievement is that it proves to be relatable and recognisable within it.  The writer is a PhD scholar at King’s College London.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The rhythms of resistance||The artists gradually appear in their on-screen boxes, and their first impulse is to search for the audience. Kaladas Deheriya has found a sweet spot for his feeble internet connection on the top floor of his residence in Bhilai. His poetry has withstood years of clamp-down as he continues to voice the concerns of farmers, labourers and political prisoners. The duo from Wanandaf have brought rap onto the streets of Bengaluru and appear ready to share pieces from their recent album —‘Yeh hai bagawat’. Joining in from Mumbai, Yalgaar open with their motto ‘Dosti zindabad!’, fusing theatre and songs to express their Ambedkarite alignment to anti-caste politics. A lone voice from the hills in Kolar, Karnataka, Narayanswamy needs only his tanpura as he brings alive the ideas and aesthetics of the bhakti saints of medieval India. Protest music is fuelled by the presence and sentiment of the community, and while an online concert poses a challenge for the genre, it also emphasises the urgent need to find connections across geographies. ‘Ideas Cannot be Arrested,’, hosted by Maraa, Bengaluru, brought together four distinct styles of protest music that raise a high note against political polarisation. Politically charged Kaladas Deheriya opened with a subtle poem that unearthed questions about the land and its connection with community — ‘Mitti ki kya keemat hai?’ His tryst with words began as a child, when he wrote his first song as a 10-year-old. With moorings in a small village in Chhattisgarh, Deheriya started learning the harmonium by observing the musicians who performed at various festivals. “The poet’s task is to observe and reflect on the reality around him. Before I write a poem or song, I jot down my thoughts and observations, then a tune forms in my imagination and I fill in the words,” says Kaladas. In the 1980s, disillusioned with his government job, he resigned and joined the union movement emerging in various parts of Chhattisgarh. Surviving on odd jobs, he met activist and labour leader Shankar Guha Neogi a few decades ago and has been writing about the condition of workers since then. “It is important to speak about oppression. I feel that speeches are often lost on people, but poetry and music take everyone along. My music is about revolution, about an equal world that we want to create.” He concludes with a song that is a letter to his comrade Sudha Bhardwaj, who has been in jail without bail for years now. Agaahi and Nex, the duo from Wanandaf, believe that hip-hop and rap need to return to their origin as movements of dissent. Rap it out “The genre evolved as a voice against political oppression of Black people in the West; today in India it is going in a strange direction; it has been commercialised in a way that promotes objectification, misogyny and values the original genre never stood for,” says Agaahi. Their song ‘Pittrsatta’ directly challenges patriarchy and its contours of daily oppression. Powerful rapping in Hindi-Urdu is accompanied by energetic gestures and defiant glares. Says Nex, “I am fluent in neither Hindi nor Urdu, I primarily speak Dakkhani!” Yet, while performing, language barriers fade in the energetic articulation. In the spirit of rap, they believe in taking it to public spaces. They have performed in parks, warehouses and under flyovers across Bengaluru. “Since protest sites had to be vacated in the pandemic, music has to find a way to people through other means,” says Agaahi. Speaking of minority rights, they segue into the song ‘Chup hain sab’. “We want our music to be a wake-up call to other rappers too, use your music with care, the genre is a powerful force to speak about society,” says Agaahi. Dressed in vibrant colours, Yalgaar presents an act that is true to its theatrical roots. Remembering the revered reformer-activist from the 20th century, Savitribai Phule, they begin with a brief invocation. “Traditional performances begin with an invocation to god; we wanted to keep that structure alive and pay tribute to our cultural legacy with this invocation to Savitribai Phule,” says musician Dhammrakshit Randive. Flute, percussion, guitar and vocals merge to present music with dramatic elements of dialogue and enactment. Speaking up against police violence in ‘Kabeera roye re’, they ask — “Is Jallianwala Bagh really the past or do we still experience General Dyer in some ways today?” Cultural activists with a deep commitment to Ambedkar’s ideology, the group comprises 13-14 people, many of whom are absent from this performance due to the lockdown restrictions. Randive explains, “The Ambedkarite jalsa consists of folk poetry, music and theatre and we bring all these elements into our performance. We make sure our songs are easy to sing along with so that people can join in.” He emphasises that true to their politics, they also adopt a democratic approach to performance-making. “An important part of our process is to think together. We spend time reading books, watching films, and discussing issues. With such diverse backgrounds, all of us have different opinions at times and we attempt to bring all these perspectives into our performance.” Kannada poet and musician Narayanswamy has a very austere presence. He emerges with an instrument he has designed himself. It is an adaptation of the tanpura and resembles a small veena. “My strength is my song. Songs have triggered revolutions,” he says. He sings the poetry of Dalit writers from across regions. For protest musicians, an immediate connection with the people is crucial. With the absence of live performances, their chief challenge has been to help the folk artiste community survive the economic crisis and to remain connected to the cause and the community.  The Delhi-based author writes on cultural issues.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Time travel with music||The concept of music that is appropriate for particular times of the day and night is nowhere as strong as in Hindustani music. The 24-hour cycle is divided into eight three-hour units called prahar. The ragas or melodic structures take on certain characteristics that fit the diurnal rhythm of the human body as the sun courses over the day from dawn to dusk and the mind continues its course from sunset to sunrise. The Chaar Prahar Festival presented by Bharatiya Bhavan, US, now in its second year, offers a platform for the extended format of Indian classical concerts as they were enjoyed in the past. Musical soirees that would stretch from sunset to sunrise were frequent in darbars where court musicians and visiting artistes explored the full effect of the ragas performed at the prescribed hours. In 2019, the Chaar Prahar festival took place in Manhattan at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Center featuring some of the established names in the genre, as well as the most promising performers of the new generation. This year's festival continues with the mission of bringing to the forefront emerging artistes, as well as presenting the stalwarts. The programme will be held online over two nights, November 29 and December 5, with artistes from India and the U.S. performing. The line-up includes Deepal Sanghvi Chodhari, Arjun Verma, Swaminathan Selvaganesh, Sougata Roy Chowdhury, Saraswathi Ranganathan, Ramneek Singh, Ashish Sengupta, BC Manjunath, Pt. Samir Chatterjee, Alam Khan and Pt. Ajoy Chakrabarty.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Friends bond through music||A group of well-known musicians, who have been friends and co-artistes for many years, come together for ‘Friends in Concert.’ The music video featuring performances of 13 artistes will première on December 4. The group includes T.M. Krishna, Sangeeta Sivakumar, K. Arun Prakash, R. Hemalatha, R.K. Shriram Kumar, Anirudh Athreya, Poongulam Subramaniam, N. Guruprasad, Praveen Sparsh, Chandrasekara sharma, H.N. Bhaskar, B. Sivaraman and Akkarai Subbulakshmi. Tickets are available at www.friendsinconcert.in
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Mudhra’s Margazhi Mela||Mudhra, in association with Planjery Foundation, Hyderabad, will host its 26th Fine Arts festival online from December 1 to 31. The month-long event featuring concerts, both live and from the archives, will be streamed on www.paalamtv.com, at 5.30 p.m. every day, and repeat screenings at 6 a.m. On the inaugural day (Dec. 1) the Mudhra Award of Excellence will be presented to senior musician Neyveli Santhanagopalan. This will be followed by his concert, which will be streamed live from Infosys Hall, Ramakrishna Mission School, T. Nagar. For the schedule, check Mudhra’s Facebook page.
27 November 2020||November 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Online workshop for performing artistes||NCPA will host an online workshop for performing artistes, addressed by Sanjay Kher, advocate of Bombay High Court, tomorrow (3.30 p.m. - 5 p.m.), followed by a Q&A session. The workshop will focus on the ethical and legal rights of the creator, the media, and the buyer (user) of the digital content. Register at: https://bit.ly/LegalIssuesWorkshop
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||70 detained for protesting against farm laws||At least 70 protesters, including seven women were detained from Jantar Mantar and Majnu Ka Tila when they were trying to stage protest against the Centre’s farm laws, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The officer said that the protesters were shifted to a temporary jail in Hari Nagar. They have not been released yet. Traffic slowdown Motorists entering Delhi witnessed traffic congestion due to intense police presence and barricading. Vehicles were allowed to enter Delhi only after been check thoroughly. Traffic movement slowed down for several hours in the afternoon. The Gurugram police put barricades on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway at the State borderin view of the farmers’ “Dilli Chalo” march. The commuters alleged that slow movement of the traffic led to long traffic snarls and delays on the expressway. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Deepak Saharan, said the slowdown was usual and there was no jam. “The traffic slowed down in the afternoon due to usual rush, but the vehicles kept moving. We had initially put barricades, but later removed them,” said Mr. Saharan. Security beefed up At Singhu border, five sand-laden trucks have been stationed to stop tractors of the protesters. Also, drones have been deployed for security purposes, the police said. While clarifying that the borders have not been sealed, officials said all pickets have been made active, while all vehicles entering the Capital were being checked. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava visited the bordering areas and took stock of the situation there. “Due to the COVID-19, guidelines have been issued in which political gathering is not permitted here and for this, their [farmers’] request was rejected. If they still make an attempt, we have deployed personnel at the borders to not let them enter the national capital. We are also in contact with Punjab and Haryana Police,” he said. Earlier in the day, asked about commuters facing inconvenience, the Delhi police chief said, “Since they [protesting farmers] have already blocked the national highway, there are going to be some problems, but we will try to sort it out as soon as possible... Instead of coming to the national capital, they [farmers] should go back and not flout any guidelines.” Pleas rejected The Delhi police on Wednesday said it had rejected requests from various farmer organisations to protest in the national capital on November 26 and 27. It had said that legal action would be taken against the protesting farmers if they come to the city for any gathering amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support price.  If they [farmers] still make an attempt, we have deployed personnel at the borders to not let them enter the national capital   S.N. Shrivastava Delhi Police Commissioner
27 November 2020||Chandigarh,||SAD, Congress, AAP flay use of force on farmers||Amid use of tear gas and water cannons by the Haryana police against farmers, who were participating in the “Delhi Chalo” march against the Centre’s agriculture laws, the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress party on Thursday criticised the BJP-led governments in Haryana and the Centre. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the water cannon would not douse the flames of democratic protest against injustice, while Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa termed the act as that against the spirit of democracy. Mr. Badal said the Central government is treating Punjab as if it were not a part of the country. “Are we not a part of India? Are farmers, traders and other common Punjabis not Indians?” Referring to the growing repressive and trends in the country in the recent times, Mr. Badal said, “They are ruling the country as if it were a dictatorship. It’s a very sad day for the country when the Constitution was openly flouted by those who were tasked with protecting and implementing the Constitution in letter and spirit,” said Mr. Badal at a press conference in Amritsar. Mr. Badal said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal had acted under the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deal with farmers exactly as one would deal with an enemy of the nation. ‘A cruel joke’ Mr. Bajwa in a statement said the farmers had decided to carry out their constitutional rights by going to Delhi with the hope of having the Central government to listen to their concerns. “By attempting to stop Indians from using their constitutional rights on Constitution Day is a cruel joke. The government of Haryana and the Centre have acted in a manner that is against the spirit of democracy,” he said. Aam Aadmi Party state president and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann said, “Our Constitution guarantees us the right to protest in a democratic manner. It is a matter of grave concern that the BJP government has crossed all limits of constitutional propriety by denying the farmers their legitimate right to hold protests against the draconian Central agriculture marketing laws.”
27 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||BKU decides to join protest||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), conspicuous by its absence during the protests against farm laws on Thursday, has decided that it will hit the road at 11 a.m. on Friday in support of the country’s farmers. In an emergency mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar at the residence of senior leader Rakesh Tikait, it was decided that the BKU will lay indefinite siege to national highways in the region. The main protest is expected on the Delhi-Dehradun highway. “If the country’s farmers can’t be allowed to enter Delhi, the government could send them to Islamabad,” said Mr. Tikait. He said the farmers of Uttar Pradesh were hurt by the use of water cannons against the farmers of Haryana and Punjab in cold weather. Urging the government to roll back the farm laws and make the MSP mandatory by law, Mr. Tikait said, “When the Prime Minister says that the minimum support price would continue, why it can’t be included in the law.” Dharmendra Malik, the BKU spokesperson, said farmers had been agitated for a long time and it reflected on the roads on Thursday. On the delay in the BKU joining the protest, Mr. Malik said it was not their call but it’s time to express solidarity, and this time farmers would not go home until the government takes back these unjust laws. “Everybody saw without BKU, no farmer protest could be successful in Uttar Pradesh,” he said.
27 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘File inquiry report on disclosure statement’||The High Court on Thursday told Delhi Police to submit a report on vigilance inquiry conducted on the alleged leak of information to the media about the disclosure statement of a Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student, who was arrested in a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi. Justice Vibhu Bakhru also asked the police to indicate in the status report further steps which it proposes to take in this regard. ‘Inciting riots’ The High Court’s direction came while hearing a plea of Asif Iqbal Tanha (24), who was aggrieved by various news reports appearing in electronic media alleging that he had confessed to organising and inciting communal riots in north-east Delhi. Mr. Tanha’s counsel contended that the action of Zee News Media Corporation Ltd. and OpIndia in placing such documents in the media violated the programme code and sought time to file a written statement in this regard. The court has posted the case for further hearing on January 18. Earlier, the court had directed Zee Media to submit an affidavit disclosing the source of its news report on the alleged disclosure statement of Mr. Tanha. The court had questioned how Zee Media got the documents, which even the accused did not have. Mr. Tanha had alleged that he was coerced by police officers to sign certain papers and make statements while in their custody. He had contended that the alleged statements were not given voluntarily.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable fires four rounds in self-defence||A Delhi Police Constable fired four rounds in the ground in self defence while intervening in a fight between an elderly couple and their neighbours over a parking issue. The officer had arrived after the couple’s daughter called asking for help. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said that a call was received from a woman identified as Vandana, who said that entry to the house of her parents — Amar (73) and Manorama (70)— was blocked as their neighbours had parked their vehicles and this troubled her parents. Responding to the call, Constable Punit Sharma reached the house of the complainant in Rohini Sector 16. Relatives of the Ms. Vandana’s neighbours, who reside in the same locality, arrived and started arguing with him. “They intimidated him for coming in response to Ms. Vandana’s call and threatened him,” Mr. Mishra said. One injured The police said that Mr. Sharma requested the relatives to calm down but they got louder instead. “Some of them also tried to snatch his mobile phone, keys of his bike, and his service pistol. That was when he fired four rounds in the ground, one of which hit the little finger of a woman identified as Madhu (40),” the officer said. Mr. Sharma managed to escape from the spot and informed the officers at the police station. The woman was taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, where she is undergoing treatment, and is said to be stable. Mr. Mishra said that the accused tried to stop a policeman from performing his duties and therefore, a case was registered at K.N. Katju Marg police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.
27 November 2020||guwahati,||BJP eyes second tribal council in Mizoram||The Bharatiya Janata Party is eyeing the second tribal council in Christian-majority Mizoram, adjoining another it had taken over quietly in June 2019. On Wednesday, Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju campaigned for the BJP at Mizoram’s southernmost village Sangau in Lawngtlai district. He said his party would go all out to win the Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC), where elections are scheduled for December 4.  Nagaland MLA Nagaland MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon, a key member of the BJP’s central team, also campaigned in LADC to indicate the party’s focus on an election in one of India’s remotest corners. “Every election is important for us. In a State where we hardly had any presence a few years ago, we have an MLA [Buddha Dhan Chakma won the Tuichawng seat in 2018] and we rule the Mara Autonomous District Council,” former Mizoram BJP president J.V. Hluna told The Hindu from State capital Aizawl. “We hope the attention of the central leadership will help us win the 25-seat LADC too and provide stable governance for five years of the council’s term.” The BJP did taste blood briefly in LADC when 13 elected members of the Congress switched over in October 15. This gave the BJP control of the council, four Congress members having resigned earlier.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Metro services to be restricted today as well||Delhi Metro services remained restricted on Thursday in view of the protest march by farmers with operations being suspended in sections connecting Delhi with the National Capital Region (NCR). While services were restricted till 2 p.m., operations normalised only after 5 p.m. “From 2 pm. onwards metro services are available from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, sections to Delhi still continue to remain suspended due to security reasons till further notice,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation [DMRC] said in a tweet around 2.30 p.m. DMRC officials also added that on Friday metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. “As advised by Delhi Police, metro services will be available only from Delhi towards NCR sections. However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice,” read another tweet by the DMRC. On Wednesday, the DMRC had announced that services will be unavailable between sections like Anand Vihar-New Ashok Nagar, Noida City Centre-Noida Electronic City, Samaypur Badli- Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya- Huda City Centre, among other corridors.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||50 shanties gutted in Kirti Nagar fire, none injured||A major fire broke out in a camp in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar leaving nearly 50 shanties gutted, fire department said on Thursday. A Delhi Fire Services official said that a call was received around midnight stating that fire broke out in the jhuggis of Kayla Nehru camp in Kirti Nagar after which a total of 12 fire tenders were pressed into service. “Approximately, 50 jhuggis were involved in the fire and it took time to douse the fire because of multiple LPG cylinder blast,” the official said. The fire department said that no person sustained injuries in the incident. In another incident, a fire broke out in a burger shop in Govindpuri in the early hours of Thursday after which three fire tenders were rushed to the site. No injuries were reported in the incident.
27 November 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan shifts attention to testing in rural areas||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases, the Rajasthan government on Thursday decided to shift attention to testing in rural areas and intensify awareness drive in villages. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot gave these instructions at a meeting to review the pandemic situation here. Mr. Gehlot discussed new Central guidelines with the officials and said the medical and health authorities should work towards flattening the COVID-19 curve. He also reviewed the measures, including night curfew in eight cities, put in place recently to contain the virus. The State-level Corona War Room, functioning round-the-clock from the State Secretariat in Jaipur, is extending all kinds of medical assistance to the people in need. The infected persons can get admitted to hospitals through the war room and obtain help for consultation, isolation or oxygen availability. Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the difficulties of COVID-19 patients and their family members were being resolved within 30 minutes through the war room and its district-level units.
27 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sacked bank manager held for loan fraud||A branch manager of a bank, who was terminated, has been arrested for allegedly preparing false verification report of a non-existent property and sanctioning loan on it, police said on Thursday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra said that the accused has been identified as Satish Kumar Bindal. Police said Rajiv Gupta, a representative of Delhi Nagrik Sehkari Bank Ltd., approached them and stated that a loan of Rs. 5 lakh was sanctioned and disbursed to one Surinder Kumar from Lajpat Nagar branch. The mortgaged property for the loan in Khanpur subsequently turned into a non performing asset. “During recovery proceedings, officials discovered that the mortgaged property does not exist. A case was then registered,” Mr. Mishra said. He said that Satish was arrested on Wednesday.
27 November 2020||Allahabad,||Azam, son bail plea rejected||The Allahabad High court on Thursday denied bail to senior SP leader Mohammad Azam Khan and his disqualified U.P. MLA son, arrested in a case of cheating and forgery for fraudulently obtaining a fake PAN card for the latter.
27 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cordial talks with Sidhu: Amarinder||A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had been at loggerhead met amid speculations of their patch-up, the Chief Minister on Thursday said both leaders just had simple talks and unfortunately the media was making a mountain out of a molehill. Capt. Amarinder said he hoped that he and Navjot Singh Sidhu will continue to have cordial meetings like they had on Wednesday, where they spoke a lot about cricket, apart from a host of other things. “I was satisfied and happy with the meeting, and so was Sidhu,” said Capt. Amaridner quashing media speculation of serious discussions between the two.
